ONE recent morning in Salem in the state of Massachusetts, a witch ran out of wands.
Teri Kalgren, the owner of Artemisia Botanicals, an apothecary and magic shop, attributed the shortage to a witch-inspired boom.
People have long flocked to Salem to learn about the infamous witch trials of 1692, in which Puritan hysteria led to the executions of 20 people (and two dogs).
But since 1982 when the city introduced Haunted Happenings, a daylong Halloween festival for local families, the event has expanded to a commercial celebration lasting a month that attracts 500,000 tourists.
Last year tourism pumped $104m into Salem and funded some 800 jobs.
The revenues have been increasing by 5-6% every year, says Kate Fox of Destination Salem, the citys marketing arm.
Tourists can buy a spell kit, visit a witch museum, take a walking tour (ghostly, feminist or literary-themed) and have their fortune told.
On the opposite coast, Scott Michaels has watched his Hollywood-based company, Dearly Departed Tours, grow from a one-man gig to an operation with seven employees who take tourists to celebrity grave sites every day of the week.
Just a few years ago, we were just the quirky ones doing tours in an old hearse, he says.
That tourism is soaring is well-knownbetween 1999 and 2016 the number of people opting for a foreign holiday doubled, according to the UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO).
And travellers have shifted from beach-oriented leisure time to experiences.
These include visits to dark tourism sites, a catch-all term that includes atrocity sites such as Auschwitz or Cambodias killing fields, nuclear disaster zones such as Chernobyl in Ukraine and the Fukushima Dai-ichi power plant in Japan, as well as famous places of death, such as the Tower of London or the house where O.J.
Simpsons ex-wife was murdered.
The internet has raised awareness of such places, and cheap flights have made them easier to access.
People are seeking unique experiences and we are seeing the market respond, says Carolyn Childs of MyTravelResearch.com, a research firm.
Take Chernobyl.
The nuclear disaster at a power plant in 1986 in what is now Ukraine killed more than 30 workers, afflicted thousands with radiation poisoning and forced 180,000 Soviet citizens to abandon their homes.
A decade ago Dominik Orfanus, a Slovakian journalist, visited Pripyat, a modern city turned into a ghost town by the explosion, and founded a tour company just as the number of visitors to the exclusion zone took off (from 7,191 in 2009 to 36,781 in 2016).
An easing of government restrictions in 2011 and Ukraines hosting of the 2012 European football championship helped numbers swell further.
Mr Orfanuss company, Chernobylwel.com, is one of three such firms, that collectively have more than 2,000 reviews on TripAdvisor, an influential travel-review website.
Its guides wear shirts with slogans such as Enjoy Chernobyl, die later.
Commodifying Chernobyl can be justified because tourism is seen by locals as a boon to its stunted economy.
Salem, meanwhile, is easy to commercialise because the deaths occurred so long ago.
But recent tragedies that left a large community grieving demand more sensitivity.
Japanese authorities have banned tours to the vicinity of Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power plant, which went into meltdown after an earthquake caused a tsunami that engulfed the coast in 2011, killing nearly 19,000 people.
Local guides take over 2,000 tourists each year anyway to villages near the stricken reactors.
Michael Frazier of the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York bristles at the word attraction, even though the museum charges admission, sells souvenirs and markets itself on its website as TripAdvisors #2 of 1,055 Things to Do in New York City.
It is also #6 of the Worlds Most Instagrammed Museums.
Last year, more than 3m visitors brought in $67m in revenue for the non-profit foundation that runs the museum.
At the 9/11 museum and at Auschwitz, crowds are controlled with carefully timed tours.
Meanwhile, at Chernobyl, sometimes, there are so many buses that all of a sudden the ghost town feels like Disneyland, says Mr Orfanus.
Leisure giants such as Disney, of course, are unlikely ever to enter the dark tourism market beyond scary theme-park rides.
But Ms Childs sees plenty of room for architecture firms and design consultancies specialising in thoughtful curation to help sites walk the line between commemoration and commercialisation.
It has long been the case that death sells, says Philip Stone of the Institute for Dark Tourism Research at the University of Central Lancashire.
But most dark tourists seek meaning, not merely the deeply macabre.
His research into their motives reveals not so much oddballs ticking atrocities off a list as amateur scholars of human nature.
The Salem Witch Museum tries to cater to such cerebral interest, casting witch-hunts as a staple of Americas political culture, and citing examples such as Japanese internment after the attack on Pearl Harbour in 1941, and Senator Joe McCarthys scapegoating of alleged communists in the 1950s.
A guide asks a crowd clad in black and orange to come up with modern parallels.
The visitors exit, deep in thought.
TRAVEL advisory notices, which alert passengers to the risks of going to certain places, are standard business for frequent flyers.
But last week brought an unusual one.
The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP), Americas oldest civil-rights organisation, warned black flyers about the dangers of travelling with American Airlines.
The NAACP says that a pattern of disturbing incidents has been reported by black passengers specifically about American Airlines.
Such incidents suggest a corporate culture of racial insensitivity and possible racial bias.
Of the four incidents that the NAACP cite, two involved prominent black activists, PR Lockhart notes at Vox , a news site.
Although the NAACP does not mention them by name, one is thought to be Rev William Barber, a former NAACP leader in North Carolina.
He was removed from a flight from Washington, DC, after he responded to rude comments from two white passengers.
The other is Tamika Mallory, a co-chair of the Womens March movement, who was taken off a flight because of a seat assignment dispute.
American Airlines are remaining tight-lipped on the issue.
When asked to comment, the carriers press office referred Gulliver to a statement from Doug Parker, the chief executive.
Mr Parker notes his disappointment with the issuance of the warning but said that they have contacted the NAACP about it.
Both parties have said they were looking forward to meeting and discussing the issue.
This is the second recent advisory notice from the NAACP.
This summer the group issued one such warning about the state of Missourithe first time it had done so for an entire statedue to suspected racial bias during traffic stops and other evidence of discrimination.
In 2014, the shooting of a black teenager by a white police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, sparked national protests and helped launch the Black Lives Matter movement.
(The Department of Justice later concluded that the officer acted in self-defence.)
The explosion of black activism that followed somewhat marginalised the NAACP, which for decades was the most-prominent group advocating for African-Americans.
Ms Lockhart argues that the advisory notices may be part of the organisations attempts to regain relevance.
But for black travellers, the advisory notice serves a different purpose.
Like in any industry, passengers are inclined to shy away from companies with a poor reputations.
And if American fails to respond to these incidents and the advisory notice in a way that black people find satisfactory, it could easily lose customers.
Moreover, airlines will not want to alienate African-Americans, if not for reasons of basic morality, then for economic ones.
Spending by that group has been growing faster than that of the overall population and is expected to continue to do so.
Nevertheless, the carrier should hardly need that type of justification.
If, as Mr Parker says, American truly does not tolerate any sort of discrimination, then it should be able to stamp out these kinds of incidents.
Discrimination will not be going away anytime soon.
But airlines can do their part to ensure that the issue is treated the seriously, and to reassure flyers, by acting decisively to redress any wrongdoing.
EXCHANGE-TRADED funds (ETFs) were supposed to make investing easy.
Instead of spending hours researching individual stocks and bonds or paying an expert fund manager, investors could simply buy a few ETFs.
But now there are too many to choose from.
BlackRock offers 346 in America alone.
Some investors need help allocating their money between different funds.
Many companies now offer automated wealth managers (AWMs) that perform this service.
AWMs have been around for less than ten years, but they have proliferated, offering different services in different countries.
Often, they are called robo-advisers, but this term can be misleading.
Some offer clients detailed advice about how to save.
For example, Wealthfront, an American AWM, predicts the cost of sending a student to a given college, taking into account increases in tuition fees and likely financial aid.
It then suggests how parents can save in a tax-efficient way.
Other AWMs are simpler.
Wealthify, based in Cardiff, rejects the term robo-adviser because it does not provide advice.
It merely allocates clients funds based on how much they wish to invest, when they expect to need the money and the degree of risk they will accept.
Nonetheless, AWMs have a few things in common.
They typically invest in low-cost ETFs and charge very low fees.
Annual charges are usually only a fraction of a percentage point of an investors total savings, plus any fees levied by the ETFs.
AWMs target cash-conscious investors who cannot afford or do not wish to pay a human adviser.
Millennials are considered good customers because they are used to doing things online and are starting to earn money.
But generally they do not have a lot of it.
Individual savers tend to have small portfolios.
At Betterment, the largest independent American AWM measured by assets under management, the average client had $27,400 in June 2017.
At Wealthfront, its rival, the average client had $40,900.
Their business model leaves AWMs with a problem.
To make a profit despite low fees, they must attract lots of client money.
Michael Wong, an analyst at Morningstar, an investment research firm, estimates that, depending on its model, an AWM would need between $16bn and $40bn to cover its costs.
No independent AWMs have reached profitability, though some are close.
Betterment says it has $11bn under management.
But for most AWMs, profitability remains distant.
Only a few manage over $1bn or have more than 100,000 clients.
To get more clients, many are tying up with established wealth managers.
On October 5th Aviva, a British insurer, said it would buy a majority stake in Wealthify.
Michelle Pearce, Wealthifys co-founder and chief investment officer, noted that Aviva has 15m customers in Britain, who can use her firms services through Avivas portal.
To stay independent, AWMs need to get big quickly, in part by seeking customers established firms neglect.
Similarly, acquired AWMs often pitch their products to people their parent firms would not otherwise serve.
These customers tend to have little wealth and to be new investors.
There are dangers in this: they may place too much faith in AWMs more optimistic projections of future riches.
Wealthfront even allows customers to borrow at 3.5-4.75% against the value of their savings without selling off their portfolios and disrupting their investment strategies.
Like their human counterparts, robos may have a tendency to oversell their investing prowess.
Clarification (October 27th, 2017): This piece has been updated to clarify Wealthfronts policy on allowing people to borrow against their savings.
ALL men are created equal, but they do not stay that way for long.
That is one message of a report this month by the OECD, a club of 35 mostly rich democracies.
Many studies show how income gaps have evolved over time or between countries.
The OECDs report looks instead at how inequality evolves with age.
As people build their careers, or dont, their incomes tend to diverge.
This inequality peaks when a generation reaches its late 50s.
But it tends to fall thereafter, as people draw redistributive public pensions and quit the rat race, a contest that tends to give more unto every one that hath.
Old age, the OECD notes, is a leveller.
Will it remain so?
Retirement, after all, flattens incomes not by redistributing from rich seniors to poor, but by transferring money to old people from younger, working taxpayers.
There will be fewer of them around in the future for every retired person, reducing the role of redistributive public pensions.
One logical response to the diminishing number of workers per pensioner is to raise the retirement age.
But that will exacerbate old-age inequality, if mildly.
Longer careers will give richer workers more time to compound their advantages.
And when retirement eventually arrives, the poor, who die earlier, will have less time to enjoy their pensions.
Todays youngsters may resent having to provide for more pensioners, not least because they feel that older generations have it easier than them.
The OECD provides qualified support for this complaint.
Baby-boomers (mostly born in the 1950s) have accumulated far more wealth (property, shares and other savings) than Generation X (mostly in the 1970s) and millennials (the 1980s and after).
But that is partly because they have had more time to do so.
Comparing generations at a similar stage of life paints a different picture.
Todays young adults have a significantly higher disposable income than previous generations had at the same age.
OECD citizens now in their early 30s have 7% more than members of Generation X had at that age and over 40% more than boomers enjoyed when they were similarly short in the tooth (see chart).
Youngsters may sigh with impatience when an old codger tells them how life was tougher when I was your age.
But it was.
This millennial privilege is, however, smaller in America, which tends to set the tone for the generation wars.
(Indeed Americans in their early 30s are slightly worse off than the preceding generation was at a similar age.)
The gap also appears to close as the later generations get older.
Gen-Xers were far more comfortable in their 30s than the people born a decade or two before them.
But now they are in their 40s, their incomes have stopped rising, whereas their seniors enjoyed strong gains at the same age.
This may reflect the lingering influence of the global financial crisis.
But if this trajectory persists, a time may soon come when old folk sigh with impatience as youngsters tell them how much easier life was when you were my age.
ONE of the perks of owning a bank is the ability to tap it when you need money.
The Indian government, which has majority stakes in 21 lenders, is no exception.
As it happens, it needs to finance a bail-out of the banks it owns, most of which are in trouble.
So under a cunning plan unveiled on October 24th, the ailing banks will lend the government 1.35trn rupees ($21bn), about a third of their combined market value.
The government will reinvest this money in bank shares, thus ensuring they no longer need a bail-out.
Steadying a tottering financial system is never a graceful exercise, as American and European authorities discovered after the financial crisis.
Indias lenders withstood the meltdown of 2007-08 well, but then embarked on an ill-advised lending spree, backing lots of infrastructure projects that got snarled in bureaucracy.
Bad loans piled up.
State-owned lenders, which account for around two-thirds of the sector, now have stressed loans of 10.5trn rupees, about a fifth of their book.
Banks have been reluctant to acknowledge that money they have lent is unlikely to be repaid, in part because that would trigger a loss, which in turn depletes the banks equity (the money shareholders invest).
State-owned banks already have equity levels close to regulatory minimums, so they have preferred to pretend that even their ropiest borrowers will pay them back in full.
At the very least, they dont have the capacity to extend new loans.
Predictably, bank-credit growth has slumped, recently nearing record lows.
That is one reason why year-on-year GDP growth slowed to 5.7% in the second quarter, from well over 7% a year ago.
Despite the roundabout method of recapitalisation, getting money into the banking system is good policy.
Bankers are being encouraged to use a new bankruptcy code to deal with bust borrowers; having fresh equity makes it easier for them to acknowledge past mistakes and move on.
Details of the bail-out scheme are pending, but may resemble a rescue plan in the 1990s, whereby banks financed recapitalisation bonds issued by the government.
The proceeds were used to subscribe to banks rights issues.
(Banks will have to raise 580bn rupees themselves, perhaps by selling non-core assets, and receive a further 180bn rupees from government coffers left over from a previous scheme.)
One attraction is that the money the government will have to borrow, roughly 1% of GDP, will not be reflected in its deficit, saving the finance ministrys blushes.
The prospect of fresh funds sent most state-owned banks share prices soaring by well over 25%.
Unlike recent Indian bank-rescue schemes, the package is large enough to make a difference.
It should allow banks to lend again, if they can find willing borrowers.
Indian businesses have plenty of spare capacity and many are still over-indebted.
Some are still dealing with the effects of a sudden demonetisation of the economy last November, which has dented output.
The complex implementation of a new goods-and-services tax in July has also frayed corporate confidence.
The government also says its banks will be run more efficiently, to prevent further incontinent lending.
There is reason to doubt that.
Reform of their corporate governance is long overdue; and letting the private sector take over the reins at public banks remains taboo.
Still, repair of the balance-sheets is at last under way.
SWEDES discuss their incomes with a frankness that would horrify Britons or Americans.
They have little reason to be coy; in Sweden you can learn a strangers salary simply by ringing the tax authorities and asking.
Pay transparency can be a potent weapon against persistent inequities.
When hackers published e-mails from executives at Sony Pictures, a film studio, the world learned that some of Hollywoods most bankable female stars earned less than their male co-stars.
The revelation has since helped women in the industry drive harder bargains.
Yet outside Nordic countries transparency faces fierce resistance.
Donald Trump recently cancelled a rule set by Barack Obama requiring large firms to provide more pay data to anti-discrimination regulators.
Even those less temperamentally averse to sunlight than Mr Trump balk at what can seem an intrusion into a private matter.
That is a shame.
Despite the discomfort that transparency can cause, it would be better to publish more information.
There is a straightforward economic argument for making pay public.
A salary is a pricethat of an individual workers labourand markets work best when prices are known.
Public pay data should help people make better decisions about which skills to acquire and where to work.
Yet experiments with transparency are motivated only rarely by a love of market efficiency, and more often by worry about inequality.
In the early 1990s, it was outrage at soaring executive salaries which led American regulators to demand more disclosure of CEOs pay.
Such transparency does not always work as intended.
Compensation exploded in the 1990s, as firms worried that markets would interpret skimpy pay-packets as an indicator of the quality of executive hires.
Despite this, bosses tend to oppose transparency, for understandable reasons.
Firms have an easier time in pay negotiations when they know more about salaries than workers do.
What is more, shining a light on pay gaps can poison morale, as some workers learn that they earn substantially less than their peers.
A study of employees at the University of California, for instance, found that when workers were given access to a database listing the salary of every public employee, job satisfaction among those on relatively low wages fell.
In industries in which competition for talented workers is intense, the pernicious effects on morale of unequal pay create an incentive to split the high-wage parts of the business from the rest.
Research published in 2016 concluded that diverging pay between firms (as opposed to within them) could account for most of the increase in American inequality in recent decades.
That divergence in turn resulted from increased segregation of workers into high- and low-wage firms.
Yet transparency increases dissatisfaction not because it introduces information where there was none before, but because it corrects misperceptions.
Surveys routinely find that workers overestimate their performance and pay relative to their peers.
This is true across economies as well as within firms.
In 2001, tax records in Norway were put online, allowing anyone to see easily what other Norwegians had earned and paid in tax.
Reported happiness among the rich rose significantly, while the well-being of poorer people fell as they learned their true position on the economic ladder.
Better information changes behaviour.
Low-paid workers at the University of California became more likely to seek new jobs after salary data became public.
In Norway the poor became more likely to support redistribution.
Transparency might threaten the function of capitalist economies if people were implacably opposed to pay gaps, but they are not.
A study published in 2015 of factory workers in India, for instance, found that unequal pay worsened morale and led to reduced effort when workers could not see others contributions, but not when productivity differences were easily observable.
Yet in the modern economy, individual contributions are often devilishly hard to assess.
Simple theory suggests that workers are paid according to their productivity.
Were they to earn more, their employers would lose money; were they to earn less, other firms could profit by hiring away underpaid employees.
But although it is easy enough to see how many shirts a textile worker stitches in an hour, it is much harder to evaluate the contribution of one member of a team that has spent years developing new software.
When it is difficult to observe important parts of a job, economists believe that trying to link pay closely to narrow measures of performance can be misguided.
Workers inevitably neglect murky but critical tasks in favour of those the boss can easily quantify.
In the knowledge economy, therefore, the relationship between pay and productivity is often loose.
Pay gaps are often nonetheless justified.
Workers with scarce and valuable skills can easily threaten to leave, and can therefore bargain for higher pay.
Those fat pay-packets serve the economy by encouraging young workers to develop skills that are in short supplyprovided, of course, that they know how much they can expect to earn.
But the difficulty in observing productivity allows factors to influence pay, such as office politics, discrimination or a simple tendency to silence the squeakiest wheels with grease.
Open-plan offices Not every country will opt for radical transparency.
Even Nordic governments continue to tweak their policies: in 2014 Norway banned anonymous searching of its tax database, so citizens could see who had nosed around their finances.
But increased openness about pay could improve both the fairness and the functioning of the economy.
When pay is public, it is not the justifiable inequities that create the most discomfort, but those firms cannot defend.
Sources
HE IS leaving with the share price rising and the announcement, on October 18th, of earnings that were largely well received.
Better still, Kenneth Chenault, American Expresss chief executive for 16 years, accomplished a feat rare in the upper reaches of American finance: to stand down without an obvious helping shove.
No grandstanding senators hounded him out (see Wells Fargo).
No boardroom coup hastened the end (Citigroup).
The financial crisis left him untouched (take your pick).
His successor, Stephen Squeri, promoted from within and apparently groomed for the job, takes over in February.
For all that, Mr Chenaults long tenure has not been an unequivocal triumph.
Though generating strong returns on assets and equity, American Express has continued its slide within the fast-changing and competitive payments industry.
According to Nilson, an industry bible, in 1974 the amount of money for purchases channelled through American Express was equivalent to 50% of what went through MasterCard and 70% of what went through Visa.
By 2016, those ratios had shrunk to 30% and 14%.
American Express has grown nonetheless, as credit-card usage has surged.
But the best days may be over.
Its share price, revenues and profits all peaked in 2014.
Buried in the details of its latest earnings release are hints that raise questions about how strong its numbers are, and suggestions that its strategywhich increasingly relies on lending to replace diminishing transaction feesmay be heading into more turbulent conditions.
Cutting the cards Competitive pressure looms on all sides.
MasterCards market capitalisation is twice that of American Express; Visas, three times as big.
PayPal, spun off from eBay in 2015 and run by a former American Express executive, has a tiny fraction of Amexs revenues and profits but on the eve of the earnings announcement passed it in market value (see chart).
Its sales and profits have grown much faster, and it was born online.
Rather than a card, PayPal provides a payments platform for individuals, on smartphones or computers, using accounts at their bank or tied to American Express, Visa or MasterCard.
In the process it collects a fee.
It also offers systems such as Venmo (intended for payments between individuals but sometimes used by businesses, too), Braintree, a financial link used by Uber and Airbnb, and Xoom, a remittance service.
Competition abroad is just as keen.
American Express entered Asia early and once had an enviable position there, but its presence has faded.
In 2007 it sold (to Standard Chartered) a private bank created almost a century ago that had languished from inattention.
Japans JCB has issued almost as many cards (but still accounts for far less in transactions).
Chinas UnionPay boasts the worlds biggest transaction volume, eight times that of American Express, and 55% of cards issued globally.
These conventional competitors may matter less than electronic networks such as Alibabas Alipay and Tencents Tenpay and a profusion of still little-known startups.
The entire mechanics of payments are being rethought, with cards being replaced by QR codes, biometrics and more.
In this noisy hothouse, Mr Chenault deserves respect for keeping American Express healthy.
It has supported its market share through deals with banks and other financial institutions that can now issue American Express cards (and generate fees by transacting through Amexs systems).
In the past decade the number of businesses accepting its cards has doubled.
But these victories have come at a cost.
Twenty-five years ago American Express collected a 3.2% fee on every transaction, according to Sanford Bernstein, an investment research firm.
Now, it makes less than 1.8%.
Competitive pressure will squeeze this further.
In the past, merchants were willing to pay for American Express transactions because its cardholders were well-off and willing to spend.
But now large banks are going after these customers.
JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, both with card businesses headed by ex-Amexers, have issued cards that provide benefits broadly regarded as better than those from American Express.
Soon Bank of America will follow.
Banks have also taken aim at lucrative co-branding deals carrying exclusive rewards for customers.
In 2015 American Express lost one such deal with Costco, a large retailer that accounted for 10% of its transaction volume, to Citigroup.
Another, with JetBlue, an airline, went to Barclays.
To rely less on revenue from transaction fees, American Express has become more banklike, lending more.
Net interest income made up 18% of revenues in 2012 and should bring in 28% in 2018, predicts Nomura/Instinet, a brokerage.
That has looked good lately, because funds have been cheap and credit quality high, but the environment may be changing.
Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, among others, began expanding their consumer-loan portfolios in 2015.
Now quality may be worsening.
In the two most recent quarters, analysts were surprised by the size of American Expresss provisions for credit losses.
Other banks also increased provisions.
Credit is cyclical and it would be a surprise if this time were different.
A new concern is electronic fraud, notwithstanding companies efforts to thwart it.
Still, the business that American Express joined 60 years ago will continue to grow, and American Express may well be a beneficiary.
But others may be better placed.
Mr Chenaults tenure may thus be remembered merely as a pause before the end of an era.
IT IS fashionable to say that tech firms will conquer the financial services industry.
Yet in the case of Apple, it seems that the opposite is happening and finance is taking over tech by stealth.
Since the death of Steve Jobs, its co-founder, in 2011, the worlds biggest firm by market value has sold hundreds of millions of phones with bionic chips and know-it-all digital assistants.
But it has also grown a financial operation that is already, on some measures, roughly half the size of Goldman Sachs.
Apple does not organise its financial activities into one subsidiary, but Schumpeter has lumped them together.
The resultcall it Apple Capitalhas $262bn of assets, $108bn of debt, and has traded $1.6trn of securities since 2011.
It appears to be run fairly cautiously and is part of a thriving firm, but it still deserves scrutiny.
Companies have a history of being hurt by their financial arms; think General Electric (GE) or General Motors (GM).
Apple Capital has lots of responsibilities but three stand out.
It invests the firms mountain of surplus profits, mainly in highly rated instruments (this task seems to fall to Braeburn Capital, a subsidiary in Nevada, which uses some external fund managers).
Apple Capital also uses derivatives in order to protect the firm against currency and interest-rate gyrations.
And it manages Americas fifth-biggest corporate-debt pile by issuing Apple bonds as part of an elaborate strategy to limit tax bills.
Apple Capital has become important to its parent.
Since Jobs died, its assets have risen by 221%, twice as fast as the companys sales, reflecting Apples huge build-up of profits.
Its investments are worth 32% of Apples market value, and its profits (investment income, plus gains on derivatives, less interest costs) have been 7% of Apples pre-tax profits so far this year.
It is also sizeable compared with other financial firms.
Consider four measures: assets, debt, credit exposure and profits.
Depending on the yardstick, Apple Capital is 30-85% as big as Goldman Sachs.
It is 22-42% as large as GE Capital was at its peak in 2007, just before things went down the tubes during the subprime crisis.
Apple Capital is different from these firms in important ways.
It does not take deposits and has much lower leverage.
In their prime Goldman and GE Capital were run by hard-charging financiers, and made lots of loans.
By contrast, Apple Capital does not make loans, and is not meant to be a profit centre in its own right.
Nonetheless, it has become riskier, in three ways.
First, Apple Capital is investing in racier assets, which involves taking credit risk.
In 2011 a majority of its assets were risk-free: cash or government bonds.
Today 68% are invested in other kinds of securities, mainly corporate bonds, which Apple says are generally investment grade.
The shift may explain why Apples annual interest rate earned on its portfolio (2%) is now higher than that of the four other Silicon Valley firms with money mountains, Microsoft, Alphabet, Cisco and Oracle.
In total, they still have 66% of their portfolios squirrelled away in risk-free assets.
Second, Apples derivatives book has got much bigger.
Since 2011 its notional sizethe face value of its contractshas risen by 425%, to $124bn.
This is still much smaller than big banks positions, but is the third-largest book of any non-financial firm in America, after GE and Ford.
For every dollar of foreign sales, Apple has 89 cents of derivatives, compared with 57 cents for the other four tech giants.
At points these derivatives have yielded big rewards.
In 2015 they contributed $4bn, or 6% of Apples profits.
But they have dangers, too.
Apple says that its value-at-risk (VAR), a statistical measure of the maximum likely loss in an average day, is $434m.
That is huge: similar to the combined VAR of the worlds top ten investment banks.
In theory losses on derivatives would be offset by gains in the value of Apples underlying business.
But the sheer size of these positions gives pause for thought.
The last area of higher risk is Apples divided geography.
Its foreign operation swims in cash while its domestic one drowns in debt.
Profits made abroad are kept in foreign subsidiaries.
That way Apple does not pay the 35% levy America charges when earnings are repatriated.
Some 94% of Apple Capitals assets are offshore and cannot be tapped for ordinary purposes.
The domestic business must do the hard work of paying for dividends and buy-backs.
Its profits are not big enough to cover these, so it borrows.
Domestic net debts have risen to $92bn, or five times domestic gross operating profits.
Each year Apple must issue $30bn of bonds (including refinancing), similar to the average of Wall Streets five largest firms.
Apples core business is so profitable that it isalmostinconceivable that a blow-up at Apple Capital could lead to it needing taxpayer or central-bank support, as was the case for GM and GE.
Still, it is easy to imagine how Apple Capital could hurt its parent.
A market shock could lead to losses on its portfolios.
A two-percentage-point rise in interest rates would result in a loss of $10bn.
If bond markets dried up, Apple might struggle to issue so much debt and have to bring home funds, incurring a big tax bill.
It might also become tricky to run such a big derivatives portfolio.
Dont upset the Apple cart Apple Capital has grown in a forgiving period for financial markets.
That wont last.
Over time, the risk of mission creep will rise, as will the temptation to invest in riskier assets.
On the current trajectory, by 2022 its assets will reach $400bn and debts $250bn.
By then financial regulators, who do not supervise Apple, will be grinding their teeth at night.
According to a former manager who left in 2012, Apples financial gurus were careful because nobody wanted that 3am call from Steve Jobs.
But Jobs isnt there any more.
In any case, a fear of rebuke is not enough.
If the tax laws change Tim Cook, Apples boss should wind down the structure that the firm has created.
But even if the rules dont Apple Capital should be shrunk.
Tech firms should seek to disrupt finance, not be seduced by it.
American business schools dominate The Economist s 2017 Which MBA?
ranking, taking 16 of the top 20 places.
Northwestern Universitys Kellogg School of Management returns to the top spot for the first time since 2004.
Kellogg students praise its facilities and collaborative culture.
Their career opportunities are among the best, thanks in part to one of the largest alumni networks in the world; 97% of students find a job within three months of graduation, pocketing a 72% pay bump.
All of the top ten slots in the ranking are now occupied by large, prestigious American schools, for which students are happy to pay extra.
Their average tuition fee is $134,600, and has risen quickly in recent years.
Employers, too, are willing to shell out for the best students.
Their average basic salary was $127,300, a 70% increase on their pre-MBA pay cheques.
But life, like rankings, isnt just about money.
So we weight data according to what students tell us is important.
The four categories covered are: opening new career opportunities (35%), personal development and educational experience (35%), better salary (20%) and networking potential (10%).
See the full ranking and methodology .
FOR MANY people, the Hollywood blockbuster Top Gun captures the allure of becoming a pilot.
In it, fighter-pilot trainees don aviator sunglasses and flight suits, and zipp about the skies to a soaring 1980s soundtrack.
But despite such pop-culture appeal, Americas Air Force is struggling to capture the imagination of would-be recruits.
This year it will be short of around 900 new airmen.
To counter this, the Air Force is stepping up its efforts to recruit new cadets.
This month they introduced a $35,000 signing-on bonus for newly hired military airmen, the first new incentive of its kind since 1999.
Commercial carriers, too, are trying to entice more newcomers with better financial rewards.
The average pay for new pilots in that sector has nearly tripled from $20,000 to $59,000 in the past three years.
One of the main barriers for would-be pilots is training.
To become a pilot requires an investment of $200,000, often more than student loans will cover.
In addition trainees are required by law to fly 1,500 hours before being hired by a commercial airline.
This delays the moment of fully paid employment and is another cost that student loans do not finance.
The shortfall is most severely felt by regional carriers which experienced a steep hiring drop between 2014 and 2016.
Another part of the problem is that an ageing workforce is coupled with a mandatory retirement age.
Over the next ten years, 42% of civil-aviation pilots will have to retire at 65.
Boeing estimates that 117,000 new pilots will have to be hired to offset this and accommodate the future growth of the industry.
Pilot shortfalls are already having an effect, particularly on regional carriers.
Short-distance flights operated by regional airlines are often more expensive than longer routes run by well-staffed major carriers.
For example, a quick check of flight prices shows that a five-hour trip from Seattle to New York is only $30 more expensive than a 50-minute jaunt from Seattle to Bellingham in Washington.
More concerning, however, are the increased service disruptions.
Between 2013 and 2016, 23% of all American airports experienced a reduction of scheduled services of at least 20%, according to figures from OAG, a data provider.
Much of this is because of pilot shortages, argues the Regional Airline Association, a trade group.
Though the largest carriers have been less disrupted, regional airlines have been forced to cut flights to more-remote destinations.
Military leaders and commercial-airline bosses are already lobbying congress to alter the rules that govern flying.
High on their wishlist are changes like student loans tailored for those pursuing a career in aviation and easier ways for pilots to clock up more flying hours.
In the past being a pilot was considered a glamorous job.
Though some of that appeal still lingers, today public policymakers just need to focus on making it financially feasible.
THE presidents tax promise has always been clear: he will reduce the amount middle-earners, but not rich Americans, must pay.
Yet every time Donald Trump releases a plan, analysts say it does almost the opposite.
The Tax Policy Centre, a think-tank, recently filled in the blanks in the latest Republican tax proposals and concluded that more than half of its giveaways would go to the top 1% of earners.
Their incomes would rise by an average of $130,000; middle-earners would get just $660.
The White House maintains that tax reform will deliver a much heftier boost to workers pay packets.
Who is right?
The disagreement boils down to who benefits when taxes on corporations fall.
The Tax Policy Centre says it is mainly rich investors.
But in a report released on October 16th, Mr Trumps Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) claimed that cutting the corporate-tax rate from 35% to 20%, as Republicans propose, would eventually boost annual wages by a staggering $4,000-9,000 for the average household.
The claim has sparked a debate among economists that is as ill-tempered as it is geeky.
Left-leaning economists are incredulous.
Writing in the Wall Street Journal , Jason Furman, who led the CEA under Barack Obama, pointed out that if the report is right, wage increases would total about three to six times the cost of the tax cut.
Larry Summers, a former treasury secretary, wrote that if a student submitted the CEA paper, he would be hard pressed to give it a passing grade.
Conservative economists, such as Gregory Mankiw of Harvard University and Casey Mulligan of the University of Chicago, have responded with a barrage of algebra and diagrams.
They note that taxes, because they distort incentives, can cost the economy more than they raise in revenues.
Economists call the extra cost deadweight loss.
Once it is reclaimed, tax cuts could benefit workers and firms by more than they cost the Treasury.
For instance, investment might rise after corporate taxes fall, sparking competition for workers and pushing wages up.
Whats more, standard theory says that, in a small economy integrated with global markets, workers will pay for taxes on capital, because firms can up sticks when levies rise.
Paul Krugman and Brad DeLong, two left-wing economists, have fired back their own Greek and graphs, laced with snark.
But Messrs Mankiw and Mulligan showed that the CEAs prediction is at least logically possible.
That does not mean it is reasonable.
There are three reasons to doubt it.
First, to calculate its figures, the White House relied on two studies, neither from a peer-reviewed journal, of how wages have varied with corporate-tax rates internationally and across American states.
A recent review of such papers, by Jane Gravelle of the Congressional Research Service, found both to be statistically flawed.
In any case, Mihir Desai of Harvard Business School, who co-wrote one of them, says that the CEA misinterpreted his work.
If you assumed the corporate tax creates a deadweight loss worth ten times the revenue it raises, you might justify the CEAs numbers, he says.
But that is implausible.
(As The Economist went to press, the CEA was preparing a second report using other methods to justify the figures.)
Second, the American economy is plainly not small.
This makes capital less flighty.
And although it may have become more mobile because of globalisation, many investment opportunities in Americain Silicon Valley, sayare hard to replicate elsewhere.
This also makes a high corporate-tax rate less likely to send investment abroad.
Third, the White Houses analysis ignores other features of the Republican tax plan, like a proposal to switch to a territorial corporate-tax system.
Because this would stop taxing the foreign profits of American firms, it might actually encourage investment abroad.
And if, as is likely, the tax cut is financed by borrowing, it is likely to push up interest rates and the dollar.
That would create an economic drag.
The White House has rushed to include the CEAs paper in its argument for tax cuts.
Yet the estimate is more than a little optimistic.
There is no clear relationship between recent corporate-tax cuts and wage growth in rich countries (see chart).
Even the Tax Foundation, a think-tank that looks favourably on corporate-tax cuts, predicts a much smaller wage boost.
Should Republicans get their way, Americans can expect a pay risejust not a bumper one.
SOMETIMES it feels like the 1970s in the New York Times and Washington Post newsrooms: reporters battling each other to break news about scandals that threaten to envelop the White House and the presidency of Donald Trump.
Only now their scoops come not in the morning edition but in a tweet or iPhone alert near the end of the day.
It is like old times in another way: both newspapers are getting readers to pay, offsetting advertising revenue relinquished to the internet.
After years of giving away scoops for nothing online, and cutting staff, the Times and Post are focusing on subscriptionsmostly digital oneswhich now rake in more money than ads do.
Their experiences offer lessons for the industry in America, although only a handful of newspapers have a chance at matching their success.
A subscription-first approach relies on tapping a national and international market of hundreds of millions of educated English-language readers and converting a fraction of those into paying customers.
With enough digital subscribersMark Thompson, chief executive of the New York Times , believes his newspaper can get to 10m, from 2m todaythe subscriptions-first model could (in theory) generate more profits than business models dependent on print advertising used to.
Such optimism is hard to summon after two decades of accelerating decline.
In that period American newspapers lost nearly 40% of their daily circulation, which fell to 35m last year, estimates the Pew Research Centre.
Annual ad revenues have shrunk by 63%, or $30bn, just in the past ten years (see chart).
Newsrooms have shed 40% of reporters and editors since 2006.
High returns on equity turned into single digits, losses or bankruptcy.
Like Detroit carmakers before the arrival of the Japanese, in pre-internet days newspapers flush with profits from a captive market grew lazy and complacent.
Some big-city papers, like the Philadelphia Inquirer or the Baltimore Sun , splurged on foreign bureaus and fluffy suburban sections whether or not readers wanted them; classified ads alone covered these costs many times over.
Now such newspapers are struggling to remain relevant to diminished readerships.
A tier below, hundreds of local ones are dying or turning into advertiser sheets; newspaper chains, some managed by investment funds, have snapped up many of them, maintaining high profits by sacking journalists.
From the ashes of newsprint The Times and Post have been buffeted by the same forces.
But now each is in turnaround.
The Times has doubled its digital-only subscribers in less than two years; the Post has managed the feat in ten months, and now has more than 1m.
Both have staunched losses.
Revenue at the Times had fallen by more than 20% in three years to less than $1.6bn in 2009; this year they are on pace to climb back above $1.6bn, led by digital subscriptions.
(Return on equity still fell, to 3% last year from 37% in 2001.)
The Post had also been losing millions before Jeff Bezos, boss of Amazon, bought it in 2013.
The newspaper is now privately held and does not disclose revenues and profits, but Fred Ryan, the publisher, says both are growing and the newspaper is on track for its most profitable year in a decade.
The Wall Street Journal added more than 300,000 digital subscriptions in the year to June, but a sharp fall in advertising crimped revenues by 6% at Dow Jones, the division of News Corp, Rupert Murdochs media empire, that houses the newspaper.
How have they done it?
Early attempts by newspapers to put up digital paywalls floundered, and met with derision from critics and competitors vaunting the internets ability to generate huge audiences for free content.
How could anyone hope to attract paying digital customers when they could go elsewhere online for free?
The Times hit upon the answer in 2011, when it introduced a metered paywall, something the Financial Times was also trying.
Visitors to the website could read a few free articles a month, after which they would be asked to pay.
This approach is now standard across journalism (including at this newspaper), but it was controversial at the time.
At News Corp Mr Murdoch erected a hard paywall at all his newspapers in the belief that giving away his product online would cripple the more profitable print editions.
Those suffered anyway, and he later dropped the paywall at the Sun , a tabloid, and has allowed some flexibility at the Journal .
Softer paywalls have created funnels to suck in customers.
On a whiteboard in Mr Thompsons office at the Times is a diagram to illustrate the approach.
At the top, where the funnel is widest, are all those who visit its digital site.
(In September 104m people in America did so, according to comScore.)
At the narrow end are its 2m paying digital-only subscribers (plus 1m print subscribers).
Mr Thompsons main preoccupation is to tweak the geometry of the funnel to shift more people from free to paid.
At the Post , Mr Ryan is also busy funnelling.
The job of funnel mathematician did not exist at newspapers six years ago.
Now it is one of the most important functions a digital site has.
The Times and Post conduct numerous tests of different ways to trigger the paywall, for instance if a visitor returns to the same columnist.
It is A/B testing like at a technology company, Mr Ryan says, except it is more like A to Z testing.
The Post has settled on three site visits a month before hitting the paywall, which means 85% of visitors will not encounter it.
The other 15% are asked to subscribe at the introductory rate of 99 cents for the first four weeks.
Both newspapers sift through data about what visitors do just before stumping up.
The Post looks at the month zero of a readers pre-subscription activity on the site.
Mr Ryan credits the effort, which began a year ago, with helping to convert more visitors to subscribers this year.
Another factor has helped the two papers: Mr Trump.
Since his election they have revived an old rivalry, vying for sensational scoops, sometimes several in a day.
Mr Trumps attacks on both newspapersthe failing New York Times, more fake news from the Amazon Washington Posthave almost certainly helped their bottom lines.
His presidency has created an urgency around news that has made old-fashioned journalism more in vogue than it has been probably since Watergate.
Fake news shared on social media has reinforced a feeling that real news costs money.
Trump bump The newspapers bosses agree Mr Trump has been good for business, but add they were ready for the moment.
As Mr Bezos is fond of saying, you cant shrink your way to profitability.
He invested in the Post after buying it, hiring technologists to improve its digital presence.
He has also added reporters (the Post now has 750 newsroom employees and counting).
Marty Baron, editor of the Post , added a rapid-response investigative team of eight people this year.
Dean Baquet, executive editor of the Times , has expanded the Washington bureau twice since the election.
(The Times paid for new reporters in part by cutting dozens of other editorial jobs.)
The subscription-first approach justifies adding reporters.
By increasing the quality of the product, newspapers hope to lure subscribers.
But it is not clear others can replicate that virtuous circle so easily.
Many regional papers are nurturing digital subscribersthey all have their funnels now, toobut are doing so on a much smaller scale.
They will have to come up with other ways to make money to survive.
They have to do everything, says Jay Rosen, a professor of journalism at New York University.
... is present By everything media experts like Mr Rosen mean ending a reliance on two traditional sources of revenue: ads and subscriptions.
At regional papers, unlike the national ones, prospects for both are limited by the size of the metropolitan market.
Savings from printing fewer copies are smallprinting and distribution costs are mostly fixedso they must either cut staff or find other ways to make money.
This may include staging trade fairs, offering memberships with perks, even e-commerce partnerships.
Such sidelines help to ward off staff cuts; to be a community hub, newspapers must also cover communities effectively.
They may forgo costly (and wasteful) foreign and national bureaus.
But to attract local readers, they must provide relevant coverage of city halls, courthouses, police precincts or schools.
Take the Star Tribune in Minneapolis, a privately owned newspaper which has managed to keep the newsroom humming along.
Almost annually Mike Klingensmith, the publisher, and a few of his senior executives meet with their counterparts at the Dallas Morning News , Boston Globe and one or two other independently owned newspapers.
They sign non-disclosure agreements and then share ideas about how to make money.
In the past year Mr Klingensmith has adopted three of them, adding several million dollars in revenue: organising an advertiser fair to attract new clients; putting on a consumer travel show; and starting a glossy quarterly print magazine.
The Star Tribune now sells digital subscriptions (nearly 50,000) and adverts; delivers a thick Sunday paper full of features (which accounts for 54% of print ad revenue); and is expanding the Saturday print edition.
It conducts in-depth investigations that wins awards, including the Pulitzer Prize in 2013, and makes podcasts and daily videos.
Several reporters cover city hall.
In the past year an additional one was dispatched to Washington.
Mr Klingensmith and Rene Sanchez, the editor, believe quality is key; nearly 20% of the budget goes to the newsroom, which has kept a headcount of 245 for seven years.
That gives the Star Tribune s funnel mathematician a product to sell.
Patrick Johnston, a digital executive poached from Target, the retail store, and his boss Jim Bernard, a former executive at Marketwatch, a business-news website, explain how a local newspapers funnel vision is different.
They are, like the big papers, interested in the visitors who they call intenders, people whose browsing behaviour suggests they may be ready to subscribe.
But whereas many visitors to the Times and Post are potential intenders, the Star Tribune can dismiss about 50% of its online trafficthe grazers from outside Minnesota who clicked a linkand focus on the other half.
Reducing friction is vital; they have got 25% more intenders to subscribe since installing PayPal as a payment option.
Hold the presses The downside to the ease of online subscriptions is the ease of cancelling them.
Newspapers guard their rates of digital churn closely because they are so highdespite an all-out effort the Star Tribune keeps only one in two subscribers after 14 months (the Times and Post numbers are better, executives there say, without giving figures).
A subscribers early days are essential.
Keeping a visitor engaged with the site is similar to getting a guest on Targets website to put another item in their basket, Mr Johnston says.
It also means competing with ever more rivals for peoples attention: bigger fish like the Times and Post , but also Netflix, Spotify or Candy Crush.
The virtue of digital subscriptions is that they build a deeper relationship between readers and newspapers than when distribution meant throwing broadsheets onto doorsteps.
Newspapers nowadays know a lot more about their customers tastes.
That lets them tailor the experience to readers individually, with the aim of keeping them around longer.
It can be, as Mr Thompson says, an annuity for the newspaper.
But the newspaper has to be worth the cover price.
The New York Times Co. reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit, as it signed up more advertisers and subscribers for its digital publications, helping offset a slide in print sales.
The company added about 154,000 paid only subscribers to various websites, including the New York Times website, in the third quarter.
Digital advertising revenue rose 11 percent to $49.2 million, accounting for about 43 percent of its total advertising revenue.
The papers print advertising revenue fell 20.1 percent to $64.4 million.
Net income attributable to the company rose to $32.3 million in the quarter ended Sept. 24 from $406,000 a year earlier.
On a per-share basis it earned 20 cents per share compared with break-even last year.
Excluding items, earnings were 13 cents per share from continuing operations, beating analysts average estimate of 8 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Revenue rose 6.1 percent to $385.6 million.
Analysts on average had expected $389 million.
Walmart is planning to boost sales and fend off rivals this holiday season by doubling down on incentives for shoppers who buy online and those who visit its stores.
That includes plans for more than 20,000 holiday parties at its stores where shoppers can test and try top-selling items, chief marketing officer Tony Rogers said, adding that the company was investing heavily in improving the shopping experience at its stores.
The worlds largest retailer said it tripled its online selections for the holiday season to 60 million items, and that it would provide free two-day shipping on more than two million products when the order size exceeds $35.
It said it would also offer discounts for online orders picked up at its stores.
The company said its stores and website would offer more exclusive products from companies such as appliance maker Cuisinart and audio equipment maker Bose.
The plans were announced at a media briefing to outline Walmarts strategy for the November and December holiday shopping season, an important period for retailers during which they earn an outsized portion of their annual profits and sales.
Steve Bratspies, chief merchandising officer at Walmart said the retailer would offer thousands of rollbacks or reduced prices across products that would include lower prices on 400 toys from brands like Lego and Nerf.
We are buying as much inventory as we think we can handle and sell we think we are in a really strong position, Bratspies said.
Bratspies said that for the third consecutive year the retailer would focus more on discounts and offering the lowest prices on items instead of gimmicky product deals, as customers expect more consistent pricing.
Panasonic on Tuesday said output at the $5 billion battery Gigafactory it runs with electric vehicle maker Tesla could soon increase as the causes of bottlenecks that have hobbled production are now understood.
Panasonic, the worlds largest automotive lithium-ion battery manufacturer, makes battery cells to which Tesla adds electronics to make battery packs for its cars.
Tesla earlier this month blamed manufacturing bottlenecks for limiting quarterly production of its mass-market Model 3 sedan to 260 vehicles rather than its 1,500 goal.
Panasonic Chief Executive Kazuhiro Tsuga said at an earnings briefing that delays to the automation of the battery pack production line meant some stages had to be completed manually.
This process (for battery packs) will be soon automated, and then the number of vehicles to be produced will rise sharply, Tsuga said.
He declined to comment to what extent Model 3 production would be behind its targeted schedule.
Tesla is slated to report earnings after the bell on Wednesday.
An heir to the Marriott hotel fortune claims his dad forced him out of the business and then cut him out of the familys nearly $3 billion trust just because he got a divorce.
John Marriott III claims his dad, Bill Marriott, took the moves after he divorced his wife, Angela, in 2015 against his dads wishes.
The Marriott family are devout Mormons and strongly discourage divorce.
Bill Marriott also disowned his son setting him on the path to financial ruin, according to the lawsuit filed by John in a Washington, DC, court.
John also sued his Uncle Richard because he and Bill, his brother, share control of a the $2.8 billion trust established by Johns grandparents J. Willard and Alice Marriott, founders of the hotel chain.
John could not be reached for comment, but the 56-year-old former Marriott executive told Washingtonian.com, which first reported on the suit, that the situation is really tough.
To sue my dad and my uncle is the last thing I want to do, and the last thing I ever expected to do, he said.
Bill Marriott, 85, who the hotel companys executive chairman, has tried to take away everything that Ive earned and everything that my grandparents left for me, John said.
The suits major allegation is the father and uncle have breached their fiduciary duties by denying John his rightful share of the family fortune.
But his only crime, John told the Washingtonian, was not maintaining the image of the perfect Mormon family.
The punishment may seem severe for a third-generation hotelier who started in the family business as a 15-year-old dishwasher.
John then climbed the corporate ladder to executive VP before exiting in 2006 a year after he sensed his father no longer considered him worthy of the top job.
The family trust, JWM Family Enterprises, owns 24.2 million shares of Marriott International, according to regulatory filings.
They are worth about $2.7 billion based on Marriotts Tuesday close at $199.48.
The same proxy also credits chairman Bill with an additional 15.4 million shares, worth about $1.8 billion.
Marriott did not respond to The Posts request for comment, while a spokesman for Bill and Richard Marriott told the Washingtonian that the brothers had not yet read the complaint.
When they do theyll see some eye-popping admissions from John, who says he contemplated suicide at age 11 and has long struggled with alcohol and drug abuse.
A multiyear civil investigation by 45 states into alleged price-fixing of 15 generic drugs widened dramatically on Tuesday to include the No.
2 executive at pharmaceutical giant Mylan.
The state attorneys general are looking to sue Mylan President Rajiv Malik, court papers show.
If the states get court permission to widen their case, Malik would be the first senior executive ensnared in the investigation.
In the 235-page amended complaint, the states claim 18 companies including Mylan, Lannett, Teva, Emcure and Sandoz fixed the prices of popular generic drugs, sometimes tripling their cost.
In one case, Teva is accused of more than doubling the price of Nystatin, used to treat diaper rash, to $100.30 up from $47.06 according to the suit.
In 2015, sales of generic drugs in the US reached an estimated $74.5 billion, according to the suit.
Given direct involvement of executives in this case and the evidence we had implicating them, we felt as a group of antitrust enforcers, that it was important to hold these individuals accountable, Connecticut Assistant Attorney General Joseph Nielsen said on a conference call with reporters.
Other executives are under investigation and the conduct was very widespread across the industry, said Nielsen, who is heading of the probe.
Mylan shares tumbled on the news that Malik could be sued falling 6.6 percent, to $35.71.
The Netherlands-based drugmaker quickly came to Maliks defense.
Mylan has deep faith in the integrity of its president, Rajiv Malik, and stands behind him fully, the company said in a statement.
A lawyer for the executive said Malik emphatically and categorically denies the allegations.
Malik has worked at Mylan for a decade after stints at Sandoz and Ranbaxy Laboratories.
He has served as president of the company since 2012.
The states are also looking to add a second executive to its suit Satish Mehta, the CEO of Indian drugmaker Emcure Pharmaceuticals.
The company could not immediately be reached for comment.
We allege in this complaint that the defendant companies collusion was so pervasive that it essentially eliminated competition from the market for these 15 drugs in its entirety, Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said.
The result was higher drug prices for all.
The Justice Department is operating a parallel criminal probe.
That investigation has resulted, so far, in guilty pleas from two former executives of Heritage Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Emcure.
Lawmakers in Washington have held hearings recently about rising drug prices elevating the profile of the matter across the country.
Mylan had its reputation sullied during one of those hearings when Congress questioned the price of its allergy shot EpiPen.
The company promised reforms.
This summer, Mylan cut its long-held 2018 earnings-per-share target.
With Wires
Billionaire James Dolans Madison Square Garden Co. has hired Teneo Holdings, a well-connected communications firm whose services include defending companies against shareholder activists, The Post has learned.
MSG, which owns the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers, lately has fallen under increasing pressure from hedge funds to split or sell its assets, which also include the Garden, the Los Angeles Forum and the Rockettes.
Teneos services also include investment banking, management consulting and corporate restructuring, but I think this is absolutely about defense, a source who is following MSGs recent dialogue with investors said of Teneos hire.
Shareholder Mario Gabelli said last week at a Yahoo Finance Summit, You can buy MSG at $210 a share theyve got 24 million shares, thats $4.8 billion, $1.4 billion in cash and you get the Knicks for free based on the valuations [of their assets].
Samantha Greenberg of Margate Capital said Oct. 19 that Dolan should take decisive action to bring full value to shareholders, believing the shares trade at a 43 percent discount to the companys asset value.
There has been speculation that Dolan, whose family controls MSGs voting stock, may be interested in buying some of MSGs assets himself to take them private.
Dolan had a master plan in 2015 when he split his cable network from his other MSG-related assets.
He hoped to sell the separately traded MSG regional sports cable network and use the proceeds to buy more or all of MSG, sources said.
But has not been able to find buyers for the cable network at an acceptable price, sources said.
Teneos recent clients include Americas biggest casino operator, Caesars Entertainment, which split its assets into two separate companies and then tried to persuade a bankruptcy judge and creditors it was the right decision.
Officials at MSG and Teneo declined to comment.
The Weinstein Companys talks to get a lifeline from Fortress Investment Group have stalled amid concerns about the flailing Hollywood studios financial condition, The Post has learned.
The chances of a deal getting done have recently slid to roughly 50 percent as Fortress weighs the risks of extending $35 million in rescue financing to TWC following the sex scandals that have engulfed co-founder Harvey Weinstein, according to a source close to the talks.
The financing, as of last week, was believed to be imminent, according to a Bloomberg report.
The loan from Fortress is not definitely happening, the source said on Tuesday, cautioning that the situation was fluid and that talks were still ongoing.
Without a loan, the studio could be forced into bankruptcy in the coming months, financial sources speculated.
Last month, Colony Capital headed by billionaire Trump confidant Thomas Barrack reportedly backed out of talks to save TWC in exchange for claims on its extensive library of movies.
Those talks were reported shortly after Weinstein Company co-founder Bob Weinstein denied that the studio was weighing a sale of its assets.
Execs from Facebook, Google and Twitter told Congress Tuesday they arent sure they know the full extent of Russias manipulation of social media in the US presidential election and dont have the technology to prevent it from happening again.
It really is a global threat, Colin Stretch, Facebooks general counsel, said at a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing when asked if countries such as North Korea and Iran could also use subterfuge to meddle in American politics.
The session was the first in two days of hearings before three congressional committees as the technology giants face demands for change and the threat of new legislation to regulate political advertising after they admitted Russia mounted a massive effort to sow discord among the electorate.
While Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the subcommittees chairman, said social-media platforms have failed to combat disinformation spread by foreigners, he cautioned that imposing new regulations on the companies may raise constitutional issues.
The manipulation of social-media sites by terrorist organizations and foreign governments is one of the greatest challenges to American democracy and a significant threat to our national security in the 21st century, Graham said.
He said the hearing would help determine whether legislative solutions are necessary and can be constructed consistent with our Constitution and values.
Democrats on the panel made it clear they will press harder for legislative action on the technology companies, which have become major lobbyists and campaign contributors in DC.
Subcommittee member Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat, told reporters legislation is needed because I doubt they found all the ads and posts.
The practice and potential abuse are ongoing right now.
Disinformation is going to become exponentially more rampant.
Stretch said 29 million people were directly served content from accounts backed by the Internet Research Agency, a pro-Kremlin Russian group.
see also Facebook says Russia-backed content reached 126M people Facebook now says 126 million American users were served content... After those posts were liked, shared and commented on via Facebooks social network, they landed in the news feeds of about 126 million people at some point over a two-year period a number equal to about 40 percent of the US population.
Twitter found 2,752 accounts associated with the IRA, according to its acting general counsel, Sean Edgett more than 10 times the number initially disclosed.
Edgett made clear Twitter continues to investigate.
Google said the impact on its sites was much smaller, with $4,700 worth of ads linked to the Russian group, compared with the $100,000 Facebook disclosed.
None of the media giants said they will back legislation to require all social-media ads to include disclosures about the buyers.
But they said theyd be willing to work with bill author Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) on finding a solution that works for everyone.
Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.)
said hes proud these are American companies, but your power sometimes scares me.
Under tough questioning from Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.), Facebooks Stretch admitted it should have been quicker to shut down Russians buying Facebook ads with rubles.
In hindsight, its one we missed, Stretch said.
Additional reporting by Marisa Schultz
Proxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services shot down Bill Ackmans attempt to have it change its voting recommendations for Automatic Data Processings shareholders.
In an 18-page letter sent Monday, Pershing Squares Ackman accused ISS of using non-public, inaccurate and misleading information it received from ADP to come to its conclusions.
After reviewing the lengthy letter, ISS said Tuesday that it saw no reason to change course.
ISS has carefully reviewed the arguments made by Pershing Square in their October 30 letter to ISS and continues to stand by the analysis and conclusions set forth in our October 25 report issued to clients, it said.
Ackman wants three reps on the ADP board.
ISS gave Ackman a weak endorsement backing just one rep.
US home prices rose sharply in August from a year ago, a trend that is thwarting many would-be buyers and potentially slowing sales.
The Standard & Poors CoreLogic Case-Shiller national home price index, released Tuesday, increased 6.1 percent in August from a year earlier.
Thats higher than the 5.9 percent annual gain in July.
In nine of the 20 cities tracked by the index, yearly price gains in August were faster than in July.
Fewer Americans are selling their homes, and builders arent putting up enough new houses to meet burgeoning demand.
That has forced home buyers into bidding wars, lifting prices.
Mortgage rates remain at historically low levels, making it easier to afford higher costs.
That has resulted in rising prices even as sales have slipped this year.
Home price increases appear to be unstoppable, says David M. Blitzer, chairman of the Index Committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Housing costs are climbing much faster than overall inflation or wages.
Sales of existing homes ticked up in September after falling for three months.
Still, sales have fallen 1.5 percent from a year ago, according to the National Association of Realtors, the first year-over-year decline since July 2016.
Yet the declining sales figures dont reflect a lack of demand.
A typical home in September was snapped up just 34 days after listing, down from 39 days a year ago.
Surveys show most renters consider it a good time to buy a home, and increasing numbers of millennials are employed and entering prime home-buying years.
Those buyers simply arent finding many options, particularly among less-expensive homes.
The number of homes for sale in September was 6.4 percent lower than a year ago.
There were just 1.9 million existing homes for sale that month, the fewest in any September since the Realtors began tracking the figure in 2001.
With so few properties available, more Americans are paying list price for homes or higher.
Forty-two percent of buyers have done so this year, according to a separate report from the Realtors group.
Thats the highest on records dating back to 2007.
The survey also found that Americans are staying in their homes longer, one reason that fewer homes are for sale.
The typical seller this year owned their home for 10 years before listing it, the same as last year.
But before 2009, the figure was usually six years, the Realtors said.
Single women now make up the second-largest group of home buyers, accounting for 18 percent of purchases, the survey found.
Married couples, at 65 percent, are the largest.
Single men made up 7 percent of home buyers this year.
Wall Street cant ignore bitcoin any longer.
The digital currency, which has surged 569 percent this year, took a big step toward the investing mainstream on Tuesday when CME Group, the operator of the worlds biggest exchange, said it would allow trading of bitcoin futures by the end of the year.
The news sent bitcoin surging by 4.8 percent, or $292.22, to $6,379.70 by early afternoon.
This is indeed huge news and its driven by higher bitcoin adoption rates by both the general public and institutions, Marc van der Chijs, managing partner at CrossPacific Capital and a bitcoin investor, told The Post.
With futures in place it will open the flood gates for institutions to come in they were asking for it, he added.
The move by CME amounts to the first major Wall Street institution throwing its weight behind bitcoin, which has been derided by skeptics as a fad and a bubble.
Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan Chase, on Sept. 12 called bitcoin a fraud, when the price was around $4,250.
He walked back his comments a month later during a quarterly conference call just as it was breaking through the $5,000 mark.
Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein has signaled that he is more open to throwing the resources of his bank behind digital currencies.
Still thinking about #Bitcoin.
No conclusion not endorsing/rejecting.
Know that folks also were skeptical when paper money displaced gold, Blankfein tweeted on Oct. 3.
Before the financial crisis, Wall Street banks were often on the bleeding edge of financial innovation creating synthetic securities and exotic derivatives that were used widely, but also accelerated the pace of the 2008 financial crisis.
see also Jamie Dimon is back to trashing bitcoin Jamie Dimon cant help himself when it comes to trashing...
Since President Obama signed the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law, banks and investors have been more cautious, opening the door for Silicon Valley engineers to make the new, new thing.
CME is an exchange for futures contracts, which are typically used to bet on price movements of commodities like oil and gold.
The decision is an about-face for CME, which tried last month to tamp down speculation that it would allow trading of the futures contracts.
I really dont see us going forward with a futures contract in the very near future, CME President Bryan Durkin told Bloomberg Television last month.
But demand has spiked for bitcoin, as more than 100 hedge funds investing in it and similar digital currencies have emerged during the last few years.
Given increasing client interest in the evolving cryptocurrency markets, we have decided to introduce a bitcoin futures contract, Terry Duffy, CMEs CEO, said in a statement.
Under Armour slashed 2017 forecasts and reported its first quarterly fall in revenue since going public as the sportswear firm struggled against fierce competition from Nike and Adidas in North America.
Shares in the maker of Stephen Curry basketball shoes, already among the worst performing stocks on the S&P 500 in the past year, were recently off 13 percent at $12.82 in early Tuesday trades.
Rival Nike also fell as did shares in several retail chains which sell Under Armours products Dicks Sporting Goods, Finish Line and Hibbet.
The sportswear maker struggled again in its biggest market, North America, as a lack of innovation coupled with an intensifying price war among retailers ate into profits.
One part of the companys troubles is linked to the waning demand for athleisure fashion, where customers wear exercise clothing in both casual and formal environments.
Retail chains which stocked these items heavily not long ago are now reducing shelf space, spurring a 12 percent decline in wholesale revenue for Under Armour.
The repositioning of Adidas, an underdog only two years ago in North America, has also exacerbated Under Armours problems as the German firm won back customers with cleverly tweaked retro lines of shoes.
Under Armours revenue fell 4.5 percent year-on-year in the quarter ended Sept. 30, its first such decline since going public in 2005.
The company also blamed operational challenges related to the upgrading of its IT systems for the drop in sales.
The Baltimore, Maryland-based company cut its forecast for the percentage rise in full-year revenue to the low single-digits from 9-11 percent earlier.
This is now about more than external factors, Neil Saunders, managing director of research house GlobalData Retail, wrote in a note.
It demonstrates issues with the (Under Armour) brand and its proposition.
Especially so since other brands and retailers have not posted such calamitous figures.
Under Armours shares still carry the highest valuation of the big global sportswear companies with its stock trading at 39.1 times forward earnings.
Nike in contrast trades at 22.4 times, and Adidas at 24.7 times.
The company also said net income more than halved to $54.2 million, or 12 cents per Class C share, mainly due to an $85 million charge related to a previously announced plan to cut jobs and close stores.
Excluding items, the company earned 22 cents per share, topping an already downbeat analysts consensus by three cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
It cut its full-year adjusted earnings forecast to 18 to 20 cents per share, compared to a previous 37 to 40 cents.
Facebook, Twitter and Alphabet Inc.s Google head before US lawmakers on Tuesday for two days of grueling hearings on how Russia allegedly used their services to try to sway the 2016 US election.
At stake for the Silicon Valley companies are their public images and the threat of tougher advertising regulations in the United States, where the technology sector has grown accustomed to light treatment from the government.
Facebook, the worlds largest social network, added fuel to the debate on Monday when it told Congress in written testimony that 126 million Americans may have seen politically divisive posts that originated in Russia under fake names.
That is in addition to 3,000 US political ads that Facebook says Russians bought on its platform.
Google and Twitter have also said that people in Russia used their services to spread messages in the run-up to last years US presidential election.
The Russian government has denied it intended to influence the election, in which President Donald Trump, a Republican, defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton.
US lawmakers have responded angrily to the idea of foreign meddling, introducing legislation to require online platforms to say who is running election ads and what audiences are targeted.
The companies need to get ahead of the curve here, said James Lewis, senior vice president of the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies.
If they can, he added, they might avoid regulation.
Lewis, speaking during the Reuters Cyber Summit in Washington, said he expects European officials to watch the US hearings closely.
The US Senates crime subcommittee will be the first of three committees to hold hearings on Russia.
Its hearing is set for 2:30 p.m.
ET.
Facebook and Twitter are dispatching their general counsels, Colin Stretch and Sean Edgett, to appear before the subcommittee, while Google is sending its director of law enforcement and information security, Richard Salgado.
Our goal is to bring people closer together; what we saw from these actors was an insidious attempt to drive people apart.
And were determined to prevent it from happening again, Stretch will tell lawmakers, according to an advance copy of his remarks.
Facebook and Twitter have taken steps toward self-regulation, saying they would create their own public archives of election-related ads and also apply more specific labels to such ads.
Google followed on Monday, saying it would create a database of election ads including ones on YouTube.
The companies have meanwhile disclosed new details about the extent of Russia-based material, raising alarms about a sector that once inspired idealism.
The internet was seen as a great engine for promoting democracy and transparency.
Now we are all discovering that it can also be a tool for hijacking democracy, said Karen Kornbluh, a senior fellow for digital policy at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Alphabet Inc.s self-driving car unit stopped developing features that required drivers to take control in dangerous situations after experiments showed test users napping, putting on makeup and fiddling with their phones as the vehicles traveled up to 56 mph.
What we found was pretty scary, John Krafcik, the head of Alphabets Waymo unit, said on Monday during a media tour of the startups testing facility.
Its hard to take over because they have lost contextual awareness.
In tests it ran several years ago, Krafcik said the company determined a system that asked drivers to jump in at the sound of an alert was unsafe after seeing videos from inside self-driving cars.
The filmed tests were conducted in 2013, with Google employees behind the wheel.
The videos had not been publicly shown until Mondays event, Waymo spokeswoman Lauren Barriere said.
A couple of days after the napping incident, the company decided to focus solely on technology that didnt require human intervention, said Krafcik, who joined as CEO in 2015.
It has also since argued against allowing handoffs between automated driving systems and people.
Our technology takes care of all of the driving, allowing passengers to stay passengers, the company said in report this month.
Waymo is running a ride-hailing pilot program around Phoenix, Arizona that chauffeurs an undisclosed, but growing number of users in self-driving cars.
The service area is limited to well-mapped roads on which Waymo has extensively tested.
The two drive controls provided to passengers in Waymos Chrysler Pacifica minivans are buttons for starting a ride and asking the vehicles to pull over at their next chance.
Krafcik declined to specify when the company would expand beyond the small experiment, saying only that such a moment is getting close.
He reiterated that the company is simultaneously also identifying ways to launch self-driving trucks, municipal transit services and partnerships with carmakers.
We see four potential applications, whether its Waymo branded or not, he said.
With Reuters
How can Paul Manafort hurt your wealth?
President Trumps former campaign chief was charged in a 12-count indictment that included tax fraud, money laundering and the most interesting one of all conspiracy against the US.
Also important, a Manafort business associate named Rick Gates was also charged in an indictment that was unsealed Monday.
Both men surrendered to authorities.
Details of the charges havent yet come out, but Manafort who managed the campaign for a short while was known to be a target of the investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller.
The broader investigation is supposed to be about Russian meddling in the last presidential election and things connected with that.
Nobody at this point knows whether Manafort can give Muellers investigators anything that might imperil the Trump administration and its goals.
Charging Gates as well might mean that this is about bad business practices.
The lack of clarity is what could be important to investors, especially as it relates to the tax reform measures now working their way through Congress.
There is already opposition to tax reform, which in its first iteration would reduce the number of tax brackets, give companies a break and, it seems, shift some of the burden to higher-income individuals.
Overall, tax reform is being billed as a break for Americans.
But in order to pay for those tax breaks in an era of huge government deficits and US debt exceeding $20 trillion, there need to be offsetting cuts in some current, very popular tax deductions.
The tax changes need to get as close to revenue-neutral meaning they dont cause a great increase in the US deficit as they can be.
Details of the tax bill under consideration are being kept under lock and key by Republicans in Congress.
The House Ways and Means Committee is scheduled to reveal the House version of the tax bill Wednesday.
Although the details havent been released, there is already powerful opposition to the bill from home builders and the National Association of Realtors, who fear tax deductions for mortgage payments and state and local taxes may be eliminated or made less attractive.
With all that going on, the indictment of Trumps first campaign manager is more than just a distraction.
If the object of the probe becomes larger than just questionable business dealings by Manafort and either Trump or his relatives are implicated, at the very least, tax reform will be stalled.
At worst, tax reform might not happen as Washington waits to see whether Trump can survive.
The stock market has been bubbling since before Trumps election and one of the main reasons Wall Street feels encouraged is that investors think something will be done to change the tax laws to benefit companies, increase their profits and justify higher stock prices.
If Manaforts current predicament causes enough disruption, Wall Street might take a second look at current stock prices and then take a little, or a lot, of air out of the bubble.
For the record, I dont think Manaforts business dealings endanger Trump.
But I do think Republicans, who already dont like the president for many reasons, might take advantage of the indictments and gang up against him.
In that case, chaos in Washington will put the Wall Street bubble in peril.
Consumerist.com was shuttered as a stand-alone site Monday, triggering an angry blast from one of the top editors who blamed mismanagement for the closure.
The site, operated by Consumer Reports, broke the bad news to readers in a short story, saying it would be our last post after 12 years as a stand-alone site.
Were deeply proud of all the work weve done on behalf of consumers, from exposing shady practices by secretive cable companies to pushing for action against dodgy payday lenders, the unsigned post said.
Weve had a tremendous run as a standalone site.
Now youll be able to get the same great coverage of consumer issues as part of Consumer Reports, our parent organization.
But deputy executive editor Chris Morran blasted Marta L. Tellado, CEO of Consumers Union, for shutting down the title.
Id like to thank @MLTellado for making @consumerist the scapegoat for her inability to run @ConsumerReports, he tweeted.
Morran was also mad that the staff did not get a chance to say goodbye.
Please note that NO ONE who wrote for @consumerist had anything to do with this cruddy farewell post, he tweeted.
Its an insult to our hard work.
Consumerist.com and Consumer Reports are run by the not-for-profit Consumers Union and accepts no paid ads.
In 2015, Tellado shut down the print title Shop Smart and said it was concentrating on more digital offerings.
A spokesman did not respond specifically to Morrans salvos on the latest closure, but released a statement: Consumerist has long been a unique and important voice in reporting on the issues that matter to consumers and their wallets.
We are now transitioning Consumerist from a standalone site, thoughtfully incorporating key elements of Consumerist content in new ways within Consumer Reports.
Bill Ackman is not happy with proxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services.
The hedgie behind Pershing Square said ISS relied on non-public, inaccurate and misleading information, claims, and arguments it received from Automatic Data Processing in its mostly pro-ADP recommendations on how shareholders should vote at the payroll processors meeting next week.
ISS released a report last week in which it urged shareholders to support ADPs slate of board candidates with the exception of Eric Fast.
Withholding a vote for Fast would provide an opening for Ackman to be elected, ISS said.
But the proxy advisory firm did not endorse Ackmans two other nominees.
Ackman wants ISS to issue a corrective report that also takes into account Ackmans responses to non-public information ADP provided to ISS.
With such information, ISS might come to a materially more favorable conclusion for Pershing Square, Ackman wrote.
Ackmans complaints were contained in an 18-page letter sent to ISS on Monday.
Reps from ISS and ADP did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Theres at least one CEO not willing to tolerate sniping from short sellers.
Parker Petit, the chief executive of MiMedx, a Georgia-based biopharmaceutical company, has accused an alleged wolf pack of short sellers with making fraudulent and unethical accusations about his company.
MiMedx, which filed a federal court lawsuit against three short sellers earlier this month, lashed out against a fourth short seller on Monday, saying in a letter that, you and your wolf pack have taken short selling into a fraudulent and also illegal mode.
The fourth short seller, Marc Cohodes, got under Petits skin by posting a letter on Oct. 27 on an anti-MiMedx site run by Cohodes claiming MiMedx was fraudulently stuffing the sales pipeline.
Cohodes said the claims were made by a current MiMedx employee.
In his Monday letter to Cohodes, Petit said the claims by the employee are fraudulent.
Petits lawsuit against the short sellers demands they stop making false accusations about the company.
One of the three short sellers, Dialectic Capital, has asked the judge to dismiss the suit.
A second, Sparrow Fund Management, asked to be dismissed from the action because it was wrongly fingered.
The third, Viceroy Research, has not yet responded to the lawsuit, according to Manhattan federal court records.
Late Monday, Cohodes turned the heat up in the battle, accusing Petit of defamation.
The statements you have made [in the Monday letter] accuse Mr. Cohodes of criminal conduct, which is defamation, David Shapiro, a lawyer for Cohodes, said in a letter, a copy of which was obtained by The Post.
MiMedx makes human amniotic membrane, used in surgical procedures.
Dialectics John Fichthorn, in a September phone call, allegedly told a major MiMedx shareholder that the company is definitely a revenue fraud situation, according to the suit.
Fichthorn did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Petit is also trying to get the three short sellers to unmask who is behind two anonymous sites including one named Aurelius that have been outspoken in their attacks on MiMedx.
MiMedx has called those attacks false.
Nevertheless, MiMedx has become a popular stock to short, with 31.7 percent of its shares held short.
Despite more investors betting MiMedx shares will fall, theyre up 40.5 percent in 2017.
Representatives for MiMedx did not respond to requests for comment.
Shares of MiMedx ended the day up 2.5 percent at $12.45.
Clean-up in aisle 5.
Walmart will dump the 135-year-old Danskin brand from its 3,960 US stores and its Web site in 15 months, the dance and athletic brands parent, Iconix Brand Group, said Monday.
The move made a mess of Iconix shares, sending them down 62 percent, to $1.85 their lowest in 14 years, back when the licensing company was known as Candies.
Losing the $15.5 million of annual revenue Danskin generates at Walmart has forced Iconix into discussions with its lenders over its debt covenants, it said.
Iconix previously announced that Walmart is dumping its OP brand in 2019 and that Target nixed its $1 billion Mossimo brand, which wont be sold in Target stores after January 2018.
Walmart previous axed Iconixs Starter brand, which will now be sold exclusively on Amazon, the company said on Monday.
We view the loss of these key relationships as a major challenge for management, which has been heightened by the loss of Danskin Now, wrote FBR Capital Markets & Co. analyst Eric Beder in a note.
Beder cut his rating of Iconix to neutral from buy, and lowered his price target to $4, from $8.50.
Danskin is still being sold by Lord & Taylor, Costco and TJMaxx, Iconix said, but a quick check by The Post found just 12 listings for Danskin products on Lord & Taylors Web site and none on Costcos.
TJMaxx doesnt allow shoppers to search by brands on its Web site.
Improving the balance sheet and more actively managing our brands continues to be our primary focus, said Iconix Chief Executive John Haugh in a statement.
After his daughters YouTube video showing off the iPhone X went viral, Apple reportedly fired one of its iPhone engineers.
YouTube vlogger Brooke Amelia Peterson said in a new video on her channel that her father, iPhone engineer Ken Bauer, had been fired after she showcased the new iPhone X.
The phone will be available Nov. 3.
Apple let him go, Peterson said in the video, after detailing that her original video went viral and became one of YouTubes top trending videos after it was posted.
Peterson also posted a picture to Instagram of her and the new iPhone, which has also subsequently been removed.
At the end of the day, when you work for Apple, it doesnt matter how good of a person you are, Peterson added in the video.
If you break a rule, they just have no tolerance.
The new video, posted on Oct. 28, has nearly 3.5 million views already.
The original video, which has since been taken down, showed off new features of the iPhone X, including using Apple Pay, shots from inside Apples cafeteria and even shots of Bauer, who handed the phone to Peterson in the video.
On his LinkedIn page, Bauer, who previously worked at Broadcom before coming to Apple in August 2013, was a self-described RF guy at Apple.
Its unclear what he meant by this, but it could be a reference to radio frequency, the technology that allows phones to communicate with cell sites.
Or its possible he may have worked on radio frequency identification (RFID), a technology used to allow for the purchase of goods, such as a cup of coffee or a subway ticket, using your iPhone.
see also iPhone X demand is 'off the charts' The iPhone X is killing it.
Just three days after... Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple showed off the iPhone X, along with the iPhone 8, 8 Plus and other new products, at a media event in September.
However, those in attendance were only able to play with the new devices for a little while.
Peterson, on the other hand, showcased the new device for an extended period of time and received unprecedented access from her father.
Apple is famous for its secrecy.
Apples iPhone X became available for pre-order this past Friday and due to exceptional demand, shipping dates have been pushed back to 5 to 6 weeks for both the 64GB and 256GB models.
In a note to investors, Drexel Hamilton analyst Brian White said Apple is taking the iPhone franchise to a whole new level with the iPhone X, pushing the company deep into the ultra-luxury smartphone market with the highest priced iPhone in the companys history.
Apple did not immediately return a request for comment from Fox News.
Everything at Sears and Kmart stores is going on sale ahead of the holidays.
Everything.
The troubled department store chain on Wednesday kicked off a promotional event that promises "first-of-their-kind" discounts ranging from 10 to 50 percent at Sears stores, and 10 to 40 percent at Kmart.
Appliances at Sears will be as much as 40 percent off, one flyer reviewed by CNBC shows.
Tools, recliners and work boots made by DieHard are being marked down up to 50 percent.
And family outerwear at Kmart will see markdowns around 40 percent.
This season will be crucial for Sears, which has been struggling with some of its vendors to keep merchandise in stock.
Just last month, the company tapped CEO Eddie Lampert's hedge fund three times for additional financing.
During its latest quarter, Sears posted a double-digit decline in same-store sales, a metric closely watched by Wall Street.
The deals will run through the Saturday of Thanksgiving weekend.
Sears said it wanted to get a jump on the season to help customers avoid a "Black Friday crunch."
"We will have deals in every nook and cranny of the store," Kelly Cook, chief marketing officer of Sears and Kmart, told CNBC.
"Our shoppers said they wanted four things for the holidays," Cook said.
That consisted of: extra time, added customer service, more freebies, and "the whole store on sale."
In addition to the steep discounts at stores through the season, Sears will offer shoppers curbside pickup, free Sears "cash" and ShopYourWay points to spend on select items, the return of the iconic Sears catalog, and Kmart's Bluelight Specials.
Cook described the new strategy as the biggest holiday push Sears has ever done.
In years past, promotions at Sears and Kmart stores have been more sporadic throughout November and December.
But Cook and her team said they were finding "the holiday shopping period is growing beyond Black Friday, seeping into the beginning parts of November."
When asked about the retailer's margins being hurt by more promotions, Cook said Sears tested a similar "blowout" event at a select Kmart store earlier this summer, to monitor the economics of the idea.
Results showed Kmart shoppers were buying more during the month, and coming in more frequently, she said.
"It was viable economically."
As October came to an end, America's department stores were already under fire for their holiday strategies.
This year, Amazon's encroaching retail presence is on the minds of many.
In turn, each retailer has its own way of trying to win sales.
Kohl's, for example, has signed a deal with Amazon to sell some of Amazon's tech products and accept Amazon returns in a handful of Kohl's stores, heading into the holidays.
Nordstrom, which has fared better on the stock market than all of its peers this year except for Kohl's, is betting bigger on its off-price Rack division and testing a smaller store format without inventory.
Stocks of retail rivals Macy's and J.C. Penney were downgraded by Citi on Monday, to sell from neutral ratings.
Citi analyst Paul Lejuez is calling for "another promotional holiday season" ahead for the already-challenged department store industry.
Here are the top 5 features of the new Apple iPhone X 6:02 AM ET Tue, 31 Oct 2017 | 01:33 Chinese consumers are getting very excited about the iPhone X.
But for Apple, which has struggled to keep up with the onslaught of competition in China's smartphone market, an upturn in fortunes may not yet be on the cards.
Already, Chinese buyers are rushing to get their pre-orders before the official product launch on Friday.
JD.com, the country's second-largest e-commerce site after Alibaba's Tmall, received over 2.5 million pre-orders.
Other sellers have tallied about another 3 million of such orders.
For perspective, Apple sold 44.9 million iPhone units in China in 2016, according to research by intelligence firm IDC.
Social media platforms in China are also seeing lively activity about Apple's latest offering, with the term #iPhoneX being read 400 million times thus far.
Wal-Mart is gearing up for the holiday season this year with plans to invest even more in the in-store shopping experience.
For Wal-Mart, that means parties.
The big-box retailer plans to hold more than 20,000 parties at its stores over the next two months, with the first event, called "Toys That Rock," taking place nationwide this Saturday.
Wal-Mart's other events will include "Parties That Rock" and "Gifts That Rock," where attendees can receive curated gift guides and toy catalogs.
Its overarching holiday marketing campaign this year is dubbed "Rock This Christmas," the company announced Wednesday.
"While we're shipping a whole lot of advertising to the omnichannel experience, we don't want to let the store experience get lost in that," Tony Rogers, chief marketing officer of Wal-Mart U.S., said on a call with members of the media.
"We are investing in [stores] this year more than we ever have," Rogers said.
"It's the most we've done in stores."
Wal-Mart made a significant push in 2016 to make its supercenters easier and more festive to shop in, bringing in "holiday helpers" for the first time and upping its amount of live toy demonstrations for kids and their parents.
This year, Wal-Mart is adding more holiday helpers, which guide shoppers to checkout lines, open additional registers during busy hours and fetch items from around the stores.
The retailer will also increase the number of toy demos in stores to 165,000, and bring Santa Claus in again for selfies.
In another push, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart is expanding the number of items on sale this holiday season, both in stores and online.
The company will triple its online assortment, according to Scott Hilton, chief revenue officer of Wal-Mart's U.S. e-commerce division.
And more Wal-Mart shoppers are expected to ring up purchases online prior to picking them up in stores, Hilton said.
Wal-Mart this year will sell items from national brands that were not previously available, like Cuisinart, KitchenAid, Yankee Candle, and Bose in select stores and on Walmart.com.
The company is calling for "more exclusives than ever before."
"This is our first holiday season with [free] two-day shipping [on orders over $35], and an expanded online grocery assortment," said Steve Bratspies, chief merchandising officer of Wal-Mart's U.S. team.
"It's the biggest and best year, yet, when it comes to merchandise."
Retail rival Target announced its holiday plans last month, which include rolling out a "GiftNow" option online, Weekend Deals, 1,400 new and exclusive toys, and free shipping running from Nov. 1 to Dec. 23.
Best Buy will also remove its free-shipping threshold of $35 through the holidays, as the electronics retailer expands same-day delivery to more markets.
Wal-Mart, though, is sticking to its $35 minimum for online orders.
The world's largest retailer also sat out of such a promotion ditching a threshold, like Target and Best Buy last year.
In turn, Wal-Mart expects shoppers to either meet the $35 requirement, or make use of order online, pickup in store.
Wal-Mart has what it calls a Pickup Discount, which encourages customers to shop online-only items, shipping them to a Wal-Mart store for free pickup.
A digital invoice finance platform in the U.K. will provide business loans to its customers for the first time, it was announced Wednesday.
Financial technology company MarketInvoice enables businesses to sell their unpaid invoices to provide working capital.
The firm said it would expand into the business lending market, pitting it against established players such as U.S. listed peer-to-peer lender LendingClub and Britain's Funding Circle.
The latter raised 82 million ($100 million) in funding from venture capital investors earlier this year.
Peer-to-peer lenders connect lenders to borrowers through an online platform.
Businesses apply for a loan and are matched with an investor.
They then repay the loan to the peer-to-peer platform, which is then distributed to the investors.
CEO and co-founder Anil Stocker told CNBC that MarketInvoice will take advantage of an incoming European Union regulation called the Second Payment Services Directive (PSD2), which forces banks to open up data about their customers to third party companies.
"PSD2 is a regulatory change that is going to be a real catalyst for us because we're able to get access to SME (small to medium-sized enterprise) customer information," Stocker said in a phone interview Tuesday.
"We can use things like machine learning and artificial intelligence to build better credit scores with this data.
I think the banks are starting to realize that this world they've had guarded around customer data for so long, now it's starting to open up."
Insured losses from this month's wildfire disaster in Northern California topped $3.3 billion, the state Department of Insurance said Tuesday.
The claims for insured losses on residences, businesses and vehicles represents a three-fold jump from figures released two weeks by the state agency.
Data was based on losses as reported to the state by 15 major insurers.
"Behind each and every one of these claims, and behind the over $3 billion in insured losses claims, are ordinary people," Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones said in a call with reporters.
"Tens of thousands lost everything in what has proven to be the deadliest and one of the most costly set of wildfires in our state's history."
Jones also said there's a chance insurance companies now may take a second look at areas once considered low wildfire risk and be hesitant to issue policies given the devastation seen in this month's deadly fire disaster.
"We may also see, unfortunately, insurance companies updating their models of risk associated with these fires," he said.
"And that may mean in some cases some insurers will decide to write less insurance in some areas that had traditionally had been viewed as lower risk."
The fires were in at least eight Northern California counties of the state.
President Donald Trump has requested for a heightened vetting program following Tuesday's terrorist attack in New York.
Trump signed an executive order in January that imposed tighter screening on foreigners entering the U.S., known as extreme vetting.
At the time, he called the measure a safeguard against terrorism.
Recently, he attempted to enforce an open-ended ban on citizens from eight countries, including Iran, Libya, Syria, and Yemen.
Many of the president's actions regarding travel and immigration including three attempts to ban travelers from certain countries have been met with legal resistance and unfavorable court rulings.
His remarks on Tuesday came after a motorist struck several people earlier in the day, leaving at least eight people dead and a dozen injured.
NBC News reported the attacker's name is Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov, an Uzbek national who entered the U.S. in 2010.
After being shot in the abdomen by a police officer, the suspect was taken to a hospital, where he refused to answer an initial round of questions, according to NBC News.
Tuesday's incident was done for ISIS, according to a note law enforcement officials found, WNBC reported.
New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said authorities are treating the incident as a terrorist attack.
New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo said there's no evidence to suggest there's a wider threat or plot, warning that people will still see more security forces out of caution.
In a separate tweet, the president referred to the suspect as a "sick and deranged person."
Later, the president also expressed his condolences for the victims and their families.
First lady Melania Trump tweeted, "My heart breaks for #NYC today.
Thoughts & prayers as we monitor the situation."
In an official statement released by the White House, Trump said his administration "will provide its full support to the New York City Police Department," including a joint investigation with the FBI, for the "cowardly attack."
CNBC's Angelica Lavito contributed to this report.
Shares of decking company Trex jumped 25 percent Tuesday after the firm reported quarterly earnings that beat expectations.
The stock hit a record of $109.09.
The company reported earnings per share of 68 cents compared with analyst expectations of 55 cents projected by FactSet.
Net sales for the third quarter hit a record $140 million, up more than 32 percent from the same quarter last year.
"It is clear that we are beginning to see the results of our influence with the consumer," CEO James E. Cline said on a conference call.
Cline credited a national ad campaign launched two years ago for driving demand.
The company said it expected revenue of $118 million in the fourth quarter.
Trex says it accounts for more than 80 percent of all residential decking and railing in North America.
That market share has grown 4 percent since 2014, Cline said.
Analysts at FBR & Co. raised their price target for the company to $96 from $80 Tuesday while maintaining a hold rating.
Shares of the company have risen more than 60 percent this year.
Several casino stocks received a lift Tuesday after a report from Nomura suggested the Macau gaming market showed a "noticeable pickup in demand" in the last part of October.
In early afternoon trading, Wynn Resorts stock was up just over 5.5 percent, Las Vegas Sands was up 2.8 percent, and MGM was ahead just over 2 percent.
"Our latest consultant checks point to a noticeable pickup in demand following the 19th Party Congress in China, with VIP and mass revenue up about 30 percent and 9 percent year-over-year, respectively," Nomura analyst Harry Curtis said in a research note Tuesday.
Macau, the world's largest gambling mecca, appears to have been spared any harsh new regulations during the recent Communist Party Congress in Beijing.
A previous downturn in Macau was blamed on the Beijing government's corruption crackdown on the junket business, the specialists that bring in the high-value Chinese gamblers to the Macau casinos.
Given "strength in the last 10 days of October," Nomura said it lifted the firm's Macau gross gaming revenue estimate to a range of 19 percent to 21 percent growth for October on a year-over-year basis.
A Consensus Metrix survey showed the Street was forecasting Macau's October GGR would increase by 15.9 percent on a year-over-year basis.
Macau posted 16.1 percent year-over-year growth in casino GGR during September.
According to Nomura, Macau's October GGR has typically risen between 12 and 13 percent sequentially from September, which it said would indicate 13 to 14 percent growth on a year-over-year basis.
"However, post-Golden Week demand this year has trended much better than expected," Nomura said.
China's National Day began on Oct. 1, but the week-long celebration that followed is known as "Golden Week" and is a popular time for Chinese to travel to Macau and other destinations.
Meantime, the Nevada Gaming Control Board on Tuesday reported that Nevada casinos won nearly $980 million in September, a 3 percent increase from the same month a year ago.
The Las Vegas Strip posted even stronger gains just before the deadly shooting on Oct. 1.
The Nevada state agency said the Las Vegas Strip casinos collected $567.9 million in September, up 4.7 percent from September 2016.
Still, the September tally was below the double-digit percentage growth achieved in August a month lifted by the Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Conor McGregor super-welterweight fight.
Las Vegas Strip casinos accounted for 58 percent of the state's gambling revenue in September.
Among the countless situations autonomous cars must master before we see driverless vehicles giving us rides is a seemingly mundane one: Where do you pick up passengers?
"Pickups can be one of the most stressful moments for passengers," said Juliet Rothenberg who oversees rider experience for Waymo, formerly known as the Google self-driving car project.
"We're exploring features to recognize riders earlier."
Here's the problem Waymo's self-driving minivans have encountered when picking up riders in a pilot program in Arizona.
Sometimes the passenger is not at the exact location they indicated when calling for a ride on the Waymo self-driving car app.
Other times, riders do not realize they need to be at the exact pickup location.
The riders will walk toward the minivan as it is moving toward the designated pick up spot.
Since the car will only do the designated pickup location, flagging down the car earlier is not an option.
The "brains" of the self-driving minivan may miss where to pick up the passenger, and that passenger could be frustrated.
The situation is one ride-hailing users have encountered numerous times.
It is not uncommon to have an Uber, Lyft or some other driver call you on a busy city street and say, "Where are you?
I'm here."
Not surprisingly, one of the most common questions Waymo gets from those using its self-driving minivans is one we can all relate to.
"What's happening with my pickup is one we hear from riders," said Rothenberg.
Waymo says it is working on ways to eliminate the frustrating situation, but it won't say what those solutions might include.
In the meantime, it looks like self-driving cars are wrestling with a problem all of us have encountered numerous times: The person being picked up is not where we thought they would be.
Also see: A recent ride in a Waymo self-driving van shows they're almost ready for prime time Questions?
Comments?
BehindTheWheel@cnbc.com.
North Korea probably stole South Korean warship blueprints after hacking into Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co Ltd's database in April last year, a South Korean opposition lawmaker said on Tuesday.
North Korea has often been implicated in cyber attacks in South Korea and elsewhere but Pyongyang has either ignored or denied accusations of hacking.
"We are almost 100 percent certain that North Korean hackers were behind the hacking and stole the company's sensitive documents," Kyung Dae-soo of the main opposition Liberty Korea Party told Reuters by telephone.
Daewoo Shipbuilding has built several South Korean warships, including an Aegis-class vessel and submarines.
It was most likely North Korea had obtained blueprints for these, he said.
The hacking was discovered by a division under South Korea's Ministry of Defence in charge of investigating cases of cybercrime, said Kyung, who received a briefing on the investigation.
How sensitive and classified the seized documents were was not known as that was not disclosed by the investigative team, he added.
A spokeswoman for Daewoo Shipbuilding said she was unaware of the issue until early Tuesday and the company was in the process of confirming the details of Kyung's remarks.
The investigative team came to the conclusion North Korea had hacked Daewoo Shipbuilding because the hacking method was very similar to other attacks that North Korea was thought to be behind, Kyung said.
Hackers in North Korea are believed to have been responsible for a recent cyber heist in Taiwan - the latest in a string of hacks targeting the global SWIFT messaging system.
Earlier this month, another South Korean lawmaker had said North Korean hackers had stolen a large number of classified military documents, including South Korea-U.S. wartime operational plans.
And British authorities said last week they believed North Korea was behind the "WannaCry" ransomware attack in May that disrupted businesses and government services worldwide, including the National Health Service in England.
Changes abound in the Middle East and North Africa, but the pace of economic and social reforms needs to increase, according to one senior voice at the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Global growth will be 3.6 percent for the fiscal year of 2017, with this falling to 2.6 percent for the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan and Pakistan (MENAP) region, according to the IMF's 2017 Regional Economic Outlook for the Middle East and Central Asia report out Tuesday.
Jihad Azour, the IMF's director for its Middle East and Central Asia department, told CNBC: "Reforms are now accepted by all as a positive move toward creating additional growth."
But he added, "If we don't grow at 6 and 7 percent it's going to be very difficult to find enough jobs for the 25 million young men and women that will enter the labor market in the region in the next five years."
Azour discussed Saudi Arabia's impetus to "genuinely move into a private sector-led economy."
For him, the Kingdom needs to improve "access to finance, by reforming the financial sector; access to talent, by reforming education; (and) access to market by opening up the economy and improving the business environment."
"Sequencing and keeping the momentum is important" in achieving this, he added.
Seoul and Beijing have agreed to work swiftly to get their relations back on track following a year-long standoff over the deployment of a U.S. anti-missile system in South Korea which hurt trade and South Korean business interests in China.
The installation of the U.S. Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system in South Korea had angered China, which believed its powerful radar could be used to look inside its territory.
South Korea and the United States have repeatedly said THAAD only serves to defend against the growing missile threat from North Korea.
"Both sides shared the view that the strengthening of exchange and cooperation between Korea and China serves their common interests and agreed to expeditiously bring exchange and cooperation in all areas back on a normal development track," South Korea's foreign ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.
South Korea's President Moon Jae-in will hold a summit meeting with China's President Xi Jinping on the sidelines of an upcoming summit of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) countries in Vietnam on Nov. 10-11, a Blue House official said in a separate briefing on Tuesday.
In a coordinated statement, China's foreign ministry said the two countries have agreed to get their relations back onto a normal track "at an early date".
South Korea recognizes China's concerns on the THAAD issue and made it clear that the deployment was not aimed at any third country and did not harm China's strategic security interests, China's foreign ministry said.
The New Jersey-based costume company suing Kmart for stealing its banana costume has reached a settlement outside the court, said Rasta Imposta CEO Robert Berman.
"We're going to continue selling to Kmart in the future," Berman told CNBC.
Berman declined to provide details of the settlement.
For almost a decade, Kmart had purchased Rasta Imposta's banana suit costume, a full-body yellow peel with a black stem at the head and foot.
But this Halloween season Kmart didn't order the banana costume after "the parties had some difficulty reaching an agreement," and Kmart decided to buy its banana costume from another vendor, according to the court filing.
Kmart declined to comment.
When Berman saw Kmart's new banana costume, however, he went bananas.
"When you take a design that has the same pattern, that's infringing," he said.
"Bananas are copyright-able."
Indeed, Rasta Imposta owns a copyright registration for the banana costume design with the U.S.
Copyright Office.
In September, Rasta Imposta filed a lawsuit against Kmart and its parent company Sears, seeking damages.
The banana costume is an integral part of Berman's business - he sells thousands of the yellow suits each year, he said.
"We've tried a lot of fruits and vegetables, but there's something about bananas that are inherently funny," he said.
He refuted that he was trying to secure a monopoly over the banana costume.
"Be creative and come up with your own interpretation of the banana," Berman said.
But June Besek, a copyright professor at Columbia Law School, said that it's tricky to create a different kind of banana than the one we're all used to seeing at the supermarket.
"There's just this overwhelming impression of a banana that you can't get around," Besek told CNBC.
The holidays are right around the corner, and some of retail's biggest names are being called out by Wall Street.
Macy's and J.C. Penney were both downgraded by Citi Research on Monday, to sell from neutral ratings.
Citi analyst Paul Lejuez is calling for "another promotional holiday season" ahead for an already challenged department store industry.
Too many deals and discounts throughout the November and December months could eat into company profits if retailers aren't able to rack up dollars elsewhere.
Macy's shares were falling more than 5 percent by Monday afternoon on the news, while Penney's shares were trading 10 percent lower.
Retail rivals Sears, Kohl's, Nordstrom and Dillard's were also each dipping lower, dragging the S&P 500 Retail ETF (XRT) down with them.
"In an environment where consumers are increasingly turning to Ecom, and where department stores are selling 'other people's stuff' that can often be bought elsewhere, we believe the company needs to have far fewer locations," Lejuez wrote in a note to clients about Penney's.
Penney's has already announced 140 store closures in 2017, hoping to improve liquidity, but some analysts are saying it won't be enough.
"In the current retail environment, we believe department stores are structurally disadvantaged to win," Lejuez said.
"Risks continue to mount."
Just last week, Penney's shares tumbled more than 20 percent when the company trimmed back its 2017 profit and comparable sales forecasts, blaming heavy discounting particularly on women's apparel ahead of the holidays.
"While we acknowledge the positive work JCP is doing to become less apparel reliant (with initiatives like the expansion of home, appliances, beauty, and salon) the sector faces intense secular headwinds as mall traffic wanes and the shift to e-comm should also continue to weigh on profitability," Jefferies analyst Randal Konik said about the announcement.
The disappointing full-year outlook from one department store chain didn't bode well for the rest of the industry, either.
Evercore ISI analyst Omar Saad called Friday's news a "negative" for J.C. Penney's peers, and he's also concerned that a warmer winter across the U.S. could spell doom for department store's coat sales.
Meantime, America's department stores are trying to lure shoppers in this holiday season.
Each company has a strategy of its own.
Kohl's, for example, has inked a deal with e-commerce giant Amazon to both sell some of Amazon's tech products and accept Amazon returns in a handful of Kohl's stores.
Sears, in a nostalgic move, is bringing back its iconic holiday catalogs.
Nordstrom, which has fared better on the stock market than all of its peers excepts for Kohl's this year, is betting bigger on its off-price Rack division and testing a smaller store format without inventory.
"They're in trouble," Vicki Howard, author of "From Main Street to Mall: The Rise and Fall of the American Department Store," said in an interview about U.S. department store chains.
"Their demographic is aging ... they haven't made themselves relevant to younger markets."
"I'm not saying retail is dying," Howard added.
"I think it's definitely changing."
Brooks Running CEO: We're trying to create the best shoe in each segment 6:51 AM ET Mon, 30 Oct 2017 | 03:04 In 2001, Seattle-based Brooks Running made a strategic decision to focus on only one category within sports retail, and the company never looked back, according to Chief Executive Jim Weber.
That category was running.
For the latest quarter, Brooks reported double-digit revenue growth, boosted by sales of the company's shoes for avid runners, including Brooks' Ghost and Adrenaline footwear models.
Brooks' third-quarter sales climbed 11 percent, while global footwear revenue was up 14 percent during the period, the company reported Monday.
The retailer is also gaining traction in the "$100 and above" segment for adult running footwear, NPD data show.
"We've never experienced a more dynamic time in the marketplace and we're working harder than ever to build and deliver the best gear in the world for all who run," Weber said in a statement.
"Despite uneven retail conditions, we continue to invest in future growth" in running.
Brooks, founded in 1914, is a private company and now a subsidiary of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway.
Brooks' former parent company, Russell Athletic, was sold to the Omaha, Nebraska-based holding company in 2006.
In 2012, Berkshire made Brooks a separate business unit, thus Weber now reports directly to Buffett.
Unlike Nike, Under Armour, Adidas, Puma, and other athletic apparel and accessories brands in the marketplace today, Brooks only wants to do one thing well, and better than everyone else, according to Weber.
The goal is to manufacture the best shoes and other gear for runners.
When Weber took to the CEO position in 2001, Brooks was selling in a slew of other categories outside of running, he said.
But the company quickly regrouped and pulled out of all other business segments, seeing untapped potential with consumers who run both for leisure and for competition.
To be sure, competition has picked up in the sporting goods industry in recent years, especially as more players launch stand-alone businesses online.
And e-commerce giant Amazon has muddied the waters further with its digital marketplace, prompting brands to either consider joining and selling on Amazon.com, or go it alone.
According to Weber, Brooks was halted from selling directly through Amazon a few years back because the two couldn't come to terms on an agreement over "premium brand presentation."
Today, Brooks can still be found on Amazon.com through a handful of third-party vendors, like Zappos.
Meantime, Brooks continues to build out its own website, and is testing a concept physical store in Seattle.
Weber said it's increasingly important for brands to have a strong presence online, especially those in his business.
In two years, online sales of running shoes went from representing roughly the midteens of total sales, to 30 percent, he said.
Brooks just expanded into China and Brazil this year, after the retailer's successes in Europe, Japan and Canada.
Looking to the future, Brooks aims to grow its brand's awareness among younger consumers, or those ages 25 to 35, Weber told CNBC.
And to continue to "refresh" the running category, something Weber said hadn't been done in decades, before Brooks gained its reputation as a running brand.
Brooks just launched its most "reinvented" running shoe, called the Levitate, in September.
It's still October, but Christmas is quickly approaching, and so are retailers' all-important holiday sales.
This year, more Americans are expected to begin their holiday shopping in the middle of the season, or Thanksgiving weekend, as opposed to late in the season, or early December, a new survey from NPD Group has found.
This marks the first time the research firm has noticed such a drastic shift forward in shoppers' spending timelines during the November and December months.
NPD surveyed nearly 3,800 U.S. consumers in September on their holiday purchase intentions.
"The consumer that used to wait until after Thanksgiving weekend now shops during it," said Marshal Cohen, an analyst with NPD Group.
According to the firm's findings, "getting a late start to the holiday shopping season" has become less frequent over the past decade.
"The last-minute shoppers have moved their timing up," Cohen added.
In 2017, about 30 percent of U.S. consumers plan to start their holiday shopping over Thanksgiving weekend, compared to only 12 to 16 percent in the years prior to 2014, NPD said.
Online sales are looking to play a bigger role in the holidays this year, too.
"The boost we will see during the peak Thanksgiving week shopping period of the 2017 holiday season will come from online sales," Cohen explained.
NPD has further found that roughly two-thirds of shoppers across the U.S. plan to complete at least a portion of their holiday shopping through digital channels this year.
Across the board, industry groups are calling for a more upbeat 2017 holiday season.
AlixPartners is calling for holiday retail sales growth of 3.5 to 4.4 percent; Deloitte has forecast growth of 4 to 4.5 percent, and the National Retail Federation is predicting an increase of 3.6 to 4 percent.
Central bank-issued digital currencies will be important, academic says 7:26 AM ET Mon, 30 Oct 2017 | 01:09 Digital currencies issued by central banks will make transactions more efficient while cryptocurrencies serve as a vehicle for illicit activity, economist Barry Eichengreen told CNBC Monday.
Asked whether he thought cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and ether would play a major role in the economy, he said: "Not really."
"I think there is a role for central bank-issued digital currencies which are a very different thing than crypto, anonymous currencies," he said.
"The first alternative central bank digital currencies will make transactions more efficient.
The second one is a vehicle for money laundering, tax evasion and the like."
Cryptocurrencies have come under fire from a number of economists, regulators and banking executives in recent weeks.
Harvard economist Kenneth Rogoff made a prediction that the price of bitcoin would "collapse" under continued pressure from governments.
Last month, China's regulators moved to ban initial coin offerings (ICOs) that allow start-ups to raise funds by flogging off new cryptocurrencies.
The price of the virtual asset dipped significantly following the ban.
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon has called bitcoin a "fraud" that will eventually "blow up."
Earlier this month, the investment banker said he would refrain from commenting on bitcoin, only to scrutinize it again the next day.
Macy's no longer makes much money as a retailer, Citi says, downgrades to sell 11:56 AM ET Mon, 30 Oct 2017 | 00:45 Macy's retail business continues to slip this year, causing Citi Research to downgrade its outlook for the stock's performance to sell from neutral.
Macy's "has seen significant pressure on sales/margins for several years, they no longer make much money as a retailer," Citi analyst Paul Lejuez wrote in a note Monday morning.
Macy's stock declined more than 2 percent in premarket trading following the Citi call.
Citi does not believe Macy's "has found the right tools" to avoid a steady decline, saying decreasing foot traffic in stores continues despite efforts by the company's management to turn things around.
"The core business is weak and (we believe) is getting weaker," Lejuez said.
The firm says Macy's is not alone, citing J.C. Penney's recent performance "as a reminder of just how challenging the department store space is."
The brick-and-mortar market is "structurally disadvantaged" in retail, Citi says, adding that Macy's "just can't move the dial."
Citi also believes Macy's falling free cash flow puts the retailer's dividend on the chopping block.
The retailer currently has a dividend yield of 7.7 percent.
"With declining cash flows and management's desire to maintain a healthy balance sheet, we believe there is risk they will cut the dividend in the future,' Lejuez said.
Shares of Macy's have fallen more than 42 percent this year as of Friday's close, according to FactSet.
The company did not immediately return a call for comment.
An online investment platform that allows Chinese investors to access a number of "alternative" U.S. investments officially launched Monday.
Financial technology firm MarketX lets upper-middle class and institution Chinese investors to invest in tech firms that have not yet issued shares to the general public.
These include such notable names as ride-hailing giant Lyft, music platform Spotify, bulletin board site Pinterest and workplace messaging app Slack.
But they will also be given the opportunity to enter less tapped markets such as litigation finance and real estate, artificial intelligence, customizable portfolios driven by themes like health, and companies founded by Tesla's Elon Musk.
"Our goal is to improve the access to U.S. financial products but also education for a new generation of wealthy individuals and institutions to access this pool of investments that previously was only free to really ultra-high networks of individuals and private banks," Cathryn Chen, founder and CEO of MarketX, told CNBC in a phone call ahead of the announcement.
Chen told CNBC that her company has been expanding its reach into the Asia-Pacific region.
"Over the last two years we've built offices around Shanghai, Beijing, Singapore, Shenzhen and our main offices in San Francisco."
The use of a spare business jet by former General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt was kept from board members until just this month, The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday a practice that reportedly drew internal scrutiny several years ago and that Immelt himself claims he didn't know about.
The Journal reported that the company had curbed the backup jet's use in mid-2014, adding that its use was in fact limited to isolated locations that involved potentially risky travel.
However, he board members were previously unaware, several sources told the WSJ.
The situation came to light earlier this month, after The Journal reported that Immelt, who was at the helm of GE for nearly 20 years before being stepping down recently, sometimes utilized a backup plane to follow his regular corporate jet on several trips around the world.
However, sources familiar with the matter told CNBC a couple of weeks ago that version was an exaggeration of Immelt's travel practices.
These people told CNBC it was not a regular practice to fly, or even keep on standby, multiple planes at the same time.
The sources said a second plane was kept on standby on the ground in certain locations while Immelt was visiting for security purposes, or in case his GE-owned plane had mechanical issues.
Last week, Immelt told the Journal that he was unaware of the backup jet's use.
"This is not a practice I would have allowed," he said in an emailed statement to the publication.
In response to CNBC's request, there was no additional comment from either GE or Immelt beyond what was said in the Journal article.
A GE spokeswoman told the Journal, "This practice, which GE has discontinued, involved business-critical itineraries with tight schedules, multiple international stops and, in most cases, security concerns."
"We do not believe that the understandable criticism of this discontinued practice fairly reflects on Jeff's dedicated service to GE for over 30 years," she said, referring to Immelt.
CNBC's Morgan Brennan and Michael Sheetz contributed to this article.
The Journal's full story can be found on its website.
Actor Kevin Spacey said Sunday he is "beyond horrified" by allegations that he made sexual advances on a teen boy decades ago.
The two-time Oscar winner posted on Twitter that he doesn't remember the encounter.
"But if I did behave then as he describes, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior, and I am sorry for the feelings he describes having carried with him all these years," he said.
In an interview with BuzzFeed, actor Anthony Rapp said Spacey befriended him while they both performed on Broadway shows.
Rapp was 14 when he attended a party at Spacey's apartment in 1986, he said.
At the end of the night, an inebriated Spacey picked him up, placed him on his bed, and climbed on top of him, Rapp said.
Rapp said the 26-year-old was holding him down tightly, but he was able to get away and left the apartment.
Rapp, who is now 46 and starring in the TV show "Star Trek: Discovery", said he came forward after allegations against Harvey Weinstein sparked conversations about sexual abuse and harassment in the entertainment industry.
Spacey, who is now 58, spoke publicly about his sexual orientation for the first time Sunday on Twitter.
"As those closest to me know, in my life I have had relationships with both men and women," he said.
"I have loved and had romantic encounters with men throughout my life, and I choose now to live as a gay man."
Spacey, who has fiercely protected his private life, had never disclosed his sexuality before but said Rapp's story encouraged him to speak.
"I want to deal with this honestly and openly and that starts with examining my own behavior," he said.
Studio MRC, which produces 'House of Cards' told CNBC "we have no comment at this time" regarding the allegations against Spacey.
Netflix, which licenses the show from MRC, could not be reached for comment.
Financial professionals are taking online financial technology (fintech) courses to fend off competition and stay ahead of disruption.
The boost in uptake is due in part to a feeling among those in the industry that financial technology has reached a turning point in its evolution.
A report from Citigroup in 2016 caused widespread debate when it estimated that between 2 million and 6 million jobs would be lost in banking across the U.S. and Europe over the next 10 years.
That was attributed to both automation and artificial intelligence (AI), innovation and the rise of more efficient and less cost-intensive challenger banks.
Santander's fintech-focused venture capital fund, Santander InnoVentures, estimates cost savings for banks that implement blockchain technology as high as $20 billion per year by 2022.
Highly-regarded educational institutions are also being forced to innovate and provide the resources to the financial industry to up-skill and stay ahead of an ever-steepening curve.
The likes of Oxford University and Princeton now offer online courses aimed at busy and high-level banking executives.
According to a report from e-learning software provider Docebo, online education in general is set to grow by 5 percent over the next decade and generate over $240 billion by 2023.
Amazon, Alphabet, Microsoft and Intel topped earnings expectations when the companies reported their quarterly results after the market close on Thursday.
Shares of the tech giants popped on Friday following the earnings beats: Intel closed up 7.38 percent, Amazon soared 13.22 percent, Alphabet jumped 4.26 percent and Microsoft rose 6.4 percent on the day.
That led the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite to a record close of 6,701.26 on Friday.
Ahead, Facebook is expected to release its results on Nov. 1.
Apple and Alibaba are due to report a day later.
As of Oct. 27, 74 percent of the 231 companies in the S&P 500 index that have announced results have beat expectations, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Kobe Steel has decided to withdraw its forecast for current financial year, the Nikkei business daily reported on Monday, as it struggles to quantify the impact of its data falsification scandal.
Japan's No.3 steelmaker has also decided not to pay a dividend for the six months through September, the Nikkei said without citing sources, adding that a board vote on the matter and announcement would be made this afternoon.
Kobe Steel is due to announce first-half earnings results at 15:30 Tokyo time (0630 GMT).
Tropical storm warnings have been issued for western Cuba and northwestern Bahamas, the U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC) said on Friday, as an area of low pressure over the northwest Caribbean Sea is expected to strengthen into a tropical cyclone.
The system is about 415 miles (670 km) south southwest of Havana, Cuba with maximum sustained winds of 40 miles per hour (65 km/hour), the Miami-based weather forecaster said.
A tropical storm warning means that tropical storm conditions are expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours, according to the NHC's website.
iPhone X pre-orders sell out in minutes.
Now what?
5:13 PM ET Fri, 27 Oct 2017 | 02:29 Apple fans may be miffed about the supply chain delays hitting the much-anticipated new iPhone X, but Apple investors don't have much to worry about, according to a Wall Street analyst.
"It's certainly better than the alternative," meaning lower demand, Andy Hargreaves, an analyst at KeyBanc, told CNBC's Power Lunch on Friday.
Pre-orders for Apple's flagship new mobile device began overnight, and the company said demand was "off the charts."
For many people who pre-order the phones, however, that heavy interest means the $1,000 phone won't ship until at least December.
One analyst said Apple had at most 3 million devices on hand, despite selling as many as 13 million iPhones in the opening weekend of the iPhone 6S.
That shouldn't be a problem for Apple shares, however.
Hargreaves said that if revenue misses because of supply, "that's something that investors would largely look through."
Apple customers will be able to pick up the 10th anniversary Apple phone in stores starting Nov. 3.
"We're working hard to get this revolutionary new product into the hands of every customer who wants one, as quickly as possible," Apple told CNBC.
Apple shares rose more than 3.5 percent late Friday afternoon, at $162.99.
The stock is up more than 40 percent so far this year.
Home ownership remains elusive for many Americans a decade after the collapse of the real estate market sent the U.S. economy into a tailspin.
More than one-third of Americans ages 18 to 34 said they are likely to opt out of home ownership over the next decade, according to an annual survey conducted by the U.K.-based consumer credit reporting agency Experian.
About a quarter of Americans of any age also said they were likely to opt out of home ownership in that period.
The number of Americans who said they are likely to opt out of homeownership increased 8 percentage points in this year's survey, compared to 2016.
More from Smart Investing: Bitcoin too risky for "serious" investing, say advisors Millennials lack confidence to invest: Bank executive What investors should do before market gets gored The price of buying a home has accelerated since about 2011, after tanking in the wake of the 2007 financial crisis.
The median home price last month was about $320,000, according to government data, more than 20 percent higher than the pre-crisis peak set in March 2007.
Meanwhile, real wages have grown less than 10 percent in that period, even for those employed full time.
"There's a mismatch," said Lawrence Yun, the chief economist at the National Association of Realtors.
"Even over the last five years, home prices have easily exceeded income and wage growth."
Yun was not involved in the Experian survey.
After Colorado legalized marijuana in 2012 and began sales in 2014, opponents warned of a spooky but unwanted outcome that Halloween: marijuana-laced candy.
As opponents put it at the time, deviants would take advantage of the state's lax cannabis laws to give trick-or-treaters pot-laced candy without their knowledge.
USA Today reported in 2014, "Marijuana-infused candy raises Colo. Halloween concerns."
Denver police put out a video telling parents how to watch out for marijuana-laced candy.
Anti-legalization activist Kevin Sabet echoed the concerns, tweeting a news story about marijuana-laced candy in Maryland (though law enforcement said there was no evidence the candy was destined for trick-or-treaters).
So here's the good news: This never happened.
Not even once, based on the available evidence.
More from Vox: There's less than meets the eye to the Trump stock rally This is the nightmare scenario for the Children's Health Insurance Program Nurses returning from Puerto Rico accuse the federal government of leaving people to die I reviewed media reports surrounding Halloween and contacted police departments, hospital networks, and poison centers in Colorado and Washington state, the first two states to legalize recreational marijuana in 2012, to see if there had been any incidents of someone slipping marijuana candy to a trick-or-treater.
None of them were aware of any such cases.
This response, from the Denver Police Department, was standard: "We are not aware of any cases of children ingesting marijuana candy during Halloween season."
This isn't a scientific study, given that there is simply no comprehensive data available for this kind of thing.
But it shows that at the very least, initial fears about pot candy were overwrought.
To some extent, this shouldn't be surprising.
The truth is that scares of dangerous or otherwise contaminated candy, despite playing a prominent role in American culture, are completely unfounded.
As Joel Best, the nation's top (and perhaps only) researcher on Halloween candy contamination, told me, "I've done research, and I can't find any evidence that any child has been killed or seriously hurt by any candy picked up in the course of trick-or-treating.
My view is this is overblown.
You can't prove a negative, but it seems unlikely."
Volkswagen engineers told top managers that diesel emissions manipulations went far beyond issues in the United States two days before the carmaker made a public announcement to that effect in 2015, Der Spiegel reported Friday.
Volkswagen (VW) admitted on September 20, 2015, to installing secret software in hundreds of thousands of U.S. diesel cars to cheat exhaust emissions tests and make them appear cleaner than they were on the road.
The news wiped billions of euros off its market value, but its stock price took another hit when it said two days later, on September 22, 2015, that the issue affected not only vehicles in the United States but rather around 11 million cars worldwide.
German securities law requires firms to publish any market sensitive news in a timely fashion.
A probe by German prosecutors includes investigating whether VW disclosed the possible financial damage to its investors promptly.
VW said in a statement it believed its management fulfilled its obligations under German disclosure rules.
It declined to comment further, citing the prosecutors' ongoing investigation.
Der Spiegel said, without citing sources, that former Chief Executive Martin Winterkorn and finance chief Hans Dieter Poetsch were told by engineers in a meeting on September 20 that the emissions manipulation was a global issue.
It said the participants of that meeting also discussed whether VW was obliged to inform the public under German disclosure rules.
Winterkorn, who resigned shortly after the diesel scandal broke, has told a government committee that he informed Germany's Transport Minister Alexander Dobrindt on September 21, a day before the public statement, that VW's problems were global.
Der Spiegel quoted a document drawn up by VW's lawyers as saying the company did not have reliable numbers on the possible damage until the evening of September 21.
North Korea was behind a cyber-attack that derailed Britain's state-owned health service's IT systems, the U.K. government said Friday.
"I think we should perhaps remember that this attack, we believe quite strongly, that this came from a foreign state," U.K. Security Minister Ben Wallace told the BBC.
Asked which foreign state he believed was involved, Wallace said: "North Korea was the state we believe was involved in this worldwide attack on our systems."
Malicious software called "WannaCry" targeted a number of businesses, government entities and the U.K.'s National Health Service (NHS) earlier this year.
A form of "ransomware", the software blocked access to a user's computer until a sum of money was paid to the attacker.
Asked how sure he was that North Korea was the actor behind the cyber-attack, Wallace said: "We can be sure as possible.
I can't obviously go into the detail of intelligence, but it is widely believed in the (intelligence) community and across a number of countries that North Korea had taken this role."
Wallace called on Western nations to develop a "doctrine of deterrent," similar to nuclear deterrent strategy, to prevent further cyber-attacks.
"On a weekly basis, our systems are under attack from serious organized criminals using malware from abroad or even at home," he said.
Its a rewinding of history, overtly looking for trade with Commonwealth countries, rather than with Europe, said John Lamb, a chamber spokesman.
We really are starting to look at markets in the post-Brexit world.
At the KimberMills International factory in the Black Country west of Birmingham, workers use tongs to pluck glowing orange blocks of steel from a caldron-like furnace, then pound the metal into desired shapes using a three-and-a-half-ton hammer hoisted by a pulley.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Other workers guide lathes and drills to yield an assortment of industrial parts rockers for marine engines, clamps for oil pipelines, components for gearboxes of construction machinery.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The plunge in the pound has raised the price of steel the company imports from Sweden, the Czech Republic and Italy.
The company has raised its prices to adjust.
KimberMills taps a forge in Eastern Europe to produce large parts that are beyond its works in England.
If Britain fails to strike a trade deal with Europe, these parts could face tariffs.
The company has already begun seeking out alternative suppliers in Britain.
Despite everything that happens, theres a resilience to the British market, said Larry Joyce, the company chairman.
We just get on with it.
Photo But on a recent afternoon at the Great Western pub, a cozy, beer-scented den in Wolverhampton, people worried that such sentiments were being overwhelmed by the economic realities of Brexit.
The pub has been doing a brisk business, owing to the success of the local soccer team, the Wolverhampton Wanderers, whose stadium is within walking distance.
But customers were nursing woes.
Brexit is a disaster, said Richard Lloyd, 48, the proprietor of a local construction company, as he hoisted a pint of Guinness.
Its thrown a lot of people into uncertainty.
Companies are certainly delaying investment.
They are being very cautious.
Two years ago, Mr. Lloyd employed as many as 20 people.
These days, he has only four.
If things were going really swimmingly, Id hire more, he said.
A local taxi driver, B. Maan, recalled how he used to take home 200 pounds, or about $266, in the course of a Saturday night, ferrying revelers to pubs.
These days, he is fortunate to secure 120 pounds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story People are spending less, he said.
Time itself has become a threat.
As negotiations yield headlines about sniping within Britains governing Conservative party, each week that passes absent clarity amplifies pressure on companies to shift people and operations to Europe.
Photo We cant see how investment particularly, but also consumption, will not be affected, said Kjersti Haugland, chief economist at DNB Markets, an investment bank in Norway.
How can you go ahead with big investments when you dont know what framework will result?
For Nims Fruit Crisps, the variables of Brexit have advanced British self-sufficiency.
Previously reliant on a supplier in Belgium for most of its fruits and vegetables, the company has in recent months found domestic suppliers for every needed variety except pineapple, limiting its exposure to the vagaries of exchange rates.
Today, Nims buys apples, parsnips, cucumbers and a range of other crops from British farmers.
The fall in the pound has also made Nims products cheaper outside Britain, bolstering its exports, which now make up more than half of total sales.
Nims snacks are sold in Germany, France, Italy, India, Israel and soon Saudi Arabia.
What Ive learned is that Europe isnt the only market for us, said Ms. Raja, whose Nims business card identifies her as TheBoss.
Yet as she seeks to complete a deal putting her crisps on the shelves of a major British supermarket chain, Ms. Raja worries that the needed volumes will exceed the capacities of Britain.
I suddenly have to find 100 tons of apples, she said.
She is scoping out farms in Poland, even as she worries about the value of British money in a world shaped by Brexit.
I have to keep my margins tight, she said.
It remains a bit player in smartphones, the product that made Apples fortune, but sustained demand for the devices has enriched Sony regardless.
It is a major supplier of image-sensing circuits used in smartphone cameras, including the iPhones, which means it has shared, to some degree, in its competitors success.
Sony has also closed or sold off costly factories.
It still sells televisions under its brand name, but like Apple its focus now is on design and marketing rather than production, which is increasingly left to contractors.
Other businesses, like the PlayStation video gaming line and an insurance company that Sony part-owns in Japan, have been steadily profitable.
Its entertainment arm is more financially volatile, but it has lately profited from hits like Spider-Man: Homecoming.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
All of that added up to what Atul Goyal, an analyst at the securities firm Jefferies, called blowout results for Sonys latest quarter.
The company said on Tuesday it had earned an operating profit before taxes and other reductions of 204 billion yen, or about $1.79 billion, in the three months through September.
That was more than four times what it made in the same period last year.
Sony also upgraded its profit forecast for the full financial year, which ends in March, from 500 billion to 630 billion, which would be an all-time high if realized.
Investors piled into Sonys shares on Wednesday in response.
The stock closed up 11 percent at 4,918, the highest level since the start of the global financial crisis in 2008.
Japanese share prices have been buoyant across the board lately, and the countrys benchmark Nikkei 225 index has reached multidecade highs while Wall Street and other markets have also surged.
Still, Sony was Japans most sought-after stock on Wednesday.
Lovers of the Aibo might be tempted to see karma at work.
Sony first introduced the dog in 1999, saying it hoped robotic animal companions would become as ubiquitous as the real thing.
That never happened, and Sony stopped making the Aibo in 2006, as it struggled to rein in losses.
The mechanical dogs small but devoted fan base was crushed.
Sony hopes that the world is now ready for artificially intelligent consumer robots, and that it can be a leader in the quickly advancing technology.
The new Aibo uses Sonys image sensors to interact with the world around it, and the company says it will be capable of learning, to a limited degree for instance by repeating behaviors that owners praise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The dog goes on sale in Japan in January for 198,000, or about $1,750.
Combining robotics and A.I.
is a way for Sony to play on its strengths, Sonys chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, who has driven the companys restructuring since taking over in 2012, said at a news conference.
We have multiple projects in development, and one of them is Aibo.
According to a trade diplomat who is aware of the goings-on, American negotiators have warned Mexicans and Canadians that if the United States leaves Nafta, they shouldnt expect trade relations to simply snap back to W.T.O.
rules, which include a tariff ceiling of 3.5 percent, on average, for Mexican exports to the United States and 7.1 percent for American exports to Mexico.
The United States, they argue, wont be bound by these constraints.
Asked for comment, Mr. Lighthizers office referred me to a statement from June in which he affirmed his commitment to working closely with U.S. trading partners to increase the W.T.O.s ability to promote free and fair trade.
But he has not been shy about expressing his gripes about the organization.
Meanwhile, the United States has been chipping away at its judicial apparatus, blocking appointments to the seven-member appellate body that rules on trade disputes.
The court is now two members short and will be down three when the European jurist steps down in December.
The impasse prompted Cecilia Malmstrom, the European Unions top trade diplomat, to warn that the American position risks killing the W.T.O.
from the inside.
Battling the Deficits The United States runs trade deficits with most of the worlds largest economies.
The Trump administration argues this is unfair.
U.S. bilateral trade balances for trade in goods, 2016 BILLIONS 20 LARGEST COUNTRIES China $347.0 Japan 68.8 Germany 64.7 Mexico 64.4 Italy 28.6 Korea 27.6 India 24.4 France 15.6 Switzerland 13.6 Indonesia 13.2 11.0 Canada Russia 8.7 3.0 Spain SURPLUS Britain + 1.0 Saudi Arabia + 1.1 Turkey + 1.3 Argentina + 3.9 Brazil + 4.1 Australia + 12.7 Netherlands + 23.6 While emasculating the trade organization may seem foolhardy, trade experts warn that blowing up international trade law may be the only way the Trump administration could pursue its quixotic goal of eliminating the bilateral trade deficits that it has with most countries.
And that presents the world with a sort of Catch-22.
The American current account deficit a broad measure of its trade is the mirror image of the gap between the United States national savings and its national investment.
Because it invests more than it saves, it draws money from abroad and spends it on foreign goods and services.
Until it closes the savings gap, no amount of diplomacy, bullying or cajoling will close the gap in trade.
If the United States leaves Nafta, its possible that its deficit with Mexico will balloon rather than shrink, as uncertainty sends the peso into a tailspin and makes Mexican exports cheaper.
But even if Mr. Trumps Nafta gambit worked and bilateral trade came into balance, it wouldnt necessarily change the balance of American trade over all.
Mr. Lighthizer might remember that after Canada, Japan and the European Community agreed in the early 1980s to voluntary restraint agreements limiting exports of steel to the United States, producers in countries like South Korea and South Africa simply picked up the slack.
As another Dartmouth economist, Robert Staiger, told me, unless the American savings-investment imbalance corrected itself, too, the former deficit with Mexico would simply pop up somewhere else.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Bilateral deficits are going to keep popping up everywhere, he said.
Trump is going to be playing Whac-a-Mole.
And if Republicans pass their smorgasbord of tax cuts, the mushrooming budget deficit will push the savings-investment imbalance in exactly the wrong direction.
The problem for the rest of the world is that any of these situations is likely to produce great frustration in an administration that appears to believe trade balances are negotiated like real estate deals.
They all put the United States on a collision course with the legal regime administered by the W.T.O.
Photo It is unclear whether Mr. Trump has the legal authority to pull the United States out of the trade regime governed by W.T.O., or even out of Nafta.
Rufus Yerxa, a former top American trade diplomat on the team that negotiated both Nafta and the Uruguay Round of multilateral talks that led to the creation of the W.T.O.
in 1995, argues that whatever the legalities, the thought that Mr. Trump may pull the United States out of the trade organization is not credible.
The losses, he said, would be far too steep.
Countries would discriminate at will against American products and services.
Everybody in the world could do anything they wanted to do to us, Mr. Yerxa said.
The sprawling supply chains that American companies have laid out across the world since the trade organization came into being would be under threat.
Chad P. Bown, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, agreed.
It would hurt economic activity much more than in the 1980s, he said.
So much trade back then was in final goods.
Now a lot is in intermediate parts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It was easy to bully Japan in the 1980s.
Its security depended on the United States.
Its unlikely that Washington could pull off the same thing with China today.
Though the W.T.O.
would suffer a blow if the United States left, it might survive it.
Today the United States accounts for only about 13 percent of world trade, down from almost a quarter in the 1980s.
Whats most mystifying to foreign diplomats and trade policy experts is how the Trump administration conceives the endgame of bringing down a legal system the United States spent so much time and effort to build.
Even if Mr. Trump prevails, the United States stands to lose.
American sugar policy comes to mind.
In the early 1980s, hoping to put a floor on prices in the United States, the government set up a quota system to limit sugar imports.
As Professor Irwin tells it, the enterprise proved more difficult than the experts in Washington ever thought.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The American import quota got smaller and smaller to keep pace with falling prices worldwide.
At one point, American sugar was so expensive that companies started importing sugary products like cake mix, iced tea and cocoa in bulk to extract and sell the sugar within.
Coke and Pepsi switched from sugar to corn syrup, slashing domestic demand and forcing the Agriculture Department to reduce import quotas further.
And candy makers moved abroad, to where sugar was cheaper.
In the Caribbean and Central America, sugar quotas led farmers to stop producing sugar and start cultivating illegal narcotics that were smuggled into the United States.
To cap it all, in August 1986 the United States sold China 136,000 tons of sugar it had accumulated in its efforts to bolster the price.
It was sugar it bought at 18 cents a pound.
It sold at 5 cents.
Within days, world sugar prices plummeted.
Robert Lighthizer has been involved in international trade diplomacy long enough to remember this kind of go-it-alone trade strategy.
He doesnt appear to have learned the lessons history has taught us since then.
This is the case even as the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III bears down in his investigation of the alleged Russian efforts to sway the 2016 presidential election.
As Mr. Mueller and his team home in on people connected to President Trump, including his former campaign manager Paul Manafort, the president and his allies in the conservative media sphere are pointing at the Democrats and Hillary Clinton.
Adding to the problem is the recent behavior of the tech companies, which have not shown the same desire for accountability exhibited by Mr. Ailes and his fellow network chiefs all those years ago.
On Tuesday, when Congress called Facebook, Twitter and Google to testify, the platforms sent their lawyers, not their top bosses.
Yes, the lawyers provided some details about how Russian operatives had reached scores of millions of Americans with divisive and misleading messages.
But that was only after Facebooks founder, Mark Zuckerberg, insisted in November that it was a pretty crazy idea that Russian operatives had used Facebook to influence the election.
(Facebooks latest tally of Americans who were exposed to Russias divisive content: 126 million.)
The opacity of the tech companies was matched by the efforts of some conservative media outlets to confuse and distract.
In the days leading up to the indictment of Mr. Manafort and his lobbying partner Rick Gates, they saw fit to question Mr. Muellers legitimacy.
They did so while arguing that the real focus should be on Mrs. Clinton, the Democrats and a political research firm that commissioned the gathering of information on Mr. Trumps ties to Russia, Fusion GPS.
The counternarrative was particularly pronounced in the outlets controlled by Mr. Murdoch who has close ties to the presidents family and his news and entertainment companies, 21st Century Fox and News Corp. Advertisement Continue reading the main story On Saturday, the Fox News host Jeanine Pirro called for the jailing of Mrs. Clinton, saying, Its time to shut it down, turn the tables and lock her up.
She alleged that the Obamas and the Clintons had built the Trump-Russia connection, pointing to a report in The Washington Post that the Clinton campaign and Democratic National Committee had helped finance research by Fusion GPS, which produced a dossier describing ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.
She did not mention a report in The New York Times that a conservative media organization, The Free Beacon, hired Fusion GPS to research Mr. Trump and other Republicans.
The most salacious findings in the dossier, based on information collected from sources inside and outside the Kremlin by a Fusion GPS contractor, the former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele, remain uncorroborated.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Also on Saturday, The New York Post columnist Michael Goodwin called for Mr. Muellers resignation, citing Fusion GPS as well as Mr. Muellers previous job as an F.B.I.
director under President Barack Obama, given that, in Mr. Goodwins view, so much of the investigative focus must now fall on Mr. Obamas administration.
Foreshadowing Mr. Goodwins dubious argument was an editorial in the Murdoch-owned Wall Street Journal, which declared that Mr. Mueller lacks the critical distance to look into the allegation that Democrats paid for Russians to compile wild allegations about a U.S. presidential candidate.
The editorial also questioned whether the dossier had triggered the F.B.I.
inquiry into Mr. Trumps campaign.
But the investigation began in July last year, James B. Comey, the F.B.I.
director at the time, told Congress in March, not long after Fusion GPSs financing passed from Republican to Democratic sources.
And while skepticism is a virtue in all journalistic endeavors, there is no evidence to support the assertion that the Democrats hired Fusion GPS with the purpose of getting Russians to spread wild allegations about Mr. Trump.
As John Sipher, a former Central Intelligence Agency chief of station, pointed out, intelligence tends to come from sources within foreign governments.
Reaching out to Russians and Americans to try to collect information on what might have happened and then pass that information to sources in good faith, thats different from trying to conspire with Russia to get stolen emails from the United States, Mr. Sipher told me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The collective coverage from The Journal editorial page, The New York Post and Fox News not including the straight-ahead coverage by the likes of Shepard Smith and Bret Baier was testament to the Murdoch empires ability to make its own journalistic weather.
Between the promotion of alternative narratives and the way the social media platforms have been so slow in describing their inadvertent hosting of the Russian effort, theres a striking lack of national unity over what appears to have been a foreign incursion in an American election.
So you have to wonder how the country will ever come together to do something about it.
Theres this epic lack of consensus, or active dis-census, said Shawn Powers, the executive director of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy, who has spent years studying what he calls the geopolitics of information.
Mr.
Powers was confident that, as the facts come out, the country will find a way to fend off similar attacks.
For instance, he said, Facebook, Twitter and Google are adding new policies to combat false information, fake accounts and nefarious foreign political advertising.
But I cant help thinking back to 2001.
On Tuesday, I called Tom Johnson, the former CNN chairman, who was one of the executives who appeared on Capitol Hill to testify in 2001.
He said some colleagues had some qualms appearing before Congress, given the First Amendment implications.
But he told me that he had felt it was the right thing to do.
I still think we have the very highest public responsibility to make sure we get it right and, when we dont get it right, that we try to determine what went wrong and what we can do about it, he said.
It really gets down to operating in the public interest.
Oh, yeah, that.
And because the labor market has created more and more superstars in recent decades, as economists have repeatedly found, the number of harassers in that category is probably growing.
The superstar harassers do cast a long shadow, Ms. Feldblum said.
If it is well known in a workplace that someone at that level is getting away with bad behavior, that then sends a message down the ranks.
Partly as a result, the costs of retaining a superstar harasser outweigh the benefits, even in narrow economic terms, according to research cited by the commission.
Social scientists have long documented the ways that power changes peoples psychology.
It increases their sense of entitlement when inequality is high, the affluent have a strong belief that they deserve their money, one recent study suggested and diminishes their inhibitions.
An experiment published in a psychology journal in 2008 found that men who were given power over women tended to flirt more overtly than men who lacked such power.
Another experiment found that those who thought of themselves as powerful underestimated both personal risks, like the chances of developing gum disease, and a more general level of risk, like the number of people who die in plane crashes each year.
They dont see threats even if theyre right in front of their face, Cameron Anderson, a psychologist at the University of California, Berkeley, and an author of the second study, said in an interview.
Alluding to superstar harassers, Professor Anderson added, Theyre so focused on sexual gratification, they dont see the moral, ethical and legal problems.
Many people in an organization, from the most junior scheduler to the chief executive, have some form of power.
The distinctive feature of superstars is that they are more likely to use their power with impunity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Lawrence Katz, a labor economist at Harvard University, said in an interview that although he had seen no reliable data on superstars and sexual harassment per se, evidence showed that organizations tended to tolerate a wide range of misbehavior from people they perceived as stars.
They seem to also get away with things, he said, in a way they would never be able to do if they were not viewed as superstars.
Professor Katz cited a study by two economists in which corporate chief executives who won high-profile awards, typically those conferred by major business publications, subsequently spent more time away from the job on outside pursuits like writing books.
They were also more likely to manipulate the earnings that their companies reported.
Such license to misbehave appears to have been common for stars in some of the recent high-profile harassment cases.
A former Fox News producer who quit several years ago said that Mr. OReillys contention that no one had complained about him to the networks human resources department was basically meaningless because bringing a complaint meant having to be ready to quit.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
(Fox News brought in a new head of human resources this year who was given responsibility for overhauling and expanding the department and who reports directly to the networks corporate parent.)
In a CNN report, women who worked at ABC News made allegations of inappropriate advances and sexual contact by Mark Halperin, a prominent journalist who was once the divisions political director, but said they feared reporting him to network executives because Mr. Halperin had been a powerful figure there.
Mr. Halperin has denied nonconsensual contact with the women; an ABC News representative said the network considered harassment and retaliation unacceptable and encouraged employees to come forward if they encountered such behavior.
And Susan Fowler, an engineer who quit her job at Uber after contending with what she said were sexism and sexual harassment, wrote a widely read blog post in which she described complaints she filed against two fellow employees that were never acted on.
The reason she said she was given for the inaction was that each of the men was a high performer.
The irony is that the calculation that persuades employers to ignore bad behavior by stars is frequently wrong, and not just because of the potential damage to an organizations image if the bad behavior comes to light.
A study by two researchers in 2015 found that the benefit to an employer of retaining a toxic employee, such as a sexual harasser, who was in the top 1 percent of productivity was outweighed by the cost of keeping that employee by a ratio of more than two to one, and probably by far more than that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A crucial reason, the study concluded, was that toxic workers tended to drive out other employees, a phenomenon that appeared to have occurred in some recent high-profile cases.
Ms. Fowler wrote that when she started working at Uber in November 2015, women made up more than one-quarter of her department.
Within 13 months, according to her blog post, the share had fallen below 6 percent, with sexism being a major factor.
At Fox News, a prime-time star, Megyn Kelly, left in what was reported to be disillusionment over an atmosphere in which the mistreatment of women including the behavior of Mr. OReilly was tolerated.
Photo (The study on the costs of retaining toxic employees relied on data encompassing thousands of customer-support and other front-line service workers, but the evidence suggested that a similar result would apply in many higher-stakes industries, one of the authors, Dylan Minor of Northwestern University, said in an interview.)
The growth of a superstar economy is reflected in a greater concentration of money and power among those at the top.
A generation or two ago, a top worker who was slightly better than his or her peers tended to receive a moderate premium in earnings.
Today, with companies operating on a more sweeping scale, that premium is much higher.
Top performers only slightly better than their peers tend to make vastly more money.
Its really taken off in the last two decades, Professor Katz of Harvard said.
You see it in broad measures of income, and even in the raw data the hedge fund manager, finance people, C.E.O.
data, top academics, top lawyers.
In effect, the rest of the economy is becoming more like Hollywood, where a small group of stars have long reaped a huge portion of the rewards.
That means more bosses and boards may soon face decisions about whether to stand up to harassers or to overlook their behavior.
To the extent that technology gives you the power to serve a broader swath of the market, and youve got more leverage as a result, said Robert H. Frank, a Cornell University economist who has written extensively about superstars, thats not slowed down one iota.
The Five Can Be Governed Tech is inherently messy.
The greatest human inventions tend to change society in ways that are more profound than anyone ever guesses, including the people who created them.
This has clearly been true for the technologies we use today, and will be even more true for the stuff we will get tomorrow.
The internet, mobile phones, social networks and artificial intelligence will make a mess of the status quo and it will be our job, as a society, to decide how to mitigate their downsides.
One benefit of having five giant companies in charge of todays tech infrastructure is that they provide a convenient focus for addressing those problems.
Consider Russian propaganda.
People have worried about the internets capacity to foster echo chambers and conspiracy theories almost since it began; in fact, in several cases over the last two decades from 9/11 to the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth to birtherism the internet did play a key role in the propagation of misinformation.
But because those rumors and half-truths spread in a digital media landscape that was not owned and operated by giant companies one in which information was passed along through a Wild West of email, discussion boards and blogs it was never conceivable to limit that eras equivalent of fake news.
Today, it suddenly is.
Because Facebook, Google and Twitter play such a central role in modern communication, they can be hauled before Congress and either regulated or shamed into addressing the problems unleashed by the technology they control.
This does not mean they will succeed in fixing every problem their tech creates and in some cases their fixes may well raise other problems, like questions about their power over freedom of expression.
But at least they can try to address the wide variety of externalities posed by tech, which may have been impossible for an internet more fragmented by smaller firms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
This is new stuff everybody is dealing with its not easy, said Rob Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a think tank, and co-author of Big Is Beautiful, a coming book that extols the social and economic virtues of big companies.
(The foundation is funded, in part, by donations from tech companies.)
So when you discover a problem, scale makes that easier.
Youve got one or two big firms, and they have a lot of public pressure to be a responsible actor.
The Five Hate Each Others Guts Over the past few weeks, many people at large tech companies have repeatedly responded to my questions about the dangers posed by big tech with a funny argument: Yes, they would say, the other tech giants really are worrisome so why was I including their company in that group?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It was an odd line.
As an outsider to these companies, I tend to worry about the collective power of the Five, especially the way they have managed to control the fortunes of innovative start-ups.
But none of the Five see themselves as part of a group each of them worries about the threat posed by start-ups and by the other four giants, which means that none feels it has the luxury to slow down in creating the best new stuff.
This dynamic where each company competes mightily against the others suggests some reason for optimism, said Michael Lind, who wrote Big Is Beautiful with Mr. Atkinson.
As long as their innovation rents are recycled into research and development that leads to new products, then whats to complain about?
You can see this in their product road maps.
None of the Five has slowed down investing intended to further expand its area of control for instance, Google keeps investing in search, Facebook is still spending heavily to create new social-networking features, and Amazon remains relentless in creating new ways to let people shop.
At the same time, they are all locked in intense battles for new markets and technologies.
And not only do they keep creating new tech, but they are coming at it in diverse ways with different business models, different philosophies and different sets of ethics.
So, why preemptively say that maybe well be harmed in the future that in 2030 theyll jack up their prices or something?
Mr. Lind asked.
Well, deal with that as it comes.
The Five Are American-Grown The Five achieved their dominance because they operate in areas that provide massive returns to scale.
Thanks to economic dynamics like network effects where a product like Facebook, gets more useful as more people use it it was perhaps inevitable that we would see the rise of a handful of large companies take control of much of the modern tech business.
But it wasnt inevitable that these companies would be based in and controlled from the United States.
And its not obvious that will remain the case the top tech companies of tomorrow might easily be Chinese, or Indian or Russian or European.
But for now, that means we are dealing with companies that feel constrained by American laws and values.
Yes, this is jingoistic; the idea of a handful of American tech giants controlling much of society has helped push regulators internationally to try to limit their power.
But we would almost certainly do the same if a bunch of foreign companies attempted to take over our economy.
At least its our own giants that we have to fear.
I dont mean this list to get the Five off the hook.
How we deal with their efforts to capture more power over the economy and our society is perhaps the next great question facing America.
But this is a complex problem precisely because there are both advantages and disadvantages to their size.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As I said, tech is messy.
The single most important step Facebook and its subsidiary Instagram, which I view as equally important in terms of countering misinformation, hate speech and propaganda can take is to abandon the focus on emotional signaling-as-engagement.
This is a tough proposition, of course, as billions of users have been trained to do exactly this: react.
What if there were a trust emoji?
Or respect-based emojis?
If a palette of six emoji-faced angry-love-sad-haha emotional buttons continues to be the way we engage with one another and how we respond to the news then its going to be an uphill battle.
Negative emotion, click bait and viral outrage are how the platform is being used to divide.
Given this problem, Facebook needs to help us unite by building new sharing tools based on trust and respect.
Kevin Kelly Photo Co-founder of Wired magazine.
Facebook should reduce anonymity by requiring real verification of real names for real people, with the aim of having 100 percent of individuals verified.
Companies would need additional levels of verification, and should have a label and scrutiny different from those of people.
(Whistle-blowers and dissidents might need to use a different platform.)
Facebook could also offer an optional filter that would keep any post (or share) of an unverified account from showing up.
Id use that filter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ro Khanna Photo Democrat representing Californias 17th Congressional District, which includes sections of Silicon Valley.
Ultimately, whether from tech companies or Congress, what people want is more transparency.
Facebook should expand on its Hard Questions blog to explain how its news feed algorithms work, how it uses data in targeting and how it makes decisions about third-party verification and removing offensive content.
It should make it simple for users to provide feedback and be responsive to their concerns.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
The company also should make its executives readily available to the press, and they should spend time on Capitol Hill to explain their decision-making.
Everyone understands that new technology platforms are not perfect, and that bad actors find ways to abuse them.
The key is for Facebook to be upfront about technical challenges, open about its mistakes and willing to answer the tough questions honestly.
If it does that, it will continue to earn the publics trust.
Eli Pariser Photo Chief executive of Upworthy and author of The Filter Bubble.
Facebook should open itself up for independent research.
Right now, Facebook is a black box: Its very difficult, and in many cases impossible, for researchers to independently look at behavior on the platform.
While opening private data to research creates risks, theres a ton of explicitly public data on the platform that Facebook makes difficult to query at scale.
Facebook could also open up many of the tools advertisers currently use for free use by research scientists.
It would be a bold move for transparency, and one that would help us understand much better whats happening on the worlds most important social platform.
And itd be wise to do this before regulators forced them to.
The company should also optimize for time well spent.
Facebooks greatest superpower is figuring out how to eat as much of our attention as possible.
But as Tristan Harris and others have pointed out, that attention often doesnt yield much leaving us poorly informed and feeling worse about ourselves.
Instead of measuring clicks and likes, what if Facebook optimized for how much value an article or video or game gave us weeks or months afterward?
The company could survey the kinds of content weve spent the most time on, and ask us which gave us the most and least value, as a way to balance our impulsive present selves with our greater aspirations.
Kate Losse Photo Early Facebook employee who recounted her time at the company in her book, The Boy Kings: A Journey Into the Heart of the Social Network.
It would be interesting if Facebook offered a vintage Facebook setting that users could toggle to, without News Feed ads and like buttons.
(Before likes, users wrote comments, which made interactions more unique and memorable.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A vintage Facebook setting not only would be less cluttered, it would refocus the experience of using Facebook on the people using it, and their intentions for communication and interaction.
Somehow, no matter how smart the Facebook algorithms and behind-the-scenes data processing get, the site felt more engaging as a tool for human communication when interaction was primarily driven by what users wanted to do and say, rather than where the algorithms want people to look.
Alice Marwick Photo Assistant professor of communication at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Facebook should allow users to sort their news feed chronologically by default on all platforms, rather than rely on an algorithmically sorted News Feed.
This would increase the diversity of items in the News Feed, and would make it more likely that users were exposed to people and information that didnt support their own confirmation bias.
It should also greatly increase the human oversight of ad targeting systems specifically, oversee algorithmically generated categories (rather than basing them solely on user-inputted interests).
Political and interest-based advertising should be under much stricter scrutiny than, say, the advertising of T-shirts or hair products.
Ellen Pao Photo Chief diversity and inclusion officer at the Kapor Center for Social Impact and a former chief executive of Reddit.
Facebook needs to replace its focus on engagement quantity with interaction quality.
To really do that means replacing at least half of the leadership team and board with underrepresented people of color who are informed and value diversity and inclusion and, as my colleague Freada Kapor Klein suggested, have journalistic principles.
At Reddit, I was able to effect positive, lasting change (at least according to this research) to content quality and interaction quality by building a diverse executive team.
Vivian Schiller Photo Adviser and former news executive at NPR, NBC News and Twitter.
The single most important thing Facebook must do is come clean.
Tell us what you know.
Tell us what you know but cant share.
Tell us what you dont know.
And tell us what you dont know that you dont know.
Stop hiding behind bromides like we are not a media company.
That makes us think you dont understand you have a serious set of problems that need fixing.
Coming clean may not be the only thing, and may not be the main thing, but its the first thing.
Tim Wu Photo Professor at Columbia Law School and author of The Attention Merchants: The Epic Scramble to Get Inside Our Heads.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Facebook should become a public benefit corporation.
These companies must aim to do something that would aid the public, and board members must also take that public benefit into account when making decisions.
Mark Zuckerberg has said that Facebooks goals are bringing us closer together and building a global community.
Worthy, beautiful goals, but easier said than done when Facebook is also stuck delivering ever-increasing profits and making its platform serve the needs of advertisers.
What if Facebook were actually free to do what it says it wants to?
What if it didnt need to devote so much energy to the evil sides of the business, whether catering to filter bubbles, addicting and manipulating users, seizing data, bending over backward for advertisers and destroying competitors?
As a nonprofit or public benefit corporation (like Kickstarter), Facebook could be a much better institution.
It could shed its two masters dilemma, truly pursue its lofty goals and become a firm of which its users and the world could actually be proud.
Photo The New York Times Company continued its march toward a digital future in the third quarter of 2017, as strong growth in digital advertising and new online subscriptions helped counteract a further collapse in print advertising.
The company said on Wednesday that digital advertising revenue in the quarter rose 11 percent, to $49 million.
The company also added 105,000 net digital-only subscriptions for its news product, helping to push digital subscription revenue to $86 million, a 46 percent increase compared with the same period a year ago.
Over all, the company said, total revenue increased 6 percent in the quarter, to $386 million.
Including subscriptions for its crossword and cooking products, The Times now has nearly 2.5 million digital-only subscribers.
The Times, however, has not been immune to the punishing, industrywide downturn in print.
Print advertising revenue fell 20 percent in the quarter, fueling a 9 percent decrease in total advertising revenue.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We had a strong quarter once again, with solid growth in digital subscriptions, digital advertising and subscription revenue and overall profitability, Mark Thompson, the chief executive of The Times, said in a statement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The sound, if not earth-shattering, financial results were announced as The Times fundamentally reshapes itself into a business no longer rooted in newsprint.
In the past several months, it has eliminated its copy desk, offered buyouts to employees and reorganized the structure of its newsroom.
But from a financial perspective, The Times appears to be moving in a positive direction.
Operating profit for the quarter increased to $33 million, from $9 million in the same period last year.
Adjusted operating profit rose to $57 million, from $39 million.
(Adjusted operating costs in the quarter rose slightly, to $329 million from $324 million compared with the third quarter of 2016.)
Photo Production on the final season of House of Cards was suspended Tuesday, two days after its star, Kevin Spacey, was accused of having made an unwanted sexual advance toward a 14-year-old boy in the 1980s.
In a statement, Netflix and Media Rights Capital, the studio behind the show, said production was being halted to give us time to review the current situation and to address any concerns of our cast and crew.
On Monday, executives from both companies spoke to the cast and crew of House of Cards in Baltimore, where production of its sixth season had recently gotten underway.
The streaming service announced on Monday that the season would be the shows last.
A spokeswoman for Netflix said that decision had been reached months ago, long before the allegation against Mr. Spacey.
On Sunday, BuzzFeed reported an allegation by the actor Anthony Rapp that Mr. Spacey had made an unwanted sexual advance toward him in the 1980s, when he was 14 and Mr. Spacey was in his mid-20s.
Mr. Spacey released a statement shortly after the article was published in which he said that he did not recall the episode but attributed it to deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.
The decision to stop production raises questions about whether it will resume, and, if it does, whether Mr. Spacey will return to the series.
Also on Tuesday, Variety reported that the start-up MasterClass had pulled Mr. Spaceys $90 online acting lesson videos from its site.
Over the summer, production for the ABC reality show Bachelor in Paradise was shut down after an allegation of sexual misconduct on the shows set.
Production resumed after an investigation turned up no wrongdoing.
Two of the tiny cabins feature a porch with Adirondack chairs, floor-to-ceiling windows, a leather couch, a kitchen, a bathroom and a king-size bed.
The third building is set up more as a living room and meeting hub.
To encourage people to disconnect from digital distractions, the units are not equipped with televisions or Wi-Fi, Mr. Barnes said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mountainside promotes the Rendezvous Cabins in its marketing strategy; prospective buyers of homes in the development can spend a night in a tiny house or model home to experience the neighborhood.
The plan seems to be working: About 90 percent of the visitors become buyers after experiencing a weekend there.
Everyone is having a great time staying in them, Mr. Barnes said.
Tiny houses are also used to help companies bolster their presence on social media sites like Instagram, Snapchat and Facebook.
This summer, Hormel, the maker of Spam, sponsored a Tiny House of Sizzle Tour with an ornate unit painted in blue and yellow.
The home on wheels made stops at festivals, malls and ballparks, where company representatives handed out samples as people took pictures inside and marveled at the Spam souvenirs.
The tiny house idea is definitely on trend right now, said Brian Lillis, the Spam brand manager.
We are in the process of getting our social media numbers, but I am sure we tracked well.
Untuckit, a New York apparel retailer that specializes in untucked shirts, hauled a tiny house that resembled one of its stores throughout the East Coast in 2016, stopping at universities and in small towns.
The aim was to expose Untuckit to more consumers and determine where to open locations, said the companys chief executive and co-founder, Chris Riccobono.
If we sold shirts, that was a bonus, he said.
Driving the mini-boutique around was like having a moving billboard, Mr. Riccobono said, and the payoff in social media presence justified the $40,000 investment.
The campaign was so successful that the company is planning a second one for 2018.
Photo TheSize Surfaces, a composite-stone manufacturer in Castelln, Spain, also ran a tiny-house tour to showcase a 400-square-foot dwelling clad with Neolith, the companys stain-proof synthetic surface.
The promotional journey started in January in Orlando, Fla., and will continue across the United States throughout the year.
The companys aim is to prove that Neolith can be applied on floors, walls, countertops, even exterior siding.
We believe that anywhere where theres a surface, you can cover with Neolith, said Saudia Utter, marketing manager at FM Distributing, a Neolith provider in San Francisco.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In this tiny house with mansion features, a ladder leads up to an outdoor deck outfitted with a gas barbecue.
Inside, the house features a loft bed, two bathrooms with Toto toilets, a kitchen with a tall wine refrigerator, recycling bins, a built-in espresso machine, Miele appliances and a living room with a flat-screen TV and an electric fireplace.
A marblelike dining table cut of Neolith stands as the focal point of the kitchen.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Everyone who has seen it has been impressed, and it is bigger than everyone imagined it to be, said Ms. Utter, whose company hosted the model house for two months.
We were surprised by the fact it has been on the road all year and nothing has been cracked or broken.
It has stayed in immaculate condition.
Tiny homes are gaining traction as rental lodging, too.
Across the United States, mini-hotels are springing up in R.V.
parks and resorts and on private lots.
Over the next five years, we are going to see whole communities and tiny house hotels all over the place, said Jamie Mackay, the founder and chief executive of Wheelhaus, a maker of modular homes in Jackson, Wyo.
Mr. Mackay also runs the nearby Fireside Resort, which features 25 tiny homes that he designed.
After guests asked repeatedly where they could buy one of the units, he started Wheelhaus to sell his houses.
The rental units offer a taste of what its like to live in one without a full-time commitment.
The website for the Tumbleweed Tiny House Company in Colorado Springs tells buyers how they can make a profit on their investment and turn the houses into a hotel or bed-and-breakfast.
Photo Photo The Snake River Sporting Club, a 1,000-acre private club in Jackson, ordered a neighborhood of four one-bedroom tiny houses it calls Discovery Village.
Lavished with Restoration Hardware furniture and accessories, the units can be booked for $225 to $525 nightly.
And tiny houses offer a humanitarian benefit.
In the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, urban planning coordinators are looking to them as transitional housing that neighborhoods will see as an asset rather than a blight.
Mr. Dobrowolski of Escape Traveler said his company was in Houston helping hurricane-displaced residents with specially designed units.
He has developed a lower-cost version of his Escape tiny homes that can be deployed quickly in a disaster.
Mr. Mackay of Wheelhaus recently announced Omni-Haus, a transportable structure that, when installed, can withstand winds of 190 miles per hour, he said.
Working with local developers in hurricane-ravaged cities, his company is planning to deploy 100 to 200 units to Florida for hurricane survivors.
Cheap emergency housing is a Band-Aid, he said.
I want to deliver units that are built to last, not thrown in the landfill later on.
Tiny houses are the next big disruption.
In turn, Aristeia, which manages $3 billion in investor money, has accused Sina of failing to hold itself to the standards expected of U.S.-listed public company boards.
Foreign investors seem less than worried about any lack of control or lapses in corporate governance if the market is any indication.
Shares in those companies have been on a tear in markets around the world as Chinese consumers reliably use their smartphones to buy electronics, shop for groceries, make investments, play games and look for dates.
With more than 700 million users, China is the worlds largest single internet market.
Weibo has 313 million monthly average users.
Still, some investors are quietly complaining about corporate governance practices.
Chinese companies that list shares in the United States are not necessarily subject to American rules.
Most are incorporated in light regulatory jurisdictions like the Cayman Islands.
As a result, Chinese companies often behave differently.
While Sina holds a regular annual meeting, some of its peers do not, a standard for the United States.
Baidu, the search engine giant, has not held an annual shareholder meeting since 2008.
JD.com, the online retailer, has never held one.
Investors have been getting a bit fed up with companies like Baidu and JD.com not having general meetings, said Jamie Allen, the secretary general of the Asian Corporate Governance Association.
A spokesman for JD.com said: Investors appreciate our candor both on earnings calls and in engagement throughout the year.
This issue has rarely, if ever, been raised to us.
Baidu did not respond to requests for comment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Foreign investors also typically have fewer shareholder protections.
To get around Chinese restrictions on outside investments in sensitive industries, many companies use a complicated legal structure, called a variable interest entity, or V.I.E.
Under those arrangements, shareholders have rights to the profits of a company, but they do not control key assets potentially leaving them exposed if the company runs into trouble or the Chinese government declares the structure illegal.
Sina was a key player in the Chinese internets emergence as a social and economic force.
Its Weibo service, once derided by critics as a knockoff of Twitter, has grown in size and functionality to the point where it is now a must-read for many people.
Even after the Chinese government curbed political or controversial discussion on Weibo, it remains a well-read resource.
Weibo now has its own stock listing, while Sina owns a 46 percent stake.
Sinas other operations include online news and entertainment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
That separate listing helped set off the fight with Aristeia.
Sinas shares have risen nearly 75 percent so far this year.
But Weibos performance has been better, with the stock more than doubling.
Based on their stock market values, Weibo is now more than twice as valuable as Sina a gap that Aristeia says points to lackluster management and poor corporate governance.
Sina uses a V.I.E.
structure.
Only one of the five director seats is available each year.
The chairman and chief executive, Charles Chao, has a permanent position; the other members serve four-year terms.
Aristeia is pushing for representation on the board so that directors will consider measures that would result in more money for shareholders.
These include a sale or merger of Sina or Weibo or a buyback of shares by management.
Sina says that any deal proposed by Aristeia would not clear because of Chinas complicated telecom and media rules.
Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, also owns a stake in Weibo, further complicating its options, Sina said.
The time, resources and capital invested to pursue a transaction with a high likelihood of failure, rather than accretive and value creating opportunities, is not in the best interests of Sina shareholders, Sina said in a statement.
Some outsiders disagree.
I think Sina has built in Weibo a very valuable asset that is not being reflected in its share price, said Randy Gelber, a managing director at UBS, the Swiss bank.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It would seem like there should be some common ground from both sides on how to realize that value, he said.
Two proxy advisers Glass Lewis & Company and International Shareholder Services have given some weight to Aristeias arguments.
Glass Lewis recommended that Sina expand its board to allow Aristeias nominees, and I.S.S.
recommended that Sina shareholders support one of the two nominees.
An examination of the arguments reveals compelling reasons for shareholders to seek change at the company, I.S.S.
said.
The fight is being watched closely at a time when American activists are bringing their bare-knuckled approach to Asia.
Daniel S. Loeb, one of the most vocal activists, scored a victory in a campaign for change at the Japanese conglomerate that owns the 7-Eleven convenience store chain last year.
In South Korea, the activist Paul Singer and his hedge fund firm, Elliott Management, picked fights with Samsung Electronics and the Bank of East Asia in Hong Kong.
It is also unfolding as the Chinese government looks to take a more active role in how its corporate giants are managed.
Even if Aristeia emerges victorious, the real test could be whether its candidates will be able to push for change internally.
The question is whether that board member would be able to do anything other than jump up and down at meetings, said Paul Gillis, a professor at Peking Universitys Guanghua School of Management.
We believe this is a necessary move to make Burberry exciting again, Luca Solca, head of luxury goods at the investment company Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in an analyst note.
Creative directors like all artists (painters, composers, singers) tend to produce variations on a theme.
Most brands that have gone through a revival had to first find new creative resources.
Known for his geniality and for keeping a low profile in an industry that tends to celebrate the extreme, Mr. Bailey joined Burberry as design director in 2001, when the company was struggling to create a fashion identity under Roberto Menichetti.
Appointed creative director in 2004 and chief creative officer in 2009, Mr. Bailey positioned Burberry as a conduit of Britishness to the world, working with actors, musicians and artists to amplify his fashion message into one of cultural leadership.
Like Karl Lagerfeld at Chanel, Mr. Baileys skill lay in taking the major ingredients of a heritage brand in Burberrys case, the checks, the trench coat and its roots in the British countryside and continually moving them toward the abstract and into a cooler, more contemporary aesthetic.
He was among the first designers to embrace the digital age, making Burberry one of the most-followed companies on the FTSE 100.
Along with two former chief executives, Rose Marie Bravo and Angela Ahrendts, he transformed Burberry into such a dominant player that at one point insiders joked London Fashion Week should be renamed Burberry London Fashion Week.
It was a formula that appeared easy to imitate, and brands from Mulberry to Pringle to Hunter attempted similar reinventions, but none had the same success.
He has been a huge influence on everything in fashion over the last couple of years, said Jonathan Saunders, the Scottish designer who is now creative director of Diane von Furstenberg.
At one moment almost all young British independent designers went to him for advice about their business and career.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Recently, however, Burberrys star had begun to dim.
Ms. Ahrendts left for Apple in 2014, and Mr. Bailey was appointed chief executive and chief creative officer, a first for both a billion-dollar fashion brand and a major designer.
Photo His arrival in the boardroom coincided with an industrywide slump in global luxury sales, which was prompted by a crackdown on gift-giving and a slowdown in economic growth in China, geopolitical instability and volatile foreign exchange rates.
Burberry sales soon flagged across key markets, particularly in China.
The Burberry share price slumped, and investors grew increasingly anxious about whether Mr. Bailey could successfully juggle the roles of both creative and commercial leader in a more uncertain trading environment.
Many also attacked his hefty pay package.
In 2015, he took a 75 percent pay cut, although his salary rose from 1.9 million ($2.52 million) to 3.5 million ($4.64 million) last year, and he received 10.5 million ($13.9 million) in shares this summer.
Aesthetic inspiration seemed to have been traded for strategic change: under Mr. Bailey, Burberry was among the first brands to merge multiple lines at different price points into a single offering, combine the mens and womens shows into one, and move to a see now-buy now system in which clothes became available as soon as they were shown.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Finally, last July, he ceded to pressure to bring in new senior management, appointing Marco Gobbetti, then the head of the French luxury house Cline, to the role of Burberry chief executive.
His most recent shows were among his best received, though the decision to focus on the creative offering also seems the first step in a transition to a new leadership team.
A father of young girls, he began to talk about spending more time with his family.
Mr. Gobbetti, in a statement, said Mr. Bailey had been instrumental in Burberrys transformation, adding, the legacy he leaves and the exceptional talent we have at Burberry give me enormous confidence in our future.
Burberry has made no announcement about a possible successor to Mr. Bailey, and would not commit to a timeline.
The questions now become, will the company choose a relative unknown, and will the next stage involve a continuum, or a turnaround?
One name already being mentioned is that of the Cline designer Phoebe Philo, also English and Mr. Gobbettis former colleague.
She was long rumored to be a potential successor to Mr. Bailey.
The one thing that is certain is that the decision will be watched very closely as will Mr. Baileys next move.
Meanwhile, his legacy continues to be written: Burberrys half-year earnings report is due Nov. 9, and Mr. Baileys final show for Burberry will take place in February.
In the interview, Mr. Heilemann said he was still coming to terms with the accusations that have been lodged against his longtime collaborator.
Mr. Halperin who has denied allegations of groping and assault, but acknowledged pursuing relationships with ABC colleagues worked at ABC until 2007, roughly a year before he teamed up with Mr. Heilemann for Game Change during the 2008 presidential campaign.
The bare nature of the accusations are horrific and shocking and terrible, Mr. Heilemann said.
These behaviors are not the behaviors that I witnessed, and theyre not consistent with the person that I thought I knew.
Thats not an excuse.
Thats just the truth.
Mr. Halperin declined to comment for this article.
The allegations against him, which have expanded in recent days as more women have come forward, place him in a group of media figures felled by claims of sexual misconduct in the wake of numerous allegations against the film mogul Harvey Weinstein.
They include the literary editor Leon Wieseltier, the New Republic publisher Hamilton Fish, the Vox editorial director Lockhart Steele and the head of Amazon Studios, Roy Price.
Mr. Halperins alleged misconduct with younger subordinates has been described as predatory and a sign of endemic sexism in television news.
It remains unclear what will become of Mr. Halperins contributions to the scuttled third installment in the Game Change series.
The pair had conducted roughly 300 interviews for the book in recent months, Mr. Heilemann said.
Weve done reporting that touches on important things both for history and for the current national dialogue, he said.
For years, Mr. Halperin played the Washington insider to Mr. Heilemanns freewheeling descendant of Hunter S. Thompson, whose likeness he uses for his Twitter profile.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The two achieved riches and prominence that most reporters only dream about.
They moved through the crowds at rallies lit up by their own dedicated Showtime camera crew.
Their employer, Bloomberg News, installed a huge promotional poster for their show featuring their images on the side of the Marriott in Des Moines, a popular hangout for campaign reporters.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Their style was derided in some quarters as superficial, and some pundits criticized Mr. Halperins interviews with President Trump during his candidacy as too cozy.
Game Change, a No.
1 best-seller, sold nearly half a million copies; its HBO film adaptation won Emmys and Golden Globes.
They wrote a sequel, Double Down: Game Change 2012, and appeared frequently on cable news; Bloomberg was said to be paying Mr. Halperin and Mr. Heilemann salaries in the range of $1 million.
Mr. Heilemann, who made his reputation at Wired, The New Yorker and New York magazine, dreamed up the idea for Game Change a Hollywood-style account of a presidential election while vacationing in Aspen, Colo.
He pitched the idea to Mr. Halperin, an acquaintance from the campaign trail, during a ride to a John McCain rally in 2008.
Mark was my friend, Mr. Heilemann said.
I cared about him then, and I care about him now.
Its also the case that Mark wasnt in the circle of my closest friends.
Many of their interviews were conducted jointly.
Asked if he could use that material for a prospective solo project, Mr. Heilemann replied: T.B.D.
Its complicated.
Showtime said that the network remained on good terms with Mr. Heilemann and that it was examining whether The Circus will go on without Mr. Halperin.
NBC News, where Mr. Heilemann is a contributor, has severed ties with Mr. Halperin.
The men worked closely for nearly a decade, including a two-year stretch of near-daily contact for their Bloomberg TV show.
What would Mr. Heilemann say to a skeptic who found it difficult to believe that he had been unaware of Mr. Halperins alleged misbehavior?
I would never try to argue anybody out of their skepticism about anything, Mr. Heilemann said.
All I can say is, I barely knew Mark in the period of time when he stands accused of doing these things.
People are entitled to their opinions about what I should have known, or must have known, or whatever.
But the timeline is what the timeline is.
He added: I hope that my reputation has not been damaged by this.
I dont feel like Im crumpled in the corner in some way.
Two companies, Suniva and SolarWorld, brought a solar case to the trade commission earlier this year, contending they were forced into bankruptcy as a result of a flood of subsidized imports from China.
The companies said imports of photovoltaic cells and modules that are ultimately made into solar panels had driven them and other American companies out of business.
Suniva called the International Trade Commissions recommendations disappointing in a statement, saying they were not strict enough.
It called on Mr. Trump to implement more stringent restrictions necessary to save American manufacturing.
The Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group that has fought any tariffs or barriers to imports, said in a statement Tuesday that the commissioners had taken a thoughtful approach and did not recommend anything close to what the petitioners asked for.
But it emphasized that proposed tariffs would be intensely harmful to the industry.
The case is unique because it relies on a rarely used section of federal trade law, known as Section 201 or a global safeguard investigation, which gives the president broad authority to impose tariffs or other restrictions to help protect a domestic industry.
The prospect of such restrictions has set off a fierce backlash from industries and users of solar power, who argue that such measures would raise prices throughout the supply chain and ultimately cost more American jobs than they would save.
They argue that cheaper solar products from China have actually been a boon to their businesses and accelerated the adoption of solar energy in the United States, where it now powers millions of American homes and businesses.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Workers who install solar power projects, utilities who purchase the power and major commercial users of solar power, like retailers, could all be damaged by such restrictions, said Frank Maisano, a spokesman for the Energy Trade Action Coalition, which represents those groups.
You can play with the numbers and tweak things, but the bottom line is its going to put those groups at risk, Mr. Maisano said.
The case will also be a test of the presidents willingness to impose the kind of powerful trade barriers that he has frequently threatened.
Mr. Trump repeatedly talked on the campaign trail about imposing sweeping tariffs on products from China, Mexico and elsewhere, a tough stance that spurred political support among Americans frustrated with the economy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But since Mr. Trump came into office, powerful business lobbies have pushed back on that tough approach, arguing that tariffs benefit a narrow slice of industry at the expense of other companies and consumers of those products, who have to pay higher costs.
Other proposed trade policies involving tariffs, including measures on imported steel and aluminum, appear to have stalled under such pressure.
The recommendations announced by the four members of the International Trade Commission ranged significantly in the impact they would have on the industry.
The most moderate proposal, made by commissioner Meredith M. Broadbent, would restrict imports of cells, modules and other photovoltaic products to 8.9 gigawatts in the first year a level she said was consistent with the level of imports in 2016.
That level would increase by 1.4 gigawatts each subsequent year, effectively preventing a surge in imports, but not significantly altering the current market.
Ms. Broadbent also recommended auctioning licenses to import these products, and reinvesting the resulting funds in the domestic solar industry.
The other three commissioners made far more stringent recommendations.
David S. Johanson, vice chairman of the International Trade Commission, and Irving A. Williamson, a commissioner, jointly recommended a 30 percent tariff on imports of solar cells in excess of 1 gigawatt, as well as a 30 percent tariff on modules.
Each penalty would be gradually lowered in the next few years.
Rhonda K. Schmidtlein, the commissions chair, recommended a tariff of 10 percent on the first 0.5 gigawatts of cells imported, and a 30 percent tariff on cells exceeding that volume.
She also recommended a 35 percent tariff on modules.
The barriers would be gradually reduced over the next four years.
(This season has not aired in the United States, where the series is broadcast as The Great British Baking Show because of copyright issues.
If youd like to avoid all spoilers, look away now.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Sophie Faldo, a 33-year-old former army officer, triumphed over the other finalists, Kate Lyon and Steven Carter-Bailey, by dazzling the judges in the final showstopper round with a seven-layer cake known as an entremet.
Called Ode to the Honey Bee, it featured lavender mousse, honey custard, blackberry jelly and lemon curd.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I just disbelieve it, Ms. Faldo said after the results were announced.
The idea of winning was such a minute possibility.
I dont think Ill forget this for as long as I live.
The current season, the eighth broadcast in Britain, has been rocked by drama, even before the first episode aired.
Producers said last September that the show would leave the BBC for a rival network, Channel 4.
Despite some initial grumbles about the introduction of commercials, which are not shown on the publicly funded BBC, the show has averaged 8.9 million viewers a week.
(The BBC version of the series had about 13.5 million viewers each week, although the national broadcaster generally has bigger audiences.)
The move also meant major alterations to the cast: Three of the four hosts the celebrity chef Mary Berry and the comedians Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc said they would not follow the show to Channel 4.
Only the baker Paul Hollywood stayed on as a judge.
Ms. Leith signed on as a judge, and the comedians Sandi Toksvig and Noel Fielding became hosts.
Beyond the casting changes, the format stayed true to the original formula.
Channel 4 said that Bake Off would return for another season with the same cast.
Applications for contestants are already open.
When Senator Al Franken of Minnesota pressed Facebooks general counsel, Colin Stretch, about rejecting political ads purchased in foreign currencies, the tech executive said that such a policy might not deter bad actors.
The Democratic senator responded with exasperation, My goal is for you to think through this stuff a little bit better, according to The NYT.
Critics corner: Tim Wu, a law professor at Columbia University and a frequent critic of big tech companies, was unimpressed.
I like that they are contrite, but these issues are existential and they arent taking any structural changes, he told The NYT.
Speaking of regulating tech Yelp is using the moment to continue pressing for a tighter rein on tech giants.
Its vice president of public policy wrote in a WSJ op-ed: In the absence of rigorous antitrust enforcement, the consumer internet has become too concentrated in a few dominant companies, creating easy targets for bad actors.
What we still dont know about the G.O.P.
tax plan.
Photo The D-Day for House Republicans to unveil their tax proposal is now tomorrow, as they lock down final details.
But several questions are yet to be answered.
Richard Rubin, Siobhan Hughes and Kristina Peterson of The WSJ note three of the big ones: [T]he income cutoffs for individual tax brackets, the size of the child tax credit and which rules apply to a 25 percent tax rate for businesses such as partnerships that pay taxes through their owners individual tax returns Things we do know: House Republicans have acquiesced to President Trumps wishes and plan to cut the top corporate tax rate to 20 percent immediately, rather than phase in the reduction over five years.
And they will keep some deductions for state and local taxes.
The bill will also have a worldwide minimum tax on multinational corporations profits, which would be on all global income rather than on a country-by-country basis, according to The NYT.
Mnuchin speaks: Some highlights of what the treasury secretary told Alan Rappeport of The NYT about the tax effort: If you look at the stock market, as Ive said, the stock market is clearly up in anticipation of economic activity and economic growth from the Trump administration plan.
Tax cuts will pay for themselves by stimulating economic growth.
For every percent of G.D.P., theres $2.5 trillion of additional revenues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After the tax campaign will come a push to change financial regulations.
We think theres definitely aspects of Dodd-Frank that people think should be reformed.
Another way to understand the system: Shawn Tully of Fortune walks through Apples 2016 taxes to explain the current structure of taxation and why changes could help the economy.
Elsewhere in Washington Hope Hicks, the White House communications director, is scheduled to speak with Robert Mueller and his team.
(Politico) Meet the prosecutor Andrew Weissmann, a top lieutenant to Mr. Mueller.
One defense lawyer who battled him during the Enron trial said of him, Frankly, I cant think of two people who deserve each other more than Andrew Weissmann and Donald Trump.
(NYT) See how Paul Manafort laundered and spent $18 million, according to federal prosecutors, although his spending habits didnt exactly impress connoisseurs of luxury.
(NYT) Eduardo Porter asks in his latest NYT column, What if President Trumps ultimate goal is to kill the World Trade Organization?
Is a bidding war brewing for Rockwell Automation?
Photo Now that Emerson Electrics $28 billion takeover offer is in the open, deal makers are wondering: Will Rockwell, a longtime leader in industrial automation, be forced to sell itself to Emerson or to a European rival like Schneider or ABB?
What you need to know: Emerson approached Rockwell twice this year after having coveted the industrial parts maker for years.
The first offer was in August, at $200 a share, while the second was made early last month, at $215 a share, half in cash, half in stock.
Rockwell spurned those offers privately and, after CNBC reported the bids, publicly as well.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The issues: People close to Emerson say that putting the two companies together would yield a leader in automated industrial processes, with $6 billion in cost savings.
And they point to analysts who reckon that the target companys stock is richly valued compared to peers.
People close to Rockwell say that their company is performing well and that they are leery of taking stock from Emerson, which they assert has a spotty track record on acquisitions.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Whats next: Emerson is hoping that Rockwells investors will put pressure on management, while Rockwell has defenses in the form of a staggered board and no provision for shareholders to call special meetings.
So far, Rockwell investors are pleased, but Emerson shareholders appear wary.
Whos advising whom: Emerson has Centerview Partners and JPMorgan Chase on its side, while Rockwell has Goldman Sachs and the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
Dont count on Vornado to rescue the Kushners albatross.
Photo There have been rumors in the marketplace, more than rumors that the marketplace about tearing the building down and doing all manner of fairly grand development schemes.
Its likely that those are not feasible.
And so its likely that the building will revert to an office building.
That was Steven Roth, the C.E.O.
of Vornado Realty Trust, speaking about the financially troubled 666 Fifth Avenue skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan that his company co-owns with the Kushner Companies.
Though the Kushners led by Jared Kushner until his move to the White House have pursued grand dreams to reshape the complex, Vornado has now publicly confirmed that it isnt on board with those plans.
The ambitious redevelopment plan envisioned by the Kushners was central to their efforts to clear $1.2 billion in debt on the building.
As The WaPo notes, its unclear what options the family has left.
Revolving Door Saudi Arabia is to appoint Alireza Zaimi, a managing director at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, to a top management post at its sovereign wealth fund, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
(FT) SoftBank has recruited executives from companies like UBS, Elliott Management and PwC to work on the Vision Fund from London.
(Private Equity News) Quote of the Day Photo A-Rod would have done very well in business if he had never seen a baseball.
Warren Buffett, telling Vanity Fair that the former New York Yankee (a protg of sorts) has a money mind.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Speed Read M. & A.
The real attraction of Aetna is its potential ability to send clients CVSs way for medical services like vaccinations.
(Breakingviews) Clariants chief executive said it would look for another merger partner after its proposed tie-up with Huntsman was scuppered by activist investors.
(FT) Imagination Technologies shareholders approved a $730 million cash takeover by Canyon Bridge on Tuesday, a day after the buyout firms founder was charged with insider trading.
(Reuters) Policy and Legal Airbus, already shaken by a corruption investigation in Europe, said on Tuesday that it may have violated American rules on arms exports.
(NYT) The labor market has created more so-called superstars in recent decades, and they can often evade the consequences of bad behavior.
But the costs of retaining a superstar accused of harassment outweigh the benefits.
(NYT) The Weinstein Companys talks with Fortress Investment Group about a lifeline have stalled, amid concerns about the studios financial situation.
(NY Post) A new academic paper has found that Securities and Exchange Commission employees tend to be better than average at selling shares ahead of bad corporate news.
(Bloomberg) Private Capital (P.E.
and V.C.)
SoftBanks proposed multibillion-dollar investment in Uber by SoftBank is being held up because Travis Kalanick objects to a provision in the deal, according to people familiar with the matter: one that would require a majority vote on any further directors he appoints.
(WSJ) Advertisement Continue reading the main story Money Managers The University of Chicagos economics department will be renamed for Kenneth Griffin, whos making a $125 million donation.
(WSJ) Sina, the Chinese company that owns the social media platform Weibo, is embroiled in a proxy fight with Aristeia Capital, a hedge fund based in Connecticut.
(NYT) Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP, blamed a fall in sales on activist investors, who he said had pushed packaged goods and consumer brand companies into cutting spending.
(FT) Automatic Data Processing swiped back at Bill Ackman, saying that he had made false and misleading claims this week and that it would file a complaint with the S.E.C.
(WSJ) Business and Economy CME Group said it would offer a futures contract based on Bitcoin, sending the digital currency above $6,400 for the first time.
(WSJ) When internet start-ups began going belly up in the early 2000s, banks, private equity firms and other financial institutions sought more tangible enterprises.
One result is that there may now be too many restaurants.
(NYT) Google is facing questions about privacy after a glitch in Docs locked users out of innocuous documents on the grounds that they violated its terms of service.
(NYT) In defense of corporate jets: Executives time is precious, its a more efficient way to travel and GE may not even save that much by getting rid of its corporate fleet.
(Bloomberg View)
The debates importance, though, may ultimately go well beyond the fate of the Arctic refuge.
Analysts say Senator Murkowskis stance symbolizes a fundamental challenge of climate politics: How to bridge the gap between moderate Republicans from states reliant on fossil fuels on one side, and Democrats and environmental activists on the other.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
To move on the climate front in Washington youre going to need to bring a non-trivial number of Republicans into a coalition, which means there has to be compromises, said Jerry Taylor, president of the Niskanen Center, a libertarian think tank.
Were going to have to address conservative concerns and policy demands.
Its not unfair for environmentalists to argue that if you take climate change seriously, it simply requires the rapid decarbonization of the economy.
Full stop.
Climate change is real and demands a policy response, Mr. Taylor said.
Of Senator Murkowski, he added, Her skepticism is about that policy response.
Anything thats going to increase oil and gas prices is something shes going to be very skeptical about.
Senator Murkowski has walked a delicate line on climate change for much of her 15 years in Congress.
She routinely acknowledges that the climate is changing and that warming poses a threat to Alaska.
This year, she urged President Trump not to withdraw from the Paris agreement.
But she also has championed natural gas exports, expanding offshore and onshore drilling and the 2016 lifting of a 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports.
She has introduced legislation to open the Arctic wilderness every term she has served in the Senate.
The senator, for her part, said she sees no inconsistencies in her views.
I think for anybody who has spent any time in Alaska, there is an awareness that we all have that we are seeing the impacts of climate change perhaps more readily than in other parts of the country because of our Arctic environment, Senator Murkowski said in an interview.
But were also a place where we recognize that in order to stay warm, we have to have a resource that can keep us warm, and oil has been a mainstay for us, she said.
Weve provided it to the country and that has allowed for jobs and revenues, it has allowed for schools and roads and institutions that everybody else around the country enjoys.
Money from oil and gas development is a critical source of income in Alaska.
Since the completion of the trans-Alaska Oil Pipeline in 1977, petroleum revenues have averaged more than 85 percent of the state budget.
According to the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, petroleum supports a third of all jobs in the state.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Champions of opening the refuge assert that shifting Alaskas economy will take time, and, despite gains in renewable power, the reality is that oil will be around for decades to come.
On Thursday, the debate over the Arctic refuge begins in earnest.
A budget blueprint passed by the House and Senate in recent weeks has set the stage for Republicans to overhaul the tax code with the support of only 50 senators, rather than the 60 needed to overcome a filibuster.
The budget blueprint also paves the way for a drilling measure to be attached to the tax overhaul.
Using that approach, Republicans would be able to open the refuge to drilling without encountering a filibuster.
The Trump administration has cited possible revenues to federal coffers totaling $1.8 billion by 2018.
Senator Murkowskis energy panel, where Republicans hold a majority, could vote as early as next week to approve legislation directing part of the refuge opened.
Democrats have vowed to fight the effort.
Senator Maria Cantwell of Washington, the senior Democrat on the energy committee, pointed to a recent congressional audit warning that global warming had already cost the country billions of dollars.
Alaskas outdoor and tourism economy already generates more jobs than the oil economy, Senator Cantwell said.
Personally, I would be working to protect that outdoor wildlife economy instead of undermining it by drilling in the Arctic.
Proponents of drilling point to Energy Information Administration estimates projecting that oil and gas will account for more than half the worlds energy supply through 2050, despite the gains in renewable power.
Kara Moriarty, president and chief executive of the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, has asserted that Alaskas contribution to climate change is minuscule and it will continue to be small even if new drilling does occur in the refuge.
If we were to immediately shut down production activity that is occurring, even if we went to zero, it is not going to make a difference in stopping any kind of change in our climate, she said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its a case that Senator Murkowski makes as well.
The answer, she argues, lies in using oil revenues to pave the way for alternative energy sources.
Its not something that can be done overnight, and it is something that can only be done if you have resources, she said.
Alaska, Senator Murkowski said, embraces clean energy and has devoted state resources to boosting capital for distributed energy and developing micro-grids to power remote parts of the country.
For the people who live and work and raise their families in a very small population state, we dont think we are the problem, Senator Murkowski said.
We think we are the answer.
IN THE LONELY HOUR was a little more than a half-hour crying jag about longing for a man a straight, married one he was in love with whom he never so much as kissed.
Nearly every song was about this: Stay With Me, the sad song about wanting a man to stay even when its clear hes not in love; Good Thing, the sad song about deciding that hes stayed too long waiting around that one begins with a vision of him getting mugged outside the mans door and dying in his arms like ponine.
And, on the deluxe edition of the album, a cover of Whitney Houstons How Will I Know?
which was not a sad song until he sang it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He told Rolling Stone that he had to be careful so that straight people could sing along with his music, too.
I am not Sam Smith, the gay singer, he said at the time.
I am Sam Smith, the singer who happens to be gay.
He gave an interview where he talked about Grindr and Tinder, the hookup apps, and how sad it was that all the possibility behind love and serendipity came down to a swiping culture, and saying this offended some in the gay community too.
He accepted the Oscar for best original song for Writings on the Wall, from Spectre, the James Bond movie, referring to an article hed read in which Ian McKellen had said that no openly gay man had ever won an Oscar.
If this is the case even if it isnt the case I want to dedicate this to the L.G.B.T.
community all around the world.
Well, he woke up the morning after the Oscars to an assassinations worth of ridicule, including from an openly gay man who had won an Oscar.
The Verge called Mr. Smiths statement vague and inaccurate, saying, If youre going to stump for a cause on stage, you need to come correct.
Gawker, in an essay about Mr. Smiths gay conservatism, wrote, His philosophy is, in short, to be gay, but not too gay.
Sure, he quickly realized, the Oscar thing was wrong hed meant to say that thered never been an openly gay lead actor winner but the other stuff: why was it taken so badly?
So what if he didnt like hookup apps?
Why was that surprising?
Hadnt people seen him, dressed like a 1950s lounge act, complete with a pompadour?
Hadnt they heard his retro soul?
What exactly about him seemed modern?
So what that he wanted his music to be a universal experience?
He never said he was the spokesman for gay people.
Photo The vitriol of the Oscar incident surprised him.
His heart was clearly in the right place.
He was a proud gay man.
How could that not mean anything?
Im not the most eloquent person, Mr. Smith says now.
I didnt get the best grades in school.
I mean, Im just good at singing.
It felt like he was getting hammered every time he opened his mouth.
All he wanted was to remind people that love is love is love, particularly his brand of young adult love: heart-eye emoji love, cupid-arrow love, the love from The Notebook and Titanic.
Thats how big love is.
Once again, on his favorite subject, he pretend-faints on the couch in swoon and desire.
He clutches his heart and makes his eyebrows almost touching a near-steeple of longing.
This was the thing we all had in common.
Why talk about the things that make us different?
YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND what it was like for him.
Mr. Smith was raised in Great Chishill, a village an hour and a half from London with a population of less than 700.
He wore a full face of makeup to school to Catholic school and fake eyelashes, too, and elaborate arrangements of flowers pinned to his lapel, along with the occasional all-over sprinkling of glitter.
Some kids were mean to him about his sexuality, but it was the making fun of his weight that bothered him.
His sexuality was not a negotiation; his weight was.
He grew up with two younger sisters in a pink house; theres a tattoo of its address around the C6 vertebra of his cervical spine.
His bedroom walls were painted a shiny gold and his bed had a red silk duvet.
He applied cheap, clumpy mascara each morning and on the gold wall next to his mirror, he dabbed his mascara wand to rid it of excess.
One day, in detention, someone told him about dream boards, and so he spent the hour making one to put up on his bedroom wall.
There was a sketch of a Grammy there.
He drew the back of his head performing to an arena.
Photo He came out when he was 10.
Literally someone at school said, Are you gay?
and he said, I am!
His mother said shed known since he was 3.
Hed always had very short hair, but when he was young, he used to make the gesture of pushing strands behind his ears, like it was long, or flicking imaginary hair off his shoulder.
In the car, when the windows were open, he would pretend hed gotten a hair stuck to his lips and pick it away.
And it was all totally fine, even when it wasnt, even when the first boy he had a crush on said nasty, homophobic things to him that still make him cry.
But he had a lot of friends.
There were no other (openly) gay boys.
He fell in love with straight boys.
He could barely picture a future when one of them would look back at him with lust or sexual curiosity, let alone love.
And still he was happy.
He grew comfortable in his longing.
People sometimes made fun of him, but so what?
He understood who he was.
He thought that if you know who you are, and if youre confident in that and you dont make a big deal of it, people will accept you.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story His parents signed him up for voice lessons when he wouldnt stop crooning throughout the house.
He had a manager from the age of 11, then another, then another, each promising him that he would become very famous very soon.
It didnt happen.
He moved to London, where he tended bar.
One day, he met Jimmy Napes, who introduced him to his eventual managers, who in turn introduced him to the electronic duo Disclosure, with whom he recorded the vocals for Latch, Disclosures single and his breakout in 2012.
The rest the album, the tour it all happened fast.
He woke up the day after the Oscars, saw the chaos online, apologized, and slunk off.
Why wasnt this working?
People loved his music, but they were turning on him.
He couldnt bear being thought of as a traitor to his people he was so open about everything!
Sure, he didnt like Tinder, and its mostly true that he didnt like it because it isnt romantic, but it is maybe truer that he was afraid he would be swiped away.
Believe it or not, he did use Grindr, but he didnt want random hookups so he arranged dinner dates with several very confused men.
Then, one day, he went to Australia for a show, and afterward had a talk with his publicist there, a gay man who lives with his partner of 18 years.
The publicist took Mr. Smith to the Stonewall, a gay bar in Sydney, for a drink one afternoon.
He decided to help educate him, taking him to a gay bookshop.
My mind just went, Mr. Smith said.
He read the memoir Holding the Man, which blew his mind.
He watched Paris Is Burning.
He still has Tales of the City on his night table.
Next, the Australians introduced him to drag.
They crammed his feet into thigh-high, high-heeled boots.
They draped a red sequin dress over his 62 body.
They had barbecues and played Madonna and danced.
I lived in a village in the middle of nowhere as an openly gay man from the age of 10 years old, Mr. Smith said.
I didnt meet another gay man until I was 19 when I moved to London.
I just went gay clubbing a few times with some straight friends and with some girlfriends of mine, and then I became famous.
I never got an opportunity to find my people in the gay community and find my friends.
He decided not to drink or smoke or be with a man, even just kissing, for a long time, while he was figuring all this stuff out.
He was trying to understand how he fit into the gay community at large.
I just really sat with myself and got to know myself and started to just like my stretch marks and not be so hard on myself and stop watching perfection everywhere.
He began seeking out the art that struck him as truest.
He stopped watching Titanic and The Notebook.
O.K., he watched The Notebook again last week but he also watched Weekend, the gay indie film, so it balanced out.
Photo Then he found George Michael.
He had always been a fan of his music.
He was 15 when he saw him in concert.
But now, reading and watching interviews with him in his last years, after Mr. Michael came out, Mr. Smith found him to be a great mentor.
I just feel like Im going to offend someone every time I open my mouth, he said.
I feel like George Michael had a way of being authentic to himself and honest in a way that was warm.
Back at the interview in West Hollywood, he leaned back on the couch, looked up at the ceiling and blew a stream of breath out through pursed lips.
People forget but no one learns about gay history in school.
Nothing.
So I didnt know anything about my history as a gay man and then words like spokesperson are being thrown at me when Ive just brought out my first album, he said.
It scared me because I was like, I dont know anything about being gay, really.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He realized two things.
One was that he was ready to make a second album.
The other thing was that coming out as gay wasnt enough.
He now understood that every visible gay person still had a leadership role.
He now understood that he wasnt operating on his own, but that he lived in context to a community whether hed realized it or not.
No, having come out as a gay singer, he realized it was now time to come out as a gay man.
THE NEXT AFTERNOON, Saturday, he rode to the Hollywood Bowl, where he was performing at a breast cancer benefit that included Lorde and Kesha and Harry Styles.
He was wearing a pastel, airbrushed silk, short-sleeve button-down shirt and olive silk pleated pants.
I can tuck them in now, he said proudly.
Im a tucker.
Photo Since he left the public eye for the studio, which is where hed been since the end of his last tour, in 2015, hed lost a ton of weight by doing something called intermittent fasting, meaning he waits five hours after eating to eat again (and which is also called not eating between meals).
A trainer.
A nutritionist.
He stopped eating bread.
Probably being a man in his 20s helped.
His transformation was sparked by seeing a tabloid picture of himself on the beach without a shirt, and that was not the self he wanted to be.
He was also concerned about his health.
He gets acid reflux, and its bad for his voice.
He knows other stars mime, as he puts it, but he doesnt want to.
His voice is his whole thing, his whole bag of tricks.
Mr. Smith had also cut off his pompadour, which he called his quiff, his short hair now reminiscent of George Michaels on his 2011 Symphonica tour.
His hair was thicker than its been recently.
After the Oscars, it had started falling out from stress, he thought.
He began to use Rogaine and take Propecia, and it worked.
Men need to talk about hair loss, he thinks.
Photo Photo Photo If In the Lonely Hour was the myopic look into the heart of a boy helplessly in love, then the new album, The Thrill of It All, is about a man who turns his gaze outward.
Midnight Train is a sad song about ending a relationship that was inspired by friends; Palace, a sad song about whether or not love is worth it if it ends; HIM, a sad story of an imagined boy in Mississippi coming out to his father.
Some of the tracks are about Mr. Smith himself, including Burning, a sad song about pining for a man who has left; and One Last Song, a sad final ode to the man who was the subject of In the Lonely Hour.
The new album wont be a surprise to anyone familiar with the first one: The old-timey soul is still there.
Mr. Smith decided long ago that his voice was the instrument: melisma, whispered baritones, surprise out-of-nowhere ultra-high falsetto, even a haunting, beautiful croak of longing sprinkled here and there.
It is still prime music for having sex with your sadness, as Mr. Smith said.
But he can now recount actual relationships in his songs.
Hes still never been in the kind of magical Notebook love he longs for, he said, but about a year ago, he had a five-month relationship that took three breakups before the breakup took and which is the subject of Too Good at Goodbyes, the first single off the new album, which is in the Billboard Top 10 as of this writing.
Hes been dating the actor Brandon Flynn, from Netflixs 13 Reasons Why, seeing where that goes.
Backstage at the Hollywood Bowl, Mr. Smith drank a cup of Throat Coat, and then took a Gaviscon for acid reflux.
He sang through a cocktail straw while holding up a tissue to make it move with his breath to strengthen his throat muscles, something he learned from an opera singer.
He motor-boated his lips.
He was ready for the show.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The next day, the news media would pick up a statement he made about feeling as much like a woman as a man, and social media would get on him for being too casual about gender fluidity when he identifies as a gay man.
One day he will get it right, he said, his eyes shiny with big, sad Sam Smith tears, The only thing Id like everyone to know is Im really sorry if I say the wrong things, he said.
I dont want to offend anyone and my intentions are genuinely pure and good.
Im still trying to figure [expletive] out and Id like to be treated like a human.
If I make mistakes dont kill me.
Yes, one day.
One day when hes old, he said, hes going to know what to say.
Hes going to be someone who can figure out how to think his words through before he says them.
Hell get older, and as he does, hes going to stop using his falsetto so much, he said.
Its a sound that cant age with you, and even on the new album, hes started to sing more in his regular voice.
Eventually, hes going to be like Joni Mitchell and just use the lowest registers.
Hes going to come out on stage like Joni on the cover of Both Sides Now, with a glass of wine and a cigarette (yes, by then hell be drinking and smoking again).
Hes looking forward to that, when his voice starts to get breathy and broken like Judy Garlands when she sings Over the Rainbow at Carnegie Hall.
Eventually hell retire and open up a flower shop in the English countryside, he said.
Hell get really into cooking, hell have a pet pig named Kong or maybe Flo, and hell live forever happily, surrounded by his husband and children and his closet full of drag.
His funeral will call for fancy dress, and the men will have to dress like women and the women will have to dress like men.
Drag queens wearing big black hats with veils and high heels will carry his coffin out.
Then disco music will play.
Thats nice, isnt it?
Yes, its nice to think of a time when hell know for sure just how to be.
Nicole Kidman, who, in his phrase, rocked Hollywood with her vocal postelection support for Donald Trump, gets similar treatment, soaring to the top of Mr. Binders best-dressed list.
She stunned at the Emmy awards, he writes, in a red gown cut at the ankle with the most exquisite silver roping around the neckline.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He reserves his barbs for the likes of Jane Fonda, the leftist actress, who in a faux, Beyonc-esque ponytail looked like she had developed a classic case of trying to be a teeny-bopper.
Give it up, Jane.
Samantha Bee, liberal Hollywoods talk show darling, fared no better, pretty much a train wreck, Mr. Binder writes, a leprechaun in her shoulder-padded, emerald green ensemble.
For Mr. Binder, 25, delivering tart commentary is all in a days work.
He is the fashion critic for Breitbart News.
Yes, Breitbart has a fashion critic (!
), a man who by his own account is uniquely cut out for the job.
Mr. Binder has been following his twin passions, fashion and politics, since his student days at Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond, La.
His professors were all too predictably liberal, he said in a phone conversation last week.
Which left Mr. Binder, a contrarian by nature, to take an opposing position.
The university turned me into a total right-winger, he said.
All the same, he remained enthralled by the celebrity culture that spoke to his more progressive peers.
I loved music, the whole punk rock era, all of those things, he recalled, such attractions all the more compelling to a boy with a nose perpetually pressed to the glass.
I dont live this grand fabulous lifestyle, said Mr. Binder, who was reared in Slidell, La., near New Orleans, the youngest of eight siblings in a family of moderate means.
I dont come from a place of growing up in a grand apartment in the West Village, from a place of having the same opinion as everyone else.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story The Open Thread Fashion Newsletter A look from across The New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper.
Sent weekly.
His opinions, as might be expected, are in line with those of his employer.
At its founding a decade ago, Breitbart dedicated its ideologically right-leaning coverage to celebrity culture.
One of our governing principles, said Alex Marlow, the sites editor in chief, is that culture is upstream from politics.
Meaning that the culture in influencing our political climate more than our political climate is influencing the culture.
Mr. Marlow, who hired Mr. Binder in April, would like those priorities reflected on the sites home page.
I want people to go there and find something amusing, he said, and not regard it purely as a place where readers get outraged.
The site attracts its audience through, among other things, Mr. Binders relentless O.K., obsessive monitoring of Mrs. Trump, a click magnet, Mr. Marlow noted, to both male and female readers, and the member of the first family that gets the highest approval rating.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Binder places her on a pedestal alongside a couple of his other revered tastemakers, the greatest living women, in his phrase: Victoria Beckham and the Olsen sisters, Mary-Kate and Ashley.
In part, he admires his seemingly unlikely idols for their skillful self-branding.
Ms. Beckham, in particular, works a kind of uniform, he noted: With her perfect hair, oversize sweaters, pants and a handbag, you cant imagine her any other way.
In that sense she is very much like Melania.
The first lady, he said, rarely veers from her signature formality, cleaving to a daytime wardrobe of crisp shift dresses or tailored suits.
Never mind that she flaunted a $51,500 Dolce & Gabbana coat during a visit to Sicily.
Or got down in the dirt at the White House in September, gardening in a Balmain tartan shirt that costs $1,380.
Or that she walked tall in stilettos en route to Houston in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey.
Even in that time of crisis, Mr. Binder enthused the other day, she was unapologetic and fabulous.
That sort of boosterism may not raise his stock with fashion insiders, but Mr. Binder is unfazed.
In his view the first lady is a bellwether.
Until recently, if you were fashionable, you wore sneakers, he said, even if they cost $2,000 and were Gucci.
You didnt want to look expensive or as if you were trying too hard.
With Melania, all that has gone out the window, he said.
She is transitioning us into a kind of bitch-goddess ultra-femininity.
Photo Of course, his column is not all Melania, all the time.
Mr. Binder shuttles between coverage of style and wait for it immigration.
His recent reports on that politically freighted beat, which takes up roughly 60 percent of his time, include an account of a California woman who obtained United States citizenship without being able to speak, read or write English.
And he wags a finger at Ivanka Trump, not a current Breitbart favorite.
At a recent dinner panel, Ms. Trump referred to the young immigrants covered by the DACA program as innocent people, while failing to mention, Mr. Binder writes, some of the egregious crimes committed by illegal aliens.
How does he reconcile his fashion reporting with his coverage of immigration?
Not a problem, Mr. Binder said.
Were one of the very few news outlets that cover immigration from the point of view of the American worker.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story His style analysis is in line with that mission, he said.
Were reporting with the gaze of ordinary people who want to look at photos of beautiful women in beautiful clothes.
Enthralled as he is with his subjects appearance, he is no feminist.
The movement has denigrated women, he said, reducing those who feel that their chief purpose is to raise children to feeling that they are not on a par with these yuppies on the Upper East Side.
He acknowledged that such views tend to color his coverage.
He reported on the harassment charges against the Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein but now focuses much of his ire on fashion designers and editors, calling out their silence as disingenuous.
They seemed to know things, but acted as if they didnt know, Mr. Binder said.
He is a maverick and ambitious, for sure.
But he nurtures no ardent hope of piercing fashions fabled glass ceiling.
Does he expect one day to get a summons from Vogue or its more rarefied cousin W?
I dont think about things like that, he said.
There is a huge divide between the computing technology roles and the traditional sciences, said Andrew Chamberlain, Glassdoors chief economist.
At LinkedIn, researchers identified the skills most in demand.
The top 10 last year were all computer skills, including expertise in cloud computing, data mining and statistical analysis, and writing smartphone applications.
In a recent analysis, Edward Lazowska, a professor of computer science at the University of Washington, focused on the Bureau of Labor Statistics employment forecasts in STEM categories.
In the decade ending in 2024, 73 percent of STEM job growth will be in computer occupations, but only 3 percent will be in the physical sciences and 3 percent in the life sciences.
A working grasp of the principles of science and math should be essential knowledge for all Americans, said Michael S. Teitelbaum, an expert on science education and policy.
But he believes that STEM advocates, often executives and lobbyists for technology companies, do a disservice when they raise the alarm that America is facing a worrying shortfall of STEM workers, based on shortages in a relative handful of fast-growing fields like data analytics, artificial intelligence, cloud computing and computer security.
When it gets generalized to all of STEM, its misleading, said Mr. Teitelbaum, a senior research associate in the Labor and Worklife Program at Harvard Law School.
Were misleading a lot of young people.
Unemployment rates for STEM majors may be low, but not all of those with undergraduate degrees end up in their field of study only 13 percent in life sciences and 17 percent in physical sciences, according to a 2013 National Science Foundation survey.
Computer science is the only STEM field where more than half of graduates are employed in their field.
IF physicists and biologists want to enjoy the boom times in the digital economy, a few specialist start-ups will train them and find them jobs as data scientists and artificial intelligence programmers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Insight Data Science Fellows Program, which has offices in New York, Boston, Seattle and Palo Alto, Calif., began its first training program five years ago and now has 900 alumni working at companies like Facebook, LinkedIn, Airbnb, Amazon and Microsoft.
Jake Klamka, a physicist who founded the program, kept hearing from Silicon Valley executives that they had considered hiring traditional scientists, but converting them to technologists seemed time-consuming and risky.
So Mr. Klamka decided he would start a company to provide scientists a smoother pathway into the tech industry.
Carlos Faham made that passage.
He had an impressive academic career, with a string of grant awards and fellowships.
His Ph.D. from Brown University was in dark-matter physics.
After Brown, he was a postdoctoral fellow at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
Dr. Faham loved the research, but after nearly two years he was feeling the strain of that life.
By then, he had spent 12 years in college, graduate school and postgraduate research.
His next step would be to compete for a handful of tenure-track teaching openings across the country.
For the pricey Bay Area, he wasnt making enough.
A postdoc researcher typically makes $40,000 to $60,000 a year.
Dr. Faham had done serious programming for his physics research.
He applied to tech companies, figuring they would be eager to hire someone with his intellectual firepower.
He couldnt get an in-person interview.
He was told his background was too academic.
He fumbled a couple of phone screening interviews because the statistical and machine-learning problems were unfamiliar to him.
It was like hitting a wall running at full speed, really humbling, he recalled.
Dr. Faham joined the seven-week Insight Data Science Fellows program in 2015.
There was no formal course work.
Other than a few tutorials by industry people, the time was spent creating a product his was software for recognizing and tracking faces in video and training for interviews.
That involved solving a programming problem on a white board and explaining his thinking.
Interviewing is a muscle and you have to exercise it again and again, he said.
After the program, he received six job offers.
He accepted the offer from LinkedIn.
(Insight is free for participants; hiring companies pay an undisclosed fee.)
Today, Dr. Faham, 33, is a senior data scientist, working on a team that uses machine learning and statistical models to detect illicit activity on the social network, including fake job listings, ad fraud, spam and bot attacks.
The range of data-intensive detective work, he said, is extremely rich and it moves so much faster than my previous world.
He makes a pretty good six-figure salary, about five times what he did as a postdoctoral researcher.
About 90 percent of those who enter the Insight program have landed jobs as data analysts, the company says, with a dropout rate of about 3 percent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Anasuya Das made a similar career move, but not one as far from her academic training.
After the program, Dr. Das, whose Ph.D. is in neuroscience, joined the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York, where she is now a senior data scientist.
She works on a team that creates software tools for the centers doctors, nurses and researchers.
One current project is a program to recommend the most promising clinical trials for individual cancer patients, based on their medical histories, age, gender and genetics.
Data science is distinctly different from neuroscience, Dr. Das said, but some of the tools she employs, like a machine-learning technique called artificial neural networks, do take their inspiration from the brain.
Her experience points to the larger trend that digital technologies like data science and artificial intelligence are increasingly being used in nearly every discipline.
So technology and the other STEM fields merge.
That is the thinking behind a new division of data sciences at the University of California, Berkeley, that started in July.
The division is a response to student demand and advancing technology.
Berkeleys Foundations of Data Science course attracted 1,200 students from more than 50 majors in the last academic year.
The choice of the term division rather than institute, explained David Culler, the interim dean for data sciences, underlines its approach.
We want this to be something foundational across the university, innovating with other disciplines, not differentiating from them, he said.
This is the academic world mirroring what is happening in the larger economy.
Photo NPR has placed a top editor on leave after allegations emerged on Tuesday that he had sexually harassed multiple women while at The New York Times.
The move followed a report in The Washington Post that included interviews with two women who said the editor, Michael Oreskes, NPRs senior vice president for news and its editorial director, had sexually harassed them years ago, when he was the Washington bureau chief at The New York Times.
We take these kinds of allegations very seriously, the NPR spokeswoman, Isabel Lara, said in a statement.
If a concern is raised, we review the matter promptly and take appropriate steps as warranted to assure a safe, comfortable and productive work environment.
In The Posts report, the women, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that they had faced unwanted sexual advances from Mr. Oreskes as they talked with him about job opportunities.
The episodes, they said, occurred in the late 1990s.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Oreskes could not immediately be reached for comment.
In a statement, a spokeswoman for The Times, Eileen Murphy, said: The Times takes all allegations of sexual harassment seriously and we are looking into it.
Advertisement Google Docs Glitch That Locked Out Users Underscores Privacy Concerns Image An erroneous code push caused a small percentage of Google Docs to be incorrectly flagged as abusive on Tuesday, according to Google.
Credit Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press Google Docs threw some users for a loop on Tuesday when the service suddenly locked them out of their documents for violating Googles terms of service.
The weird part?
The documents were innocuous.
The alerts were caused by a glitch, but they served as a stark reminder that not much is truly private in the cloud.
This shows that Google is using advanced machine learning and other A.I.
technologies to examine vast amounts of information in near real time, Dana Gardner , a leading cloud expert and a principal analyst at Interarbor Solutions, said on Tuesday.
Google Docs is a cloud-based collaborative tool that enables users to create documents and share them with others, and allows several people to edit and comment on a document at the same time.
Depending on whether those affected had created the document or whether it was shared with them, they were stopped from gaining access to the file or from sharing it.
Some received an alert: This item has been flagged as inappropriate and can no longer be shared.
Others saw: You cannot access this item because it is in violation of our terms of service.
Some of these people sought answers, and notified others, on Twitter.
Obviously this is raising questions in a lot of peoples minds about the level of surveillance in internet tools, like cloud-based tools, Rachael Bale , whose tweets gained traction, said on Tuesday.
Ms. Bale, a reporter for National Geographics Wildlife Watch, said that while what happened was problematic, she was not too taken aback.
We know Google has access to all kinds of information about us, she said, adding that professionally, she avoids using Google Docs for anything sensitive.
A Google spokesman said in a statement that a code push caused a small percentage of Google Docs to be incorrectly flagged as abusive, which caused them to be automatically blocked.
A fix is in place and all users should have full access to their docs, the statement said.
Protecting users from viruses, malware and other abusive content is central to user safety.
We apologize for the disruption and will put processes in place to prevent this from happening again.
Mr. Gardner said the complexity of the technology and its widespread use carried considerable risks.
A small tweak to the rules on what to flag or not can produce false positives like we saw today, he said.
Its clear that Google wants to be able to exert conditions on what content can be shared, he added.
It needs to automate that via machines due to scale.
And it shows that mistakes in what to reject can be made, with highly impactful consequences.
Googles automated systems periodically scan certain file types in Google Drive that are shared with other users to detect abuse and protect users, a Google spokesman said on Tuesday.
Some examples include antivirus scanning, malware and phishing detection.
Google Docs is part of the Google Drive suite.
Leighton Pritchard, a computational biologist who also tweeted about the error he experienced, said that even though what happened on Tuesday was a glitch, it did shed light on how many users do not take the time to read terms of service agreements.
The default state is we ignore them, he said.
We click yes because we want to use the thing thats useful to us.
Lots of things can slip by us that way.
I asked them directly if this was a result of an automated sweep for content, Mr. Pritchard said of Google.
They said they couldnt say at the moment and would update us on the Google Groups page.
One user on the Google Groups page , a help forum for those affected, said: I hope Google realises the seriousness of this issue.
If they want this thing to function as a professional tool that people can trust, and not a toy, this has to stop right now.
Someone else posted a message from the Google Docs support team that read: It appears our automated scan flagged your Google Form as potentially suspicious due to the types of information it requests from others.
Generally, using a Google Form to collect confidential information such as IDs, passwords, bank account numbers, and passport numbers violates our Terms of Service.
The user said the message made no sense.
We did none of these things.
While Googles privacy policy does not explicitly say that it scans files in Google Docs, it does say that it collects information from Gmail messages, G+ profile, photos, videos, browsing history, map searches, docs, or other Google-hosted content.
Our automated systems analyze this information as it is sent and received and when it is stored, the policy states.
Mr. Gardner emphasized the importance of being mindful that your cloud activities are most likely being assessed, and that the process is far from perfected.
We should all be keenly aware that any and all content we create, handle or amend inside of these cloud services is being evaluated and scrubbed, and its not being done by people, its by machines, he said.
And neither the machines nor their programmers are infallible.
Whats more, this is still an immature set of technologies, so teething pain is to be expected.
Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Photo WASHINGTON Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, stripped a half-dozen scientists and academics of advisory positions Tuesday and issued new rules barring anyone who receives E.P.A.
grant money from serving on panels that counsel the agency on scientific decisions.
The move will effectively bar a large number of academic researchers, many of them experts in fields ranging from toxicology to epidemiology, from advising the E.P.A.
on scientific matters, since the agency is one of the largest funders of environmental research.
Mr. Pruitt was expected to appoint several industry representatives to the panels.
He did not impose any new restrictions to prevent them from offering advice on environmental regulations that may affect their businesses.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
In an announcement at agency headquarters surrounded by conservative activists and Republican lawmakers who have long called for an overhaul of the advisory boards, Mr. Pruitt said he made the decision to ensure the agency would receive data and advice free from conflicts of interest or any appearance of a conflict.
He said that people currently serving on E.P.A.
advisory boards had received $77 million in grant money over the past three years as they were issuing advice on policy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Our focus should be sound science, not political science, Mr. Pruitt said.
We want to ensure independence.
Photo WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Justice announced Tuesday that Exxon Mobil will pay $2.5 million in fines for flaring gases at eight plants along the Gulf Coast.
Agency officials said the announcement was evidence of the Trump administrations commitment to enforcing the nations environmental laws.
Exxon will spend about $300 million as part of the settlement to install gas recovery and other new monitoring and pollution control technologies at the petrochemical plants in Louisiana and Texas, according to agency officials.
The agencies also settled a second case involving air pollution violations with PDC Energy, a Colorado oil and gas company whose storage tanks were found to be leaking smog-forming compounds.
The company also was fined $2.5 million, which will be shared by Colorado and the federal government.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
We will be enforcing environmental laws in this administration and thats not just my message, its the message straight from the top, said Patrick Traylor, the E.P.A.
deputy assistant administrator for enforcement.
The agency, Mr. Traylor said, is emphasizing the rule of law in this administration, specifically at E.P.A.
Photo George Papadopoulos is having a rough couple of days.
There were reporters calling his parents seeking comment and constant ribbing from his co-workers.
His fiance has even taken to Twitter to clear his name.
Its the John Smith of the Greek names, said the 30-year-old George Papadopoulos, who works at a real estate development firm in New York.
There are a lot of us out there.
The United States is home to scores of George Papadopouloses who are not that 30-year-old George Papadopoulos, the one suddenly thrust into the harsh glare of the nations news spotlight on Monday, the one who has pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I.
and who is now cooperating with the special counsel Robert S. Mueller IIIs investigation into Russian meddling during last years presidential campaign.
Another George Papadopoulos, this one a project manager at Hill West Architects in New York, said his colleagues had been teasing him since the guilty plea was announced.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theyre saying, Youve been arrested, youve been indicted, I didnt know I worked with a criminal, he said.
They even made a sign with his picture, quoting a passage from a HuffPost article that described the other George Papadopoulos as little-known and little-qualified.
Photo Aetnas third-quarter results show its value to CVS Health.
Revenue at the $56 billion health-coverage firm fell 5 percent in the three months to the end of September, partly because it pulled out of health insurance exchanges.
But profit jumped 48 percent as the company kept costs under control.
That offers alluring protection for CVS, whose pharmacy and drug-benefit business is threatened by rising competition and transparency.
Amazon is at the forefront of this challenge.
The internet company is ramping up an effort to sell pills and other goods to patients and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, regards short-term profit as an afterthought.
CVSs other business is to act as the middleman negotiating cheaper drug prices and keeping part of the savings.
Decent returns here depend on keeping the market opaque.
Clients, however, are wondering if the system benefits them; reducing the murkiness of price setting, whether by political process or Amazon-inspired competition, could leave less for CVS.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Now consider Aetna.
The firms management wouldnt talk about CVSs bid on the earnings call with investors.
But it covers more than 22 million people with its medical plans and is becoming better at figuring out how to squeeze more profit out of them by reducing spending.
At Next Century, the boutique-minded new shop inside Century 21, Isaac Gindi, a second-generation garmento, and his new hire, Chrissie Miller (native New Yorkers both), were putting the finishing touches on a whole new vision for a metropolitan institution.
Everything that the millennial really likes to dress in, we have it here!
said Mr. Gindi, an owner of Century 21 Stores, the department store whose flame has burned, undimmed, to generations of discount-loving moths.
That Gucci thing with a pair of Levis thats the way they dress today.
Its mix and match.
Thats what we have.
Who has that?
Im asking you!
Photo Thats what they have, and have had for some 56 years, since Mr. Gindis father and uncle, Sonny and Al Gindi, founded the store in 1961.
Not Gucci and Levis per se, though maybe on a lucky day, but a rack-bursting mix of anything and everything, provided it is offered at a deep discount.
Century 21 offers off-price designer clothes, shoes, accessories and home goods, which is to say, slightly out of season or overstock, in an atmosphere where service may range between warm and war-torn.
For those willing to dig for their bargains (and defend them once in hand), it is practically a holy site.
Photo But at Next Century, which opens on Thursday, the rougher edges of Century 21 have been sanded away, the better to lure a new generation.
Mr. Gindi and Ms. Miller, the former designer of Sophomore, have buffed the space and its offerings to an Instagram-ready gleam.
(The neon-rimmed mirror is particularly good for selfies, Mr. Gindi said.)
New to the store are young or under-the-radar labels like Adam Selman, Olympia Le-Tan, Trademark and Maison Mayle, sourced by Ms. Miller.
Upstairs, Proenza Schouler hangs not far from a rack of Fenty Puma by Rihanna.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There are dcor and impulse-buy touches borrowed from the 2017 playbook: vases of leafy green fronds and jars of individually wrapped Korean face masks, the sort of thing that might confuse the bubbes and babushkas of yore, who once stripped down to their underpinnings in the big stores old communal dressing rooms, or even before.
Photo They used to undress on the selling floor!
Mr. Gindi said.
Ive broken up many fights between customers.
Select number of bedrooms Any Beds Studio 1 1 or more 2 2 or more 3 3 or more 4 4 or more 5 5 or more Select number of bedrooms Any Baths 1 1 or more 2 2 or more 3 3 or more 4 4 or more 5 5 or more
Photo Its no surprise that fashion boutiques hire publicists, but how many publicists open their own boutique?
Thats the back story to 180 the Store in TriBeCa, which was opened by Denise Williamson in the same building, 180 Duane Street, where she runs her fashion P.R.
agency, Williamson PR.
The idea is to showcase her clients (mostly Japanese labels including Visvim and Nanamica), as well as other brands that she adores.
The 2,500-square-foot space is constantly in flux, and is used regularly for events and pop-up installations.
What is this space?
Is it a store or showroom?
I think retail stays stagnant in a lot of ways.
The reason we opened the space is to be able to host various brands and to launch them not only to the press but to the consumer.
I partnered with Debi Greenberg, who is the owner of Louis Boston, whos known for launching brands to the United States such as Dries Van Noten and Marni.
I work with stores and designers all the time, all over the world, whose budgets limit their ability to display their collections.
This gives them the opportunity to do it the way theyd like to.
Do you carry brands that you dont represent?
Yes.
Engineered Garments.
Apotheke, a skin care line from Red Hook.
I love their Japanese charcoal face products.
We carry Curious Corners; she works with artisans in Japan.
We did a Shibori dyeing class right here on our front deck.
We also have Greenfingers; hes a landscaper with a shop on Rivington and several in Japan.
We now have a cafe with Laughing Man, doing pour-over coffees.
Theyre working with sustainable coffee growers in Ethiopia.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story The Open Thread Fashion Newsletter A look from across The New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper.
Sent weekly.
Why so much focus on Japan?
Its not on purpose.
Its the aesthetic and the quality and the care they put into it.
And the brands have a compelling story.
Chimala who Ive been working with for 10 years she works with very small denim factories in Japan.
She once sent me a photo of a man hand-destructing her jeans on his roof, which just gives it that uniqueness that everybody is looking for today.
Are other P.R.
companies opening concept stores?
I couldnt tell you.
For us it made sense.
People like service.
We focus on the one-on-one customer service you cant get online.
Its the human touch.
Lowering the cap on 401(k) contributions Lawmakers are still considering changes to the amount of pretax income that workers can set aside in their 401(k) retirement accounts.
Currently, workers under 50 can save up to $18,000 a year without having to pay taxes up front.
House Republicans are discussing changing the rules so workers are encouraged to put more money into retirement accounts that are taxed upfront, like Roth I.R.A.s, rather than on the back end.
This creates both practical and political problems.
Lowering the cap on 401(k) contributions would save only a sliver of the $1.5 trillion in lost revenue from the tax cuts that Republicans are pushing.
What is more, such plans are widely used by middle-class taxpayers that Republicans say they are trying to help.
Raising income taxes on the rich The tax framework released by the so-called big six Republican tax working group last month the six lead negotiators from the House, Senate and Trump administration called for three tax brackets with a top rate of 35 percent, down from 39.6 percent today.
The plan kept open the option of creating an additional tax bracket for top earners to ensure the tax code remained progressive.
No guidance was given on what that tax rate would be or what income level it would affect.
Lawmakers are still debating whether to create an additional bracket for millionaires and whether to keep it at the current top rate of 39.6 percent or slightly changing it.
Republican leaders in Congress have been hesitant to raise tax rates on anyone because the partys brand is largely built around the idea that the economy does best when people have more money to spend.
Yet they may have no choice: Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said this week that she would not support a plan that includes a tax cut for millionaires, creating pressure for Republicans to include a higher bracket in order to win passage.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Making some cuts temporary or gradual Republican lawmakers are selling their plan as a middle-class tax cut, and the bill is expected to create three income tax brackets 12 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent and call for doubling the standard deduction.
Yet lawmakers are considering making these changes temporary, so they would expire after 10 years.
The conventional wisdom is that a future Congress will vote to continue the cuts and not allow them to expire.
But thats a tricky assumption given their cost, which will only exacerbate a federal deficit already on an upward trajectory.
The Treasury Department said the deficit for the fiscal year 2017 grew by $80 billion, to $666 billion.
Federal debt, which has already topped $20 trillion, is expected to grow by an additional $10 trillion over the next decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Compounding the math problem is that the plan would probably make the corporate tax cuts permanent.
Lawmakers argue that a permanent cut, to 20 percent from todays 35 percent rate, is needed to trigger the economic growth they anticipate, and they say it will ultimately put more money into workers pockets.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Still, those corporate tax cuts are expected to cost $2 trillion over the next decade and, to help make the budget work, lawmakers are discussing phasing in the corporate tax cut over several years to get to the 20 percent rate.
The White House on Monday seemed to suggest that was a nonstarter.
Limiting the estate tax The original framework called for repealing the estate tax, which would reduce federal revenues by $239 billion over a decade.
Estates are taxed at a rate of 40 percent, but the first $5.49 million of an inheritance is exempt from taxation.
Couples can leave their heirs as much as $11 million, none of it taxed, meaning only a few thousand wealthy estates are subject to the tax each year.
President Trump has talked about the estate tax as a punishment for farmers and small businesses, but his Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin, has acknowledged that getting rid of it would disproportionately help rich people.
That has turned into a key talking point for Democrats, who are already working to kill the bill in the hopes that they can find a way to a bipartisan tax plan.
Republicans are now discussing raising the limit, instead of an outright repeal, so that more money can be left to families tax-free.
One proposal frequently raised among lobbyists is that Republicans could attempt to double the existing exemptions, instead of eliminating the tax altogether.
Photo The aircraft manufacturer Airbus said on Tuesday that it may have violated United States rules on arms exports, potentially expanding a corruption investigation that has already shaken the company in Europe.
Airbus, Boeings main rival in the passenger jet business, said that it had provided false information to the State Department about its compliance with rules on arms sales overseas.
Airbus provided few details except to say that the inaccuracies related to American regulations on fees and commissions paid to sales agents.
The disclosure raised the prospect that corruption investigations involving the company in Europe, to do with the use of middlemen to pay bribes, could spread to the United States, which typically imposes much higher fines and stiffer court judgments.
In an industry that relies heavily on ties with government, Airbus could also be at a disadvantage competing for contracts, or even be frozen out altogether.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Airbus, based in Toulouse, France, is under investigation by the British and French authorities for possible use of intermediaries to pay bribes related to the sale of commercial aircraft.
In addition, the German and Austrian authorities are investigating bribery allegations tied to the sale of Eurofighter jets to Austria in 2003.
Airbus also has a unit in Columbus, Miss., that makes helicopters for civilian and military buyers.
And heres a look at whats behind the tough questioning of the Silicon Valley titans, from John D. McKinnon and Brody Mullins, WSJ: Today, the rise of populist movements in both parties has forced a reckoning around the concentration of economic power in big businesses.
Populist conservatives are particularly hostile to big tech, given its size and pervasive influence, as well as its support for immigration rights and other causes that clash with their economic nationalism.
Could Barrack get a cold shoulder from the White House?
Photo Lets face it: Despite the impending tax plan rollout and the picking of a nominee for Federal Reserve chairman, Washington will still be largely talking about the criminal charges that Paul Manafort and Rick Gates face in Robert Muellers investigation.
Some of those conversations will concern Tom Barrack, one of President Trumps closest advisers, who has emerged as connected to the two men.
Could that see him pushed out of the White House inner circle?
Mr. Barrack had helped persuade Mr. Trump to hire Mr. Manafort (an acquaintance of both men) as campaign manager last summer, according to Ken Vogel of The NYT.
And Mr. Barrack had grown close to Mr. Gates.
From Robert Costa, Philip Rucker and Ashley Parker, WaPo: Some White House advisers are unhappy with Thomas J. Barrack Jr., Trumps longtime friend and chair of his inauguration, whom they hold responsible for keeping Gates in the Trump orbit long after Manafort resigned as campaign chairman in August 2016, according to people familiar with the situation.
Barrack has been Gatess patron of late, steering political work to him and, until Monday, employing him as director of the Washington office of his real estate investment company.
Mr. Barracks Colony NorthStar fired Mr. Gates as an adviser after Mondays indictments, according to Erik Schatzker of Bloomberg.
And Mr. Barrack who has been outspoken of late about the Trump administration and his relationship with the president was notably tight-lipped when Mr. Schatzker asked about his thoughts on Mondays developments: In the midst of such a major investigation, its inappropriate for me to have any comment until the process has finished its course.
Another finance angle: Both Cyrus Vance Jr., the Manhattan D.A., and Eric Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general, are investigating Mr. Manaforts ties to the Federal Savings Bank of Chicago, which lent him about $16 million, according to Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg of The NYT.
(The bank itself isnt under investigation.)
The unexpected tech angle: As it turns out, Mr. Manafort may have violated Airbnbs policies when he rented out his condo in downtown Manhattan, according to Cale Guthrie Weissman of Fast Company.
A slow walk to a 20% corporate tax rate?
Photo Were a day away from the House formally unveiling its version of the Republican tax overhaul and theres still disagreement about what should be in the package.
The latest question is whether the corporate tax rate should go down to 20 percent from 35 percent immediately or in stages.
House negotiators are considering a phased reduction, according to Jennifer Jacobs and Anna Edgerton of Bloomberg.
On the other side: White House officials like Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who said, The president laid out his principles and it doesnt include the phasing in, so were still committed to that moving forward.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Other challenges Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said that she opposed a decrease in the tax rate for those making more than $1 million a year and elimination the estate tax.
(Bloomberg) The Senates version of the tax plan is likely to maintain some lesser version of the estate tax but it may also at least partly repeal deductions for state and local taxes, according to unidentified people.
That could endanger support from senators in high-tax districts.
(Axios) Remember that Republicans cant lose more than two senators to pass the tax legislation without Democratic votes.
We guess we see the point: Washington reporters and observers were a little puzzled by Ms. Sanderss fable about 10 reporters who drank beer.
Well let Jim Tankersley of The NYT recap her story and note its central message: The point here is that the Trump administration is shifting away from the presidents own words.
Theyre not saying the rich shouldnt get any tax relief theyre saying the rich deserve to get one.
Jerome Powell appears to be Trumps man for the Fed.
Few will be surprised unless Mr. Trump changes his mind at the last minute.
Barring that, the announcement could come as soon as Thursday, after the Fed wraps up its policy meeting, according to Maggie Haberman and Binyamin Appelbaum of The NYT.
James Mackintosh of The WSJ notes how hard it is to make money from betting on a new chairmans policy leanings.
All we can surmise thus far: Mr. Powell is slightly more inclined toward deregulation, and he will continue Janet Yellens dovish approach to raising interest rates.
Worth reading Paul McCulley, the former chief economist at Pimco, says hes still a fan of Ms. Yellen as Fed chairwoman.
Yellen would be an inspired choice: She resolutely believes in the Feds dual mandate to pursue maximum employment in the context of low and stable inflation, he writes in The NYT.
Is SoftBank getting cold feet, or playing hardball again?
Photo If the Nikkei Asian Review is right, the on-again, off-again talks between Sprint and T-Mobile could be off again today.
The Japanese business publication reported that SoftBank, which controls Sprint, wants more control of the combined group than its currently expected to get.
Investors reacted how you might expect them to.
The question is whether SoftBank really intends to walk away.
Weve heard that the Japanese conglomerates board is unhappy with the prospect of losing control in a merger: At a board meeting last Friday, several directors questioned whether it was wise to take only about 40 percent of the combined wireless business a smaller amount than Deutsche Telekom because T-Mobile is currently bigger than Sprint.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Weve seen hardball negotiating tactics from SoftBank and Masayoshi Son before: The Japanese conglomerate expressed interest in buying the cable company Charter Communications earlier this year before resuming talks with T-Mobile.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Critics corner Brooke Sutherland of Gadfly writes, We like investors are scratching our heads as far as SoftBanks strategy here.
Jacky Wong of Heard on the Street writes, Without a merger, Sprint would need to raise spending on its own network, which would weigh on its indebted balance sheet.
And price competition would likely continue.
Lex writes that the potential merger was eminently sensible, good for shareholders and utterly boring by the standards of a leader who talks in rapt terms about the singularity.
Today in Lloyd Blankfein tweets Photo The Goldman Sachs chief is still making veiled allusions to Brexit, and what he might do about it.
(Remember his tweet from Frankfurt?)
Revolving door Credit Suisse named Steven Geller as its head of mergers and acquisitions for the Americas, according to an internal memo.
He was most recently head of technology M. & A., a position hell keep alongside his new role.
The Speed Read M.&A.
Mattel shares surged after bleak quarterly results renewed speculation that the company may be a takeover target.
(Bloomberg) Novartiss latest acquisition target, Advanced Accelerator Applications, should tick most investors financial boxes, Peter Thal Larsen writes.
(Breakingviews) Advertisement Continue reading the main story Aliens from Mars landing on Earth: How the AT&T merger is viewed within CNN and Time Warner.
(Vanity Fair) Two of the biggest residential construction companies in the United States are hoping that a merger will help them deal with challenges like natural disasters, a labor shortage and increased regulatory costs.
(NYT) White Tale Holdings, which helped to scuttle the proposed merger between Clariant and Huntsman, said it would seek three seats on Clariants board and press for the sale of its plastics and coatings business.
(WSJ) The Dutch chemicals company LyondellBasell Industries made a takeover approach to the Brazilian petrochemicals company Braskem, which valued it at more than $10 billion, according to people familiar with the matter.
(WSJ) Policy and Legal The Federal Bureau of Investigation is examining a decision by Puerto Ricos power authority to award a $300 million contract for the rebuilding of hurricane-damaged infrastructure to a tiny Montana energy firm, according to people familiar with the matter.
(WSJ) The founder of Canyon Bridge Capital Partners, a private equity firm with Chinese state backing, has been charged with insider trading related to the attempted acquisition of Lattice Semiconductor.
(Reuters) Private Capital (P.E.
and V.C.)
The Carlyle Group reported $192.3 million in after-tax economic net income for its third quarter, nearly tripling what it earned the same period a year ago.
(Carlyle) From state-backed venture capital funding to an overhaul of notoriously complicated labor laws, the French governments efforts to build the start-up sector are starting to work.
(Politico) Advertisement Continue reading the main story Money Managers Bill Ackman accused Automatic Data Processing of providing misleading and incorrect claims to Institutional Shareholder Services, according to a regulatory filing made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(Reuters) Business and Economy Apple, which is locked in a legal fight with Qualcomm, is designing devices that would not need the chip-makers components, according to people familiar with the matter.
(WSJ) Mark Zuckerberg joined Tim Cook and Stephen Schwarzman at a reception with President Xi Jinping, who has been establishing Chinas economic clout ahead of President Trumps visit.
(NYT) McKinsey has started the byzantine and secretive process of selecting its next leader with a gathering of more than 500 senior partners at the Grosvenor House Hotel in London just as it faces a backlash over its role in a political scandal in South Africa.
(FT) Netflix will end House of Cards after season six, in light of the sexual misconduct accusation against Kevin Spacey, but the streaming service is working on a spinoff , according to unidentified people.
(Variety)
Photo HONG KONG Samsung Electronics, the South Korean tech giant, announced a new slate of executives on Tuesday in an effort to bring stability to its top ranks.
The company, a global name in smartphones and microchips, has been suffering from a leadership vacuum.
The crown prince of its controlling family was sent to prison this year on bribery charges.
The familys patriarch has been in a coma since 2014.
Three weeks ago, a senior executive responsible for one of its most successful businesses abruptly resigned.
The troubles at Samsungs management have not diminished its status as an innovative and highly profitable powerhouse in the technology world.
That point was underscored on Tuesday, when the company reported a record-high profit for the second quarter in a row.
But the newly appointed executives, who have been drawn from Samsungs deep ranks of professional managers, could help ensure the company can run while the fate of the powerful family that built the Samsung empire remains under a cloud.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The three executives appointed on Tuesday to run Samsungs major business units are Kim Kinam, who will lead its lucrative components business; H.S.
Kim, its new consumer-electronics chief; and D. J. Koh, who will lead the mobile-device division.
The three men are expected to serve as co-chief executives once they are elevated to the companys board, a decision that requires shareholder approval.
But first it may be helpful to offer a framework for how articles like these come together.
At The New York Times, articles are rigorously reported then dissected by desk editors before publication.
And major investigative stories are scrutinized to an even greater degree.
For those stories, not only do the desks editors probe the work, but masthead editors the most senior journalists at The Times also weigh in, as do members of our legal team.
And especially careful consideration is given to the language used to describe potentially criminal allegations.
As always, were interested in hearing from you on this topic.
After youve read the article, please share your thoughts and questions in the comments section.
Just boys being boys?
Wow!
Havent we just gone through weeks, articles and campaigns trying to determine all the facets of why women hadnt previously stepped more forcefully forward to take down Harvey Weinstein?
So now we see the use of terms like non consensual sex instead of rape to soften the violent acts perpetrated against women as just boys being boys and doing nothing more than getting 20 minutes of action (see Stanford rape case last year).
I guess its no surprise in the Trump era to see no steps forward, two steps back.
D.A.Oh, in a comment on our recent story about the mothers of male college students accused of sexual assault Ian Trontz, the editor of the story, explains our approach to discussing such issues.
It is certainly understandable that some readers would want The Times to use the strongest wording possible.
Whenever we write on this topic, we find ourselves searching for the right term.
As a rule, we should be striving for wording that is descriptive and not euphemistic, while above all being accurate and fair.
There are several terms often used to describe the accusations in these cases, and at one point or another weve used each of them.
The strongest term is rape.
As a criminal matter, the definition varies by state, though in general (and at the risk here of being euphemistic) it involves physical sexual contact without consent.
Indeed, that type of contact is what some of the men in the story we published last week were accused of.
When were choosing our wording, we also consider connotations.
Rape has a strong association with the criminal justice system, and it is one of the most serious criminal acts.
We do, at times, use the term rape or campus rape, but since the cases we are writing about are often not being handled in criminal court, we prefer to be judicious in using a term that is so closely identified with a heinous crime, especially if the student has not been formally charged.
In this article, we used a couple of terms when describing the charges faced by the students.
One was sexual assault.
This, too, has a criminal connotation; in many states, the term is in the penal code.
Despite this, we believe that sexual assault is an appropriate term to use because it is a term often used by colleges when investigating complaints and meting out discipline.
(For example, heres Yales periodic report on its sexual misconduct investigations.)
Indeed, the university documents we examined for one of the men in the article said he was accused of sexual assault.
It is an accurate and fair way to describe the campus accusations.
To not use the term would be to deprive readers of the specificity the issue demands.
We also used the term nonconsensual sex.
There is no doubt that this is generic and clinical sounding.
But it also adds a layer of understanding to this complex issue.
The key question in campus investigations is whether consent was freely given by both parties.
Some colleges adhere to a yes means yes standard that requires an affirmative response by both people for each sexual act.
Other colleges are not that explicit but still require willing engagement in the act by both parties.
In many cases, alcohol is involved, and the question becomes whether either person was too incapacitated to be considered capable of giving consent.
In all these circumstances, the question comes down to whether consent was given.
The term nonconsensual sex helps the reader understand the issue a little better.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That said, we do not liberally sprinkle a term like nonconsensual sex throughout an article about serious, sometimes violent acts.
It adds context, but it should not be used so often as to become the default terminology for the act.
The term we use most often is sexual assault, the one that best defines the nature of the accusations.
The Power Relationship Our newsroom lawyer, David McCraw, further clarifies the use of the phrase nonconsensual sexual relationship.
In the case law, nonconsensual sexual relationship is often used in cases where the victim is intoxicated or drugged, and in cases where someone has sex with a policeman or prison guard and feels there is no choice but to submit because of the power relationship.
It would also include rape by force or threat.
Call it rape.
Thats what it is.
Dear NYT, please do not call it forced vaginal sex.
Call it rape.
Thats what it is.
Michelle Grua, in a comment on the Times story in which women, including the actresses Gwyneth Paltrow and Angelina Jolie, came forward to say Harvey Weinstein harassed them.
Rebecca Corbett, a senior enterprise editor on our Investigations team and one of the editors on the story, responds.
We were trying to be very precise in describing other allegations against Mr. Weinstein reported by The New Yorker, to give readers as much information as possible.
We were not trying to minimize the gravity of the allegations.
But in retrospect, it would have been better to use the term rape at least once, since it certainly applies to that particular set of allegations.
Language that doesnt imply more than our reporter has learned The Timess First Amendment fellow, Christina Koningisor, weighs in with more legal considerations.
The New York Times legal team and newsroom share a similar goal: ensuring accurate and fair reporting.
Truth is a defense to libel, so safeguarding the accuracy of our stories protects the newspaper against legal liability.
But we also understand that stories must be readable.
When discussing claims of sexual harassment or assault, readers (and other lawyers) may want us to use technical legal terms for example, aggravated sexual assault.
But a news story is not a legal treatise.
And the definition of a crime often varies from state to state.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The easiest way to report claims of sexual harassment or assault without incurring legal liability is to cite the language contained in legal documents, such as complaints or police reports.
The media may republish statements made in official public documents regardless of whether the statements ultimately prove false.
When we dont have legal records to rely on, we try to ensure that events are described as accurately as possible.
This often requires relying on information provided to us by those involved in the incident or those who have some knowledge of it.
Using an evocative phrase or term to describe certain behavior may make for more interesting reading, but it may also suggest more than we know.
When deciding how to describe these claims, we try to use language that reflects what our reporter has learned but does not imply more.
In this effort, reporters and lawyers are generally united both are working to produce a story that is at once truthful and clear.
Its hard to know where this all ends.
Will the winner be the company that develops a vehicle capable of driving along a preprogrammed route, in ideal weather conditions, in certain cities?
Or will it be the vehicle that can drive itself anywhere, rain or snow?
Is it enough to build a vehicle that drives itself most of the time, or is a truly driverless car one in which the passenger can safely take a nap?
Does it count if a company produces just a handful of expensive prototype vehicles, rather than something that can be mass-produced and sold by the tens of thousands?
Photo Waymo has set a narrow target.
It is aiming for Level 4 autonomy, an official classification for a vehicle that is capable of driving itself, with no human behind the wheel, in most environments and road conditions.
It believes that nothing short of Level 4 counts as autonomous, and that bypassing Level 3 (a lower classification, in which some human attention is still required) is necessary to keep people safe on the roads.
Humans, the company says, can easily lose concentration while driving with Level 3 autonomy, even though they often need to take over at a moments notice.
That is also a self-serving goal.
By most estimations, Waymo is closer than any other company to Level 4 autonomy.
Its test vehicles, which have been on the road for eight years, have completed more than 3.5 million autonomous miles, far more than any of its competitors.
It has driven another 2.5 billion miles in Carcraft, a simulated, virtual-reality environment that allows the company to run and rerun various situations millions of times a day, and incorporate the results into its real-world vehicles.
And its access to Googles top-tier engineering talent and cutting-edge technical infrastructure has made it a formidable competitor.
Waymos advantage was apparent on Monday, during my test ride in the companys self-driving minivan.
Unlike other driverless demos Ive encountered, there was no human keeping watch at the wheel.
To start the trip, a colleague in the back seat pressed a large blue button marked start ride, and the van took off on its own.
In a 10-minute drive around Castle, it easily handled a series of different on-road situations and obstacles.
It encircled a roundabout, waited patiently for pedestrians to cross the street, and dodged traffic cones and bicyclists with ease.
It felt slick and polished, and gave the sense that it might be ready for public consumption very soon.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Granted, this was a carefully planned test loop in a controlled environment.
Autonomous driving on public roads is a much harder challenge, and Waymo is still figuring out how best to deploy its technology to a wider market.
The company declined to put a date on when it might release self-driving cars to the general public, and Mr. Krafcik spoke only in generalities about its plans, saying that it would focus on ride-hailing and autonomous trucking as possible early business models.
Were really close, he said.
But Waymos road to autonomy has not been entirely smooth.
It has lost some engineering talent to well-funded competitors.
Its executives have been distracted by a prominent lawsuit against Uber, in which Waymo accused Uber of stealing trade secrets worth more than $2 billion.
And in an early-access test program in Phoenix, its vehicles reportedly struggled to make left turns, one of many real-world obstacles that have to be overcome.
And the competition is heating up.
Lyft and Drive.ai, a self-driving car start-up, are teaming up to offer a pilot program for driverless ride-hailing in San Francisco.
Uber has been developing its own driverless fleet, and it is testing vehicles on public roads in Arizona, Pittsburgh and Toronto.
Detroit is getting up to speed, too General Motors, which spent $1 billion to acquire Cruise Automation last year, recently announced that it has a production-ready autonomous vehicle, once the software and regulatory kinks are worked out, and Ford, which has partnered with Argo AI, an artificial intelligence company based in Pittsburgh, plans to put Level 4 autonomous vehicles on the road by 2021.
Waymos victory against this army of well-funded competitors is not guaranteed.
But it wont be easy to beat, especially if it gets to define what winning means.
Since the early 2000s, banks, private equity firms and other financial institutions have poured billions into the restaurant industry as they sought out more tangible enterprises than the dot-com start-ups that were going belly-up.
There are now more than 620,000 eating and drinking places in the United States, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and the number of restaurants is growing at about twice the rate of the population.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That trend is evident on a more local level here in the sprawling suburbs southwest of Chicago, where the population is growing fast, but the number of restaurants is growing even faster.
Twenty years ago, Mr. Mooney would have been competing against about 600 eateries in the region; by the end of last year, that number had more than doubled.
Everybody thinks their brand has what it takes to succeed in the marketplace, said Victor Fernandez, an industry analyst with TDn2K, a Dallas-based firm that gathers data on the chain restaurant industry.
You look at a location that looks good, but everybody is looking at the same place and they all come in, and the result is you get oversaturation.
The glut of restaurants has increased the pressure on individual restaurant owners.
Industry sales are up nationally, but growth has slowed to the lowest rate since 2010.
Photo Customers continue to spend a large share of their food budget in restaurants, but theyre spreading the money across a larger number of establishments, so profits are split into smaller individual pieces.
Yet the industry particularly chain restaurants continues to expand, a strategy that both masks the problem and makes it likely that more places will falter.
Sales at individual chain restaurants, compared with a year earlier, began dropping in early 2016, analysts reported.
A majority of restaurants reported sales growth in just four of the last 22 monthly surveys from the National Restaurant Association.
Before that, most restaurants had reported growth for 20 consecutive months, from March 2014 through October 2015, the survey found.
As Americans work longer hours and confront an ever-growing array of food options, they are spending a growing share of their food budget about 44 cents per dollar on restaurants, according to food economists at the United States Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service.
But while consumer demand contributed to the restaurant boom, it was changes on Wall Street that really fueled the explosion.
Chains like Del Taco, Papa Murphys and others began attracting money from private equity firms, and banks like Wells Fargo and Bank of America saw lending opportunities in the restaurant industry.
Those developments complemented each other well.
New fast-food investors wanted to rely less on owning restaurants, and offloaded many company locations to eager buyers who came with bags of cheap money from the banks.
The investors could then count on a steady stream of franchise fees and royalty payments buffers against overall sales declines if, say, the market ever became oversaturated.
And they didnt have to worry about actually operating the restaurants.
The Russia-linked posts were an insidious attempt to drive people apart, Colin Stretch, the general counsel for Facebook who will appear at the hearings, said in his prepared remarks.
He called the posts deeply disturbing, and noted they focused on race, religion, gun rights, and gay and transgender issues.
Facebook, Mr.
Stretch said, was determined to prevent it from happening again.
The new information also illuminated when Facebook knew there had been Russian interference on its platform.
Several times before the election last Nov. 8, Facebook said its security team discovered threats targeted at employees of the major American political parties from a group called APT28, an agency that United States law enforcement officials have previously linked to Russian military intelligence operations.
Facebook cautioned that the Russia-linked posts represented a minuscule amount of content compared with the billions of posts that flow through users News Feeds everyday.
Between 2015 and 2017, people in the United States saw more than 11 trillion posts from Pages on Facebook.
Twitter, in its prepared remarks, said it had discovered more than 2,700 accounts on its service that were linked to the Internet Research Agency between September 2016 and November 2016.
Those accounts, which Twitter has suspended, posted roughly 131,000 tweets over that period.
Outside of the activity of the Internet Research Agency, Twitter identified more than 36,000 automated accounts that posted 1.4 million election-related tweets linked to Russia over that three-month period.
The tweets received approximately 288 million views, according to the companys remarks.
Twitter noted that the 1.4 million Russia-linked election tweets represented less than three-quarters of one percent of all election-related tweets during that period.
Google, in its prepared statement, said it had also found evidence that the Internet Research Agency bought ads on its services and created YouTube channels to upload short videos about divisive social issues including law enforcement, race relations or Syria.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Google said it had found 18 channels that were likely associated with the Russian agents that posted political videos to YouTube.
All told, those accounts now suspended uploaded more than 1,100 videos totaling 43 hours of content from 2015 through the summer of 2017.
Google said, in general, those videos had very low view counts that added up to 309,000 views between the middle of 2015 and late 2016.
Only three percent of the videos had more than 5,000 views and there was no evidence that the accounts had targeted American viewers, the company said.
Photo The internet search giant also confirmed earlier reports that the Internet Research Agency had purchased search and display ads from it.
Google said the group had bought $4,700 in ads but none of them had targeted users by their political leanings, which was a targeting tool that Google added before the election.
Google had been investigating a separate $53,000 in ad purchases with political material from Russian internet or building addresses, but discovered that those were not related to the Kremlin.
While we found only limited activity on our services, we will continue to work to prevent all of it, because no amount of interference is acceptable, wrote Richard Salgado, Googles director of law enforcement and information security, and Kent Walker, Googles general counsel.
The two men were scheduled to testify at separate congressional committees on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
For Facebook, Google and Twitter, the discovery of Russian influence by way of their sites has been a rude awakening.
The companies had long positioned themselves as spreading information and connecting people for positive ends.
Now the companies must grapple with how Russian agents used their technologies exactly as they were meant to be used but for malevolent purposes.
That has led to thorny debates inside the companies.
For Facebook, the problem is less straightforward than finding Russia-linked pages and taking down content.
Executives worry about how stifling speech from non-American entities could set a precedent on the social network and how it could potentially be used against other groups in the future.
So Facebook has focused on the issue of authenticity or the fact that the Russian agencies did not identify themselves as such as a reason for taking down the accounts.
Many of these ads did not violate our content policies, Elliot Schrage, vice president of policy and communications at Facebook, said in a company blog post earlier this month.
That means that for most of them, if they had been run by authentic individuals, anywhere, they could have remained on the platform.
Earlier this month, Senators Amy Klobuchar and Mark Warner introduced a bipartisan bill to require internet companies to identify those who paid for political ads on the tech companies platforms.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Facebook has been promoting its strengthened advertising disclosure policies as an attempt to pre-empt the bipartisan bill.
Last week, Facebook began rolling out new features that provide insight into who is paying for ads, and it will maintain a publicly viewable database of ads purchased on the network.
The company is also stepping up its counterintelligence and security measures.
Facebook has said it is working with Twitter, Google and other companies to spot sophisticated threats earlier, and will continue to coordinate with law enforcement when appropriate.
The company said it shuttered 5.8 million fake accounts in October 2016, and removed 30,000 accounts attempting to influence the French elections this year.
Google also said it plans to increase its transparency for political ads.
The company is working to issue an annual report about who is buying political ads and how much they are spending.
The company also said it planned to create a publicly accessible database into what election ads ran on Googles AdWords for example, web search ads and YouTube.
Google said it will identify the advertisers paying for political ads within a link accessible from the ad.
But Google said it did not intend to take any further action against state-backed Russian news channel RT, which has built a massive online audience through YouTube.
The American intelligence community has described RT as the Kremlins principal international propaganda outlet, but Google said the organization had not violated any of its policies or misused the service.
Last week, by contrast, Twitter said it would ban RT and Sputnik, another Kremlin-backed news organization, from advertising on its service.
Photo Novartiss latest acquisition target, Advanced Accelerator Applications, is a spinoff from the organization in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, which smashes particles together at near-light speed.
The planned $3.9 billion purchase is less dramatic, but it should tick most investors financial boxes.
Advanced Accelerators main product, Lutathera, is a radiation therapy that targets and breaks down a kind of stomach tumor.
The deal meets the stated preference of Novartiss chief executive, Joseph Jimenez, for bolt-on transactions worth up to $5 billion all the more sensible because hes leaving in February and handing over to Vasant Narasimhan, global head of drug development.
As well as being modest in size next to Novartiss market value of over $200 billion, the deal looks defensively logical.
Lutatheras main rival is a Novartis drug, Sandostatin, which generated $1.6 billion in sales last year.
Recent tests suggest Lutathera may be superior, and owning both should help Novartis protect its older treatment and maybe even crank up prices.
Thats not to say Novartis is getting its target cheaply.
The price is a 47 percent premium to the market value before Novartiss interest was reported in September.
Still, sales are expected to grow quickly, with Lutathera already approved in Europe and under review after strong-looking tests in the United States.
Analysts at Jefferies expect Advanced Accelerators earnings before interest and tax to hit 381 million euros by 2021.
Net of tax, that would give Novartis a return on invested capital of around 8 percent, or around 10 percent using Novartiss own tax rate.
Thats a respectable expectation, and Advanced Accelerator may be able to grow more quickly under Novartis than on its own.
It wont be enough for everyone, however.
Some analysts have suggested Mr. Jimenez should undertake more radical surgery to enhance his oncology division and offset the loss of exclusivity on some critical drugs.
Ideas have included bigger mergers, for example with AstraZeneca or Bristol-Myers Squibb.
The pressure may be abating, now that the troubled eye-care unit, Alcon, is improving and Novartis has notched up other recent successes like the approval in August of a new treatment for leukemia.
Mondays purchase wont drive Novartis investors wild, but they dont need to run for the shelters, either.
The business is built on a simple, if implicit, premise: Young adults, with their do-everything smartphones and tablets, may not need another device to help them navigate their daily existence.
But they care deeply about any image enhancer that helps them pop on Instagram.
It seems to have worked.
Company research shows that 88 percent of its customers are under 34 years old, and 45 percent are under 24.
The belief that traditional watches are relics of the past is false, Mr. Kassan said.
Our consumers may not be not the most formal in their attire, but they are very intentional.
They think about what they wear, about what is on trend and up-to-date.
That may be ripped jeans and a T-shirt, but its not a baggy T-shirt with stains on it.
Photo A watch, he said, is their statement piece.
The partners, who met in Santa Barbara, Calif., after leaving college, each had tried his hand at e-commerce and crowdfunding ventures, with middling success.
While neither was what you would call a watch obsessive, both considered them important fashion accessories, but had a hard time finding a brand to fit their style sensibility and budget.
You had Nixon, which is very action-sports oriented skater, surfer, Mr. Kassan said.
You had Michael Kors, which was too blingy.
Many so-called entry-level brands were priced at $400 or $500, a stretch when youre barely able to make rent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They sought to create the kind of watch that they would want to buy.
In an era of H & M-style fast fashion, they sought to produce watches that were head-turning, but also inexpensive enough that you could buy four or five.
The strategy was to keep costs under $200 by selling directly to consumers online, eliminating the standard retail markup, and relying on social media for marketing.
As the company has grown, however, it has begun selling in stores, like Nordstrom, advertising on radio and television, and has also expanded into sunglasses.
The original Mvmt line, which was introduced on the Indiegogo crowdfunding platform, was tastefully designed.
Watch geeks will draw obvious parallels to minimalist Swiss classics like the Movado Museum Dial series and the IWC Portofino, which are far more expensive.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
The Mvmt watches delivered sleek, hyper-minimalist design for prices that were roughly in line with the average monthly cellphone bill, and had, as they say, great branding.
(Prices now range from $95 to $180).
Timekeeping, clearly, was not the point.
Mvmt watches largely did away traditional functional design elements, like numerals for hour markers, or luminescent hands.
To set itself apart in the sea of under-$200 fashion watches, Mvmt positioned itself as an Instagram-first watch company.
Its Instagram feed for its mens line, for example, which has more than 855,000 followers, is a cornucopia of F.O.M.O.-inducing shots of stylish young lovelies cavorting in exotic locales wearing cool watches.
And while the company experimented with celebrity endorsements, including Kylie Jenner and Klay Thompson, it seemed to find its footing with a social media star known largely to other millennials: Sam Kolder, a globe-trotting young videographer and thrill seeker with 585,000 Instagram followers and great abs.
Our whole thing is, Dress with intent, live with purpose, Mr. Kassan said.
He scales buildings and scuba dives with sharks.
But hes not going to five-star resorts.
Hes just doing something everyone can do.
And wearing a watch that everyone can wear.
Photo The day after Kevin Spacey apologized following an accusation that he made a sexual advance on a 14-year-old boy in the 1980s, Netflix announced that the next season of his show House of Cards would be its last.
Netflix and Media Rights Capital, the studio behind the show, said in a statement Monday they were deeply troubled by last nights news concerning Kevin Spacey.
Executives from both of our companies arrived in Baltimore this afternoon to meet with our cast and crew to ensure that they continue to feel safe and supported, the statement said.
As previously scheduled, Kevin Spacey is not working on set at this time.
A Netflix spokeswoman said the decision to make the sixth season the shows last had been made months ago.
Those episodes are scheduled to be released in 2018.
Photo Mr. Spacey has played the lead character in House of Cards since it debuted in 2013, starring alongside Robin Wright and also serving as an executive producer.
The political thriller was a breakthrough for Netflix, just as it was starting its efforts into producing original programming and offering subscribers an opportunity to watch an entire season of a new series in one fell swoop.
Mr. Spaceys over-the-top performance as Frank Underwood has earned him five Emmy Award nominations.
Photo MSNBC and NBC News dismissed the veteran political journalist Mark Halperin on Monday, joining several other organizations that have also severed ties with him after a group of women came forward last week to accuse him of sexual misconduct.
Mr. Halperins contract with MSNBC and NBC News has been terminated, a spokesman at MSNBC said in an email on Monday, three days after the Game Change author apologized for the aggressive and crude behavior he had exhibited while working at ABC News more than a decade ago.
A celebrity among political reporters, Mr. Halperin joined ABC News in 1988 after graduating from Harvard University, working his way up from an entry-level position as a desk assistant and rising through the ranks to become political director in 1997.
During that time he also garnered acclaim for his widely read politics newsletter, The Note.
CNN reported last Wednesday that five women said Mr. Halperin had sexually harassed them when he worked at ABC, and additional women came forward last week.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
MSNBC had earlier said it was suspending Mr. Halperin until the questions around his past conduct are fully understood.
He had been a senior political analyst and frequent contributor to both NBC News and MSNBC and appeared regularly on Morning Joe.
Photo By the end of the year, the Maccioni family is likely to be without a restaurant base of operations in New York.
They have just announced that Circo, formally known as Osteria del Circo, their West 55th Street restaurant, will close after dinner on Sunday.
It was known for its lively circus dcor by Adam Tihany and as a showcase for some of the recipes of Egidiana Maccioni, the wife of the patriarch, Sirio Maccioni.
Mauro Maccioni, one of the Maccioni sons, said the decision to close had to do with a dispute with the landlord that they could not resolve.
The Maccionis are looking to relocate the restaurant nearby and make it a more rustic, Tuscan place.
Circo is Italian for circus, a play on the name of their flagship.
Le Cirque, which is circus in French.
The Maccionis also plan to close Le Cirque at the end of the year and expect to relocate it, too.
In previous years, each of the times they moved Le Cirque, first from its original location on East 65th Street to the New York Palace Hotel and then to its current address in the Bloomberg Tower, they had Circo as a fallback for regular customers while Le Cirque was closed.
Circo, which opened in 1996, has been a popular destination, especially for theatergoers.
The closing of both restaurants will leave the Maccionis cirque-less only in New York; there are branches in Las Vegas, India and the Middle East.
Circo, 120 West 55th Street, 212-265-3636, circonyc.com.
Allowing fishing in the few protected seamounts left would be a huge mistake, said Dr. Roark.
Its a sentiment widely shared among marine ecologists.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Trump administration is considering rolling back federal protections for 10 national monuments, including two in the central Pacific.
The Pacific Remote Islands National Marine Monument and the Rose Atoll National Marine Monument protect the waters around a handful of islands, most uninhabited, to the south of the Hawaiian Islands.
The shore reefs of the islands have long been protected from commercial fishing; the monument designations extended that protection to 50 miles from shore in some cases and 200 miles in others.
According to a memo obtained by The Washington Post in September, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has recommended that the designations of the Pacific Remote Islands and the Rose Atoll be amended to allow commercial fishing.
(A similar recommendation was made for another marine monument, the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts, off the coast of New England.)
The memo did not mention the largest marine reserve: Papahnaumokukea, a string of mostly uninhabited atolls and reefs that have been largely undisturbed since World War II.
At about 583,000 square miles, it is the largest protected area on the planet.
(Industry officials in Hawaii are pressing for commercial fishing to be allowed there, too.)
Papahanaumokuakea M.N.M.
JAPAN HAWAII Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument (M.N.M.)
Marianas Trench M.N.M.
AMERICAN SAMOA Rose Atoll M.N.M.
FIJI AUSTRALIA Many scientists see these marine reserves as among the last rich, untouched ecosystems where they can study the effects of climate change in isolation from the impacts of overfishing or pollution.
The fishing industry here in Hawaii sees it differently.
A driving force behind the administrations reconsideration is an obscure but powerful quasi-governmental organization called the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council, or Wespac, based in Honolulu.
The council has jurisdiction over the waters where 140 long-line vessels based in Hawaii as well as a handful in American Samoa fish mostly for tuna and billfish.
Wespac has argued that limits on catch, gear and fishing seasons are the best tools to regulate fishing and to ensure that the Pacific yields the maximum sustainable harvests.
Over the years, the council has strongly opposed the creation and expansions of each of the marine monuments.
This year, the council has embraced a new slogan: Make America Great Again: Return U.S. fishermen to U.S. waters.
In a presentation to members of the other fisheries councils in February, Wespac officials claimed the marine monuments curtailed economic growth and compromised national food security.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ray Hilborn, a fisheries expert at the University of Washington and a scientific adviser to Wespac, argues that tuna and billfish are highly migratory and travel in and out of the reserves.
The monuments just force the fishermen to go farther and spend more fuel to catch the same fish, he said in an interview.
Its a fake protection.
Photo Asked whether Wespac sought to reintroduce fishing only in monument waters or also in near-shore reefs, Kitty Simonds, the longtime executive director, said in an email that the council also would review the management measures that were in place before the monument designation and may recommend changes.
The fishing industry in Hawaii is hardly in trouble, several experts noted.
Indeed, the Hawaii fleets bigeye tuna catch has doubled since 2006, even though half of Americas Pacific waters are now off-limits to fishing.
Robert Richmond, a marine ecologist at the University of Hawaii, pointed out that the Hawaii fleet filled its yearly quota of bigeye in August this year, so they obviously dont need more space to fish.
Theyre just against all protected areas on principle.
Over 500 million people depend on reefs for protein, Dr. Richmond said, and they already yield far less than they could if they were sustainably fished.
Reef ecosystems may become even less productive as the ocean gets warmer and more acidic.
Dr. Richmond and other scientists also took issue with Dr. Hilborns criticism of marine monuments.
They say the reserves serve as havens for species depleted elsewhere and for populations migrating away from the Equator, where warming waters are lowering plankton density.
The fisheries benefits of marine reserves are now beyond doubt, Callum Roberts, a marine conservation biologist at the University of York, said in an email.
They allow fish populations to grow back and spill fish into surrounding waters, they pour fountains of offspring into ocean currents that seed fisheries, and they provide resilience to environmental shocks.
The tools favored by fisheries officials target a few species to the neglect of others, he added, while reserve benefits reach entire ecosystems.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story One of the islands on Mr. Zinkes list is Palmyra, an atoll that lies 1,000 miles south of Hawaii and is part of the Pacific Remote Islands National Marine Monument.
The Nature Conservancy has been running a marine lab there since 2005, the only site with housing and a runway for small aircraft located in one of the most untouched tropical marine ecosystems in the world.
In looking past Ms. Yellen, Mr. Trump would be breaking with longstanding precedent.
Every Fed chairman in modern history who completed a first four-year term was nominated for a second.
The last three Fed chairmen were nominated for new terms by a president of the opposite party.
And Mr. Trump has praised Ms. Yellens performance: During her four years, unemployment has fallen sharply, inflation has remained low and the economy is growing.
You like to make your own mark, Mr. Trump said last week, by way of explanation.
In choosing Mr. Powell, however, Mr. Trump would be resisting pressure by conservatives to make a larger mark on the Feds management of the economy.
Many conservatives, including Vice President Mike Pence, favored the selection of John B. Taylor, a Stanford economist who has been an outspoken critic of the Feds monetary policy.
Mr. Powell, by contrast, has voted for every Fed policy decision since 2012, although he expressed some reservations in internal debates about the extent of those efforts.
In recent years, he has backed the methodical unwinding of the Feds stimulus campaign, which involved purchasing $4 trillion worth of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities to help the economy recover from the 2008 financial crisis.
Fed officials are often labeled hawks if they favor higher interest rates to control inflation, or doves if they want to keep rates low to promote job growth.
Richard Fisher, a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who worked with Mr. Powell at the Fed, said Mr. Powell is neither a hawk nor a dove.
I used to say that we all want to be wise owls, he added, and I think that he fits that category very well.
Mr. Fisher said Mr. Powell was moderate to a fault.
Ive tried to get him to drink more than two glasses of wine at dinner, and he will not do it, he said.
A survey of 144 investors conducted by Evercore ISI found that they expected that Mr. Powell would push rates modestly higher than Ms. Yellen over time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Powell also has sought a middle ground on the contentious debate over financial regulation.
Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans argue that excessive regulation is restraining economic growth.
At a Senate hearing in June, Mr. Powell agreed that there was room to improve regulation, but he described the Trump administrations proposals as a mixed bag, adding that he opposed some of the specific proposals.
Describing an effort already underway at the Fed, he said, The whole idea is to preserve the significant core reforms that were made but to go back and clean up our work.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Powell would require Senate confirmation, and his views, particularly on regulation, could draw opposition from some conservatives in the Senate, 21 of whom voted against his confirmation as a Fed governor in 2014.
Two Republicans on the Senate banking committee, which will consider the nomination, had previously raised concerns about Mr. Powell: Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina and Senator Patrick J. Toomey of Pennsylvania.
If nominated and confirmed, Mr. Powell would be the first Fed chair in four decades without an economics degree.
He brings a background in financial markets, a contrast with Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke.
People who have worked with Mr. Powell say he studied economics assiduously after joining the Fed, gathering stacks of papers on the questions of the day, then reading and discussing the findings with colleagues.
I think its far more important to understand and appreciate high-quality economic analysis than it is to have a Ph.D., said Kim Schoenholtz, a professor of economics at New York University.
He noted that most Treasury secretaries had not held degrees in economics.
What distinguishes the most effective secretaries is skill at bringing in talented personnel and appreciation for the value of informed economic analyses, he said.
Jon Faust, a professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University who worked with Mr. Powell at the Fed, said Mr. Powell had endeavored to understand monetary policy and had demonstrated a strong grasp of the subject.
But Mr. Faust said it might be particularly important to have a trained economist as chairman if there was another recession.
If the economy broadly behaves, I dont think itll be of great consequence, Mr. Faust said.
If we were to face another period where you need innovative and creative leadership, Jay has a lot of skills, and it could still go O.K., but youd like to add to those skills a lifetime of studying monetary policy.
Mr. Powell, 64, is a Washington native who has spent most of his life in a mix of public and private roles.
He studied politics at Princeton University, then earned a law degree from Georgetown University before embarking on a career in investment banking in New York.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In 1990, he returned to Washington to work for his former boss, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, as under secretary for finance.
When Salomon Brothers was caught manipulating the market in Treasuries, Mr. Powell, vacationing on Cape Cod, spent a long August weekend on the phone arranging for top managers to resign and for Warren E. Buffett to be chairman of the companys board.
Under pressure to account for the shortcomings in regulation, Mr. Powell told a congressional committee in 1991, There is no question that it can be improved, and improve it we will.
Mr. Powell joined the private equity firm Carlyle Group in 1997 and earned a fortune.
His most recent financial disclosure showed a net worth of as much as $55 million.
In 2005, he left the firm to focus on fiscal policy as a scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center.
He attracted the attention of the Obama administration in 2011 for his work behind the scenes to persuade congressional Republicans to raise the debt ceiling.
The next year, President Barack Obama nominated Mr. Powell to the Fed alongside a Democrat, the Harvard economist Jeremy Stein, in a package deal that was meant to attract bipartisan support.
Mr. Stein returned to his life as a Harvard professor after two years; Mr. Powell decided he liked working at the Fed, and so he stayed.
Photo SHANGHAI Just days after being likened to a king by President Trump, President Xi Jinping of China on Monday reiterated his commitment to reform while holding court before a group of wealthy and influential business leaders from his country and the United States.
Mr. Xi, speaking at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing during an event shown on national television, addressed topics such as globalization, innovation and Chinas relationship with the United States at a gathering of executives who included Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple; Stephen Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group; and Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive.
The reception was one of Mr. Xis first public appearances with foreign visitors since a key Chinese Communist Party congress elevated him to the same exalted status as Mao Zedong, the countrys founding father, and Deng Xiaoping, who led the country from 1978 until 1989.
The event just a week before Mr. Trump is scheduled to make his first visit to China was most likely arranged to signal Chinas status as an economic superpower and peer of the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Chinese diplomats have used past business summits to promote their countrys economic clout and influence with American companies before testier meetings with United States leaders and diplomats.
On a 2015 trip to the United States, for example, Mr. Xi stopped in Seattle to visit American technology executives before going to Washington to meet with President Barack Obama.
Neither of the prosecutors has determined whether any state charges are warranted, and if they did, those cases would most likely advance only in the event of a presidential pardon.
Asked about the possibility of a pardon for Mr. Manafort from Mr. Trump, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said: I havent had any conversations with him about that.
I think we should let the process play through before we start looking at those steps.
The New York investigations focus in part on Mr. Manaforts relationship with the Federal Savings Bank of Chicago, a small lender that provided him some big loans.
The bank, which received a subpoena but is not itself under investigation, is led by Stephen M. Calk, a onetime economic adviser to Mr. Trump.
Mr. Vances office is questioning whether Mr. Manafort misled the bank when applying for the loans, the people briefed on the investigation said, a previously unreported development that hews closely to the federal indictment announced on Monday.
In examining the loan documents, Mr. Vances office is seeking to determine whether Mr. Manafort used the loan money for an unauthorized purpose, which could amount to filing a false business record, a crime in New York State.
The New York prosecutors are also seeking to trace cash that Mr. Manafort moved in and out of American bank accounts, partly to verify whether he paid state taxes on income earned overseas, the people said.
Investigators working for the New York prosecutors have obtained documents suggesting that at least some of the money came from a bank in Cyprus, the Mediterranean nation considered a tax haven and a magnet for Russian money.
This is another area of inquiry that overlaps with Mr. Muellers case, a 12-count indictment that accused Mr. Manafort and a business partner of conspiracy to launder money from accounts in Cyprus and elsewhere.
The overlap will most likely mean that Mr. Muellers case will take priority over Mr. Vances and Mr. Schneidermans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And while Mr. Vances office is continuing to investigate Mr. Manafort, Mr. Schneiderman has deferred his inquiry into the former Trump campaign chairman, at least temporarily, so as to not interfere with the federal case, according to one of the people briefed on the matter.
Mr. Schneiderman would most likely resume his investigation if Mr. Manafort received a presidential pardon, the person said.
This year, The Wall Street Journal and Reuters reported the existence of Mr. Vances investigation and his subpoena of the Chicago bank, while The New York Times and others have reported Mr. Manaforts extensive financial ties to Cyprus and Mr. Calks relationship with the Trump campaign.
The status of Mr. Schneidermans investigation, and the focus of Mr. Vances, were not previously known.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Vance declined to comment, as did a spokesman for Mr. Schneiderman.
Mr. Schneiderman has clashed with Mr. Trump or his associates on a number of occasions.
He sued the Trump administration to preserve an Obama-era program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation, and he sued Trump University, contending that it used high-pressure sales tactics and false claims to woo students.
Mr. Trump settled the case after winning the election.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Trump has called Mr. Schneiderman a lightweight, but Mr. Schneiderman has denied that politics play any role in his investigations.
I think weve got an extraordinary record of having gone after many, many Democrats since Ive been in office, he said in an interview with MSNBC in September.
Prosecutors were not the first to call attention to Mr. Manaforts New York real estate dealings.
Those transactions came to light on a blog, 377union.com, written by two New York lawyers who used public mortgage documents to piece together Mr. Manaforts real estate transactions, some of which now appear in the federal charges against Mr. Manafort.
Over the last several years, the blog noted, limited liability companies linked to Mr. Manafort bought residential properties using cash, only to later take out big loans using the properties as part of the collateral.
Initially, the loans came from big banks, but by late 2016, Mr. Manafort turned to the Federal Savings Bank in Chicago.
In November, the Chicago bank provided a $9.5 million loan to Summerbreeze L.L.C., a shell company tied to Mr. Manafort, using a home in the Hamptons as collateral, The Times previously reported.
Two months later, the bank provided another two mortgages, totaling about $6.5 million, for a brownstone that Mr. Manafort owns in the Carroll Gardens neighborhood of Brooklyn.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story These were no small loans for Federal Savings, which typically focuses on affordable mortgages for military veterans.
Mr. Manaforts loans amounted to about 5.4 percent of the banks total assets, according to public reports.
Publicly filed documents classified the Brooklyn mortgages as a building loan and a project loan, the type of mortgages that owners generally can use to upgrade their properties.
Mr. Vances office is questioning whether Mr. Manafort actually used the money for repairs to the Brooklyn property, or if he misrepresented the purpose of the loans and instead spent it on repaying other debts, the people briefed on the investigation said.
The loans from the Chicago bank arrived when Mr. Manafort was digging out from foreclosure proceedings that another lender, Genesis Capital, filed on the Brooklyn property, court records show.
One of the loans from the Chicago bank was for $5.3 million, the same amount of money that Genesis pledged to lend before filing for foreclosure.
Mr. Manafort has also indicated that he was taking out loans at that time to salvage property investments he made in California with his son-in-law, Jeffrey Yohai, whose real estate business filed for bankruptcy.
In an affidavit filed in the bankruptcy case, Mr. Manafort said he had decided to assist with additional funding to protect my existing investments.
It is unclear whether Mr. Manafort used some of the loan money from the Chicago bank for that purpose.
Mr. Yohais investment activities are separately under investigation by Mr. Schneidermans office.
In questioning whether Mr. Manafort misled his lenders, the New York authorities are stepping into an area of focus for Mr. Mueller.
Mr. Manafort, the federal indictment said, bought multimillion-dollar properties in the United States, and then borrowed millions more against the homes, thereby obtaining cash in the United States without reporting and paying taxes on the income.
The indictment added that in order to increase the amount of money he could access in the United States, Mr. Manafort defrauded the institutions that loaned money.
The indictment did not specify the lenders; however, it refers to a loan on the Brooklyn property that matches the time in early 2016 and dollar amount of the loan that Genesis Capital provided Mr. Manafort.
The indictment notes that after promising the bank that part of the money would be used solely for construction, Mr. Manafort instead diverted some of it to making a down payment on another property in California.
Like Mr. Mueller, Mr. Vance and Mr. Schneiderman also examined the flow of money in and out of Mr. Manaforts bank accounts in the United States and so far, they have traced some of that cash to accounts in Cyprus, the people briefed on the investigations said.
It is unclear whether he paid New York State taxes on that income.
Mr. Muellers charges outline a similar scheme involving Cyprus accounts, alleging that all of the money that Mr. Manafort used to originally buy the Brooklyn property came from an entity in Cyprus.
Mr. Manafort, the indictment also said, funneled millions of dollars in payments that he had earned from Ukranian clients into companies and bank accounts based in foreign countries such as Cyprus.
Mr. Manafort then used his hidden overseas wealth to enjoy a lavish lifestyle in the United States, without paying taxes on that income.
Photo One Direction now shares something big with the Beatles: Both groups are the only ones to have had three members reach No.
1 on the Billboard chart with solo albums.
That is thanks to Niall Horan, whose new album, Flicker (Capitol), opened on top with the equivalent of 152,000 sales, including 128,000 copies sold as a full album and 26 million streams, according to Nielsen.
As with recent albums by Pink, the Killers, Shania Twain and Katy Perry, Mr. Horans sales were helped by a marketing bundle that included the CD of Flicker in the cost of a concert ticket.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
Mr. Horan follows his former band mates Zayn Malik (No.
1 in April 2016) and Harry Styles (No.
1 this May) to the top of the chart.
Among the Beatles, John Lennon, Paul McCartney and George Harrison all went to No.
1 with solo albums, while Ringo Starr remains stalled at No.
2.
(Liam Payne, the heat is now on you.)
Also this week, Future and Young Thugs mixtape Super Slimey (Epic/300) opened at No.
2 with 87 million streams the vast majority of its 75,000 sales equivalents and the country singer Chris Young started at No.
5 with Losing Sleep (RCA Nashville).
Pinks Beautiful Trauma, which opened at No.
1 last week, lost 84 percent of its sales in Week 2, but fell only two spots to No.
3, avoiding the second-week plunges suffered recently by the Killers and the rapper NF.
The rapper Post Malone holds at No.
4 with Stoney in that albums 46th week on the chart.
He initially told reporters that he had returned Ms. Wall to shore the night before.
After her torso was found on Aug. 23, however, Mr. Madsen said that she had died aboard his submarine in the hatch accident and that he had buried her at sea.
Photo A forensics report showed that her limbs had been removed by force and that she had been stabbed many times.
Her head and missing clothes were found on Oct. 6, but the head showed no sign of trauma like those Mr. Madsen had reported.
Investigator Jensen told reporters on Monday that the forensic evidence did not initially support Mr. Madsens claim of carbon monoxide poisoning, but that the police had now asked experts for an additional evaluation.
The police were still searching for Ms.
Walls arms and the cellphones of Ms. Wall and Mr. Madsen, both believed to have been thrown overboard.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The trial of Mr. Madsen is expected to begin in March.
He has also been preliminarily charged with abuse of a corpse and sexual relations under aggravating circumstances.
During a court hearing in September, the prosecutor Jakob Buch-Jepsen said the police had found a hard drive belonging to Mr. Madsen with videos showing the torture and killing of women.
The videos did not appear to have been made by the inventor, Mr. Buch-Jepsen said.
The videos indicate that one may have an interest in fetish, torture and murder, he said in court.
These are some very grave videos with women recorded abroad.
Ms. Wall, 30, was a freelance journalist from Trelleborg, a port town in southern Sweden.
She studied at the London School of Economics and at Columbia University in New York, and her articles had appeared in several publications, including The New York Times.
After her death, friends and family started raising money to establish a grant in her name for a young female reporter to cover subculture, broadly defined, and what Kim liked to call the undercurrents of rebellion.
Charlie Braun can't find enough workers for his factory in Ohio and he's not sure how to keep the ones he has.
His problem is a growing one for companies around the world: There just aren't enough skilled or available workers.
At the same time, most people aren't getting a big pay raise -- what you would expect to see when jobs are plentiful.
U.S. wage growth is a sluggish 2.6% this year, beating subdued inflation but still way below the Federal Reserve's target of 3.5%.
It hasn't hit that level in nearly nine years.
Braun knows the predicament all too well.
He raised wages to retain staff and recruit others, but that hasn't helped.
He doubts another pay raise will make a big difference, and in any case his firm is finding it harder to justify raising prices for their products.
"Everyone has just gotten used to no inflation," says Braun, president of Custom Rubber Corp. With those expectations, "it's more challenging for me to go to my customers and say 'hey I've got rising health care costs and I've got to give my workers a raise.'
That's a more difficult sell."
Related: The biggest mystery in the U.S. economy It's a challenge in many developed countries.
Companies and economies are thriving, but workers are not getting their share of the pie despite job openings left and right.
Global problem The IMF said last month that unemployment rates are now back to where they were before the global financial crisis, but wage growth remains well below.
Federal Reserve leaders, who meet in Washington on Wednesday, call the lack of inflation a "mystery."
Usually, when jobs are plentiful, it's hard to find workers so employers offer higher wages to recruit or retain their staff.
When people start losing their jobs, workers become more anxious and are willing to work for less.
Paltry wage growth isn't just a problem in America.
Workers in Japan, the U.K., Germany, Australia and other countries are feeling the pain too.
Australia is in the middle of the longest period of low wage growth since its last recession in the early 1990s.
In Britain, real wages are falling despite record levels of employment.
Paychecks in Japan are rising at an anemic pace even though unemployment is under 3%.
Mexico is facing the same problem.
Some experts say the global economy is in a "sweet spot."
In one sense it is: From Brazil to China to Europe to the U.S., all major economies will grow this year.
But the gains are uneven and many workers aren't seeing them.
So what's the problem?
Experts say the reasons are many and varied.
Related: CNNMoney's Brexit jobs tracker Labor unions in decline Only 23% of British workers were members of a trade union last year, according to data from the OECD.
That's down from 40% in 1990.
In Germany, the proportion fell to 18% from 31% over the same period.
In the U.S., where union membership has traditionally been lower, it stands at just 10%.
That's bad news for almost everyone.
IMF research suggests that the decline in union membership has led to the top 10% of earners taking a bigger share of income -- to the detriment of middle and low-income workers.
Unions have used significant bargaining power at the negotiating table to fight for higher wages.
But with fewer workers organized in unions, a bigger slice of the pie goes to managers and shareholders, according to the IMF.
Turbulent past, uncertain future Memories of the financial crisis and worries about the future also make business owners reluctant to raise wages.
In the U.S., companies are waiting to see what will come out of President Trump's ambitious tax reform.
In the U.K., Brexit is causing huge anxiety.
The new terms of trade with Europe are far from certain.
French companies are waiting to see how President Emmanuel Macron's reforms will play out.
He wants to make it cheaper for employers to hire, and to relax France's strict wage bargaining rules.
In Mexico, the uncertain fate of NAFTA, the trade pact with Canada and the U.S., is hanging over the economy.
Related: Harvard study says employers are making it harder to hire The gig economy Then there's the underemployment problem.
The rise of informal employment and the so-called gig economy means many people find themselves working part time, even though they would prefer a full time job.
Age and the wrong skills often create barriers.
Take Germany as an example: Nearly 7 million Germans are working part time in precarious jobs that pay up to 450 ($540) a month.
Many have to rely on welfare payments to get by and economists say the practice is increasing inequality.
Over 5 million Americans are working part-time jobs but want full-time positions, according to Labor Department data.
That number has come down significantly since the Great Recession but it's still higher than before the crisis.
More for shareholders The pressure from investors may be forcing companies to focus on rewarding shareholders rather than employees.
Data from FactSet showed S&P 500 companies faced at least 40 activist campaigns calling for dividends and buybacks in 2016, following 73 campaigns in 2015.
The average dividend rose 14% in the third quarter compared to a year ago, and payouts totaled a record $15 billion, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
The IMF says that the pressure to put investors first means companies are investing less, including in their staff.
"[Consulting firms] go to you as the CEO of a company and say 'you're investing, you're spending too much money, we'll try and take the cost down,'" Martin Sorrell, CEO of advertising giant WPP (WPPGF) told CNBC this week.
Robots Some economists argue that the increasing use of robots and automation in many industries may also be holding down wages, but it's tough to measure.
Braun, the CEO of the rubber company, say his customers tell him that if he feels the need to raise wages, he ought to consider replacing his workers with robots.
"The general response is 'you need to be more efficient,' which might ultimately drive me to robots, but I'm not there yet," says Braun.
-- Jethro Mullen and Daniel Shane contributed reporting to this article
President Trump argues the American economy "desperately" needs "massive" tax cuts.
And there's no question that Wall Street is pumped about it.
Others are less confident that adding expensive medicine to a healthy economy is such a wise idea right now.
Morgan Stanley warned in a report this week that enacting aggressive tax cuts to businesses and individuals risks "overheating" the economy and causing stocks to "boom then bust."
The concern is that slashing the corporate tax rate to 35% from 20% could backfire by forcing the Federal Reserve to accelerate interest rate hikes.
That in turn would raise borrowing costs for consumers and businesses, potentially unnerving the stock market along the way.
"Adding stimulus to an already strong economy likely stirs the Fed...pulling forward the end of an aging cycle," Morgan Stanley strategists wrote.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady plans to unveil his 1,000-page tax reform bill this week.
Ironically, given all the excitement on Wall Street about tax cuts, Morgan Stanley argues that "failure of tax reform" would be the "best" outcome for extending the economic and market recovery from the Great Recession.
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
All of this contrasts greatly with the urgent push by Trump to enact aggressive measures for the economy.
"We desperately need tax cuts to put our people back to work," Trump told reporters on October 25 from the White House lawn.
To be sure, tax reform -- modernizing the sprawling and outdated system -- would be a smart thing to do for the long-term health of the economy.
But that's different, and less costly, than the "massive" tax cuts for businesses that Trump has promised.
Trump's push for stimulus comes despite signs of strength for the economy.
Unemployment fell in September to a 16-year low of 4.2%.
America has a record number of job openings.
Consumer confidence has soared.
And the U.S. is enjoying the best six months of growth in three years.
"There is little precedent for large-scale fiscal easing at current levels of unemployment," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.
"Maybe this won't be a problem, maybe it will."
Other economists agree that it's an unusual moment to provide meaningful help to the economy.
Normally, fiscal stimulus comes when economies are either in recession or struggling to avoid one.
Related: What to watch for in House GOP's tax reform bill But Jeff Morris, head of U.S. equities at Aberdeen Standard Investments, isn't buying the economic hype.
"The economy feels like it's stronger than it has been, but still not great," Morris said.
"We're a way off before we have to contend with the economy overheating."
Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen certainly doesn't sound like she thinks big tax cuts are needed right now.
In a September speech, Yellen said the job market is "generally healthy."
If anything, Yellen warned that the labor market "could eventually become overheated" if the Fed doesn't keep raising rates.
All of this suggests that stock market bulls should be careful what they wish for when it comes to tax cuts.
Now that Puerto Rico's governor has called for the cancellation of a controversial $300 million contract awarded to a small Montana-based utility, many questions remain for the millions of residents who continue to live on the island without electricity.
Governor Ricardo Rossello's request to terminate the contract with Whitefish Energy comes less than two weeks after the two-year-old firm announced it had landed the deal to help restore Puerto Rico's electrical grid.
On Sunday, Rossello called on Ricardo Ramos, the head of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority -- known as PREPA -- to void the deal immediately in the wake of escalating public outrage and a growing litany of government reviews.
"There can be no distraction that alters the commitment to repair the power grid as quickly as possible," Rossello said in a statement.
The Whitefish contract is the largest to be awarded since recovery efforts began over a month ago.
Several lawmakers on Capitol Hill are calling for reviews of how Whitefish, a small firm with only two employees at the time Hurricane Maria hit, was chosen over bigger, more established utilities by PREPA.
On Monday, it was reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had opened a preliminary review of the contract, according to a source familiar with the matter.
Related: How Whitefish landed Puerto Rico's $300 million power contract A number of concerns have also been raised, including whether there was any political influence that resulted in Whitefish winning the deal and if PREPA took the appropriate steps in awarding the deal.
PREPA's Ramos said the state-run utility would work toward canceling the contract and would appoint a trustee to oversee the hiring of any new contractors.
Whitefish has expressed disappointment over the latest step.
"The decision will only delay what the people of Puerto Rico want and deserve," the company said in a statement.
Still, about 70% of the island is living without power and now there is even more uncertainty about when all the lights will go back on.
Here are some of the questions that remain: 1.
Did PREPA do anything wrong by awarding the contract to Whitefish?
The jury is still out.
There are several ongoing reviews looking into how PREPA went about choosing the utility company over other potential candidates.
So far, no wrongdoing has been discovered.
Government agencies usually will make a public request for help on a particular job.
Often, they will receive multiple offers and the agency reviews and accepts the best, lowest cost bid.
Related: FBI opens inquiry into Whitefish's Puerto Rico contract But Puerto Rico's governor told CNN last week that PREPA triggered an "emergency protocol" to start rebuilding its electrical grid on the island immediately after the hurricane hit.
The governor did not elaborate on what that protocol entailed.
Both the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have said they did not sign off on the Whitefish contract, according to spokespersons for both agencies.
On Tuesday, FEMA administrator Brock Long told members of a Senate panel the agency would never have signed off on the deal.
After the controversy surrounding the contract emerged, the governor instructed Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to conduct an audit of the Whitefish deal.
The governor's office said it has since escalated the review by requesting a "detailed and in-depth investigation" of PREPA's emergency procurement process by Puerto Rico's comptroller.
Results of the audit were expected last Friday, but have yet to be released.
Without learning the full details of the audit, Rossello called upon PREPA to cancel the Whitefish deal over the weekend.
The governor's office has made it clear the request in no way demonstrates any wrongdoing thus far.
2.
Has Whitefish already stopped work on the island?
No, not yet.
The embattled utility company is still pressing ahead with its work.
Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames told CNN the firm's work won't stop immediately per the terms of its contract with PREPA.
PREPA's Ramos said earlier this week the contract requires 30 days notice before cancellation, and that the state-owned utility wanted Whitefish to "finish what they started."
Related: Relief groups hit major hurdles getting aid to Puerto Rico So far, Whitefish said it has completed "significant work" on two major transmissions lines that crossed over mountains and it has done some critical work in some remote parts of Puerto Rico that were only accessible by helicopter and heavy equipment.
Its efforts, the company said, have helped restore power to hospitals, businesses and residents of Manati and soon enough 500,000 people in the city of San Juan.
Whitefish said it plans to continue fixing transmission lines into San Juan.
It also plans to bring an additional 150 lineman to the island this week -- bringing the total to 500 workers.
"The original decision by PREPA to have Whitefish Energy come to the Puerto Rico only sped up the repairs, and if it were not for that action, crews would just now be getting to the island to begin the process of rebuilding the system and restoring power," according to a Whitefish statement Sunday.
3.
What happens after Whitefish is gone?
With Whitefish on its way out, Puerto Rico's governor said he has turned to governors in New York and Florida for help in the recovery effort as part of the mutual aid network among public utilities.
On Sunday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo posted on Twitter the state would deploy "additional utility crews and equipment to restore power in Puerto Rico."
New York is deploying additional utility crews and equipment to help restore power in Puerto Rico.
Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) October 29, 2017 "There was no reason for this to take 36 days," Cuomo told CNN's Fredericka Whitfield on Sunday.
"it's just frankly, because they didn't get the attention and I think we treat Puerto Ricans like second-class Americans."
Florida Governor Rick Scott on Monday said he would lead a delegation of Florida utility providers to Puerto Rico later this week.
4.
What other steps can Puerto RIco take to get the power up and running?
On Tuesday, PREPA formally requested to tap the mutual aid network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages.
PREPA's Ramos sent a letter to the American Public Power Association and the Edison Electric Institute requesting additional resources for the island.
The state-run utility could have requested aid through this network right after the hurricane hit.
But Ramos said he didn't because the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own rebuilding efforts after hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
He said he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs.
The bankrupt utility, which is struggling with nearly $9 billion in debt, also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he said.
Carlos Mercader, director of Puerto Rico Governor's office in Washington, told CNN utilizing the network would be a "different situation" than before since the governor himself is asking for help.
One option would be for PREPA to rehire Whitefish subcontractors so they may continue doing the work to restore power and meet the governor's goal to restore nearly a 100% of power by the end of the year.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over Puerto Rico power contract Mercader said the priority now is to transition away from Whitefish, while obtaining more resources to help with restoring power on the island.
Rossello set a goal of having over 1,000 brigades in Puerto Rico by Nov. 8.
So far, only 404 crews have arrived.
Of those, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has only sent seven, according to Rossello.
Rossello said his announcement on Sunday was intended to reaffirm Puerto Rico's "commitment to transparency in the contracting process... and to achieve the highest degree of efficiency possible in the restoration of the power grid of our island, in the shortest amount of time possible."
--CNN's Rene Marsh and Greg Wallace contributed to this report.
Let the vacation countdowns begin.
The percentage of Americans planning to take a vacation in the next six months jumped in October to the highest level since at least 1978, according to a report published Tuesday by the Conference Board.
The splurge in planned vacation spending reflects soaring optimism about the healthy jobs market and booming stock market.
The unemployment rate of 4.2% is the lowest in 16 years and the Dow has zoomed to record highs.
Consumer confidence, as measured by the Conference Board, climbed in October to 125.9 -- the best level of the recovery from the Great Recession.
Confidence hasn't been this high since December 2000.
"Consumer confidence is going straight up along with the stock market," Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank, wrote in a report on Tuesday.
Spending intentions were a bit mixed, with one glaring exception: travel plans.
The percentage of Americans plotting vacations spiked by more than 11 percentage points to 63.5%.
To put that in context, in April 2009 just one-third of consumers said they planned to take a vacation.
That was during the Great Recession and the U.S. unemployment rate was sitting at nearly 9%.
Almost half of those surveyed this month said they plan to travel in the U.S, while another 14.5% said they would go abroad.
All this travel talk is terrific news for travel companies like Expedia (EXPE) and TripAdvisor (TRIP) as well as hotel chains and cruise operators.
Other winners include airlines and car rental services: Just over one-quarter of Americans plan to fly, while almost one-third will drive.
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
Of course, not all Americans feel good enough to travel right now.
Those making $25,000 to $34,999 have a confidence score of 105.9, which is down from September and roughly even with after the election.
Compare that with the increasingly euphoric confidence levels of 160.9 for those with household income of $125,000 or more.
"The advancing tide is not lifting all the boats," Rupkey said, adding that it's a "tale of two Americas."
Millennials (under 35) also registered the lowest confidence since February and remain less upbeat than those 35-54.
The key for the economy is whether soaring consumer sentiment translates to actual spending this fall.
Sometimes consumers say they feel good, but don't open their wallets more.
For instance, consumer spending slowed during the third quarter despite strong confidence.
However, Andrew Hunter, U.S. economist at Capital Economics, predicted in a report that confident Americans are likely to accelerate their spending during the final three months of the year.
If anything, Hunter argued that consumer sentiment is "starting to look increasingly overdone."
While extremely high confidence may sound like a good thing, in the past it has signaled the economy and stock market had reached a peak.
The fight over tax reform is about to get very real.
On Wednesday, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady is due to unveil the House GOP's draft rewrite of the country's tax code.
It's likely to hew closely to a tax reform framework negotiated between the White House and leading Republicans.
That framework called for fewer tax brackets for individuals, an expanded standard deduction and child tax credit, a repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax and estate tax, and a repeal of most itemized deductions.
It also called on lawmakers to preserve tax breaks for mortgage interest, charitable contributions and retirement savings, although it didn't say those breaks couldn't be altered.
On the business side, the framework proposed lower tax rates on corporations and all other businesses, which are known as pass-throughs.
It also proposed a low, one-time tax rate on existing overseas profits to entice companies to bring that money home.
Who gets helped, when, and at what cost The fight over each detail will come down to a few central questions: Who's helped, who's hurt, and at what cost?
The middle class or the rich?
Businesses or workers?
One industry versus another?
Certain states over others?
Based on some of the fireworks so far, it will be interesting to see how the House bill handles: Real estate tax breaks: Brady said this weekend that his bill would still let people claim a deduction for their property taxes.
That was a concession to colleagues from high-tax states who wanted to keep the deduction for state and local taxes, which Republicans have proposed repealing in full.
But the opponents of repeal weren't entirely appeased.
Brady told reporters on Monday that there could be further tweaks.
The real estate industry is also worried that the Republican tax framework reduces tax incentives for homeownership.
For instance, doubling the standard deduction would drastically reduce the number of filers who itemize.
That means the mortgage interest deduction would be taken by far fewer people.
A big player in the housing industry, the National Association of Home Builders, has already come out against the House bill, before it's even been released.
The group is displeased that lawmakers haven't adopted its proposed homeownership credit to cover both mortgage interest and property taxes.
The 401(k) tax break: Another big player -- President Trump -- expressed displeasure last week at a provision House Republicans were said to be considering: lowering the cap on how much pretax money workers may contribute to a 401(k).
From CNN: GOP vow Mueller investigation won't derail tax reform Brady suggested publicly the idea might still be on the table.
And on Monday, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy seemed to indicate on Fox Business that House Republicans will consider "Rothifying" 401(k) contributions above a lower cap.
That is, your contributions above the new cap would be made after-tax, as they are in a Roth IRA, but your gains and withdrawals would be tax-free.
In other words, if lawmakers opt to "Rothify" 401(k)s, you would get no immediate tax break for saving money above the cap.
The corporate tax rate cut: The GOP framework calls for a permanent reduction in the corporate rate to 20% from 35%.
But that would be expensive, reducing revenue to the government by up to $2 trillion in the first decade and up to $3 trillion in the second, according to Tax Policy Center estimates.
So it's not clear whether House Republicans might propose something higher than a 20% rate or propose a 20% rate but make it temporary.
The costs: The House and Senate budget resolution allows for a tax bill that reduces overall federal revenue by $1.5 trillion over 10 years.
But the tax cuts Republicans want cost far more than that.
So they need to find plenty of so-called offsets to pay for them.
They also hope to get a good "score" on how much their bill would help the economy, which can help offset the cost, too, at least on paper.
And they need to show that the bill primarily provides middle-class tax relief.
So legislators must make decisions within those parameters.
But Brady has already said he won't release cost estimates of the tax bill, or an analysis of how it would affect filers at different income levels, until next week, when his committee meets to debate the bill.
And what's known as the dynamic score -- measuring the economic growth potential -- won't be provided until after the Ways and Means Committee approves the bill.
For legislators and the public, that's "like learning the price of your plane ticket after you arrive at the airport," Martin Sullivan, chief economist at Tax Analysts, said in a blog post.
Normally, Sullivan noted, "when committees mark up legislation ... everybody has a dog-eared, coffee-stained copy of the Joint Committee on Taxation's revenue estimates in front of them."
Since no one likes a vacuum, outside groups may put out estimates of their own, causing even more fur to fly as lawmakers rush to reshape a tax code that affects 100% of the economy.
--An earlier version of this story incorrectly said that cutting the corporate rate to 20% would cost the government up to $3 trillion in revenue in the first decade.
That figure is for the second decade.
CNN's Ashley Killough and Lauren Fox contributed to this report.
It's getting easier to do business in India.
But there's still a long way to go.
The country leaped 30 spots to 100 in the World Bank's latest global ranking published Tuesday.
That's welcome news for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has come under fire for his handling of a series of big economic reforms that have slowed growth sharply.
Modi's government took advantage of the World Bank announcement to defend its policies.
"I remember in the very first year, the prime minister had said our target should be to take India into the [top] 50, I believe this is doable," Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said at a press conference Tuesday.
"There's huge scope for us to now jump from this position of 100."
Sadanand Dhume, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington D.C., said the World Bank's ranking tells only part of the story but the improvement in India's position was "undeniably positive news."
"This is the first time that India has climbed so dramatically in the ease of doing business rankings and it sends a message to international investors that the government is committed to slashing India's notorious red tape and rolling out the red carpet for them," Dhume said.
The World Bank also named India as one of the top 10 countries in reforming its business environment, recognizing its strengthened protections for minority investors and progress in digitization.
"Today's result is a very clear signal from India to the rest of the world, not only is the country open and ready for business, it's now competing as a preferred place to do business," said Annette Dixon, the World Bank's vice president, South Asia Region.
A slowing economy But the Ease of Doing Business index presents only a partial snapshot of what's happening on the ground.
In the last 12 months, Modi's government carried out two huge reforms which political rivals have described as torpedoes: The first, a cash ban that replaced India's highest denomination notes; the second, a national tax system that replaced more than a dozen state and central taxes.
Following the changes, India's growth slowed to 5.7% in the first half of 2017, its weakest rate in three years.
India's central bank has slashed its growth forecast for the current fiscal year to 6.7% from 7.3%.
And researchers estimate that the economy lost two million jobs between January and August this year.
A tale of two cities The survey is conducted across major cities in 190 countries around the world.
In most countries, it focuses on only one city per country.
In larger countries, it looks at two.
In India's case, it covers Delhi, the capital, and Mumbai, the leading financial center.
That leaves out vast swathes of the country of 1.3 billion people, and some major business locations such as Bangalore and Hyderabad.
Another criticism is that countries get credit for passing laws, even if they haven't been widely implemented yet.
A new law mandating speedier resolution of bankruptcy cases, for example, has "really not been tested in the courts," said Pratik Dattani, managing director at Economic Policy Group.
"On paper this is exactly the right direction to travel."
Moving further ahead in the rankings will require changes in business culture, he said.
"Getting from 100 to 90 or 80 or 70, that's much, much harder."
Fear reigned over Mexico's economy last November following President Trump's stunning win in the U.S. presidential election.
The Mexican peso crashed 11% immediately, hitting an all-time low.
Mexico's stock market lost 19% of its value in the three days following.
Its central bank initiated a "contingency plan" to mitigate losses.
But a year later, Mexico has withstood major concerns that its economy would collapse and it's continued to grow.
"It was a lot more resilient than expected," says Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America research at Goldman Sachs.
"That doesn't mean the economy is out of the woods though."
On Tuesday, Mexico's statistics agency said the economy grew 1.7% between July and September at an annual rate.
A devastating earthquake in September that killed over 300 people likely held back growth, economists say.
No doubt, other major challenges lie ahead for the Mexican economy, including a presidential election next July and the ongoing renegotiation of NAFTA, the three nation trade pact between Canada, the United States and Mexico.
But its progress this year defied major threats from Washington.
During and after his campaign, Trump threatened to slap tariffs on products made in Mexico.
About 80% of Mexican exports go the U.S., making trade a key ingredient to its economy.
Related: Mexico loses tuna trade battle to the Trump administration Even today, Trump threatens to pull out of NAFTA.
Exiting it would carry consequences for Mexico, Canada and the United States, but many experts say Mexico would get hit hardest.
Still, Mexico's economy is moving forward.
The peso is up 7% against the dollar this year, though it lost some gains in recent weeks as NAFTA talks soured.
The stock market is also up 7% so far this year.
The economy is on pace to grow about 2%, roughly on par with U.S. growth.
Real wages are expected to pick up in the coming months as inflation cools down.
Remittances, a key source of income for low-income Mexicans, are on pace for another all-time record.
The election may be Mexico's biggest concern.
The front runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, is a populist candidate who promises to get tough on trade with Trump.
That rhetoric has stoked some fears in the business community.
A decline in oil production has also slowed down overall economic growth this year.
But so far, fears over the fate of Mexico's economy haven't become a reality.
"There may be problems down the road, but the initial doom and gloom was a bit overdone," says Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics.
"The economy didn't collapse in the way that perhaps others expected."
Our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy have changed.
By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
While it's true that premiums for the popular silver Obamacare plan could shoot higher for 2018, most enrollees could actually end up paying less for coverage next year.
In fact, more consumers will be able to snag policies that will cost them nothing each month.
How can that be?
It's because premium subsidies are soaring too, making many plans on the exchanges more affordable.
The Trump administration, however, is stressing how much premiums will rise, saying this is yet another sign that Obamacare is irreparably broken.
Officials are downplaying the fact that the subsidies will cover most, if not all, of the increase for many consumers.
Related: Premiums for popular Obamacare plans to soar 37% for 2018 Obamacare advocates worry that consumers will be scared off by the news that premiums are skyrocketing for next year.
They plan to highlight the fact that many people will be able to find lower-premium policies thanks to the subsidies.
Even the Trump administration found that Obamacare plans will be more affordable for many consumers next year.
Some 80% of enrollees will be able to find a policy for $75 a month or less -- up from 71% this year and the highest share so far.
"This year, more people than any previous year have access to a plan for $75 or less," said Josh Peck, a former Obama administration official and co-founder of Get America Covered, which is promoting enrollment for 2018.
"That's what we want everyone to know."
Here's why this is happening: Many insurers jacked up the rates of their silver plans in part to make up for President Trump ending federal support for Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies.
These subsidies reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower-income enrollees.
Premiums for the benchmark silver Obamacare plan will soar 37%, on average, for 2018, according to federal data released Monday.
The premium subsidies are pegged to a benchmark silver plan in each market.
So if that plan's rate rises, the value of the subsidy does too.
More than eight in 10 Obamacare enrollees receive premium subsidies.
Insurers, however, did not hike the price of bronze or gold plans nearly as much.
The rate of the lowest-cost bronze plan is rising 17%, on average, while the cheapest gold plan is going up 19%, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
That means the more generous premium subsidies will cover more of the monthly cost of these plans, so consumers will pay less.
A 40-year-old earning $25,000 will pay 75% less, on average, for the cheapest bronze plan and 21% less for the lowest-cost gold plan, according to a new analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation.
A 40-year-old earning $40,000 will see a 28% drop, on average, in the price of the cheapest bronze plan, and an 8% decrease in the least expensive gold plan's premium.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class Bronze plans have lower premiums, but their deductibles are higher -- nearly $5,900, on average, for an individual in 2018, according to a new report from Health Pocket, an online health insurance shopping tool.
Meanwhile, gold plans have higher premiums, but their deductibles are only $1,320 on average for a single enrollee next year.
The cheapest gold plan will have lower premiums than the least-expensive silver plan in 459 counties next year once subsidies are factored in, Kaiser found.
Silver plans will have an average deductible of just over $4,000 next year.
Many more consumers will be able to enroll in bronze plans and pay nothing each month.
For instance, a 48-year-old consumer earning roughly $30,000 can find a zero-premium policy in nearly 1,050 counties next year, up from 132 counties in 2017, according to an analysis by Oliver Wyman consulting group.
Not everyone, however, will be so fortunate.
Enrollees who don't qualify for premium subsidies -- those who earn more than $48,000 as an individual or $98,500 for a family of four in 2018 -- may be hit with the full premium hike.
They may be better off buying bronze or gold plans or looking for individual coverage outside of the Obamacare exchanges.
Open enrollment begins Wednesday and runs through Dec. 15 in most states.
Our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy have changed.
By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the new Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
Oil markets have stabilized but Middle East economies are still feeling the pain of the price collapse that began more than three years ago.
The Gulf states will barely grow this year, according to the International Monetary Fund.
It has slashed its forecast for GDP growth across the six members of the Gulf Cooperation Council to just 0.5%, down from 0.9% it forecast in May.
"Oil exporters are continuing to adjust to these low prices, which have dampened growth and contributed to large fiscal and external deficits," the IMF said on Tuesday its regional economic outlook.
Oil output in the region has dropped after OPEC and non-OPEC members agreed to cut supply to boost prices.
The agreement runs through March 2018, and some countries have talked about extending it further.
The IMF based its projections on an average oil price of $50 a barrel.
U.S. crude futures are currently trading at around $54 a barrel, and Brent crude prices are even higher at $60.
Related: Quest: It's the IMF vs. Donald Trump Jihad Azour, director for the Middle East and Central Asia at the IMF, said regional governments should not view higher oil prices as a substitute for economic reforms.
"It's important from a policy standpoint to be on the conservative side and to make sure we are not dependent on the oil cycle," he told CNNMoney Emerging Markets editor John Defterios.
He urged the Gulf nations to push ahead with plans to diversify their economies.
"Oil is still an important factor to the macro-economics of situation in the GCC," Azour said.
"But the good news is that those countries are progressively reducing the weight and the importance of oil in the function of the economy as well as the financing of the state."
Low oil prices have forced Gulf countries to rethink their economic strategies.
Saudi Arabia, the biggest economy in the region, last year launched Vision 2030, a blueprint for what the economy should look like in the next decade.
Related: Saudi Arabia wants foreign help in its massive economic overhaul The government has cut some subsidies, announced new taxes and lifted a controversial ban on women driving.
It also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to balance its books.
The Gulf countries, including the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, also plan to introduce sales taxes next year.
"The key reforms that are currently contemplated [such as] the value added tax and the continuous removal of subsidies are [going] in the right direction," said Azour.
"Those are the right types of reforms that allow you to increase your fiscal flexibility with limited impact on economy."
The IMF expects Middle East oil exporting countries beyond the Gulf, including Iraq, Libya, Algeria and Iran, will grow at an average annual rate of just 2.8% over the next five years, half the rate achieved in 2016.
If Jerome Powell is tapped as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, he'll be the first former investment banker to hold the position.
Sources tell CNN Trump is likely reveal his pick to head the Fed on Thursday, and Powell, 64, is reported to be the leading contender.
He's been a governor at the nation's central bank since he was nominated by President Obama in 2012.
At the time of his appointment, he was a visiting scholar at a Washington think tank.
But much of his career has been in investment banking and private equity.
Powell, a Princeton graduate, was a lawyer in New York before he joined the investment bank Dillon Reed & Co. in 1984.
He stayed there until he joined the Treasury Department in 1990.
After he left Treasury, he became a partner in 1997 at The Carlyle Group (CG), the private equity and asset management giant.
He left Carlyle in 2005.
Powell would not only be the first investment banker to head the Fed, but he'd also be the first individual who is not an economist to take the helm in more than 40 years.
Related: Trump leaning toward banker Jerome Powell to run Fed Current Chair Janet Yellen was an economics professor before she was named a Fed governor.
Ben Bernanke, her predecessor, had a similar career path.
Alan Greenspan was the head of an economic consulting firm he founded, while Paul Volcker worked primarily as an economist at the Fed and the Treasury department.
He did work at Chase Manhattan bank back in the 1960s, but that was when commercial banks like Chase were not allowed to do investment banking.
And thanks to his investment banking background, Powell will also be far wealthier than his recent predecessors.
Powell's assets are worth between $21 million and $61 million, according to financial disclosures which require officials to give a range in the value of their various holdings.
Yellen and her husband, Nobel-prize winning economist George Akerlof, have assets worth between $5 million and $13 million.
Bernanke had assets worth between $1.1 million and $2.3 million, according to public financial disclosure forms.
An investment banker has never had the top job at the Fed, but Fed critics have often complained about the so-called "revolving door" between Wall Street firms and the Federal Reserve.
Four of the Fed's current 12 regional bank presidents used to work at Goldman Sachs (GS), which has raised concerns that the Fed won't be tough enough in regulating big banks.
Related: Trump to announce Fed chair pick Thursday, says White House official Powell has worked with Yellen on a daily basis for years, so it's doubtful there would be a major shift in monetary policy if he gets the top job.
But he might part ways slightly with Yellen when it comes to the regulatory reforms put in place at the Fed after the financial crisis.
Powell largely supports Dodd-Frank, the sweeping set of reforms instituted after the financial crisis to make banks healthier.
President Trump has at times threatened to get rid of parts or all of Dodd-Frank.
But he has also urged Congress to rewrite one provision of Dodd-Frank called the Volcker Rule, which is meant to prevent banks from making risky bets using taxpayer money.
Powell argued in June that it creates an unnecessary burden on small community banks.
"He'd be a little less tough on banks than Yellen," says David Wessel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
"But not nearly as easy on the banks as the Trump administration wants to be."
Premiums for the benchmark silver Obamacare plan will soar 37%, on average, for 2018, according to federal data released Monday.
But in a strange twist, policies could actually become more affordable for many people buying on the exchange.
That's because the price spike means many enrollees will receive more generous premium subsidies, so they can now afford gold policies with lower deductibles.
In the annual landscape report, the Trump administration highlighted many of the negative developments that will plague Obamacare next year.
In prior reports, the Obama administration focused on how the premium subsidies make Affordable Care Act policies more affordable.
"This data demonstrates just how rapidly Obamacare's exchanges are deteriorating with skyrocketing premiums year after year, more than half of Americans with no more than two insurers to choose from, and the taxpayer burden exploding," said Caitlin Oakley, press secretary for the Department of Health & Human Services.
The report covers the more than three dozen states that use the federal exchange, healthcare.gov.
Open enrollment begins Wednesday and runs through Dec. 15 -- about half the length of prior periods.
The steep rate hike means a 27-year-old will pay nearly $5,000 a year, on average, for the benchmark silver plan, upon which premium subsides are based.
That's up from $2,600 when the Obamacare exchanges opened in 2014.
This is before subsidies are factored in, however.
Premiums are skyrocketing for a second year in a row.
Rates rose 24% this year in the states using healthcare.gov.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class The price of Obamacare plans has increased sharply over the past four years, partly because enrollees were much sicker and costlier than insurers expected.
But the exchanges showed signs of stabilizing this year after the most recent price hike.
Premiums are spiking again in part because President Trump stopped reimbursing insurers for another key Obamacare subsidy, which they are still required to provide by law.
These cost-sharing subsidies reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower income enrollees.
Insurers raised rates by as much as 38% just because the funding ended, though the amount varied widely by state, according to a recent analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Most states directed insurers to raise the silver plan prices since premium assistance is tied to that metal level and the cost-sharing subsidies are only available to those purchasing silver plans.
The big rate increase means premium subsidies will rise 45%, on average, to $6,660 a year.
More than eight in 10 enrollees receive premium subsidies, which reduce their cost to less than 10% of their household income.
A 27-year-old making $25,000 a year could receive an annual subsidy of nearly $3,300.
That would bring his or her premium down to $1,650 a year if he or she enrolls in the benchmark silver plan.
A family of four earning $60,000 a year could get an annual subsidy of $13,000, bringing their benchmark plan premiums down to just over $4,750.
These more generous subsidies will make bronze plans -- which have lower premiums, but higher deductibles -- more affordable for many enrollees.
And the higher level of assistance means that gold plans will actually be cheaper than silver policies in some markets.
That's why it's particularly important for consumers to shop and compare plans this year.
Related: Trump kills key Obamacare subsidy payments: What it means Also, consumers will have fewer choices on the exchanges.
Some 29% of enrollees will only have one insurer offering policies, up from 20% this year and 6% in 2016.
Eight states will have only one insurer, up from five states this year.
Just over 130 insurers will be on the exchanges in 2018, down from more than 230 two years ago.
Many large, publicly traded insurers, including Aetna (AET) and Humana (HUM), have exited Obamacare, while Anthem (ANTM) has greatly downsized.
Are you shopping for individual policies either on or off the Obamacare exchanges for 2018?
Tell me about it.
You could be featured in an upcoming CNNMoney story.
The House hasn't even released its tax reform bill yet, and Republican lawmakers are already making a big concession over one of their most controversial proposals.
Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has decided to only partially repeal the state and local tax deduction, bending to concerns of colleagues from high-tax states.
"At the urging of lawmakers we are restoring an itemized property tax deduction to help taxpayers with local tax burdens," Brady said in a statement this weekend.
The news was first reported by Bloomberg.
Today, anyone who itemizes their deductions on their federal tax return may deduct their state and local property taxes, as well as their state and local income taxes or general sales taxes.
In their bid to pay for the trillions in tax cuts they want, as well as simplify the tax code, Republican leaders have proposed repealing most itemized deductions.
The state and local tax deduction -- aka SALT -- is the biggest among them.
Repealing it fully could bring in more than $1 trillion in revenue over a decade.
Brady's concession on property taxes may help some of the moderate-income people who benefit from the deduction today.
The majority of the SALT deductions claimed by those who make less than $50,000 come from property taxes, according to a report from the Government Finance Officers Association.
By contrast more than 70% of the SALT deductions from those making more than $200,000 are due to income.
Related: Millions in middle class will feel it if GOP kills this tax break But it's not clear from Brady's statement if there would be any limits on who may take the property tax deduction.
For instance, if it's available only to people who itemize, then chances are many wouldn't take it.
That's because his bill would nearly double the standard deduction.
And that would drastically reduce the number of itemizers, since you only itemize if your deductions combined exceed your standard deduction.
Impossible to satisfy all demands Brady's decision, just a few days before he's due to unveil the House tax reform bill, speaks volumes about the political and policy challenges ahead for lawmakers: how to meet the Republican goals, while garnering enough support to pass a bill.
A group lobbying to keep all of the state and local deduction intact was quick to call foul at Brady's concession, noting that his home state of Texas has no income tax and is heavily dependent on property taxes for revenue.
"[His] partial elimination plan for the state and local tax (SALT) deduction would insert the heavy hand of Washington into state and local finance decisions, dictate winners and losers among states, and unfairly penalize taxpayers in states that rely significantly on income taxes," Americans Against Double Taxation said in a statement.
Leonard Lance, a New Jersey Republican congressman who has been a lead negotiator in the SALT debate, called the announcement a "step in the right direction" but argued there's more work to be done.
"I will need to see legislative text to determine if this proposal is in the best interest of New Jersey," Lance said in a statement.
"We already send more than enough money to Washington."
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
Separately this weekend, the National Association of Home Builders made clear it wouldn't support the GOP tax plan as is because it doesn't do enough to support homeownership.
"This plan is particularly disappointing, given that the nation's home builders warned that the proposal would severely diminish the effectiveness of the mortgage interest deduction and presented alternative policies that would retain an effective housing tax incentive in the tax code," the NAHB said in a statement.
The group said it believed it had a deal with lawmakers to include a homeownership tax credit that could be taken by anyone -- even if they don't itemize.
But "we were told by the House leadership that the credit will be removed from the bill."
But the House bill -- which is supposed to be released Wednesday -- is just the first word, not the last, on any tax legislation.
As the negotiations begin over tax reform, first in the House and then the Senate, there's no telling yet where things end up.
Brady said in his statement he hopes members of Congress will further examine the NAHB proposed credit "before tax reform heads to the president's desk."
CNN's Kevin Bohn, Lauren Fox and Ashley Killough contributed to this report.
1.
Tax bill revealed: President Trump's push to overhaul the U.S. tax system is about to face its biggest test yet.
Up until this point, the GOP tax "plan" has been limited to a broad, mostly detail-free framework of ideas that many lawmakers and business groups could get behind.
But come Wednesday, it will be all about the details when House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady promises to unveil his 1,000-page tax reform bill.
And it's those critical details in the bill that could make or break the legislation.
At issue: How will Brady propose to pay for the big business tax cuts Republicans have promised?
Lawmakers, businesses and lobbyists will fight tooth and nail to preserve tax breaks they covet.
"Expect them to push back as if this was a life-or-death struggle because for many, it is," Chris Krueger, managing director of the Cowen Washington Research Group, wrote in a recent report.
"Welcome to the corporate hunger game."
The official path to modernize America's outdated tax system was created when the House narrowly (216-212) passed a budget this week that includes instructions to fast-track a tax reform bill that allows for $1.5 trillion worth of tax cuts over 10 years.
But it won't be an easy path.
"The road ahead is bumpy and riddled with potholes," Isaac Boltansky, senior policy analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading, wrote in a recent report.
Of course, Wall Street will be watching the tax battle very closely because hopes for massive tax cuts have helped send the stock market to new heights in recent months.
Investors could get nervous if it looks like those tax cuts will be scuttled by GOP infighting.
In any case, "expect some near-term volatility both in Washington and on Wall Street once the legislative text is released," Boltansky said.
2.
Jobs report: The Labor Department is scheduled to release October's job numbers on Friday.
The U.S. lost 33,000 jobs in September -- the first monthly decline in employment in seven years -- thanks in large part to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
But overall, America's job market is in good shape.
Unemployment is at a 16-year low, and weekly jobless claims are consistently down.
The only problem is that wages aren't increasing by very much, making it difficult for consumers to keep pace with inflation.
We'll see on Friday whether that continues to be the case.
3.
Fed meets as Trump mulls new chair: The Federal Reserve meets this week, with a decision on interest rates set to be announced on Wednesday.
Don't expect too much: The Fed is not likely to raise rates this time.
But Janet Yellen's term as Fed chair is coming to an end, and President Trump is expected to pick her successor -- or decide to stick with her -- next week.
So even without a rate hike, there's a chance we could hear something interesting from Yellen.
4.
Apple's fourth quarter results: Apple (AAPL, Tech30) is set to announce its fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday.
In August, Apple said it expects sales for the quarter to come in as high as $52 billion.
Since then, the company has announced and launched three new phones.
The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus have been on sale for weeks, and customers were able start ordering the iPhone X online this week.
The X will hit stores on Friday.
So far, sales of the 8 and 8 plus have reportedly been lackluster.
According to the research firm Consumer Intelligence Research Partners, the 8 and 8 plus accounted for just 16% of total U.S. iPhone sales in the quarter ending on October 1.
The iPhone 7 and 7 plus, for comparison's sake, made up 43% of sales in the same time last year.
5.
Facebook earnings: Facebook (FB, Tech30) heads to the earnings stage on Wednesday.
On Wall Street, at least, the social media giant has had a successful 2017.
The company's stock has soared more than 50% this year.
And though Facebook's growth has been slowing, the company is still expanding.
But the company has also had some very public faux pas, from CEO Mark Zuckerberg's virtual visit to Puerto Rico to revelations that the social media platform hosted Russia-linked ads.
Investors might ask Facebook to explain itself.
6.
Coming this week: Monday -- Mondelz (MDLZ) reports earnings Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Under Armour (UA) report earnings Wednesday -- Facebook, New York Times (NYT), Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill Thursday -- Apple, Starbucks (SBUX), Yum!
Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores
America's economy and jobs market look quite healthy right now.
But President Trump is demanding very expensive surgery anyway.
New numbers released Friday show that the U.S. has grown at 3% for back-to-back quarters for the first time in three years.
Unemployment is sitting at just 4.2%, the lowest in 16 years.
And consumer sentiment rose in October to levels unseen since early 2004.
Despite the obvious strength in the economy, Trump recently promised on Twitter the "biggest TAX CUT" ever, adding "we need it!"
Trump says he wants to push through both tax reform, which would modernize the outdated tax code, and to provide tax cuts to individuals and businesses.
Given how healthy the economy is, some economists are mystified over Trump's urgent push for tax cuts that are likely to be paid for by adding to America's mountain of debt.
Related: Economy posts impressive growth despite hurricanes "No other president in modern economic history has tried to do this," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank.
"It just seems completely unnecessary.
With unemployment at 4.2%, why on earth would we try to stimulate the economy?"
Normally, presidents ask Congress for deficit-financed tax cuts when the economy is weak.
That's what President Obama did in 2009 during the Great Recession, and President George W. Bush did the same after the 2001 downturn.
"This is kind of an odd time to get fiscal stimulus.
It's not like we're in a recession, or coming out of one," said Gus Faucher, chief economist at PNC.
Here's the problem: There will be another recession, eventually.
And spending heavily to slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35% today could leave Congress with fewer options to tackle the next downturn.
The current economic expansion is already the second-longest ever.
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
The Tax Policy Center estimates that Trump's tax overhaul would slash federal revenue by $2.4 trillion over 10 years, and by $3.2 trillion over the second decade.
And the national debt is already 77% of GDP, and slated to keep growing.
"The risk is we don't have the money for a rainy day.
It's borderline irresponsible," said Rupkey.
It's true that the U.S. economy is not perfect.
Businesses remain reluctant to spend, and Americans aren't getting the raises they deserve.
Wage growth has been sluggish, although that improved in September.
It's also true that tax reform is an admirable goal, no matter how fast the economy is growing.
Tax reform, which is aimed at making the sprawling and outdated system more efficient, is different and much less costly than tax cuts.
"Tax reform that is paid for is much better for the economy than a plan that adds to the debt," Maya MacGuineas, president of the nonpartisan Committee for Responsible Federal Budget, wrote recently.
Some experts believe that efforts to reform the tax code will fail once details of the bill are finally unveiled on November 1, leaving the GOP to push simple tax cuts instead.
"We continue to expect deficit-increasing tax cuts, not...deficit-neutral tax reform," Barclays economist Michael Gapen wrote in a recent report.
Given that the U.S. economy is "at full employment," Gapen believes that tax cuts will provide a "temporary boost" to GDP of just 0.5 percentage points.
That would leave 2018 growth near 2.8%.
The White House was asked on Friday by reporters about the need for tax cuts given solid GDP growth.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street Kevin Hassett, chair of Trump's Council of Economic Advisers, argued that the U.S. economy has accelerated because businesses are excited about tax and regulatory reform.
Hassett also predicted that lowering the corporate tax rate and allowing businesses to immediately write off investments could increase GDP by 3% to 5%, as well as boost wages.
Without tax cuts and tax relief, the U.S. will be stuck with "depressed wage growth," the White House said in a statement on Friday.
Rupkey concedes that tax reform could boost wages, but he's skeptical that wage growth will accelerate by a meaningful amount.
Some economists fear that stimulus at this point in the economic cycle could be too much of a good thing.
"The worry is that by adding fuel to what's already, believe it or not, a pretty fiery economy in the U.S., you risk driving inflation and overheating growth," said Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney Capital.
Such an outcome could spur the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates so rapidly that it derails the stock market and burdens businesses and consumers with higher borrowing costs.
"Deficit-financed tax cuts are the wrong way to go at this point," said Faucher.
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report
The Trump administration scored a victory against Mexico this week in a longstanding trade battle.
The U.S. and Mexico have been locked in a dispute over how tuna is fished in Mexico.
The U.S. claims that Mexican fishermen allow dolphins to be netted and killed when they fish for tuna.
Therefore, U.S. officials say that Mexican tuna fish can't be labeled "dolphin safe."
Mexican leaders deny that the country's fishing industry isn't in compliance with rules imposed by the World Trade Organization and they demand their tuna get the "dolphin-safe" labeling.
If it doesn't get that label, several major U.S. supermarkets, like Walmart, won't sell it, even though it can still legally cross the border.
In April, the WTO said Mexico had the right to impose tariffs on up to $163 million of U.S. exports, arguing that the U.S. labeling requirements for "dolphin safe" unfairly discriminated against Mexican tuna.
The WTO said $163 million was an amount equal to what Mexico had lost as a result of not having the U.S. label.
But in a separate proceeding this week, the WTO said that the U.S. labeling is now in compliance with its standards after a unit of the U.S. Commerce Department tweaked its tuna-labeling laws last year.
In other words, the ruling from Thursday means the U.S. labeling doesn't discriminate against Mexican tuna.
This week's ruling all but dismisses the retaliation decision in April, though it hasn't been officially thrown out.
Mexico actually never decided to impose tariffs on U.S. exports.
Related: NAFTA Round 4 ends on a gloomy note "I am pleased that WTO panels have finally agreed with the overwhelming evidence that U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements are accurate and fair," U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement.
Mexico's economy ministry said it would appeal the WTO's ruling this week.
The ruling comes at a critical time for trade relations between the U.S., Mexico and Canada.
Leaders from all three countries are renegotiating NAFTA, the free trade pact.
Negotiators ended the latest round of talks last week with a gloomy tone, with Mexico and Canada openly criticizing U.S. proposals.
Lighthizer fired back at the same press conference, lambasting Canada and Mexico for what he called an unwillingness to compromise.
President Trump routinely threatens to pull out of NAFTA, and he's blamed it for the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs lost to Mexico.
NAFTA became law in 1994.
As for tuna, Mexican tuna exports to the United States have averaged about $15 million a year over the last five years, according to USTR.
That makes up almost 3% of all tuna imports to the United States.
JCPenney says it will lose twice as much money as it had expected to this quarter.
The retailer now forecasts a loss of between 40 cents to 45 cents a share, more than twice as bad as both Wall Street estimates as well as the $62 million, or 20 cents a share, that it lost in the second quarter.
The warning sent JCPenney (JCP) shares 14% lower Friday morning.
Driving the bigger loss, the company said, is its decision to speed up the liquidation of poorly-selling inventory, primarily women's clothing.
CEO Marvin Ellison said the chain has already boosted sales but getting rid of less popular items.
Related: 2017 just set the all-time record for store closings Penney has lost $242 million in the first six months of this fiscal year.
And while it did manage to post a narrow $1 million profit last year, that came after a string of five straight losing years in which it lost a total of $3.5 billion.
The chain also closed 127 stores during the second quarter, more than 10% of its locations.
Of course JCPenney is hardly the only brick-and-mortar retailer that's struggling.
Store closing announcements have more than tripled this year, according to Fung Global Retail & Technology, a retail research firm.
The total of 6,700 tops the previous record set in 2008, the first year of the Great Recession.
Puerto Rico had archaic roads, bridges and electricity for years -- long before Hurricane Maria.
Then the storm devastated the island's transportation and communication networks.
President Trump says "broken infrastructure" was to blame for any delayed response by the federal government.
Seven in 10 Puerto Ricans still have no power.
Despite the suffering, one of Puerto Rico's leaders sees the hurricane's destruction as a chance for a clean slate.
Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous' lines "We have this historic opportunity: Instead of going with incremental changes, we can go and push the envelope to really transform the infrastructure," Economic Secretary Manuel Laboy told CNNMoney on Thursday in New York.
"That is the silver lining opportunity that we have."
The first sign of that type of sweeping rebuild came Wednesday, when Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced that a children's hospital in San Juan, the capital, is being powered by Tesla solar panels and power packs.
Musk wrote in an Instagram post that the project is the "first of many solar + battery Tesla projects going live in Puerto Rico."
Laboy, the economic secretary, said Tesla has "five to 10" projects in the works in Puerto Rico, including schools and community centers.
Tesla (TSLA) declined to provide specifics.
AT&T (T, Tech30) and a project owned by Google's parent company, Alphabet, teamed up to provide cell phone coverage to parts of the island cut off from communication.
Project Loon won approval from the U.S. government to fly up to 30 giant balloons over Puerto Rico, beaming down LTE service.
(AT&T is buyingTime Warner (TWX), the parent company of CNN.)
Puerto Rico is even pitching itself as a site for Amazon's second headquarters.
Laboy declined to provide specifics but said he sent Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) a lucrative package of incentives to consider.
Related: Puerto Rico power deal now under review He sees the island's recovery as a selling point with Amazon, in addition to Puerto Rico's educated and bilingual workforce.
"The opportunity to transform the infrastructure ... for me, that is a very powerful message," Laboy said.
Of course, Puerto Rico has to get the lights back on before it can carry out big plans.
And that hasn't been easy, nor without controversy.
The utility company, PREPA, found itself under fire after it gave a $300 million contract to an infrastructure repair company, Whitefish Energy.
The company only has two official employees, though it's hired hundreds of subcontractors to help restore the power grid.
Investigations are under way into the the contract's procurement.
Critics say the contract is bloated and didn't go through proper bidding.
Beyond the physical damage, Puerto Rico must overcome vast other challenges to rebuild an innovative infrastructure system.
Unemployment is high, and some the island's young, educated class has been leaving for the mainland United States for years.
Some fear the hurricane's destruction could expedite the exodus.
The island's government also filed for bankruptcy last spring.
But Laboy says those challenges shouldn't prevent Puerto Rico from thinking big.
"We need to be bold and we need to transform the system," he added.
"That is going to be the key for the recovery, and the sustainable economic growth that we are aspiring to have in Puerto Rico."
As it sinks deeper into chaos, Venezuela has huge bills coming up, and it still hasn't paid debts that were due weeks ago.
The country's state-run oil company, PDVSA, on Friday paid roughly $900 million to bondholders, but it still owes $350 million more that was due earlier this month.
Many experts who follow Venezuela's economy see a government default as inevitable.
The consequences of that would be severe for a nation of 30 million people that's already running out of food and medicine.
Related: Venezuela's children are dying Making matters worse: More bills come due next week.
On November 2, Venezuela owes $1.1 billion.
It will have only a three-day grace period before a default occurs.
Venezuela's bonds are owned by an array of investors, from Wall Street strategists to ordinary Americans with 401(k)s. The government has slowly drained its savings to pay down debt.
In 2011, its central bank had $30 billion.
In 2015, $20 billion.
This year: $10 billion.
By comparison, Venezuela's neighbor Colombia has four times as much in reserves: $46 billion.
Leaders from across the Western Hemisphere met in Toronto on Thursday to condemn Venezuela's authoritarian regime, which has allowed the country's vast resources -- it has more crude oil than any other nation -- to go to waste.
"The government of Venezuela is choosing the path of dictatorship," Canada's Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland told her counterparts in Toronto.
Its regime "must face consequences that go beyond harsh words and condemnations."
Related: Venezuela is blaming Trump for missed debt payments Freeland didn't specify what consequences President Nicolas Maduro and his administration could face.
She said she hopes Cuba, an ally of Venezuela's, will join the international condemnation of Maduro's power grab.
The Western leaders haven't collectively slapped sanctions on Venezuela, but its leaders say that option is on the table.
One of Maduro's biggest critics was also in Toronto: Former Attorney General Luisa Ortega, who fled the country after Maduro's newly installed legislature banished her from her post.
"In Venezuela it is impossible to raise our voices because people are persecuted and imprisoned," Ortega said Thursday at a separate event at the University of Toronto.
The so-called Lima Group -- named after its first meeting in Lima, Peru, in August -- consists of foreign ministers from Canada and several Latin American nations, including Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Argentina.
That type of unity is rare in Latin America, a region averse to nations' meddling in each others' affairs after a string of coups and dictatorships in the 20th century, some backed by the CIA.
The United States, which didn't send a representative to Thursday's meeting, has slapped several rounds of sanctions on Maduro's government and its leaders.
Maduro's surrogates have blamed those sanctions for the country's widespread problems and its prolonged delays on debt payments.
Related: Venezuela President tells people to eat rabbits amid food shortages Excuses aside, experts say Venezuela is likely to default on its debt.
It's just anyone's guess when that exactly will happen.
The government has come close to defaulting before, only to find cash at the last moment.
What's different now is that its cash pile has dwindled significantly.
The consequences of a default would be dire, though the full domino effect may not take place immediately.
Foreign investors would have the right to seize Venezuela's only valuable asset -- oil -- outside the country.
That would strangle the government's cash flow, severely restricting its ability to import food and other essentials.
Maduro's grip on power would be loosened, experts say.
"A default -- that would trigger the fall of the government," says Edward Glossop, an economist who covers Latin America for Capital Economics, a research firm.
"If they were to default ... we're going to get a very painful political transition."
President Trump argues the American economy "desperately" needs "massive" tax cuts.
And there's no question that Wall Street is pumped about it.
Others are less confident that adding expensive medicine to a healthy economy is such a wise idea right now.
Morgan Stanley warned in a report this week that enacting aggressive tax cuts to businesses and individuals risks "overheating" the economy and causing stocks to "boom then bust."
The concern is that slashing the corporate tax rate to 35% from 20% could backfire by forcing the Federal Reserve to accelerate interest rate hikes.
That in turn would raise borrowing costs for consumers and businesses, potentially unnerving the stock market along the way.
"Adding stimulus to an already strong economy likely stirs the Fed...pulling forward the end of an aging cycle," Morgan Stanley strategists wrote.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady plans to unveil his 1,000-page tax reform bill this week.
Ironically, given all the excitement on Wall Street about tax cuts, Morgan Stanley argues that "failure of tax reform" would be the "best" outcome for extending the economic and market recovery from the Great Recession.
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
All of this contrasts greatly with the urgent push by Trump to enact aggressive measures for the economy.
"We desperately need tax cuts to put our people back to work," Trump told reporters on October 25 from the White House lawn.
To be sure, tax reform -- modernizing the sprawling and outdated system -- would be a smart thing to do for the long-term health of the economy.
But that's different, and less costly, than the "massive" tax cuts for businesses that Trump has promised.
Trump's push for stimulus comes despite signs of strength for the economy.
Unemployment fell in September to a 16-year low of 4.2%.
America has a record number of job openings.
Consumer confidence has soared.
And the U.S. is enjoying the best six months of growth in three years.
"There is little precedent for large-scale fiscal easing at current levels of unemployment," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.
"Maybe this won't be a problem, maybe it will."
Other economists agree that it's an unusual moment to provide meaningful help to the economy.
Normally, fiscal stimulus comes when economies are either in recession or struggling to avoid one.
Related: What to watch for in House GOP's tax reform bill But Jeff Morris, head of U.S. equities at Aberdeen Standard Investments, isn't buying the economic hype.
"The economy feels like it's stronger than it has been, but still not great," Morris said.
"We're a way off before we have to contend with the economy overheating."
Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen certainly doesn't sound like she thinks big tax cuts are needed right now.
In a September speech, Yellen said the job market is "generally healthy."
If anything, Yellen warned that the labor market "could eventually become overheated" if the Fed doesn't keep raising rates.
All of this suggests that stock market bulls should be careful what they wish for when it comes to tax cuts.
Let the vacation countdowns begin.
The percentage of Americans planning to take a vacation in the next six months jumped in October to the highest level since at least 1978, according to a report published Tuesday by the Conference Board.
The splurge in planned vacation spending reflects soaring optimism about the healthy jobs market and booming stock market.
The unemployment rate of 4.2% is the lowest in 16 years and the Dow has zoomed to record highs.
Consumer confidence, as measured by the Conference Board, climbed in October to 125.9 -- the best level of the recovery from the Great Recession.
Confidence hasn't been this high since December 2000.
"Consumer confidence is going straight up along with the stock market," Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank, wrote in a report on Tuesday.
Spending intentions were a bit mixed, with one glaring exception: travel plans.
The percentage of Americans plotting vacations spiked by more than 11 percentage points to 63.5%.
To put that in context, in April 2009 just one-third of consumers said they planned to take a vacation.
That was during the Great Recession and the U.S. unemployment rate was sitting at nearly 9%.
Almost half of those surveyed this month said they plan to travel in the U.S, while another 14.5% said they would go abroad.
All this travel talk is terrific news for travel companies like Expedia (EXPE) and TripAdvisor (TRIP) as well as hotel chains and cruise operators.
Other winners include airlines and car rental services: Just over one-quarter of Americans plan to fly, while almost one-third will drive.
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
Of course, not all Americans feel good enough to travel right now.
Those making $25,000 to $34,999 have a confidence score of 105.9, which is down from September and roughly even with after the election.
Compare that with the increasingly euphoric confidence levels of 160.9 for those with household income of $125,000 or more.
"The advancing tide is not lifting all the boats," Rupkey said, adding that it's a "tale of two Americas."
Millennials (under 35) also registered the lowest confidence since February and remain less upbeat than those 35-54.
The key for the economy is whether soaring consumer sentiment translates to actual spending this fall.
Sometimes consumers say they feel good, but don't open their wallets more.
For instance, consumer spending slowed during the third quarter despite strong confidence.
However, Andrew Hunter, U.S. economist at Capital Economics, predicted in a report that confident Americans are likely to accelerate their spending during the final three months of the year.
If anything, Hunter argued that consumer sentiment is "starting to look increasingly overdone."
While extremely high confidence may sound like a good thing, in the past it has signaled the economy and stock market had reached a peak.
Fear reigned over Mexico's economy last November following President Trump's stunning win in the U.S. presidential election.
The Mexican peso crashed 11% immediately, hitting an all-time low.
Mexico's stock market lost 19% of its value in the three days following.
Its central bank initiated a "contingency plan" to mitigate losses.
But a year later, Mexico has withstood major concerns that its economy would collapse and it's continued to grow.
"It was a lot more resilient than expected," says Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America research at Goldman Sachs.
"That doesn't mean the economy is out of the woods though."
On Tuesday, Mexico's statistics agency said the economy grew 1.7% between July and September at an annual rate.
A devastating earthquake in September that killed over 300 people likely held back growth, economists say.
No doubt, other major challenges lie ahead for the Mexican economy, including a presidential election next July and the ongoing renegotiation of NAFTA, the three nation trade pact between Canada, the United States and Mexico.
But its progress this year defied major threats from Washington.
During and after his campaign, Trump threatened to slap tariffs on products made in Mexico.
About 80% of Mexican exports go the U.S., making trade a key ingredient to its economy.
Related: Mexico loses tuna trade battle to the Trump administration Even today, Trump threatens to pull out of NAFTA.
Exiting it would carry consequences for Mexico, Canada and the United States, but many experts say Mexico would get hit hardest.
Still, Mexico's economy is moving forward.
The peso is up 7% against the dollar this year, though it lost some gains in recent weeks as NAFTA talks soured.
The stock market is also up 7% so far this year.
The economy is on pace to grow about 2%, roughly on par with U.S. growth.
Real wages are expected to pick up in the coming months as inflation cools down.
Remittances, a key source of income for low-income Mexicans, are on pace for another all-time record.
The election may be Mexico's biggest concern.
The front runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, is a populist candidate who promises to get tough on trade with Trump.
That rhetoric has stoked some fears in the business community.
A decline in oil production has also slowed down overall economic growth this year.
But so far, fears over the fate of Mexico's economy haven't become a reality.
"There may be problems down the road, but the initial doom and gloom was a bit overdone," says Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics.
"The economy didn't collapse in the way that perhaps others expected."
Amazon, Google owner Alphabet and Microsoft all wowed Wall Street and Silicon Valley with their latest earnings reports last week.
And hopes are high for Apple and Facebook when they release their financial results later this week.
So is it any wonder that this tech quintet continues to dominate the market?
Shares of Apple (AAPL, Tech30), which is getting fairly solid reviews for its new iPhone X, are now up 45% this year.
Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) has surged nearly 50% while Facebook (FB, Tech30) is up more than 55%.
Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30)and Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) are both up more than 30% too.
So they are all even outperforming the red hot Nasdaq, which has gained 25% so far this year.
In fact, all five stocks are trading either at or very close to their all-time highs.
Apple is now worth a staggering $870 billion.
The stock has to go up just 15% more for Apple to top a trillion dollars in market value.
In fact, these five tech titans each sport market caps in excess of half a trillion dollars.
Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook are collectively worth nearly $3.3 trillion.
That's up from a combined valuation of about $2.2 trillion just two years ago.
The stocks are surging even as legal executives from Facebook and Google as well as Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) get set to testify in front of Congress about how Russia used ads, posts and videos on these sites to try and influence last year's presidential election.
Related: Facebook estimates 126 million Americans were served Russia-linked content Wall Street has largely brushed aside concerns about Russia's social media moves and what that might mean for the future of Facebook and Google's YouTube.
Both companies continue to dominate the online and mobile advertising world after all.
Investors don't seem too concerned about other company-specific issues facing some of the Fab Five of tech either.
Apple fans, for example, are focusing more on the apparently strong demand for the iPhone X and less on the reportedly lackluster sales for the iPhone 8 as well as general concerns that Apple is way too reliant on the iPhone for its sales and profits.
And Amazon investors continue to brush aside worries that it may be stretching itself too thin as it pushes deeper into brick and mortar retail with Whole Foods and physical Amazon stores and may be looking to do more in the world of health care too.
But if these five keep posting huge profits from their core businesses and big growth from emerging areas, such as the cloud for Amazon and Microsoft and virtual and augmented reality for Facebook, Google and Apple, then the sky may be the limit for them.
General Electric has spent a decade dismantling its empire.
Now it's about to get even smaller.
GE has already jettisoned its gigantic real estate portfolio, its dishwasher and appliance business, and legendary media properties NBC and Universal Studios.
More recently, it unloaded its water business and a unit that makes electrical equipment for utilities.
Even the light bulb division is up for sale.
All this is part of GE's mission to focus on being a modern industrial company that sells things like jet engines, power plants and MRI machines.
Now GE (GE) is planning to shrink itself further because of mounting financial troubles that have crushed the stock and led to fears that it will cut its coveted dividend for only the second time since the Great Depression.
GE recently revealed plans to get rid of businesses worth at least $20 billion in the next year or two.
One unit that could be on the chopping block is its struggling railroad business, which GE has owned for more than a century.
Yet another round of downsizing shows just how desperately the company needs the cash.
"GE is in a cash crunch," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who covers GE and has a "sell" rating on the stock.
"They are not generating enough cash flow this year to pay the dividend.
That's a problem."
Given the scale of GE's problems, some analysts are predicting that its new management team could be even more aggressive in trying to unload businesses.
"We would imagine something much bigger once the dust settles," Scott Davis, CEO and lead analyst at Melius Research, wrote in a recent report.
He added that GE will likely sell anything that "isn't nailed down."
GE's workforce has also shrunk in recent years -- and analysts expect the company may announce layoffs soon.
GE employed about 295,000 people at the end of last year.
That's down from about 333,000 at the end of 2015.
Related: GE's nightmare just got worse GE is scrambling to ease serious concern on Wall Street about the company and its beloved dividend.
GE's stock has plunged 35% this year, making the iconic company the worst performer on the Dow by a long shot.
(The next closest is Verizon (VZ, Tech30), down 8%.)
Earlier this month, GE reported dreadful results that new CEO John Flannery called "completely unacceptable."
Last week, GE stock tumbled nearly 13%, its worst week since January 2009.
And that was during the financial crisis, a time when investors fled GE because they worried about its massive financial arm, known as GE Capital.
GE has since unwound most of GE Capital, selling off at least $150 billion of assets.
That included GE Capital's real estate business, most of which was acquired by Blackstone (BX) and Wells Fargo (WFC).
Last year, GE also merged its oil and gas business with Baker Hughes (BHGE).
The combined company is majority-owned by GE and trades separately on the New York Stock Exchange.
GE did make one recent takeover splash: In 2015, it completed the acquisition of Alstom's power and grid businesses.
It was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase.
Related: Could GE get booted from the Dow after 110 years?
Still, Flannery believes GE is too complex.
While GE has a "number of strong franchises," Flannery said during a recent conference call that other businesses "drain investment and management resources without the prospect for a substantial reward."
Unlike companies that make simple products like clothing, GE's jet engines, locomotives and power plant systems require expensive engineering, factories, equipment and manpower to create.
That makes it difficult to be nimble during downturns, such as the one facing GE's power business.
"When markets turn down, you can get caught," said Inch.
Another business getting hit hard is the railroad unit.
GE is planning to get out of the railroad business through a potential sale or spinoff, The Wall Street Journal reported last week.
GE could also unload part or all of its healthcare IT business, the paper reported.
GE declined to comment on "rumor or speculation."
It's too early to tell whether GE's plans to sell off assets will do enough to ease worries on Wall Street about the company's future.
"This is going to take a very long time to fix," Inch said.
"They have a crisis of investor confidence."
It's getting easier to do business in India.
But there's still a long way to go.
The country leaped 30 spots to 100 in the World Bank's latest global ranking published Tuesday.
That's welcome news for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has come under fire for his handling of a series of big economic reforms that have slowed growth sharply.
Modi's government took advantage of the World Bank announcement to defend its policies.
"I remember in the very first year, the prime minister had said our target should be to take India into the [top] 50, I believe this is doable," Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said at a press conference Tuesday.
"There's huge scope for us to now jump from this position of 100."
Sadanand Dhume, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington D.C., said the World Bank's ranking tells only part of the story but the improvement in India's position was "undeniably positive news."
"This is the first time that India has climbed so dramatically in the ease of doing business rankings and it sends a message to international investors that the government is committed to slashing India's notorious red tape and rolling out the red carpet for them," Dhume said.
The World Bank also named India as one of the top 10 countries in reforming its business environment, recognizing its strengthened protections for minority investors and progress in digitization.
"Today's result is a very clear signal from India to the rest of the world, not only is the country open and ready for business, it's now competing as a preferred place to do business," said Annette Dixon, the World Bank's vice president, South Asia Region.
A slowing economy But the Ease of Doing Business index presents only a partial snapshot of what's happening on the ground.
In the last 12 months, Modi's government carried out two huge reforms which political rivals have described as torpedoes: The first, a cash ban that replaced India's highest denomination notes; the second, a national tax system that replaced more than a dozen state and central taxes.
Following the changes, India's growth slowed to 5.7% in the first half of 2017, its weakest rate in three years.
India's central bank has slashed its growth forecast for the current fiscal year to 6.7% from 7.3%.
And researchers estimate that the economy lost two million jobs between January and August this year.
A tale of two cities The survey is conducted across major cities in 190 countries around the world.
In most countries, it focuses on only one city per country.
In larger countries, it looks at two.
In India's case, it covers Delhi, the capital, and Mumbai, the leading financial center.
That leaves out vast swathes of the country of 1.3 billion people, and some major business locations such as Bangalore and Hyderabad.
Another criticism is that countries get credit for passing laws, even if they haven't been widely implemented yet.
A new law mandating speedier resolution of bankruptcy cases, for example, has "really not been tested in the courts," said Pratik Dattani, managing director at Economic Policy Group.
"On paper this is exactly the right direction to travel."
Moving further ahead in the rankings will require changes in business culture, he said.
"Getting from 100 to 90 or 80 or 70, that's much, much harder."
The other shoe has dropped for struggling sneaker company Under Armour.
Under Armour reported quarterly sales Tuesday that fell nearly 5% from a year ago, missing forecasts badly.
The company also lowered its outlook for the year again.
That news sent the company's two classes of stock down more than 20% Tuesday.
They had already lost nearly half their value for the year ahead of the earnings report.
(Under Armour's UAA (UAA) shares have voting rights while the UA (UA) shares do not.)
CEO Kevin Plank said in the earnings release that the biggest problem is lower demand for its shoes and athletic apparel in its home market of the United States.
The Baltimore-based company has been growing internationally, with sales surging in Europe, Latin America and Asia during the quarter.
Related: Under Armour's CEO had to ditch Trump But those markets are still relatively tiny for Under Armour.
Revenue in North America makes up more than three-quarters of its overall sales -- and those sales plunged 12% in the third quarter.
It's a stunning fall from grace for Under Armour, which not that long ago was gaining market share at the expense of Nike and Adidas.
The company signed Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry a few years ago, a move that seemed like a slam dunk success, since Curry has gone on to win multiple NBA MVP awards and two championships.
But several iterations of the Curry shoes have routinely been mocked on social media for not looking cool.
Even Curry's teammate Kevin Durant, who endorses Nike (NKE), poked fun at Under Armour earlier this year.
Making matters worse, there have been reports of supply chain issues with the new Curry 4 line of sneakers.
And Under Armour confirmed during its conference call with analysts Tuesday that it will delay some products to the fourth quarter.
Related: Air ball!
Nobody's buying expensive sneakers Under Armour also suffered from bad PR earlier this year after Plank agreed to join the White House's now defunct manufacturing council.
Plank said in an interview with CNBC that "a pro-business president is something that is a real asset for the country."
Curry told The Mercury News that he agreed with Plank -- but only "if you remove the 'et' from asset."
Other professional athletes have been vocal about their disagreements with Trump as well.
As such, Plank -- like many other CEOs -- has distanced himself from Trump lately.
After Trump was reluctant to criticize neo-Nazis at a white supremacist rally, he then bashed Curry for not wanting to visit the White House and attacked athletes who protested the national anthem.
Under Armour has come to the defense of its star endorsers.
But that hasn't been enough to rejuvenate Under Armour's flagging sales or stock price.
Meanwhile, Adidas (ADDYY) has thrived in the past year while Under Armour and Nike have both struggled.
Even Skechers (SKX) has enjoyed a resurgence lately.
So what can Under Armour do to get back on track?
Neil Saunders, managing director of the research firm GlobalData Retail, wrote in a report that the company should continue to focus on expanding globally, which has been successful for Under Armour.
But Saunders added that the company has to do more to court women as consumers, as Nike, Adidas and yoga apparel king Lululemon (LULU) have successfully done.
"Under Armour is not so broken that it cannot be fixed.
But the days of glory, when it would post double-digit uplifts in sales, are over.
Now is the time to work out, slim down, and become more competitive," Saunders wrote.
Planning on buying a house in New Zealand?
You may need to rethink your strategy.
The country's new prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said Tuesday she plans to ban foreigners from buying existing properties in the country.
She blames them for soaring prices that have left many New Zealanders unable to enter the property market.
Ardern, who took office this month, said at a news conference that overseas investors will be largely locked out of the real estate market from early next year.
"This presents and represents a simple, clean solution to help us to act in the interests of home buyers in New Zealand," she said.
Under the rules, the government will classify housing as "sensitive" and subject buyers to a residency test.
Related: Why did Trump backer Peter Thiel become a New Zealand citizen?
Property prices in the country -- a popular tourist destination known for its impressive scenery -- have surged in recent years, propelled by low interest rates, investment from overseas and zoning restrictions.
A study earlier this year by public policy firm Demographia ranked Auckland, New Zealand's biggest city, as the fourth most unaffordable housing market in the world.
House prices are up about 10% so far this year, according to central bank data.
And home ownership rates are sliding.
About 60% of New Zealanders own their own homes, down from roughly 75% in 1992.
Clear data on foreign investment in New Zealand's property market is hard to come by, but Land Information New Zealand suggests foreign buyers account for as little as 3% of total transactions.
The biggest proportion of foreign buyers are registered in China.
Related: 10 most expensive cities in 2017 The new rules on foreign purchases won't apply to land, or to properties that haven't been built yet.
They also don't apply to foreign residents living in the country or Australians.
Ahead of September's election, Labour Party leader Ardern campaigned on a platform of making housing more affordable.
However, some experts questioned whether such policies are effective.
"This is a very much global trend with governments looking at foreign buyers and what they can buy," said Sophie Chick, head of research at real estate firm Savills Australia.
Australia has tried to cool its own red-hot property market with measures including a similar ban on foreign investors buying existing properties.
"Despite that, we've seen strong price growth," Chick said.
She added that many foreign investors prefer to put their money into new properties that haven't been built yet, which aren't included under the planned rules in New Zealand.
Ardern said that she was seeking to introduce legislation for the new restrictions before the end of the year.
China looks set to relax months of pressure on major South Korean businesses after agreeing Tuesday to improve relations with the government in Seoul.
The news of the thawing ties gave a lift to big South Korean companies that sell into China.
The two countries fell out a year ago over South Korea's decision to deploy a U.S. missile defense system on its territory.
That led to a widespread boycott of South Korean businesses in China, such as automaker Hyundai (HYMTF) and conglomerate Lotte.
The Chinese government also prodded travel agents to stop selling tours to South Korea, which is a popular destination for Chinese tourists.
China is highly sensitive about any buildup of Western military forces in the region and worries that the U.S. missile system -- known as THAAD -- could be used to spy on it.
South Korea and the U.S. say it's needed to defend against North Korean nuclear threats.
Related: China can squeeze its neighbors when it wants.
Ask South Korea China is South Korea's biggest trading partner, and investors are hoping Beijing's decision to move on from the THAAD dispute will boost business ties between the two countries.
Hyundai (HYMTF), whose China sales had taken a major hit from the THAAD spat, jumped 3.2% on Tuesday, while Lotte Shopping soared 7.1%.
The Lotte conglomerate, whose land was used to house the THAAD batteries, has suffered a series of setbacks in China during the dispute.
Duty-free retailer Hotel Shilla, which targets Chinese tourists in Seoul, gained 2.2%.
Related: China, South Korea end year-long diplomatic feud over missile system Regina Hahm, an analyst with Mirae Asset Daewoo Securities, said investors had been expecting an improvement in relations between China and South Korea after the two countries announced a foreign currency agreement two weeks ago.
However, she cautioned that it will probably take until the first half of next year for Chinese tourist numbers to South Korea to start picking up again.
China is still unhappy about the deployment of THAAD in what it views as its backyard, but the statement from both countries said they would continue to discuss the matter via military channels.
The South Korean government said Tuesday's announcement was just the "first step" in getting relations with China back to normal.
The news comes just days before President Trump's trip to Asia.
He's due to visit both South Korea and China, as well as Japan.
Stocks in South Korea have been on fire this year.
The benchmark Kospi has soared 25% to a record high thanks to an improving global economy and blockbuster profits at Samsung Electronics (SSNLF), whose stock accounts for a large portion of the index.
-- Lauren Suk contributed to this report.
If Jerome Powell is tapped as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, he'll be the first former investment banker to hold the position.
Sources tell CNN Trump is likely reveal his pick to head the Fed on Thursday, and Powell, 64, is reported to be the leading contender.
He's been a governor at the nation's central bank since he was nominated by President Obama in 2012.
At the time of his appointment, he was a visiting scholar at a Washington think tank.
But much of his career has been in investment banking and private equity.
Powell, a Princeton graduate, was a lawyer in New York before he joined the investment bank Dillon Reed & Co. in 1984.
He stayed there until he joined the Treasury Department in 1990.
After he left Treasury, he became a partner in 1997 at The Carlyle Group (CG), the private equity and asset management giant.
He left Carlyle in 2005.
Powell would not only be the first investment banker to head the Fed, but he'd also be the first individual who is not an economist to take the helm in more than 40 years.
Related: Trump leaning toward banker Jerome Powell to run Fed Current Chair Janet Yellen was an economics professor before she was named a Fed governor.
Ben Bernanke, her predecessor, had a similar career path.
Alan Greenspan was the head of an economic consulting firm he founded, while Paul Volcker worked primarily as an economist at the Fed and the Treasury department.
He did work at Chase Manhattan bank back in the 1960s, but that was when commercial banks like Chase were not allowed to do investment banking.
And thanks to his investment banking background, Powell will also be far wealthier than his recent predecessors.
Powell's assets are worth between $21 million and $61 million, according to financial disclosures which require officials to give a range in the value of their various holdings.
Yellen and her husband, Nobel-prize winning economist George Akerlof, have assets worth between $5 million and $13 million.
Bernanke had assets worth between $1.1 million and $2.3 million, according to public financial disclosure forms.
An investment banker has never had the top job at the Fed, but Fed critics have often complained about the so-called "revolving door" between Wall Street firms and the Federal Reserve.
Four of the Fed's current 12 regional bank presidents used to work at Goldman Sachs (GS), which has raised concerns that the Fed won't be tough enough in regulating big banks.
Related: Trump to announce Fed chair pick Thursday, says White House official Powell has worked with Yellen on a daily basis for years, so it's doubtful there would be a major shift in monetary policy if he gets the top job.
But he might part ways slightly with Yellen when it comes to the regulatory reforms put in place at the Fed after the financial crisis.
Powell largely supports Dodd-Frank, the sweeping set of reforms instituted after the financial crisis to make banks healthier.
President Trump has at times threatened to get rid of parts or all of Dodd-Frank.
But he has also urged Congress to rewrite one provision of Dodd-Frank called the Volcker Rule, which is meant to prevent banks from making risky bets using taxpayer money.
Powell argued in June that it creates an unnecessary burden on small community banks.
"He'd be a little less tough on banks than Yellen," says David Wessel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
"But not nearly as easy on the banks as the Trump administration wants to be."
General Motors has been red hot lately -- perhaps too hot.
Goldman Sachs downgraded the auto maker's stock to a rare "sell" rating Monday, arguing that GM has benefited from too much hype about electric vehicles and self-driving cars.
The Goldman analysts argue that GM is doing a good job of promoting its strategy for producing more autonomous and electric cars.
But that's helped lead to a big, and unsustainable, spike in GM's stock lately, according to Goldman.
Although shares of GM (GM) fell nearly 3% after the Goldman ratings cut Monday, the stock is still up 25% this year and is near its highest levels since the "new" GM emerged from its taxpayer funded bankruptcy and began trading again in 2010.
These are still the early stages for electric cars.
And there might be too much hoopla -- and also a lot of competition from the likes of traditional rivals Ford (F) and Toyota (TM) as well as upstart Tesla (TSLA).
The Goldman analysts think that even though regulators would love to have fewer gas-guzzling cars on the road, the costs of owning an electric vehicle may be too high for many drivers unless there are more government subsidies and incentives for them.
"While pursuing battery electric vehicles early likely helps in the long-run for tightening emissions regulations, we continue to believe that high battery costs make these vehicles unappealing to the consumer," the Goldman analysts wrote in a report.
Related: GM unveils futuristic self-driving army truck Goldman Sachs is pretty bearish on Tesla too though -- and that has turned out to be a bad call so far.
The investment bank that many refer to as the Vampire Squid, downgraded Tesla to a "sell" in late February -- and Tesla's stock has gained 25% since then.
Still, the Goldman analysts also think GM is getting too much attention for its autonomous vehicles plans.
Many investors seem excited by the notion that in the future there will be armies of self-driving cars available for ridesharing.
The Goldman analysts worry that "the market appears to have already rewarded GM for its self-driving car plans and also that "current industry ride-hailing models are generally unprofitable."
The bigger concern though?
Prices for autonomous cars, especially ones made for ridesharing, could fall even further due to intense competition.
In addition to the threat from other big car companies, Uber is expected to be a big player in self-driving cars, as are the Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30)-owned Waymo as well as Apple (AAPL, Tech30).
The Goldman analysts even warned of a "deflationary environment" in the market.
The Goldman analysts also think GM will face more competition in the truck market from Ford as it revamps its F-series line, and that SUV and crossover prices may fall as the entire auto industry looks to produce more of these larger vehicles.
While price wars may be music to the ears of consumers, they rarely turn out well for investors.
Relief is taking hold in Spain.
The country's benchmark stock index added 2.5% on Monday as Madrid moved to assert its authority over the wealthy region of Catalonia.
The Ibex 35 was the top-performing stock index in Europe, where most major markets were little changed.
The rally was helped by positive economic data.
The euro also gained against the dollar.
Spanish stocks have been volatile in recent weeks since a contested independence referendum in Catalonia plunged the country into its worst political crisis in decades.
Now Spain's central government is imposing its will on the restive region.
Madrid suspended Catalonia's broad self-rule after the regional parliament unilaterally declared independence on Friday.
Stocks fell as a result.
The state prosecutor said Monday that he is seeking charges of rebellion, sedition and misuse of public funds against Catalan leaders.
Civil servants in Catalonia returned to work under the Spanish government's control.
Related: Spanish prosecutor seeks charges for deposed Catalan leaders Two key pro-independence parties also said they would participate in regional elections that Madrid has scheduled for December 21.
Businesses have been caught in the dispute.
Catalonia, Spain's most economically productive region, hosts 7,100 foreign companies, including Volkswagen, Nissan and Cisco.
Its capital of Barcelona is a major tourist hub.
Analysts say it's not clear how much economic damage might be caused by Madrid's direct rule, but it could disrupt local government services.
Some executives aren't waiting to see what happens next, and have already moved their headquarters out of Catalonia.
Those include major financial firms CaixaBank and Banco Sabadell, real estate company Colonial and energy supplier Gas Natural Fenosa.
Catalonia accounts for nearly a fifth of Spain's economy.
1.
Tax bill revealed: President Trump's push to overhaul the U.S. tax system is about to face its biggest test yet.
Up until this point, the GOP tax "plan" has been limited to a broad, mostly detail-free framework of ideas that many lawmakers and business groups could get behind.
But come Wednesday, it will be all about the details when House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady promises to unveil his 1,000-page tax reform bill.
And it's those critical details in the bill that could make or break the legislation.
At issue: How will Brady propose to pay for the big business tax cuts Republicans have promised?
Lawmakers, businesses and lobbyists will fight tooth and nail to preserve tax breaks they covet.
"Expect them to push back as if this was a life-or-death struggle because for many, it is," Chris Krueger, managing director of the Cowen Washington Research Group, wrote in a recent report.
"Welcome to the corporate hunger game."
The official path to modernize America's outdated tax system was created when the House narrowly (216-212) passed a budget this week that includes instructions to fast-track a tax reform bill that allows for $1.5 trillion worth of tax cuts over 10 years.
But it won't be an easy path.
"The road ahead is bumpy and riddled with potholes," Isaac Boltansky, senior policy analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading, wrote in a recent report.
Of course, Wall Street will be watching the tax battle very closely because hopes for massive tax cuts have helped send the stock market to new heights in recent months.
Investors could get nervous if it looks like those tax cuts will be scuttled by GOP infighting.
In any case, "expect some near-term volatility both in Washington and on Wall Street once the legislative text is released," Boltansky said.
2.
Jobs report: The Labor Department is scheduled to release October's job numbers on Friday.
The U.S. lost 33,000 jobs in September -- the first monthly decline in employment in seven years -- thanks in large part to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
But overall, America's job market is in good shape.
Unemployment is at a 16-year low, and weekly jobless claims are consistently down.
The only problem is that wages aren't increasing by very much, making it difficult for consumers to keep pace with inflation.
We'll see on Friday whether that continues to be the case.
3.
Fed meets as Trump mulls new chair: The Federal Reserve meets this week, with a decision on interest rates set to be announced on Wednesday.
Don't expect too much: The Fed is not likely to raise rates this time.
But Janet Yellen's term as Fed chair is coming to an end, and President Trump is expected to pick her successor -- or decide to stick with her -- next week.
So even without a rate hike, there's a chance we could hear something interesting from Yellen.
4.
Apple's fourth quarter results: Apple (AAPL, Tech30) is set to announce its fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday.
In August, Apple said it expects sales for the quarter to come in as high as $52 billion.
Since then, the company has announced and launched three new phones.
The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus have been on sale for weeks, and customers were able start ordering the iPhone X online this week.
The X will hit stores on Friday.
So far, sales of the 8 and 8 plus have reportedly been lackluster.
According to the research firm Consumer Intelligence Research Partners, the 8 and 8 plus accounted for just 16% of total U.S. iPhone sales in the quarter ending on October 1.
The iPhone 7 and 7 plus, for comparison's sake, made up 43% of sales in the same time last year.
5.
Facebook earnings: Facebook (FB, Tech30) heads to the earnings stage on Wednesday.
On Wall Street, at least, the social media giant has had a successful 2017.
The company's stock has soared more than 50% this year.
And though Facebook's growth has been slowing, the company is still expanding.
But the company has also had some very public faux pas, from CEO Mark Zuckerberg's virtual visit to Puerto Rico to revelations that the social media platform hosted Russia-linked ads.
Investors might ask Facebook to explain itself.
6.
Coming this week: Monday -- Mondelz (MDLZ) reports earnings Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Under Armour (UA) report earnings Wednesday -- Facebook, New York Times (NYT), Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill Thursday -- Apple, Starbucks (SBUX), Yum!
Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores
The company that owns Corona is getting into Canadian pot.
Constellation Brands (STZ) has agreed to pay $190 million for a 10% stake in Canopy Growth Corporation, which sells medical marijuana in Canada and plans to sell recreational pot there when it becomes legal, as soon as next July.
Canopy CEO Bruce Linton told CNNMoney that it's the first time a major alcohol manufacturer is investing in cannabis.
He said he plans to develop a pot-infused, non-alcoholic drink for the Canadian market.
He said it will have zero calories, won't cause hangovers, and is the kind of thing you'd have before going to a comedy club.
"You may feel giddy," he said.
Constellation CEO Rob Sands, in a statement, called cannabis "an emerging market that is predicted to become a significant consumer category in the near future."
But Constellation stressed it has no plans to sell pot in the United States unless it is legal at all levels.
Recreational marijuana is legal in eight states and Washington, D.C., and medical marijuana is legal in 29 states, but it's illegal in the eyes of the federal government.
Constellation has 76 brands, including Modelo and Pacifico beer, Svedka vodka, and Wild Irish Rose wine.
Related: Retail marijuana is spreading to California, Massachusetts, Maine Canopy is publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol WEED.
The company produces several brands of medical cannabis, including Tweed, Spectrum and Bedrocan.
Canopy says that its Tweed Farms greenhouse is the largest marijuana greenhouse in the world.
Canopy spokesman Jordan Sinclair told CNNMoney that his company plans to sell recreational marijuana when it becomes legal in Canada "and in any federally legal market opportunities that emerge around the world."
Constellation did not return messages from CNNMoney.
Things haven't been this good at Nintendo for a long time.
The Japanese video game maker ramped up its sales and profit forecasts on Monday as consumers race to buy its latest console, the Switch.
Nintendo (NTDOF) said it now expects operating profit for the current financial year of 120 billion yen ($1.06 billion), nearly double the 65 billion yen ($572 million) it predicted three months ago.
That would be its best performance since 2010 when smash hit devices like the Wii and DS were still selling well.
When the Switch went on sale in March, the company said it couldn't ship enough devices to meet the huge demand.
Those problems seem to be easing: Nintendo now expects to sell 14 million of the consoles for the year ending March 2018, up from its previous forecast of 10 million.
Related: Nintendo's mini-sized classic console is coming back in 2018 And it's not just the hardware boosting the bottom line.
"Super Mario Odyssey" -- Nintendo's latest installment of the gaming industry's best-selling franchise -- released Friday on the Switch to positive reviews.
The company also tapped another of its classic titles -- "The Legend of Zelda" -- for the Switch back in April.
Nintendo now forecasts sales of 50 million Switch games for the year, up from its previous estimate of 35 million.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best With the Switch, the Japanese company bet that gamers would be willing to part with their money for a hybrid device they can play both at home and on the move.
It appears to have paid off.
Analysts expect Nintendo to take advantage of the Switch's success to tap into the widespread popularity of mobile games.
Chinese tech giant Tencent (TCEHY) has announced it will release a popular mobile game, "Arena of Valor," for the console -- a big boost for Nintendo.
"The Nintendo Switch is at the vanguard of the firm's new strategy," brokerage firm Daiwa wrote in an investor's note on Friday, adding that the console will enable Nintendo "to lay claim to a greater share of the mobile game market."
Related: Nintendo Switch sales are off to a roaring start Nintendo watchers are also optimistic about the company's ability make more money by developing smartphone versions of its treasure trove of classic game titles.
"Switch is the big driver for now and the next 3-5 years," video game analysts Jeffries wrote in a recent note.
But after that, Nintendo's mobile games business "will become a force to reckon with."
"Super Mario Run," the company's first foray into mobile games, broke an Apple (AAPL, Tech30) record for app downloads in its first few days.
But many users complained about the high price they had to pay to unlock all of the game's levels.
But Nintendo appears to have learned from that experience as it prepares to roll out a mobile version of another popular game, "Animal Crossing."
Thanks to brisk Switch sales and the expectation of more mobile game offerings, gains in Nintendo shares have reached a whopping 75% so far this year.
Its shares ended down 0.3% in Tokyo on Monday ahead of the company's earnings report.
America's economy and jobs market look quite healthy right now.
But President Trump is demanding very expensive surgery anyway.
New numbers released Friday show that the U.S. has grown at 3% for back-to-back quarters for the first time in three years.
Unemployment is sitting at just 4.2%, the lowest in 16 years.
And consumer sentiment rose in October to levels unseen since early 2004.
Despite the obvious strength in the economy, Trump recently promised on Twitter the "biggest TAX CUT" ever, adding "we need it!"
Trump says he wants to push through both tax reform, which would modernize the outdated tax code, and to provide tax cuts to individuals and businesses.
Given how healthy the economy is, some economists are mystified over Trump's urgent push for tax cuts that are likely to be paid for by adding to America's mountain of debt.
Related: Economy posts impressive growth despite hurricanes "No other president in modern economic history has tried to do this," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank.
"It just seems completely unnecessary.
With unemployment at 4.2%, why on earth would we try to stimulate the economy?"
Normally, presidents ask Congress for deficit-financed tax cuts when the economy is weak.
That's what President Obama did in 2009 during the Great Recession, and President George W. Bush did the same after the 2001 downturn.
"This is kind of an odd time to get fiscal stimulus.
It's not like we're in a recession, or coming out of one," said Gus Faucher, chief economist at PNC.
Here's the problem: There will be another recession, eventually.
And spending heavily to slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35% today could leave Congress with fewer options to tackle the next downturn.
The current economic expansion is already the second-longest ever.
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
The Tax Policy Center estimates that Trump's tax overhaul would slash federal revenue by $2.4 trillion over 10 years, and by $3.2 trillion over the second decade.
And the national debt is already 77% of GDP, and slated to keep growing.
"The risk is we don't have the money for a rainy day.
It's borderline irresponsible," said Rupkey.
It's true that the U.S. economy is not perfect.
Businesses remain reluctant to spend, and Americans aren't getting the raises they deserve.
Wage growth has been sluggish, although that improved in September.
It's also true that tax reform is an admirable goal, no matter how fast the economy is growing.
Tax reform, which is aimed at making the sprawling and outdated system more efficient, is different and much less costly than tax cuts.
"Tax reform that is paid for is much better for the economy than a plan that adds to the debt," Maya MacGuineas, president of the nonpartisan Committee for Responsible Federal Budget, wrote recently.
Some experts believe that efforts to reform the tax code will fail once details of the bill are finally unveiled on November 1, leaving the GOP to push simple tax cuts instead.
"We continue to expect deficit-increasing tax cuts, not...deficit-neutral tax reform," Barclays economist Michael Gapen wrote in a recent report.
Given that the U.S. economy is "at full employment," Gapen believes that tax cuts will provide a "temporary boost" to GDP of just 0.5 percentage points.
That would leave 2018 growth near 2.8%.
The White House was asked on Friday by reporters about the need for tax cuts given solid GDP growth.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street Kevin Hassett, chair of Trump's Council of Economic Advisers, argued that the U.S. economy has accelerated because businesses are excited about tax and regulatory reform.
Hassett also predicted that lowering the corporate tax rate and allowing businesses to immediately write off investments could increase GDP by 3% to 5%, as well as boost wages.
Without tax cuts and tax relief, the U.S. will be stuck with "depressed wage growth," the White House said in a statement on Friday.
Rupkey concedes that tax reform could boost wages, but he's skeptical that wage growth will accelerate by a meaningful amount.
Some economists fear that stimulus at this point in the economic cycle could be too much of a good thing.
"The worry is that by adding fuel to what's already, believe it or not, a pretty fiery economy in the U.S., you risk driving inflation and overheating growth," said Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney Capital.
Such an outcome could spur the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates so rapidly that it derails the stock market and burdens businesses and consumers with higher borrowing costs.
"Deficit-financed tax cuts are the wrong way to go at this point," said Faucher.
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report
If CVS buys Aetna, it wouldn't only be the largest U.S. merger of the year -- it would be the largest American health insurance deal of all time.
CVS (CVS) is considering buying Aetna (AET) for about $66 billion, according to the Wall Street Journal.
The companies are reportedly in active merger discussions.
The hefty price tag would easily surpass Express Scripts' $29 billion acquisition of Medco in 2012, the current largest health provider merger.
If the two companies agree to the deal, it would also be much larger than the two most expensive deals of the year, according to analytical firm Dealogic.
Medical equipment supplier Becton Dickinson announced plans to acquire C R Bard for $24 billion and United Technologies has a $23 billion deal to acquire Rockwell Collins.
Related: Amazon may be factor behind rumored CVS, Aetna merger Mergers and acquisitions have been on a downward trend from their 2015 peak, according to Datalogic.
The total dollar value of corporate deals is down 29% this year -- and half of what it was in 2015.
Tech sector mergers have also fallen this year their lowest point since 2003, Morgan Stanley says.
"The current M&A cycle appears to be ending in the US," the firm wrote in a research note Thursday.
Still, there has been significant activity in the health care space -- even if two of the biggest deals never saw the light of day.
In 2015, Anthem agreed to acquire Cigna for $54 billion and Aetna and Humana announced a $34 billion merger, but both deals fell apart.
Federal judges blocked the pair of deals in February, citing antitrust law.
Related: Aetna-Humana & Anthem-Cigna: Two mergers die in one day M&A might be dying down, but momentous deals are still happening.
For example, United Tech's blockbuster partnership with Rockwell would become of the biggest aviation mergers in history.
AT&T's (T, Tech30) $85 billion megadeal with Time Warner (TWX) -- which includes CNN -- is currently the largest agreement still pending, according to Datalogic.
The Justice Department is expected to complete its review of the agreement by the end of the year.
And the largest successful acquisition in U.S. history?
Verizon's Communications $130 billion 2013 agreement to buy out Vodafone Group's 45% stake in its wireless business.
Puerto Rico had archaic roads, bridges and electricity for years -- long before Hurricane Maria.
Then the storm devastated the island's transportation and communication networks.
President Trump says "broken infrastructure" was to blame for any delayed response by the federal government.
Seven in 10 Puerto Ricans still have no power.
Despite the suffering, one of Puerto Rico's leaders sees the hurricane's destruction as a chance for a clean slate.
Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous' lines "We have this historic opportunity: Instead of going with incremental changes, we can go and push the envelope to really transform the infrastructure," Economic Secretary Manuel Laboy told CNNMoney on Thursday in New York.
"That is the silver lining opportunity that we have."
The first sign of that type of sweeping rebuild came Wednesday, when Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced that a children's hospital in San Juan, the capital, is being powered by Tesla solar panels and power packs.
Musk wrote in an Instagram post that the project is the "first of many solar + battery Tesla projects going live in Puerto Rico."
Laboy, the economic secretary, said Tesla has "five to 10" projects in the works in Puerto Rico, including schools and community centers.
Tesla (TSLA) declined to provide specifics.
AT&T (T, Tech30) and a project owned by Google's parent company, Alphabet, teamed up to provide cell phone coverage to parts of the island cut off from communication.
Project Loon won approval from the U.S. government to fly up to 30 giant balloons over Puerto Rico, beaming down LTE service.
(AT&T is buyingTime Warner (TWX), the parent company of CNN.)
Puerto Rico is even pitching itself as a site for Amazon's second headquarters.
Laboy declined to provide specifics but said he sent Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) a lucrative package of incentives to consider.
Related: Puerto Rico power deal now under review He sees the island's recovery as a selling point with Amazon, in addition to Puerto Rico's educated and bilingual workforce.
"The opportunity to transform the infrastructure ... for me, that is a very powerful message," Laboy said.
Of course, Puerto Rico has to get the lights back on before it can carry out big plans.
And that hasn't been easy, nor without controversy.
The utility company, PREPA, found itself under fire after it gave a $300 million contract to an infrastructure repair company, Whitefish Energy.
The company only has two official employees, though it's hired hundreds of subcontractors to help restore the power grid.
Investigations are under way into the the contract's procurement.
Critics say the contract is bloated and didn't go through proper bidding.
Beyond the physical damage, Puerto Rico must overcome vast other challenges to rebuild an innovative infrastructure system.
Unemployment is high, and some the island's young, educated class has been leaving for the mainland United States for years.
Some fear the hurricane's destruction could expedite the exodus.
The island's government also filed for bankruptcy last spring.
But Laboy says those challenges shouldn't prevent Puerto Rico from thinking big.
"We need to be bold and we need to transform the system," he added.
"That is going to be the key for the recovery, and the sustainable economic growth that we are aspiring to have in Puerto Rico."
The dramatic escalation of a political crisis in Spain hit the country's benchmark stock index on Friday.
Losses on the Ibex 35 reached nearly 2% after separatist leaders in the wealthy region of Catalonia voted to establish an independent state.
The euro also weakened against the dollar, reflecting fears that the dispute could escalate into another major crisis in Europe.
Lawmakers in the regional capital of Barcelona had been threatening to break with Spain after a contested independence referendum on October 1 was marred by violence.
Related: Catalan lawmakers vote to split from Spain The declaration drew an immediate response in Madrid, where the national Senate voted to to seize control of the autonomous region.
The Spanish government is now expected to remove Catalan President Carles Puigdemont from office, and impose direct rule from Madrid.
Spanish stocks and the euro both recovered some lost ground following the response from the central government.
Businesses have been caught in the middle of the dispute.
Catalonia is Spain's most economically productive region, hosting 7,100 foreign companies including Volkswagen, Nissan and Cisco.
Analysts say it's not clear how much economic damage the imposition of home rule might cause, but it would like disrupt many of the local government services and processes on which businesses rely.
Related: These banks and businesses are leaving Catalonia Some executives aren't waiting to see what happens next, and have proactively moved their headquarters out of Catalonia.
Companies that have relocated include major financial firms CaixaBank and Banco Sabadell, as well as real estate company Colonial and energy supplier Gas Natural Fenosa.
Catalonia accounts for nearly a fifth of Spain's economy.
Jeff Bezos has leapfrogged Bill Gates again for the title of world's richest billionaire.
But they're both having a pretty good day.
Amazon stock jumped 13.5% on Friday after the company turned in another incredible earnings report -- more than a quarter-billion dollars in profit in three months.
Bezos owned nearly 80 million shares in Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) as of August, according to the most recent available data from FactSet.
He made more than $10 billion from the one-day stock surge and is now worth well over $90 billion.
At the end of trading on Thursday, Gates occupied the top spot in the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, with a net worth of $88 billion.
Bezos had $83.5 billion, and his big day on Friday was more than enough to close the gap.
But Gates also got a boost as Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) stock rose 7%.
Gates owned 103 million shares as of September, according to FactSet.
Microsoft stock climbed about $6 a share, so Gates added almost $600 million to his personal wealth.
Bezos briefly dethroned Gates once before, on July 27, when his net worth topped $90 billion because of a temporary surge in Amazon stock.
Related: The city Amazon picks for HQ2 will never be the same Amazon has been on a tear this year.
It acquired Whole Foods and plans to establish a second headquarters somewhere in North America.
More than 200 cities and regions have submitted bids to become the home for HQ2.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.
(Reuters) - The three major U.S. stock indexes added to their recent record run on Wednesday, as energy shares gained from a jump in oil prices and financials rose after strong private jobs data.
Traders work on the floor of the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, New York, U.S., October 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid JPMorgan (JPM.N) and Bank of America (BAC.N) rose about 1 percent, while Goldman Sachs (GS.N) 1.5 percent increase gave the biggest boost to the Dow.
The rise was also supported by Facebooks (FB.O) 1.4 percent gain ahead of its earnings report.
U.S. private employers hired 235,000 workers in October, the most since March and exceeding a median forecast of 200,000 among economists polled by Reuters, the ADP National Employment Report showed.
Were in a very positive environment, said Andre Bakhos, managing director at Janlyn Capital in Bernardsville, New Jersey.
Economic data and earnings continue to remain a reason for optimism.
The market will look for signs of a robust economy, and I think the momentum is in place.
Following the strong ADP data, focus shifts to Fridays non-farm payrolls report for October.
The data will reveal if the labor market has strengthened after a hurricane-ravaged September.
Third-quarter earnings have been largely positive, with 72.9 percent of the S&P 500 companies that have reported topping profit expectations, according to Thomson Reuters data.
That is above the 72 percent profit-beat rate in the past four quarters.
Estee Lauder (EL.N) jumped nearly 10 percent after the cosmetics maker reported better-than-expected sales and profit.
US Steel (X.N) surged 14 percent and Garmin (GRMN.O) climbed 3.7 percent after strong earnings.
The Federal Reserve is expected to keep interest rates unchanged at the end of its two-day meeting later today as speculation swirls on who will be its next leader, but will likely point to a firming economy as it edges closer to a possible rate rise next month.
The White House has said President Donald Trump will announce his Fed pick on Thursday.
Trump is expected to choose Fed Governor Jerome Powell, who is seen as more stock-market friendly, sources have told Reuters.
At 9:35 a.m.
ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI was up 98.52 points, or 0.42 percent, at 23,475.76, the S&P 500 .SPX was up 10 points, or 0.39 percent, at 2,585.26 and the Nasdaq Composite .IXIC was up 29.42 points, or 0.44 percent, at 6,757.08.
Eight of the 11 major S&P indexes were higher, led by gains in energy .SPNY and financial .SPSY sectors.
Oil hit its highest since mid-2015 on data that showed OPEC significantly improved compliance with its pledged supply cuts and Russia is also widely expected to keep to the deal.
[O/R] Electronic Arts (EA.O) dipped 5 percent after the videogame publishers revenue forecast for the holiday shopping quarter narrowly missed estimates.
Cognizant (CTSH.O) was the biggest percentage loser on the S&P, dropping 5 percent after results.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the NYSE by 1,979 to 578.
On the Nasdaq, 1,677 issues rose and 648 fell.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is expected to keep interest rates unchanged on Wednesday as speculation swirls on who will be its next leader, but the U.S. central bank will likely point to a firming economy as it edges closer to a possible rate rise next month.
FILE PHOTO: Federal Reserve Chairman Janet Yellen speaks during a news conference after a two-day Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) policy meeting, in Washington, U.S. on September 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts/File Photo The Fed has raised rates twice since January and currently forecasts one more hike by the end of the year as part of a tightening cycle that began in late 2015.
Investors have all but ruled out a move at the end of this weeks two-day policy meeting.
The Fed is due to issue its latest policy statement at 2 p.m. EDT (1800 GMT).
Markets will look to it for confirmation the central bank is on track for a December rate hike, though attention will quickly turn to who will be in charge of monetary policy at the end of Fed Chair Janet Yellens first term in February 2018.
President Donald Trump, who has interviewed Yellen, Fed Governor Jerome Powell and three others for the top Fed job, is likely to announce the nomination on Thursday.
Powell, a soft-spoken centrist who has supported Yellens gradual approach to raising rates, is seen as having a lock on the position.
The bottom line is the meeting is probably going to be a somewhat boring event for markets, overshadowed by the expected Fed chair decision, said Torsten Slok, chief international economist for Deutsche Bank.
FILE PHOTO: Federal Reserve Chairman Janet Yellen speaks during a news conference after a two-day Federal Open Markets Committee (FOMC) policy meeting in Washington, U.S., September 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts/File Photo INFLATION WORRIES Fed policymakers have been buoyed in recent months by a strengthening U.S. economy and further tightening in the labor market, although inflation has continued to remain below the central banks 2 percent target.
The economy unexpectedly maintained a brisk pace of growth in the third quarter, increasing at a 3.0 percent annual rate, the Commerce Department reported last week.
A decline in hiring in September also has largely been dismissed as a blip caused by the temporary displacement of workers due to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
That jobs report also showed wages growing at an encouraging pace and the unemployment rate falling to more than a 16-1/2-year low of 4.2 percent.
A strong rebound in job gains is anticipated when the Labor Department releases its October nonfarm payrolls report on Friday.
Inflation is the main concern for Fed policymakers who are wondering about the causes and duration of the current weakness.
The Feds preferred measure of inflation sits at 1.3 percent after retreating further from target for much of the year.
Nevertheless, Yellen and other key policymakers have said the Fed, which unveiled a plan this year to cut its balance sheet starting in October, still expects to continue to gradually raise rates given the economys strength.
That is not expected to change on Wednesday.
If we get what we expect to get, which is basically more of the same of what we saw in the September statement, said Sam Bullard, a senior economist at Wells Fargo, then yes, their gradual policy tightening plan is in place and all signs point to a December hike.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. construction spending unexpectedly rose in September as a surge in public construction outlays offset the third straight monthly decline in investment in private projects.
FILE PHOTO: Single family homes being built by KB Homes are shown under construction in San Diego, California, U.S., April 17, 2017.
REUTERS/Mike Blake The Commerce Department said on Wednesday that construction spending increased 0.3 percent to $1.22 trillion.
But Augusts construction outlays were revised down to show a 0.1 percent gain instead of the previously reported 0.5 percent rise.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast construction spending unchanged in September.
Construction spending increased 2.0 percent on a year-on-year basis.
In September, investment on private construction projects fell 0.4 percent after slipping 0.1 percent in August.
It was the third straight monthly drop in private construction outlays and reflected a 0.8 percent decline in spending on private nonresidential projects.
Spending on nonresidential projects in September was the lowest since April 2016.
Spending on nonresidential structures has now declined for four consecutive months.
Spending on oil drilling has been slowing in recent months amid moderate gains in oil prices and ample crude supplies.
Spending on residential structures was unchanged in September.
The data could impact the governments gross domestic product estimate for the third quarter published last week.
The governments advance estimate put economic growth at a 3.0 percent annualized rate in the July-September quarter, with both residential and nonresident structures subtracting from output.
In September, outlays on public construction projects jumped 2.6 percent after rising 0.7 percent in August.
Spending on state and local government construction projects climbed 2.5 percent.
Federal government construction spending soared 3.4 percent.
LONDON (Reuters) - Bitcoin climbed to a new all-time high of $6,450 on Wednesday, boosted by bets the cryptocurrency could enter the financial mainstream after the worlds largest derivatives exchange operator said on Tuesday it would launch bitcoin futures.
A copy of bitcoin standing on PC motherboard is seen in this illustration picture, October 26, 2017.
Picture taken October 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic CME Group Inc (CME.O) said it would provide a regulated trading venue for the cryptocurrency market and would launch the new derivatives in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Bitcoin has had a bumper year with a more than sixfold increase in price, and has more than doubled in price since mid-September alone.
It was up 0.3 percent on Wednesday on the Luxembourg-based Bitstamp exchange BTC=BTSP.
SHANGHAI/BEIJING (Reuters) - Gu Xiaomeng, a 24-year-old primary school teacher in the eastern Chinese city of Suzhou, says shes excited about the new iPhone X, set to go on sale on Friday.
The challenge for Apple Inc (AAPL.O) is to persuade her to actually buy one.
A attendee uses a new iPhone X during a presentation for the media in Beijing, China October 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Thomas Peter Im definitely interested, but dont currently plan to get one, said Gu, whose monthly salary of a little over 6,000 yuan ($905.36) is less than the anniversary models starting price in China of 8,388 yuan.
For Apple, which is looking to rev up sales in China after several quarters of declining revenue there, the test is that Gu is not alone.
While interest in the phone is high, that wont necessarily translate into sales.
Price appears to be a major constraint on iPhone X demand, particularly in China, Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi said in a recent report that showed three-quarters of Chinese respondents were excited by the upcoming launch, but only a quarter said they planned to buy one.
Investors are keen to gauge Chinese demand for the iPhone X, as it is key to reviving Apples fortunes in the worlds biggest smartphone market where it has lost some of its sparkle - and market share - as local phone makers have advanced.
The cheaper iPhone 8, which hit the market in September, has faced sluggish sales, but Apple has said that pre-orders for the iPhone X have been off the charts.
Apple, due to announce quarterly earnings on Thursday, said it had no immediate comment.
Chatter online on popular Chinese social media platform Weibo (WB.O) also signaled high levels of interest in the new model, though still generally behind levels around the 2014 launch of the very successful iPhone 6.
APPLE GEEKS Xiao Ming, 32, who works for a blockchain start-up in Beijing, stayed up half the night when pre-sales of the iPhone X opened last week.
He has also bought the iPhone 8.
I always try to be one of the first to buy any new iPhone, he said, adding he likes the new phones augmented reality and facial recognition features.
Ill be very disappointed if I dont get one on the first day.
While he plans to buy the new phone, he noted many of his friends were less fussed.
Before, I think a lot of people would try to get it somehow, now its mostly the geeks, he said.
My friends dont mind so much if they have an iPhone 8 or a 6, for example, because it looks similar and the price (of the iPhone X) makes you feel nervous.
Re-sellers and iPhone accessory makers generally agreed there was a buzz about the iPhone X, Apples first phone to have a full-screen display and functions such as facial recognition security.
People are really anticipating this phone because its the 10th anniversary version and it has more changes and modifications, said Gary Yiu, manager of the iGeneration smartphone shop at one Hong Kong mall.
Yiu and three other phone re-sellers there said they had seen strong demand for the phone from mainland clients.
A merchant at the Huaqiangbei electronics hub in Shenzhen, who was offering an iPhone look-a-like called the E-Feng X from 1,599 yuan, said sales volumes were very good.
Some Chinese re-sellers, however, said they already canceled pre-orders for the iPhone X, concerned there wouldnt be enough of a supply bottleneck to allow them to charge a steep premium - despite some worries about long waits.
I saw many friends were posting pictures of themselves successfully ordering the iPhone X, so I canceled mine, said Tony Tong, 29, a product manager at a tech firm in Beijing, who said he had ordered four phones in the hope of re-selling them for a profit.
The environment is bad for scalpers.
Apple will hope payment plans and easy access to online credit in China will convince people to buy.
Wang Hao, a 24-year-old engineer in the northeastern port city of Dalian, said he ordered the new phone despite the high price tag.
His last phone was an iPhone 6S.
The cost is about a months salary for me, he told Reuters.
But Im just used to it now, and there wasnt really anything to make me choose another brand.
(For graphic on China chatter about iPhone X, click: tmsnrt.rs/2cbIZ5n)
URAYASU, Japan (Reuters) - The 11 remaining nations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) without the United States edged towards sealing a comprehensive free trade pact after New Zealand agreed to amend laws that are not subject to TPP, to enable its ban on foreign home purchases.
A delegate walks past decoration during the APEC Ministers Responsible For Trade (APEC MRT 23) meeting in Hanoi, Vietnam May 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Kham The pact aims to eliminate tariffs on industrial and farm products across an 11-nation bloc whose trade totaled $356.3 billion last year.
This weeks compromise saves member nations from having to renegotiate the ambitious trade pact to accommodate the New Zealand governments demands for firm measures to rein in housing prices.
It also brings member countries closer to an important victory in support of free trade to be finalised at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit next week in Vietnams central city of Danang.
The momentum towards (an agreement) at the meeting in Danang has significantly increased, said Japans chief TPP negotiator, Kazuyoshi Umemoto.
The economic impact is certainly not small, but the even bigger message is this agreement can influence the global economic system and bring about peace and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific.
Negotiators gathered for three days in Urayasu, east of the Japanese capital, to narrow down which terms of the original 12-nation deal to suspend, so as to salvage the pact at the Vietnam summit.
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who was sworn in last week, has announced plans to ban foreign home purchases that should curb speculation without forcing TPP countries to renegotiate the pact.
Japan hopes the deal, which links 11 countries with a combined GDP of $12.4 trillion, can show other nations it can champion free trade in the absence of Washingtons influence.
It could also help Japan resist U.S. pressure for a two-way trade pact, which is likely to come up when President Donald Trump visits, from Sunday until Tuesday, for a summit with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
A TPP agreement could damage the United States, so domestically people may start to realize that they cant be left behind in free trade, said Kensuke Yanagida, a research fellow at the Japan Institute of International Affairs.
The TPP pact was thrown into doubt when Trump pulled the United States out in January to prioritize protecting jobs.
New Zealand and Vietnam subsequently pushed to renegotiate it, but countries have been able to narrow their differences in the final stretch.
DETROIT (Reuters) - Major automakers posted mixed U.S. new vehicle sales in October on Wednesday, though Americas love affair with high-margin pickup trucks and SUVs was unrelenting as passenger cars continued to be abandoned for larger, more comfortable vehicles.
FILE PHOTO: The GM logo is seen at the General Motors Warren Transmission Operations Plant in Warren, Michigan October 26, 2015.
Photo taken October 26.
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook General Motors Co (GM.N) reported an overall sales drop of 2.2 percent for the month, with consumer sales down 6.6 percent.
High-margin pickup truck, SUV and crossover sales were all up at the largest U.S. automaker.
GM reduced its inventory of unsold vehicles in the month by 7,000 vehicles to 813,000.
The automaker has been whittling away at its large volume of unsold vehicles, a source of concern for the market.
GM had advised that its inventory would rise in October.
GM slightly reduced consumer discounts as a percentage of the average transaction price, to 13.5 percent from 13.7 percent in the third quarter.
Industry experts believe consumer discounts in excess 10 percent of the average transaction price are unhealthy for the market as they erode resale values and are unsustainable in the long term.
Industry consultants J.D.
Power and LMC said last week that based on preliminary sales numbers including October, discounts have exceeded 10 percent in 15 of the last 16 months.
FILE PHOTO: An airplane flies above a Ford logo in Colma, California, U.S., October 3, 2017.
REUTERS/Stephen Lam/File Photo Ford Motor Co (F.N) posted a 6.2 percent gain in vehicle sales in October, driven largely by a 15.9 percent jump in sales of its popular, high-priced F-Series line of pickups.
Strong demand pushed the average price tag for an F-Series truck up $4,000 from the previous October to $47,300.
High-margin pickup trucks were a dominant factor in the better-than-expected results Ford posted last week.
Slideshow (2 Images) But Fords low-margin fleet sales rose 14.6 percent in October.
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV (FCHA.MI)(FCAU.N) reported a 13 percent decline in new vehicle sales.
The automakers sales to consumers were down 4 percent, while fleet sales slid 43 percent, in line with the companys strategy to reduce low-margin sales to car rental agencies.
Nissan Motor Co Ltds (7201.T) sales increased 8.4 percent for the month, driven by a 12.9 percent jump in pickups, SUV and crossover sales.
Sales of its popular Rogue crossover model soared 43 percent in October.
But sales at Nissans luxury Infiniti brand fell 8.1 percent, driven largely by a 16.2 percent drop in luxury sedan sales.
GM shares were up 0.5 percent at $43.21 while Ford rose more than 1.3 percent to $12.43 and Fiat Chrysler rose 1.7 percent to $17.64 in U.S. trading.
(Reuters) - U.S. companies added the most workers in seven months in October as hiring rebounded from an 11-month low set in September stemming from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, a report by a payrolls processor showed on Wednesday.
FILE PHOTO: People wait in line to meet a job recruiter at the UJA-Federation Connect to Care job fair in New York March 6, 2013.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton The ADP National Employment Report said private employers hired 235,000 workers last month, exceeding a median forecast of 200,000 among economists polled by Reuters.
Domestic private payrolls in September were revised down to an increase of 110,000 from the previous 135,000.
The report is jointly developed with Moodys Analytics.
This labor market is tight and is destined to be tighter, Mark Zandi, Moodys Analytics chief economist said on a conference call with reporters.
The ADP figures come ahead of the U.S. Labor Departments more comprehensive non-farm payrolls report on Friday, which includes both public and private-sector employment.
Economists polled by Reuters are looking for U.S. private payroll employment to have grown by 303,000 jobs in October, versus a drop of 40,000 the month before.
Total non-farm employment is expected to have increased by 312,000.
The unemployment rate is forecast to stay steady at 4.2 percent.
Zandi said the governments jobs readings in September and October would show larger swings than those from ADP because it uses a different method to count workers affected by the storms.
(Reuters) - Thomson Reuters Corp (TRI.N)(TRI.TO) on Wednesday reported revenue below investor expectations as financial services clients in Europe and Britain held off on signing deals due to regulatory and political uncertainty.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of Thomson Reuters is pictured at the entrance of its Paris headquarters, France, March 7, 2016.
REUTERS/Charles Platiau/File Photo We arent satisfied with our top-line growth and we are addressing these issues by controlling everything that is within our control, CEO Jim Smith told analysts on an earnings call.
Shares fell 7.2 percent to $43.46 on the New York Stock Exchange, their lowest since June, and were at C$56.14 in Toronto.
In its Financial & Risk segment, the companys biggest, sales outpaced cancellations, a key indicator of future growth.
Overall revenue for the unit was up slightly, but was down one percent in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Specifically, UK and European financial services clients are concerned about upcoming EU securities rules, set to take effect in January, as well as Brexit, Smith said.
The quarter was the tale of two cities, or more like the tale of two continents, as the company saw unexpected softness in the UK and Europe and strength in the Americas, Smith told Reuters.
We heard from the market, that was largely because of upcoming regulatory changes.
Thomson Reuters still expects year-over-year growth in its financial business in 2017 and 2018 but the extent of the improvement will depend on fourth quarter net sales, the company said on the call.
The company sees a stronger pipeline of deals for its Financial & Risk unit, Smith said.
The news and information company said full-year profits will be at the high end of its earlier forecast.
Third-quarter net earnings rose to $348 million or 46 cents per share, from $286 million, or 36 cents per share, a year ago.
Adjusted for special items, earnings were 68 cents per share.
Total revenue grew 1 percent excluding currency to $2.79 billion.
Analysts on average, were looking for profit of 58 cents per share, and revenue of $2.82 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S/.
Thomson Reuters, parent of Reuters News, competes for financial customers with Bloomberg LP, as well as News Corps (NWSA.O) Dow Jones unit.
Some investors question if the company needs to do more to grow revenue.
The question is what levers can the company pull to move the needle on revenue growth in a more meaningful way, said Peter Appert, an analyst with Piper Jaffray.
CEO Smith told Reuters he is happy with the companys current portfolio.
We will always look at ways of strengthening our position at the intersection of regulation and commerce.
(Reuters) - The New York Times Co (NYT.N) on Wednesday reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit, as it signed up more advertisers and subscribers for its digital publications, helping offset a slide in print sales.
FILE PHOTO: People line up for taxi across the street from the New York Times head office in New York, U.S., on February 7, 2013.
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri/File Photo The company added about 154,000 subscribers to various websites, including the digital version of the New York Times, boosting its online subscribers base to 2.5 million.
Digital advertising revenue rose 11 percent to $49.2 million in the third quarter, accounting for about 43 percent of its total advertising revenue.
The newspaper publisher has been attracting more paying online readers through discounts and has been boosting digital subscriptions by tying up with online services such as Spotify.
The Times Truth campaign, which was launched in response to President Donald Trumps attacks on the newspaper, has also helped drive subscriptions.
Major newspapers have been building on their online readership since the 2016 presidential election, as they market their unbiased reporting as a sales strategy.
The papers print advertising revenue fell 20.1 percent to $64.4 million.
Net income attributable to the company rose to $32.3 million in the quarter ended Sept. 24 from $406,000 a year earlier.
On a per-share basis it earned 20 cents per share, compared with break-even last year.
Excluding items, earnings were 13 cents per share from continuing operations, beating analysts average estimate of 8 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Revenue rose 6.1 percent to $385.6 million.
Analysts on average had expected $389 million.
Up to Tuesdays close shares of the company rose 42.9 percent to $19.01 year-to-date.
The companys shares were largely flat at $19 in morning trading.
The initial reports of an "active shooter" in lower Manhattan were wrong.
So were the reports a few minutes later of a "road rage" incident.
But unfortunately the reports of multiple fatalities were right.
The 3 p.m. hour on Tuesday was consumed by confusing reports of injures along the West Side Highway in New York City.
The first eyewitness accounts on Twitter were of shots fired, which turned out to be the end of the incident, not the beginning.
Police fired at the suspect after he crashed a rented pickup truck into a school bus, then stepped outside with an imitation firearm.
Then came eyewitness video from more than a half mile away, showing mangled bikes and injured bicyclists along a bike path.
Some local TV stations cited anonymous sources who said a dispute between two drivers led to the crash.
But during the 4 p.m. hour, it became clear that the injuries were from a truck attack -- and that it was being investigated as terrorism.
In the 5 p.m. hour, New York City mayor Bill de Blasio said eight people were dead in an "act of terror."
Journalists were on the scene within minutes.
Some of them worked in office towers nearby, others lived in nearby neighborhoods.
The New Yorker, which is based at One World Trade Center a couple blocks from the crash site, described how "the news media descended on one eyewitness to the attack."
News anchors like CNN's Anderson Cooper and Fox's Shep Smith, who live in the city, anchored news coverage from lower Manhattan on Tuesday night.
Cooper said the attack happened on a "bike path along the Hudson River that so many people, myself included, consider one of the best things about living here."
The local connections added a personal dimension to the coverage.
"Today" show co-host Savannah Guthrie walked to work on Wednesday morning -- because she anchored from her TriBeCa neighborhood near the crime scene.
"I live about three blocks from where I'm standing right now," Guthrie said on "Today."
"I was about to take my kids out trick or treating" when the attack happened.
"So many people were just about to take their kids out."
Subscribe to the Reliable Sources newsletter On MSNBC, reporter Louis Burgdorf described walking around the neighborhood in the immediate aftermath of the attack.
"People were out on the streets.
They took cues I think from the governor and mayor saying 'we can't be frightened by this and change the way we live by this,'" he said.
"As a New Yorker, it made me really proud to see people on Greenwich Street still trick or treating, still out with their kids, pushing their strollers and living their lives.
That was amazing to see last night."
She called him "Mr.
X."
Sally Krawcheck, chair of Ellevate Network, recently shared her own #MeToo experience via the newsletter for Ellevest, the women's investment platform she co-founded.
But throughout her retelling of the story, Krawcheck calls her harasser by a pseudonym: "Mr.
X."
She says she considered naming him, but ultimately decided not to, because at the time of the incident, the power dynamic was in her favor -- a different story from the once-unknown women embroiled in sexual harassment scandals with big names like Harvey Weinstein, James Toback or Roger Ailes.
Related: Are older generations more tolerant of sexual harassment?
Still, Krawcheck says, the decision troubled her.
"I spent a chunk of the weekend, asking, 'Should I name him?
Should I not name him?
If I name him, what happens?
Why would I name him?
Why would I not name him?'"
she says.
"I thought about it hard.
He wasn't in a position of power, and I got him back later."
But Krawcheck has had previous experiences where she wasn't the one in power -- like the women involved in so many of the scandals populating headlines today.
In another job, when she was a young woman fresh out of college, a coworker would Xerox photos of male genitalia and decorate her desk with them.
"The only thing I could do, I thought, and the only thing I did, was just crumple up the pictures and throw them away," Krawcheck says.
"I didn't have the option of quitting.
I was right out of college and I had signed a lease.
I needed the money.
I was at that point in a very disempowered situation myself."
Related: How sexism in tech is affecting the female pipeline Research shows many women continue to hide the names of their harassers because they fear coworkers won't believe them -- or, worse, that the harasser will retaliate.
And they're justified in their fear.
In one study from Lilia Cortina, professor of psychology and women's studies at the University of Michigan, two-thirds of public employees who complained of sexual harassment said they suffered retaliation after they reported.
But Cortina says in her research, the "vast majority" of sexually harassed men and women never disclose any incident.
"There are a lot of different reasons women don't report sexual harassment, but principal among them is basic fear," she says.
"Fear of disbelief, of inaction, of retaliation.
And we know from research that these fears are actually well-founded ...
There's a lot of good reasons for not reporting these experiences when they happen to women."
When women do come forward, Cortina says, they risk a number of things: their reputations, their mental health, their social standing and even their jobs.
Cortina sees women in her research who've said they're hesitant to even begin the reporting process, let alone go through it all and name their harasser.
"Women don't want to engage in the reporting process because it's fundamentally a managing process," she says.
"Their reputations get damaged.
It's distressing and humiliating to have to keep recounting your story again and again: to HR personnel, to investigators, to whoever keeps calling.
Often they're met with disbelief, questions about what they were doing, what they were wearing, or just dismissive responses."
So when women decide not to name their harassers, they're not trying to protect the perpetrators.
They're trying to protect themselves.
Do you feel there are generational differences in how we talk about sexual harassment?
Tell us about it here and you could be featured in an upcoming story on CNNMoney.
I don't think most people appreciate how much inflation can affect their retirement plans.
Can you explain how inflation can erode purchasing power during retirement and tell us what do to deal with this threat?--Peter Inflation hasn't been front-of-mind lately probably because it's been quiescent in recent years, cruising along with some variations at a relatively tame pace of less than 2% a year over the past decade.
And if you look at a common gauge of future inflation expectations -- the difference between the yield on long-term Treasury bonds and that of Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, now about 1.8 to two percentage points -- investors apparently believe inflation will continue to mosey along at a relatively sluggish rate well into the future.
But that doesn't mean you should ignore how inflation, even modest inflation, might affect your ability to maintain your post-career standard of living, or that you shouldn't consider ways to protect yourself from the effects of inflation in retirement.
Why?
Well, for one thing, even though investors apparently expect price increases to remain subdued for quite some time, there's no guarantee those expectations will pan out.
I'm not in the business of predicting inflation rates any more than I am stock prices or bond yields, but it's certainly possible that we could return to the 3% or so a year that inflation averaged over the past 100 years.
And it's not beyond the realm of possibility that at some point in the decades ahead we could experience stints of much higher inflation, as we did in the 1970s when prices increased at an annual pace of more than 7%.
Related: 401(k) contribution limit will rise to $18,500 next year Even if inflation remains subdued, it can still take a sizeable bite out of your purchasing power.
For example, if you retire at 65 and prices increase by 2% a year for 20 years, you would need nearly $75,000 at age 85 to buy what $50,000 would have bought when you first retired.
If inflation gets back to its long-term average of 3%, you would need upwards of $90,000.
Besides, even if the overall inflation rate remains low, price increases for some goods and services can far outstrip it.
Case in point for retirees is health care, which is the third largest expense for people 65 and older, according to the latest Consumer Expenditure Survey.
Over the past 10 years, Bureau of Labor Statistics figures show that the price for medical care increased at roughly 3.3% a year, or about 70% more than the overall rate of inflation.
So what should you do to prevent the inflation from throwing the proverbial monkey wrench into your well-laid retirement plans?
You can start by building as large a nest egg as you can during your career, since the more savings you enter retirement with, the more wiggle room you'll have to cope with rising prices as you age.
That means pushing yourself to save as much as possible while you're working.
Boosting your savings rate even a couple of percentage points a year can have a major effect on the amount of savings you'll accumulate by retirement.
For example, a 30-year-old who earns $45,000 a year, gets 2% annual raises and saves 10% a year would end up with a nest egg worth nearly $660,000 by age 65, assuming a 6% annual return.
Boost that savings rate to 12% a year, and that nest egg's value climbs to almost $790,000.
That extra $130,000 or so can provide a nice cushion against rising prices.
When it comes to investing those savings, I think it would be a mistake to overhaul your strategy to make inflation its central focus.
Rather, your aim should be to invest in a way that can give you a shot at solid long-term returns under a variety of market conditions for whatever level of risk you're willing to take.
There are no guarantees, but both stocks and bonds have shown that they tend to outpace inflation by several percentage points or more over long stretches.
So a diversified portfolio of stock and bond funds -- ideally made up mostly, if not entirely, of low-cost index funds -- should be able to generate the returns you'll need to grow your nest egg.
If you feel you feel you really must actively hedge against the prospect of higher inflation, you can always add some exposure to funds or ETFs that invest in real estate, commodities, natural resources or precious metals.
But don't go overboard.
I'd suggest keeping your exposure small, say, no more than 10% to 20% of your holdings.
Once you're retired, your focus should shift to creating an income that will support you throughout retirement, which, as this longevity tool shows, could last a good 30 or more years.
Fortunately, one of your main income sources, i.e., Social Security, already provides protection against rising prices since its payment is pegged to the Consumer Price Index.
If you're not already collecting Social Security, you can see what size benefit you'll qualify for by going to Social Security's Retirement Estimator.
Remember that each year you delay claiming between the ages the ages of 62 and 70, your benefit increases by roughly 6% to 8%.
Future inflation adjustments are added to that higher starting amount, so that in that sense delaying helps preserve your purchasing power even more.
You'll most likely be supplementing Social Security with draws from your nest egg, and that's where choosing an appropriate withdrawal rate comes in.
The idea is to establish an initial withdrawal rate and then adjust for inflation to maintain purchasing power.
To do that, many advisers recommended that retirees adopt "the 4% rule" -- that is, withdraw 4% of your nest egg's value the first year of retirement and then increase the dollar value of that withdraw by the inflation rate each year.
By doing so, the chances, based on past returns at least, were relatively high -- generally 80% to 90% -- that your savings will last at least 30 years.
Given today's low bond yields and projections for lower-than-average investment returns, however, many retirement experts suggest starting with a lower initial withdrawal rate, say, 3% or so.
You can get a sense of how long your savings might last at different withdrawal rates by going to this retirement income calculator.
But whatever initial rate you choose, you need to remain flexible, say, forgoing an inflation increase or even paring your withdrawal for a few years if a big market setback or higher-than-expected spending puts a big dent in the value of your nest egg or spending more if a string of stellar returns causes your nest egg's value to balloon.
Related: Should you shoot for higher returns by investing outside your 401(k)?
As for investing your savings once you're retired, you want to earn returns high enough to support your spending needs, but at the same time maintain enough downside protection to prevent a severe market setback from totally decimating your portfolio.
Generally, that means scaling back on stocks.
There's no official consensus on how much of their savings retirees should hold in stocks, but many advisers recommend somewhere in the range of 40% to 60%.
For guidance in arriving at a stocks-bonds mix that's appropriate for your risk tolerance, you can check out Vanguard's risk tolerance-asset allocation questionnaire.
To help ensure that your income keeps pace with inflation during retirement, there are two other investment moves you may want to consider.
One is to invest a portion of your bond holdings in TIPS, or Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which have payouts that track inflation.
For example, Vanguard's Target Retirement Income Fund keeps roughly a quarter of its bond stake in its Short-term Inflation-Protected Securities Index Fund.
The other possibility is to devote a portion of your savings to an immediate annuity that provides guaranteed lifetime income and raises its payments with inflation.
But while such a move does have the advantage of providing an income stream that keeps pace with inflation, relatively few retirees go this route.
Many people simply don't like the idea of tying up their money in an annuity, and even those who can get over that hurdle are reluctant to go with the inflation-adjusted version because its initial payment is so much lower than that of a traditional immediate annuity.
For example, a 65-year-old man who invests $100,000 today would receive a fixed payment of roughly $540 a month for life with a regular immediate annuity vs. an initial payment of $375 with an inflation-adjusted annuity (although that smaller payment would rise with inflation over time).
With that sort of disparity, many retirees prefer to go with the higher fixed payment and rely on draws from savings invested in a diversified portfolio of stocks and bonds to prevent inflation from eroding their purchasing power.
(You can compare quotes on traditional vs. inflation-adjusted immediate annuities by going to this annuity payment calculator.)
Bottom line: unless the U.S. goes into inflation overdrive, following the steps I've outlined above should be enough to prevent rising prices from wreaking havoc with your retirementprovided, of course, you've saved enough to have a reasonable shot of maintaining your pre-retirement standard of living in the first place.
Walmart is ready to rock out for the holidays.
The world's largest retailer is throwing 20,000 parties across its stores in an attempt to attract more holiday shoppers.
At the parties, Walmart will put on 165,000 in-store toy demos, guide customers through their shopping lists and, yes, host visits from Santa Claus.
The parties will take place on November 4, December 2 and December 16 at Walmart Supercenters all over the country.
Walmart's new parties concept is part of a larger holiday shopping campaign called "Rock This Christmas.
The retailer will increase the number of items on sale, offer exclusive gifts and offer online discounts.
Walmart is also bringing back festively dressed employees, a.k.a.
"Holiday Helpers," to assist shoppers navigate stores.
No holiday hiring for Walmart, just more hours for its workers "We're leveraging our more than 4,700 stores and Walmart.com to deliver more assortment, exclusives, convenience and savings than ever before," Steve Bratspies, Walmart U.S.' chief merchandising officer, said in a statement.
Over the past year, Walmart (WMT) has made significant investments to its stores, like speedier returns, and its website.
For the holidays, Walmart.com will sell brands not previously available on its website, like Bose and Cuisinart, and offer free two-day shipping on orders more than $35.
Watch out Amazon.
Walmart is coming for you The holidays are usually the most lucrative time of year for retailers.
Consulting firm PwC says consumers will spend 6% more this year.
Charlie Braun can't find enough workers for his factory in Ohio and he's not sure how to keep the ones he has.
His problem is a growing one for companies around the world: There just aren't enough skilled or available workers.
At the same time, most people aren't getting a big pay raise -- what you would expect to see when jobs are plentiful.
U.S. wage growth is a sluggish 2.6% this year, beating subdued inflation but still way below the Federal Reserve's target of 3.5%.
It hasn't hit that level in nearly nine years.
Braun knows the predicament all too well.
He raised wages to retain staff and recruit others, but that hasn't helped.
He doubts another pay raise will make a big difference, and in any case his firm is finding it harder to justify raising prices for their products.
"Everyone has just gotten used to no inflation," says Braun, president of Custom Rubber Corp. With those expectations, "it's more challenging for me to go to my customers and say 'hey I've got rising health care costs and I've got to give my workers a raise.'
That's a more difficult sell."
Related: The biggest mystery in the U.S. economy It's a challenge in many developed countries.
Companies and economies are thriving, but workers are not getting their share of the pie despite job openings left and right.
Global problem The IMF said last month that unemployment rates are now back to where they were before the global financial crisis, but wage growth remains well below.
Federal Reserve leaders, who meet in Washington on Wednesday, call the lack of inflation a "mystery."
Usually, when jobs are plentiful, it's hard to find workers so employers offer higher wages to recruit or retain their staff.
When people start losing their jobs, workers become more anxious and are willing to work for less.
Paltry wage growth isn't just a problem in America.
Workers in Japan, the U.K., Germany, Australia and other countries are feeling the pain too.
Australia is in the middle of the longest period of low wage growth since its last recession in the early 1990s.
In Britain, real wages are falling despite record levels of employment.
Paychecks in Japan are rising at an anemic pace even though unemployment is under 3%.
Mexico is facing the same problem.
Some experts say the global economy is in a "sweet spot."
In one sense it is: From Brazil to China to Europe to the U.S., all major economies will grow this year.
But the gains are uneven and many workers aren't seeing them.
So what's the problem?
Experts say the reasons are many and varied.
Related: CNNMoney's Brexit jobs tracker Labor unions in decline Only 23% of British workers were members of a trade union last year, according to data from the OECD.
That's down from 40% in 1990.
In Germany, the proportion fell to 18% from 31% over the same period.
In the U.S., where union membership has traditionally been lower, it stands at just 10%.
That's bad news for almost everyone.
IMF research suggests that the decline in union membership has led to the top 10% of earners taking a bigger share of income -- to the detriment of middle and low-income workers.
Unions have used significant bargaining power at the negotiating table to fight for higher wages.
But with fewer workers organized in unions, a bigger slice of the pie goes to managers and shareholders, according to the IMF.
Turbulent past, uncertain future Memories of the financial crisis and worries about the future also make business owners reluctant to raise wages.
In the U.S., companies are waiting to see what will come out of President Trump's ambitious tax reform.
In the U.K., Brexit is causing huge anxiety.
The new terms of trade with Europe are far from certain.
French companies are waiting to see how President Emmanuel Macron's reforms will play out.
He wants to make it cheaper for employers to hire, and to relax France's strict wage bargaining rules.
In Mexico, the uncertain fate of NAFTA, the trade pact with Canada and the U.S., is hanging over the economy.
Related: Harvard study says employers are making it harder to hire The gig economy Then there's the underemployment problem.
The rise of informal employment and the so-called gig economy means many people find themselves working part time, even though they would prefer a full time job.
Age and the wrong skills often create barriers.
Take Germany as an example: Nearly 7 million Germans are working part time in precarious jobs that pay up to 450 ($540) a month.
Many have to rely on welfare payments to get by and economists say the practice is increasing inequality.
Over 5 million Americans are working part-time jobs but want full-time positions, according to Labor Department data.
That number has come down significantly since the Great Recession but it's still higher than before the crisis.
More for shareholders The pressure from investors may be forcing companies to focus on rewarding shareholders rather than employees.
Data from FactSet showed S&P 500 companies faced at least 40 activist campaigns calling for dividends and buybacks in 2016, following 73 campaigns in 2015.
The average dividend rose 14% in the third quarter compared to a year ago, and payouts totaled a record $15 billion, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
The IMF says that the pressure to put investors first means companies are investing less, including in their staff.
"[Consulting firms] go to you as the CEO of a company and say 'you're investing, you're spending too much money, we'll try and take the cost down,'" Martin Sorrell, CEO of advertising giant WPP (WPPGF) told CNBC this week.
Robots Some economists argue that the increasing use of robots and automation in many industries may also be holding down wages, but it's tough to measure.
Braun, the CEO of the rubber company, say his customers tell him that if he feels the need to raise wages, he ought to consider replacing his workers with robots.
"The general response is 'you need to be more efficient,' which might ultimately drive me to robots, but I'm not there yet," says Braun.
-- Jethro Mullen and Daniel Shane contributed reporting to this article
NPR has placed its top editor, Michael Oreskes, on "administrative leave" amid accusations that he sexually harassed two women decades ago while he was working at The New York Times.
Oreskes, the senior vice president for news at NPR, has not responded to requests for comment from CNNMoney.
In a Wednesday morning memo to staff, NPR CEO Jarl Mohn stressed that the company is taking the allegations seriously.
"I'm writing to share that I've asked Vice President of News Programming and Operations Chris Turpin to take on interim leadership of the newsroom," Mohn said.
"Starting today, Chris will serve in the capacity of the Senior Vice President of News for NPR and oversee both strategic direction and day to day operations related to our journalism."
Mohn's memo is an indication that Oreskes will not be returning to work anytime soon.
Mohn also urged staff to contact human resources, the legal department, or his office directly "if you believe you have experienced or are aware of any incidence of harassment or other inappropriate behavior."
Oreskes allegedly made unwanted sexual advances toward two journalists who were seeking jobs at The New York Times two decades ago.
Both accusers say that Oreskes unexpectedly kissed them during career-oriented business meetings while he was working as the Times' Washington bureau chief, according to The Washington Post, which broke the story on Tuesday.
A third accuser, who currently works at NPR, said she filed a complaint about him to NPR's human resources department in October 2015, according to NPR's own reporting on Oreskes.
Her complaint said Oreskes "hijacked a career counseling session into a three-hour-long dinner that delved into deeply personal territory" and included mentions of sex with a former girlfriend.
The network, at the time, rebuked Oreskes and informed other executives at the company after the complaint was filed, according to NPR's own reporting.
After the story broke Tuesday about his alleged prior behavior, NPR officials placed him on leave.
Related: Workplace touching: When it's OK, and when it's harassment A spokeswoman for NPR told CNNMoney, "We take these kinds of allegations very seriously.
If a concern is raised, we review the matter promptly and take appropriate steps as warranted to assure a safe, comfortable and productive work environment."
This week, almost a full year after the election of Donald Trump, Facebook, Twitter, and Google are testifying before House and Senate committees examining the role that social media -- and Russian manipulation of it -- played in the 2016 elections.
Much of the focus around Russian meddling and social media has centered on Facebook, which was the first to announce that it had found evidence of the campaign on its network.
The Internet Research Agency, a troll farm in St. Petersburg with ties to the Kremlin, ran hundreds of pages designed to look like activist groups in the U.S., and bought thousands of Facebook ads on divisive issues like race, religion, LGBT rights, and gun rights.
Related: Facebook estimates 126 million people were served content from Russia-linked pages Though members of Congress will no doubt have questions for representatives of Twitter and Google as well, the majority of the focus could well end up being on Facebook, both because of the company's dominance and because of the scale of the Russian operations on its site.
Facebook itself estimates that 126 million people may have been exposed to content created by the Russian pages.
Representatives from the three companies appeared before the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism on Tuesday.
On Wednesday, they will appear before the House and Senate Intelligence committees, each of which have been investigating Russian meddling for months.
Here are some of the questions that Facebook's general counsel Colin Stretch may be asked Wednesday -- many of which could also be asked of Twitter and Google.
1.
Did Facebook take Russian meddling seriously enough in 2016?
"I think the idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way is a pretty crazy idea," Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said shortly after last year's election.
So, with that quote in mind, members of Congress will likely want to know: Did Facebook take the threat seriously enough?
Could the reach of Russian operations have been curtailed or even stopped if Facebook had taken the threat more seriously?
Facebook's answer may be, at least in part, that it didn't know about the threat because the government never said anything about it.
But Facebook was informed after the election.
The Washington Post has reported that soon after Zuckerberg dismissed the "fake news" factor as "crazy," President Obama pulled him aside at a conference in Peru to warn that unless Facebook addressed the problem, it would be even worse in 2020 election.
2.
How hard has Facebook been looking for evidence of meddling?
In September, Facebook handed over to Congress records related to the thousands of ads and hundreds of Facebook accounts it has found that were designed to meddle in U.S. affairs.
Since then, CNN and other news organizations have reported that many of these accounts were operated well after the presidential election was over, with some even remaining active until they were shuttered by Facebook in August.
All of these pages, Facebook says, were from one Russian troll farm, the Internet Research Agency.
Members of Congress will likely want to know how Facebook found these pages, and how difficult it was to find them.
They'll also want to know how sure Facebook is that there are not other Russian troll farms running similar pages, and how confident it is in its own ability to find such content.
3.
How were the ads targeted?
Did the targeting match that of official campaigns?
Facebook's ad-targeting technology allows advertisers to tell Facebook what kinds of people it wants to advertise to -- that is, target -- based on things like their age; where they live; their political interests; and, up until after the election, their race.
Facebook will know where in the U.S. the Russians targeted their ads and when they did that targeting -- for instance, whether people in swing states were targeted the week before Election Day, or whether the targeting wasn't that specific or sophisticated.
There's also a more complex but potentially more important issue here.
Facebook should be able to show if any of Russia's ad targeting matched targeting by official campaigns in the U.S.
If the troll army were targeting the same people in the same location that a candidate or PAC was, this could warrant further examination.
4.
Does Facebook plan on telling the Americans who were targeted by the Russians, or who engaged with content produced by them, about what happened to them?
In testimony prepared for a subcommittee to which Stretch will testify Tuesday, Stretch discloses that 126 million Americans may have been exposed to content generated on its platform by the Russian government-linked troll farm, and that 11.4 million saw ads from the group.
Congress is due to release the Russian ads Facebook provided to them.
But there are millions of people out there who may have seen or interacted with or even been influenced in some way by what the Russians did, and the vast majority of them are probably in the dark about that.
Is anyone ever going to tell them what happened?
5.
What lessons did Facebook learn from Russian operations like this in other countries?
After the extensive scrutiny it got regarding elections over the past two years, Facebook has said it is doing better on this front.
It has, for instance, said that it removed thousands of fake accounts in advance of this year's German and French elections -- though it didn't say if these accounts were Russian.
But Facebook has not provided all the answers on the question of foreign elections that members of Congress might want.
Just last week British lawmakers asked Facebook to provide details of any Russian-linked ad buys around the Brexit referendum in June, 2016, and last year's UK general election.
(Facebook said it would respond "once we have had the opportunity to review the request.")
The committees could ask how effective Facebook's efforts in Germany and France truly were, and how its experience fighting fake accounts in Europe could help stop the spread of the same in the U.S. 6.
How will Facebook determine what is a "political ad," and what isn't?
In September, Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would begin requiring disclaimers on political ads -- a policy that it went to the Federal Election Commission to seek an exception from in 2011.
But determining what qualifies as a "political ad" can be tough.
Sure, if an ad comes directly from a campaign, it's pretty clear cut.
But the Russian ads at issue here would not for the most part have fit under the common definition of a political ad -- they didn't call for anyone to vote for or against a specific candidate.
It's not just the Russian ads that are a potential can of worms either.
What if your friend, who isn't involved in a campaign, decides to spend $100 promoting a New York Times article that reflect positively reflects a candidate and target voters in her neighborhood.
Is that a political ad?
And how will Facebook detect it?
7.
How many people at Facebook will be working on monitoring political ads?
Facebook said last week that pages running federal election-related advertising in the U.S. may be required to provide documentation to verify what organization or campaign they are part of and their location.
Facebook says it is developing automated tools to help with this process, but verifying the identities of ad buyers and determining the nuances of political ads will likely require some human moderation.
Lawmakers would be justified in asking how much money Facebook might put behind that effort, and whether it will be enough to really do the job.
8.
Will Facebook continue to embed with political campaigns?
Facebook, Google, and Twitter have in the past provided staff to embed with major political campaigns to advise those campaigns on how to effectively utilize their ad platforms and target voters.
Embeds from the tech giants act as "quasi-digital consultants to campaigns," researchers from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and the University of Utah, found.
Nu Wexler, then Twitter's Policy Communications Manager (he's now with Facebook), said of Twitter embedding with the Trump digital campaign, "One; they [the Trump campaign] found that they were getting solid advice and it worked, and two; it's cheaper.
It's free labor."
Some members of Congress may well ask whether Facebook and its competitors plan on continuing this quasi-political consulting role.
Another publishing giant has been caught blocking access to academic research in China.
Springer Nature, which claims to be the world's biggest publisher of academic books, has confirmed that it is restricting access to hundreds of articles that cover topics deemed sensitive to Chinese authorities.
The revelation, first reported by the Financial Times, comes just two months after Cambridge University Press reversed a decision to censor articles in China after a furious backlash from academics and activists.
Berlin-based Springer Nature, which is owned by the Holtzbrinck Publishing Group and private equity firm BC Partners, publishes about 3,000 journals.
The company's stable includes Scientific American, a popular magazine whose history dates back 170 years.
An online search on the publisher's Journal of Chinese Political Science reveals that many research articles can't be viewed inside mainland China.
Those blocked included politically sensitive keywords such as Tibet, Taiwan and Tiananmen.
The articles do appear in searches from Hong Kong, a semi-autonomous Chinese city with its own legal system.
For example, a search from Beijing for articles containing Tiananmen yielded zero results.
The same search from Hong Kong came back with 92 articles.
Some topics that didn't immediately appear sensitive were blocked too.
A search for Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, didn't produce any results in mainland China.
In Hong Kong, it yielded 78.
Other censored topics include the Cultural Revolution and Hong Kong, as well as disgraced former politician Bo Xilai and June 4, the date of the Tiananmen Square massacre.
Related: Banned!
11 things you won't find in China A spokeswoman for Springer Nature told CNNMoney the company filtered its content in order to comply with Chinese law.
She said that the decision was "deeply regrettable" but otherwise there was a "real risk of all of our content being blocked."
Springer Nature estimates that about 1% of its academic content is affected.
Leading China academics have slammed Springer Nature's decision to censor some of its content in the world's second-biggest economy.
"This is hugely damaging to its reputation and standing as an academic publisher," said Professor Steve Tsang, director of the China Institute at SOAS University of London.
"(This) is the thin end of the wedge that can cut academic freedom, and should not be accepted by the academic community."
Access to websites in China is heavily policed by the Communist government.
Popular search engines and social media platforms including Google (GOOGL, Tech30), Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) are all blocked using technology commonly known as The Great Firewall.
Some popular Western news sites, such as the New York Times (NYT), are also unavailable.
Cambridge University Press, which describes itself as the oldest publishing house in the world, admitted in August to blocking online access in China to academic works about Tiananmen Square, the Cultural Revolution and Tibet.
The publisher reinstated access to the articles in its China Quarterly journal following an outcry in the academic world.
The publisher had defended its action as necessary to ensure that China doesn't block "entire collections of content."
-- Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.
One of the world's premier consulting firms is preparing to select its next leader.
It promises to be a lengthy, and rather unusual process.
McKinsey's top 550 partners gathered in London last week for what's seen as the unofficial kickoff of a convoluted three-tiered selection process that will go on for months.
The group is charged with selecting one leader from within its own ranks to become the firm's next boss, or global managing partner.
Nearly all partners are eligible.
One catch: Contenders are not allowed to formally campaign for the job, as doing so would run afoul of McKinsey traditions.
The top job will come with a set term of three years.
Recent rule changes mean the next boss will be limited to two terms, instead of three.
The current global managing partner -- Dominic Barton -- is set to relinquish his position after nine years in the job.
McKinsey says that most senior partners at the firm will be considered for the role.
Partners that plan to retire, and those who will be over the age of 57 at the start of the term, will not be eligible.
The nomination process will formally begin in January, when voters select, in order of preference, their seven favored candidates for the job.
The results will be tallied and the field narrowed to 10 candidates.
At that point, senior partners will be able bow out if they truly don't want the role.
A second round of voting will commence in early February, with partners ranking the top candidates in order of preference from one to 10.
The top two contenders will then be subjected to a final vote.
The company's next global managing partner will be announced in mid-March.
He (or she) will begin their new role on July 1, 2018.
McKinsey said in a statement that the new leader "articulates the overall strategic vision for the firm," and appoints partners to leadership roles across the company.
The top job has never been held by a woman.
The Financial Times, however, reports that one leading contender is Vivian Hunt, managing partner for the U.K. and Ireland.
She is known as a top expert on organizational development and diversity.
Related: Does your gender limit your opportunities at work?
McKinsey employs 29,000 people -- more than half are consultants -- and has operations in 65 countries.
It's considered one of the most desirable employers for business school graduates.
The firm has recently been drawn into a vast graft scandal in South Africa.
The company has been accused of fraud, racketeering and collusion over its alleged ties to a prominent family accused of misusing state funds and improperly influencing the government.
The scandal has also ensnared tech giant SAP (SAP, Tech30) and audit firm KPMG, and led to the collapse of London-based public relations firm Bell Pottinger.
President Trump argues the American economy "desperately" needs "massive" tax cuts.
And there's no question that Wall Street is pumped about it.
Others are less confident that adding expensive medicine to a healthy economy is such a wise idea right now.
Morgan Stanley warned in a report this week that enacting aggressive tax cuts to businesses and individuals risks "overheating" the economy and causing stocks to "boom then bust."
The concern is that slashing the corporate tax rate to 35% from 20% could backfire by forcing the Federal Reserve to accelerate interest rate hikes.
That in turn would raise borrowing costs for consumers and businesses, potentially unnerving the stock market along the way.
"Adding stimulus to an already strong economy likely stirs the Fed...pulling forward the end of an aging cycle," Morgan Stanley strategists wrote.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady plans to unveil his 1,000-page tax reform bill this week.
Ironically, given all the excitement on Wall Street about tax cuts, Morgan Stanley argues that "failure of tax reform" would be the "best" outcome for extending the economic and market recovery from the Great Recession.
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
All of this contrasts greatly with the urgent push by Trump to enact aggressive measures for the economy.
"We desperately need tax cuts to put our people back to work," Trump told reporters on October 25 from the White House lawn.
To be sure, tax reform -- modernizing the sprawling and outdated system -- would be a smart thing to do for the long-term health of the economy.
But that's different, and less costly, than the "massive" tax cuts for businesses that Trump has promised.
Trump's push for stimulus comes despite signs of strength for the economy.
Unemployment fell in September to a 16-year low of 4.2%.
America has a record number of job openings.
Consumer confidence has soared.
And the U.S. is enjoying the best six months of growth in three years.
"There is little precedent for large-scale fiscal easing at current levels of unemployment," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.
"Maybe this won't be a problem, maybe it will."
Other economists agree that it's an unusual moment to provide meaningful help to the economy.
Normally, fiscal stimulus comes when economies are either in recession or struggling to avoid one.
Related: What to watch for in House GOP's tax reform bill But Jeff Morris, head of U.S. equities at Aberdeen Standard Investments, isn't buying the economic hype.
"The economy feels like it's stronger than it has been, but still not great," Morris said.
"We're a way off before we have to contend with the economy overheating."
Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen certainly doesn't sound like she thinks big tax cuts are needed right now.
In a September speech, Yellen said the job market is "generally healthy."
If anything, Yellen warned that the labor market "could eventually become overheated" if the Fed doesn't keep raising rates.
All of this suggests that stock market bulls should be careful what they wish for when it comes to tax cuts.
Smoking at work will cost you more than a week of precious vacation time at one Japanese company.
Piala, a Tokyo-based marketing firm, has started giving non-smoking employees six additional paid days off a year.
The company says the idea came from an employee who complained that colleagues who smoked often worked less because of the cigarette breaks they took throughout the day.
That led the agency to come up with what it's calling a "win-win" solution.
"We don't give punishment for smoking," said Piala spokesman Hirotaka Matsushima.
"Instead, we offer a benefit for not smoking."
Related: How does your vacation time compare?
Employees used to think it was unfair that smokers "spend about 15 minutes each for a cigarette break," he told CNNMoney.
The situation was compounded by the fact that smokers often ventured down from the company's office on the 29th floor to a smoking area in the basement.
Altogether, the cigarette breaks kept many employees away from their desks for about 40 minutes each day, according to Matsushima.
About 1 in 5 adults in Japan smoke, and smoking rooms are commonly found in offices and public establishments.
That may change as the government tries to crack down on public smoking ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
A number of companies have recently begun banning employees from smoking at work, with smoking rooms being used for other purposes.
Related: This smart billboard coughs if you smoke near it Last year, local media reported that the Japanese Health Ministry ordered officials to go for a walk after cigarette breaks to prevent the smell of tobacco from affecting others at work.
Since Piala introduced its new vacation incentive in September, 4 out of 42 smokers on staff have given up, Matsushima said.
One of them, 25-year-old Shun Shinbaba, told CNNMoney he used to go through a pack of cigarettes every two days.
He plans to use his extra time off to play tennis.
Unsurprisingly, staffers who don't smoke have been pleased with the bonus time.
"Without doing anything, their vacation increases by six days," Matsushima said.
-- Chie Kobayashi contributed to this report.
Aaron Miripol could make a killing on Wadsworth Station -- if he wanted to.
He bought the two-story, 1970s-era 100-unit apartment complex just outside of downtown Denver for about $7 million back in 2012.
Two years later, the city's new light rail system reached Wadsworth Station's doorstep, and eager investors seeking to buy the property came calling.
"We could double our money," said Miripol, who heads an affordable housing development company called the Urban Land Conservancy.
There's just one problem: The complex is home to working class families and retirees, public employees and healthcare workers, who couldn't afford the rent hikes that would likely follow after such a pricey sale.
"None of the folks living there could stay," said Miripol.
The tenants of Wadsworth Station are lucky exceptions.
Seemingly overnight, Colorado's housing market has become unaffordable to many of the state's residents.
Typically, the housing shortages and sky-high rents seen in the state would only exist in tech and finance-heavy metropolises, like New York or San Francisco.
But a sudden influx of new people has left Colorado unable to meet demand or help those who've been displaced.
A recent report by government-backed mortgage giant Freddie Mac found that the amount of housing in Colorado that was affordable to people making less than half of the median income had plunged by more than 75% between 2010 and 2016 -- one of the biggest decreases in the country.
According to real estate site Apartmentlist.com, median rent for one-bedrooms in the state has risen 22.4% since the beginning of 2014 twice the nationwide increase.
Denver's rents now sit 12.6% above the national average.
"Before we've realized it almost, we're a high cost housing city," says Ismael Guerrero, director of the Denver Housing Authority.
"We're new to that club, but we're clearly there, because the wages haven't kept up."
Some of the problems began during the recession, Guerrero and other housing experts say.
Although Colorado hadn't overbuilt as badly as some other states during the housing bubble, it still suffered though the foreclosure crisis.
Investors bought up homes and flipped them into higher-end rentals.
At the same time, the state added about 570,000 net new people between 2009 and 2016, many of them coming for well-paid tech and oil jobs.
But there just weren't enough homes to meet demand.
Burned by the crash, banks were reluctant to make loans, developers were risk averse, and underwriting standards had become so strict that it kept many would-be home buyers from purchasing their first homes.
Related: The city Amazon picks for its second headquarters will change forever The units that did get built targeted high-income tenants, leading to an oversupply of luxury apartments and boosting demand for anything less expensive.
Amanda Friedman, 30, just moved to Denver from Baltimore in order to be closer to world-class rock climbing.
She's got a job as a legal assistant, but is still looking for a place to live -- every apartment seems to have multiple applicants.
"What has surprised me is how competitive the market is, like how quickly places are posted and have applications," Friedman says.
"Even the crappy areas with someone looking for a roommate."
Another big issue: That influx of newcomers didn't include enough construction workers.
Even as construction wages have escalated, many workers still can't afford the high cost of housing and a years' long immigration crackdown has driven much of the state's construction workforce away.
Developers and housing experts also blame building regulations, like height restrictions that protect views in mountain towns and a law that eased lawsuits against developers for shoddy construction, making it difficult to finance units for lower income homebuyers.
Land prices have also risen, especially around the new transit lines.
The average value of land with apartments on it has jumped 250% since 2010 in the seven-county metropolitan region around Denver, according to an analysis by researchers with Shift Research Lab and the Colorado Futures Center at Colorado State University.
Communities near Denver's urban core are especially vulnerable.
Home values in the gentrifying neighborhoods of Globeville and Elyria-Swansea escalated nearly 70% between 2013 and 2015, according to a report by the city.
People who are displaced have been forced to move into surrounding areas, says Apartmentlist.com housing economist Chris Salviati.
Historically high-cost cities, like San Francisco and New York, have mechanisms in place to deal with cost increases, like rent stabilization, zoning exceptions for developers who price some units below market rate, and dedicated government funding for construction of affordable housing, such as fees on real estate transactions.
Related: Should you rent or buy a home?
Until a couple of years ago, Colorado had none of those, says Jonathan Cappelli, director of the Neighborhood Development Collaborative, a coalition of non-profit developers.
Colorado prohibits local rent control regulations and has capped residential property taxes, which limits the potential funding for affordable housing.
"If you don't have rent control, and you don't have strong incentives for developing affordable housing, and you don't have a fund to fund it, you just don't have any tools," Cappelli says.
Federal funding sources, which have been flat or declining in recent years, also don't stretch as far when housing costs rise.
The Denver Housing Authority says it has access to 6,800 federally funded housing vouchers, but has only been able to dispense 6,000 of them, because each one costs more when rents are high.
The same is true of the available pool of low income housing tax credits for developers, who can't build as much when construction and land acquisition costs rise.
The state of Colorado has tried to supplement the shrinking pool of federal tax credits with its own housing tax credit program.
Some Colorado cities are committing funds and political capital to fixing their housing affordability problem.
Last year, Denver created a 10-year, $150 million fund to support affordable housing.
In September, it put out a comprehensive housing plan proposing to strengthen its ordinances around affordable housing creation and preservation.
The Denver Housing Authority is also in talks with landlords about make their excess luxury inventory available to low-income tenants at a discount, with a city-subsidized voucher.
Advocates see these plans as a positive first step but it still may not be enough.
"We're just one of those places that has kind of caught fire," says Phyllis Resnick, lead economist at the Colorado Futures Center at Colorado State.
"And we've seen it again and again, that when you catch fire, it kind of becomes a legacy problem."
1.
Fed focus: Wall Street is watching the Federal Reserve, which will release its latest decision on interest rates and monetary policy at 2:00 p.m.
ET.
Investors are expecting there will be no change to policy this time around, but another rate increase could come in December.
"The Fed has raised rates twice since January and [there are] forecasts [for] one more hike by the end of the year as part of a tightening cycle that began in late 2015," wrote FxPro analysts in a daily research note.
Thursday promises to be an even bigger day for the central bank: That's when President Trump is expected to announce his choice for Fed chair.
2.
Stock markets roar: It's rare to see global stocks rising in unison, but that's the situation on Wednesday.
U.S. stock futures were pushing higher, setting markets up for potential records.
European markets made a strong showing in early trading.
Germany's Dax index led the way with gains of roughly 1.4%.
Asian markets also ended the day in positive territory.
The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 inched up by 0.1% on Tuesday, while the Nasdaq rose by 0.4% to hit an all-time high.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news.
In your inbox.
Subscribe now!
3.
Taxes and tech: Republican lawmakers have delayed the release of their tax reform bill until Thursday because they are still negotiating key provisions in the bill.
It's a setback for GOP leaders who have been focused on tax reform and enthusiastically touted the November 1 announcement.
Investors want to see whether the Republicans are able to effectively implement their policies, and get a sense of how any tax changes could impact the wider economy.
Meanwhile, tech firms remain in the spotlight.
At 9:30 a.m. and again at 2 p.m., top legal executives from Facebook (FB, Tech30), Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) and Google (GOOGL, Tech30) will testify before the Senate and House Intelligence Committees.
The execs are in Washington this week to answer questions on how foreign nationals used social media in an attempt to meddle in the 2016 presidential election.
At the first hearing on Tuesday, the tech companies were pressed on their ability to prevent bad actors from taking advantage of their platforms through ads and regular posts.
4.
Earnings: New York Times (NYT), Estee Lauder (EL) and SodaStream (SODA) will report earnings before the opening bell.
Tech firms including Facebook (FB, Tech30), Tesla (TSLA), Fitbit (FIT), Yelp (YELP) and GoPro (GPRO, Tech30) will report after the closing bell.
They will be joined by a number of food and restaurant firms, including Kraft Heinz (KHC), Shake Shack (SHAK) and Cheesecake Factory (CAKE).
Sony (SNE) shares trading in Tokyo surged by 11% following well-received results.
Investors will also be monitoring the latest October U.S. auto sales data, which will be released throughout the day.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news 5.
Coming this week: Wednesday -- Facebook (FB, Tech30), Tesla (TSLA) report earnings Thursday -- Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Starbucks (SBUX), Yum!
Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings; House releases tax reform bill Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores
Open enrollment for Obamacare 2018 starts Wednesday.
Some things will stay the same.
Consumers can still sign up on the federal exchange, healthcare.gov, or their state marketplaces.
They can still get subsidies to help lower their premiums or reduce their deductibles and co-pays, if they qualify.
And, they can still shop and compare coverage options, which is especially important this time around.
But there's a whole lot that will be different under the Trump administration, which has vowed to dismantle the health reform law.
Some plans will be much more expensive, while others a lot less so.
There will be less enrollment help available from some non-profit groups, but it may be easier to get advice from brokers.
And the sign-up period will be a lot shorter.
These changes -- combined with President Trump's repeated declarations that Obamacare is dead -- could mean a lot fewer people will enroll for 2018.
Some experts estimate that sign ups could fall by 1 or 2 million from the 12.2 million who initially picked plans this year.
Only 40% of current Obamacare enrollees and 15% of the uninsured know that enrollment begins on Wednesday, according to the latest Kaiser Health Tracking Poll.
Here are five changes coming to Obamacare open enrollment for 2018: Silver plans are pricier.
Premiums for the benchmark silver Obamacare plan will soar 37%, on average, in 2018, according to federal data.
But how much consumers will pay depends a lot on where they live.
In Alaska, for instance, the price of the benchmark silver plan will drop by 22%, on average, because the state created a reinsurance plan that protects carriers from footing the entire bill for enrollees with high medical bills.
But in Iowa, where only one insurer will remain on the exchange, premiums for the benchmark plan are skyrocketing 88%.
Related: Premiums for popular Obamacare plans to soar 37% for 2018 It will also depend on which policy they pick.
The lowest cost silver plan, for instance, is only rising 17% in price, on average, according to federal data.
Many insurers jacked up the rates of their silver plans in part to make up for President Trump ending federal support for Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies.
These subsidies reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower-income enrollees.
Most consumers, however, will be shielded from the rate hikes.
That's because they get premium subsidies that limit their monthly cost to less than 10% of their household income.
Gold policies are more affordable for some.
Premium subsidies are also soaring since they are pegged to the price of the benchmark silver plan.
But the average premium for the lowest cost gold plan is rising only 19%.
That means the cheapest gold policy will have lower rates than the least expensive silver plan in 459 counties next year once subsidies are factored in, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation analysis.
The gold plans may be much more attractive to enrollees since they come with an average deductible of $1,320, compared to just over $4,000 for a silver policy, according to Health Pocket, an online health insurance shopping tool.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class Other policies may also be more affordable next year.
Some 80% of enrollees will be able to find a plan for $75 a month or less -- up from 71% this year and the highest share so far.
Many more consumers will be able to obtain coverage without paying anything.
For instance, a 48-year-old consumer earning roughly $30,000 can find a zero-premium bronze policy in nearly 1,050 counties next year, up from 132 counties in 2017, according to an analysis by Oliver Wyman consulting group.
There's a new expanded bronze plan.
Earlier this year, the Trump administration authorized insurers to sell bronze plans that pick up less of enrollees' health care costs, on average.
These "expanded bronze" policies should have lower premiums, but higher out-of-pocket costs.
Also, consumers will have the option to buy a bronze high-deductible plan with a health savings account in the states on the federal exchange.
Enrollees can skip healthcare.gov.
Consumers will now be able to enroll directly through certain third-party websites, rather than having to go to the federal exchange's site to complete their applications.
Also, healthcare.gov will make it easier for consumers to connect with agents and brokers for assistance with applications through a new "Help on Demand" service.
Related: Trump administration is making it even harder to sign up for Obamacare The Trump administration says this will provide Americans with more ways to enroll.
Critics, however, worry that applicants may be steered to certain insurers' products and may not be told of less-expensive options.
The enrollment period is shorter.
Perhaps the biggest change is that consumers will have only half the time to sign up for 2018 coverage.
Open enrollment on the federal exchange runs only through Dec. 15, instead of through the end of January, as in some prior years.
Some states that run their own exchanges, however, are extending the sign-up period.
California and New York residents, for instance, will be able to enroll through Jan. 31, while Washington consumers will have until Jan. 15.
Related: Most Obamacare enrollees could pay less for policies next year The shorter enrollment period makes it particularly important for current consumers to shop and compare the plans available to them.
That's because those who don't actively select a plan by Dec. 15 will be automatically re-enrolled in their current plan, or a similar one if it's been discontinued.
However, unlike in prior years, participants in many states won't be able to switch to another policy after that date since the enrollment period will be over.
This is a big deal because some policies will be far costlier next year.
Consumers may get stuck if they don't shop around.
Most consumers aren't aware of the shorter enrollment period.
Only 25% of enrollees and 5% of the uninsured knew when it ends, the Kaiser poll found.
Uber says it's in contact with the FBI after it emerged that the suspect in the deadly truck attack in New York City was one of the company's drivers.
Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov, originally from Uzbekistan, has been living in the U.S. since 2010, law enforcement sources told CNN.
Uber said he started driving for the ride-hailing app in New Jersey just over six months ago.
The 29-year-old is accused of using a rented pickup truck to mow down cyclists on a busy bike path near the World Trade Center in Manhattan on Tuesday.
He was shot and detained by police.
Uber said Saipov passed a background check in order to drive for the company and has now been banned from its platform.
But his case may raise questions about Uber's background checks process.
Records show Saipov received multiple traffic citations in the past.
Related: Note found in truck claims Manhattan attack done for ISIS, source says In 2015, he was charged in Platte, Missouri, with failure to equip a motor vehicle carrier with or maintain a required brake system.
After he missed his court appearance in November 2016, the court entered a guilty plea on his behalf.
New Jersey rules for ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft require the companies to conduct criminal background checks, which are usually outsourced to specialist firms.
Convictions for crimes like reckless driving automatically disqualify a driver.
Uber applies different criteria for background checks depending on state regulations.
In general, drivers cannot have more than three minor moving violations such as speeding tickets in the past three years.
The company didn't respond late Tuesday to questions about Saipov's past citations.
Uber said it's reviewing Saipov's history at the company and hasn't so far identified any rider complaints about his safety as a driver.
"We are horrified by this senseless act of violence," the company said in a statement.
"Our hearts are with the victims and their families.
We have reached out to law enforcement to provide our full assistance."
It's not the first time one of the company's drivers has been linked to a high-profile crime.
A Missouri man was charged with murder last year over a killing spree he is accused of carrying out in between picking up and dropping off passengers in Kalamazoo County.
-- Topher Gauk-Roger, Curt Devine and Patricia DiCarlo contributed to this report.
Sony is banking on the "irresistible cuteness" of its new robot dog to win over consumers.
Aibo, the artificial-intelligence-powered hound, wags its tail, chases pink balls and can learn new tricks like giving its owner a high five.
Aibo is a rebooted version of a device Sony (SNE) first launched in the 1990s -- and the Japanese company has made it appealingly un-robotic.
Unlike past versions, it has "eyes" (two small screens capable of showing diverse and nuanced expressions), a rounded appearance and a mouth that tilts up in a smile.
Sony CEO Kazuo Hirai unveiled the new robotic pup in Tokyo on Wednesday.
It will go on sale in Japan in January, priced at 198,000 ($1,740) before tax.
With an app that connects it to a store, Aibo appears poised to eventually become a rival to smart speaker devices like Amazon's Alexa and Google Home.
For now, the robotic pet is being billed as an affectionate companion -- one that hears and understands words of praise and eventually learns and remembers which actions make owners happy.
With the owner's permission, Aibo can constantly upload and update data stored in the cloud, changing its personality over time.
Related: Toyota wants this baby robot to be your friend Owners can also ask Aibo to take pictures.
Wandering into creepy territory, the robotic pet can record everything it experiences and create a database of memories owners can browse through on the app.
The gadget is a reminder of Sony's pioneering past in robotics and artificial intelligence.
The electronics maker bred the first generation of Aibo -- short for Artificial Intelligence robot -- back in 1999.
It hoped the pup would captivate customers and make them excited to interact with artificial intelligence.
Related: Wild concepts on display at Japans' big car show At first, it was incredibly popular.
All 3,000 available units sold out in 20 minutes online.
Over the next few years, Sony launched two more Aibo generations, but interest waned as more affordable robots entered the market.
Sony eventually neutered Aibo production facilities in 2006, leading to an exodus of robotics and AI expertise.
Now, with global tech giants and other big companies charging into artificial intelligence, Sony is getting back in the game.
Related: Google is still trying to kill the Echo and Siri The company has pumped resources into the technology, teaming up with U.S. firm Cogitai and launching a venture capital fund last year focused on investing in AI and robotics startups around the world.
The renewed focus on AI and robotics means Sony will be competing with tech giants like Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Google (GOOGL, Tech30).
When you say "Russia," they say "Hillary."
The right-wing response to Robert Mueller's investigation is to change the subject, preferably to an alleged "scandal" involving Hillary Clinton.
Cynical?
Perhaps.
But millions of viewers and readers embrace the counter-narrative presented by President Trump and his allies in the media.
This creates a thick layer of fog, making it hard to see what really matters.
Maybe this is the goal.
Regardless, it poses a challenge for journalists who are trying to convey the truth.
Diversionary techniques have to be covered and called out for what they are.
This fact-check of White House press secretary Sarah Sanders is a model.
But there's another school of thought that says the fog should be ignored, lest responsible news organizations inadvertently lend credibility to irresponsible stories.
Trump and his fervent supporters in right-wing media clearly want the focus to be on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
Witness Monday's briefing.
When Sanders was asked about the guilty plea by one Trump associate and the indictments of two others, she falsely said the charges have "nothing to do with the President's campaign," and then she changed the subject.
"The real collusion scandal has everything to do with the Clinton campaign, Fusion GPS and Russia," she said.
Fusion GPS is the political research firm that produced an anti-Trump dossier.
The Clinton campaign's partial financing of the research, first reported by the Washington Post, was a huge story in conservative media circles last week.
The other huge right-wing story was about alleged Clinton connections to Russian efforts to gain influence in the American uranium industry during the Obama administration.
Fox became fixated on this story -- dubbed the "Uranium One scandal" -- and demanded answers.
Pro-Trump hosts recast the ongoing Russian investigations as a scandal for Clinton and the Democrats.
In the wake of Monday's indictments, when Trump tweeted "why aren't Crooked Hillary & the Dems the focus????
?," he was conveying what he had heard from right-wing media.
Trump did it again on Tuesday, tweeting, "Check the DEMS!"
It's a feedback loop between Trump and his cheerleaders on TV and online -- and the end result is confusion.
A campaign of confusion can have ill effects on the audience.
As Trump supporter Scott Adams, the creator of the "Dilbert" cartoon, observed on Fox Monday night: "There's so much Russian 'stuff' that people are overwhelmed.
I've lost track.
Are there six scandals?
Seven scandals?"
As @brianstelter says: "Remember, Trump wants this to be foggy."
Mueller's job is to make it not, to turn gray into black-and-white facts.
https://t.co/NzZ4bBJCTa Garrett M. Graff (@vermontgmg) October 31, 2017 Some Democrats have urged the public to try to see through the fog.
People inside the Trump campaign "sought the help of the Russians.
They then lied about it," Congressman Jim Himes said on "The Situation Room" Monday night.
Himes said part of Trump's "pattern is 'Please don't look over here.
Look at Hillary Clinton.
Look at Uranium One,' where anybody who looks at five facts related to any of those things will see that that is nothing other than a distraction away from some very serious developments here."
But on Fox, various Clinton-related storylines are portrayed as "very serious developments."
Next to graphics that said "NUCLEAR BRIBERY?"
and "MAJOR CRISIS IN AMERICA," Sean Hannity asked why Hillary Clinton hasn't been charged with any crimes.
Hannity talked about Clinton all throughout his hour-long show on Monday.
"We do need a special prosecutor," he said at one point.
He even called her "President Clinton" by accident.
At recent public events, Clinton has been joking about Fox's fixation.
At a Human Rights Campaign gala on Saturday, Clinton said she wished she lived in the White House, and quipped, "Fox News seems to think that's where I live, in the White House.
Because they spend a disproportionate amount of their time talking about impeaching me," Clinton said.
A version of this column first appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter.
Sign up here!
Now that Puerto Rico's governor has called for the cancellation of a controversial $300 million contract awarded to a small Montana-based utility, many questions remain for the millions of residents who continue to live on the island without electricity.
Governor Ricardo Rossello's request to terminate the contract with Whitefish Energy comes less than two weeks after the two-year-old firm announced it had landed the deal to help restore Puerto Rico's electrical grid.
On Sunday, Rossello called on Ricardo Ramos, the head of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority -- known as PREPA -- to void the deal immediately in the wake of escalating public outrage and a growing litany of government reviews.
"There can be no distraction that alters the commitment to repair the power grid as quickly as possible," Rossello said in a statement.
The Whitefish contract is the largest to be awarded since recovery efforts began over a month ago.
Several lawmakers on Capitol Hill are calling for reviews of how Whitefish, a small firm with only two employees at the time Hurricane Maria hit, was chosen over bigger, more established utilities by PREPA.
On Monday, it was reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had opened a preliminary review of the contract, according to a source familiar with the matter.
Related: How Whitefish landed Puerto Rico's $300 million power contract A number of concerns have also been raised, including whether there was any political influence that resulted in Whitefish winning the deal and if PREPA took the appropriate steps in awarding the deal.
PREPA's Ramos said the state-run utility would work toward canceling the contract and would appoint a trustee to oversee the hiring of any new contractors.
Whitefish has expressed disappointment over the latest step.
"The decision will only delay what the people of Puerto Rico want and deserve," the company said in a statement.
Still, about 70% of the island is living without power and now there is even more uncertainty about when all the lights will go back on.
Here are some of the questions that remain: 1.
Did PREPA do anything wrong by awarding the contract to Whitefish?
The jury is still out.
There are several ongoing reviews looking into how PREPA went about choosing the utility company over other potential candidates.
So far, no wrongdoing has been discovered.
Government agencies usually will make a public request for help on a particular job.
Often, they will receive multiple offers and the agency reviews and accepts the best, lowest cost bid.
Related: FBI opens inquiry into Whitefish's Puerto Rico contract But Puerto Rico's governor told CNN last week that PREPA triggered an "emergency protocol" to start rebuilding its electrical grid on the island immediately after the hurricane hit.
The governor did not elaborate on what that protocol entailed.
Both the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have said they did not sign off on the Whitefish contract, according to spokespersons for both agencies.
On Tuesday, FEMA administrator Brock Long told members of a Senate panel the agency would never have signed off on the deal.
After the controversy surrounding the contract emerged, the governor instructed Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to conduct an audit of the Whitefish deal.
The governor's office said it has since escalated the review by requesting a "detailed and in-depth investigation" of PREPA's emergency procurement process by Puerto Rico's comptroller.
Results of the audit were expected last Friday, but have yet to be released.
Without learning the full details of the audit, Rossello called upon PREPA to cancel the Whitefish deal over the weekend.
The governor's office has made it clear the request in no way demonstrates any wrongdoing thus far.
2.
Has Whitefish already stopped work on the island?
No, not yet.
The embattled utility company is still pressing ahead with its work.
Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames told CNN the firm's work won't stop immediately per the terms of its contract with PREPA.
PREPA's Ramos said earlier this week the contract requires 30 days notice before cancellation, and that the state-owned utility wanted Whitefish to "finish what they started."
Related: Relief groups hit major hurdles getting aid to Puerto Rico So far, Whitefish said it has completed "significant work" on two major transmissions lines that crossed over mountains and it has done some critical work in some remote parts of Puerto Rico that were only accessible by helicopter and heavy equipment.
Its efforts, the company said, have helped restore power to hospitals, businesses and residents of Manati and soon enough 500,000 people in the city of San Juan.
Whitefish said it plans to continue fixing transmission lines into San Juan.
It also plans to bring an additional 150 lineman to the island this week -- bringing the total to 500 workers.
"The original decision by PREPA to have Whitefish Energy come to the Puerto Rico only sped up the repairs, and if it were not for that action, crews would just now be getting to the island to begin the process of rebuilding the system and restoring power," according to a Whitefish statement Sunday.
3.
What happens after Whitefish is gone?
With Whitefish on its way out, Puerto Rico's governor said he has turned to governors in New York and Florida for help in the recovery effort as part of the mutual aid network among public utilities.
On Sunday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo posted on Twitter the state would deploy "additional utility crews and equipment to restore power in Puerto Rico."
New York is deploying additional utility crews and equipment to help restore power in Puerto Rico.
Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) October 29, 2017 "There was no reason for this to take 36 days," Cuomo told CNN's Fredericka Whitfield on Sunday.
"it's just frankly, because they didn't get the attention and I think we treat Puerto Ricans like second-class Americans."
Florida Governor Rick Scott on Monday said he would lead a delegation of Florida utility providers to Puerto Rico later this week.
4.
What other steps can Puerto RIco take to get the power up and running?
On Tuesday, PREPA formally requested to tap the mutual aid network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages.
PREPA's Ramos sent a letter to the American Public Power Association and the Edison Electric Institute requesting additional resources for the island.
The state-run utility could have requested aid through this network right after the hurricane hit.
But Ramos said he didn't because the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own rebuilding efforts after hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
He said he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs.
The bankrupt utility, which is struggling with nearly $9 billion in debt, also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he said.
Carlos Mercader, director of Puerto Rico Governor's office in Washington, told CNN utilizing the network would be a "different situation" than before since the governor himself is asking for help.
One option would be for PREPA to rehire Whitefish subcontractors so they may continue doing the work to restore power and meet the governor's goal to restore nearly a 100% of power by the end of the year.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over Puerto Rico power contract Mercader said the priority now is to transition away from Whitefish, while obtaining more resources to help with restoring power on the island.
Rossello set a goal of having over 1,000 brigades in Puerto Rico by Nov. 8.
So far, only 404 crews have arrived.
Of those, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has only sent seven, according to Rossello.
Rossello said his announcement on Sunday was intended to reaffirm Puerto Rico's "commitment to transparency in the contracting process... and to achieve the highest degree of efficiency possible in the restoration of the power grid of our island, in the shortest amount of time possible."
--CNN's Rene Marsh and Greg Wallace contributed to this report.
Busy shoppers are warming up to Kellogg's frozen foods.
For the first time in two and a half years, the company reported growing sales, thanks largely in part to frozen offerings such as Eggo waffles and Morningstar Farms breakfast sandwiches.
Kellogg's stock soared 7% following the report.
While cereal is still king of the breakfast world, frozen foods are having a moment -- especially frozen sandwiches and pizzas.
The global frozen food industry as a whole is expected to bring in $360 billion by 2024, according to a new report by Grand View Research.
Healthy frozen offerings are doing particularly well, says Darren Seifer, a retail analyst at research firm NPD Group.
"Consumers have always demanded speed.
They're also demanding more protein.
That's been a huge driver of frozen breakfast sandwiches," Seifer adds.
Kellogg is capitalizing on that trend with its Morningstar Farms brand, which offers meat-free takes on classic breakfast staples such as the sausage, egg and cheese.
Related: Trix cereal is bringing back artificial flavors This may all seem like great news for Kellogg's new CEO Steven Cahillane, who took over earlier this month.
But there's cause for concern.
The company's breakfast division -- which still relies heavily on sugary staples such as Frosted Flakes and Pop-Tarts -- sunk 3% last quarter compared to the same time last year.
Kellogg's stock is down nearly 16% overall this year.
Kellogg also suffered a PR blowup earlier this month after a consumer complained that the art on its Corn Pops cereal boxes was racist.
Still, Kellogg's breakfast division isn't exactly dried up.
It makes up 22% of the company's $13 billion in annual sales, slightly less than its snack division, which makes Keebler, Cheez-Its and Pringles.
Related: Kellogg isn't giving up on sugary cereal just yet Kellogg (K) is even rolling out a new breakfast cereal in November: Chocolate Frosted Flakes.
Kellogg hopes the chocolate flavor will make up for the fact that Kashi -- the black sheep of Kellogg's cereal offerings -- continues to slip.
Kellogg has badly mismanaged the brand, overexpanding and failing to ward off an increasing number of competitors.
To also attract more health-conscious consumers, Kellogg is investing in the lucrative snack business.
In one of his first big moves as CEO, Cahillane announced plans to purchase America's fastest-growing nutrition bar company, RXBar.
But for now, investors are embracing what Americans have always known: There's nothing quite like a good breakfast sandwich.
ExxonMobil is going to clean up the air in Texas and Louisiana.
A federal court ruled in April that Exxon violated the Clean Air Act by releasing 10 million pounds of pollutants at its Baytown, Texas facility.
The Trump administration settled with Exxon on Tuesday.
As part of the agreement, Exxon will pay $300 million to resolve air pollution allegations at eight of its chemical plants.
It will upgrade its pollution-control technology at five facilities in Texas and three in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, the Justice Department and Environmental Protection Agency announced.
Exxon also agreed to pay a $2.5 million civil penalty to the EPA.
"This settlement means cleaner air for communities across Texas and Louisiana, and reinforces the EPA's commitment to enforce the law and hold those who violate it accountable," EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said.
Exxon said in a statement that the agreement will "help improve flare efficiency at these chemical facilities, which are among the largest petrochemical complexes in the world."
One climate change group said the deal amounted to a "slap on the wrist."
"These mild fines are tiny compared to the colossal wealth of fossil fuel elites, and will only embolden Exxon," said Lindsay Meiman of environmental activist organization 350.org.
Exxon has been battling charges in recent months that it downplayed the threat of global warming.
In August, a Harvard study concluded Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly four decades.
Last month, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon and top oil companies pay billions to cover damages from climate change.
Exxon (XOM) did not directly address climate change criticism, but the company said it "complies with environmental laws, regulations and permits."
Americans planning for their golden years got a few more grey hairs last week when Washington floated the idea of curtailing the tax-deferred contributions that workers make to their 401(k) accounts.
President Donald Trump quickly pushed back on the possibility, but a key Republican tax cutter responded by saying an adjustment to the 401(k) is still on the table.
The debate raises the question: Just how ready are most Americans for retirement?
Most people will need a combination of savings and Social Security to get by, money they might need to stretch over decades.
Some are better able to save before retiring than others.
And it's almost inevitable that as a person ages beyond 65, they'll pay more for health care.
Getty Images As Americans await the fate of their 401(k) contributions, here are eight facts to keep in mind about the nation's retirement readiness: 1.
A little more than half of America has a retirement account, such as a 401(k) or Individual Retirement Account, according to the Federal Reserve.
2.
Not everyone can save in a 401(k), even if they want to, because not all jobs offer one.
Only 35 percent of low-income working households had access to a 401(k) or similar plan, according to a recent study by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.
For high-income households, meanwhile, it's 80 percent.
3.
The typical household with a retirement account had $60,000 last year, but there's big variation.
Among the top 10 percent of households by income, the typical amount of savings was $403,000.
Middle-income households had a median of $25,000.
4.
Millennials have more than their parents did at a similar age.
The typical household led by someone aged less than 35 with a retirement account had $12,300 last year.
In 1989, those same kinds of households had $7,500, after accounting for inflation.
Getty Images 5.
The age to get full retirement benefits from Social Security is moving higher.
Someone who is 66 years old today can get full benefits.
But full-retirement age will move up slowly, beginning with people born in 1955, until it hits 67 for people born in 1960 and later.
6.
Retirement can last for decades.
Once an American woman gets to 65 years old, life expectancy is an additional 20.6 years, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
For men, it's 18 years.
7.
Don't forget about health care costs.
A 65-year-old couple will need an estimated $275,000 to cover health care and medical expenses through their retirement, according to Fidelity.
That doesn't include nursing-home or long-term care costs.
8.
The traditional corporate pension, where workers get a set amount sent to them through retirement, is disappearing.
Only 13 percent of private-sector workers were participating in such a plan in 2014, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute.
In 1979, the rate was nearly triple that, at 38 percent.
Ford and Nissan posted big sales jumps for October, but Fiat Chrysler and General Motors reported declines Wednesday.
The drop by two of the Detroit Three reinforces analyst predictions that September's big gain in U.S. auto sales would fizzle in October.
They believe sales will continue to slow nationwide and fewer people than expected will replace hurricane-damaged vehicles in Texas and Florida.
Fiat Chrysler sales fell 13 percent for the month, while GM's dropped 2 percent.
But Ford reported a 6 percent gain that included big increases in F-Series pickups and sales to fleet buyers.
Nissan's sales rose 8 percent largely on an October record for the Nissan Rogue small SUV, with sales up 43 percent.
Industry analysts believe that when all automakers have released their final numbers by Wednesday afternoon, they will show that October sales fell between 2 percent and about 4 percent.
If those predictions are correct, it will mean that a consecutive streak of sales gains for automakers will come to an end after seven years.
In 2016, sales hit a record of more than 17.5 million, but most analysts are predicting that this year will come in around 17.1 million.
Replacement of hurricane-damaged vehicles, especially in the Houston area, was expected to push sales up in October.
But Jeff Schuster, senior vice president of forecasting for the LMC Automotive consulting firm, said sales through the first three weeks of the month didn't match forecasts.
Sales in Florida rose 5 percent as shoppers finished purchases delayed by Hurricane Irma, but in Houston, they rose only 3 percent as the recovery from Hurricane Harvey wound down.
"There's a lift, but the lift is not very pronounced, and it looks like based on what we saw from Houston, it's going to be short-lived," said Schuster.
Early data show that more buyers than expected replaced damaged vehicles with used ones, Schuster said.
Used vehicles normally make up around 70 percent of total sales, but it appears that 80 percent of hurricane replacement buyers bought used, Schuster said.
Millions of used cars are returning to the market from leases, and analysts say that is likely to pull sales from new vehicles.
To get to October's expected sales of 1.32 million vehicles, automakers had to raise discounts on vehicles to an average of $3,901, beating the previous record for October of $3,835 set last year, according to J.D.
Power.
But the average sale price, including incentives, rose to an October record of $32,185, showing that buyers are willing to load out vehicles with more options.
It's also taking longer for vehicles to be sold, especially cars.
Cars and trucks sold through Oct. 22 spent an average of 75 days on dealer lots, a number not seen since July of 2009, when it hit 80 days just after the Great Recession ended, J.D.
Power said.
Schuster said more time on dealer lots is a further indication that sales are slowing.
"All in all, it's still a very solid market.
It's behaving in a way as expected after coming off the year that we had."
LMC is forecasting that sales will be down slightly next year from this year's levels.
Powered by businesses and consumers, the U.S. economy grew at a solid 3 annual pace last quarter despite two devastating hurricanes evidence of economic durability and all but assuring that the Federal Reserve will resume raising interest rates late this year.
Friday's figures from the government marked the first time in three years that the economy has expanded at a 3 percent or more annual rate historically, a normal pace for a healthy economy for two straight quarters.
More than eight years since the Great Recession officially ended, the economy is still posting consistent gains in the job market, in business investment, in consumer spending and corporate earnings.
Unemployment is at a 16-year low.
Companies are restocking.
An improving global economy is boosting U.S. exports.
Stock prices are rising in tandem with company profits.
The 3 percent annual growth for the July-September quarter in gross domestic product the total output of goods and services produced in the United States followed a 3.1 percent annual pace in the previous quarter.
It was the strongest two-quarter showing since 2014.
The economy managed to expand at a healthy rate last quarter despite the damage inflicted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, which many economists think shaved at least one-half of 1 percentage point off annual growth in the July-September period.
President Donald Trump has pledged to accelerate growth from the tepid 2.2 percent annual averages that prevailed since the recession ended in 2009.
The administration was quick to hail the GDP report as evidence that Trump's economic program was already helping to lift the economy.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross asserted that Friday's GDP report "proves that President Trump's bold agenda is steadily overcoming the dismal economy inherited from the previous administration.
... And as the president's tax cut plan is implemented our entire economy will continue to come roaring back."
The administration contends that Trump's proposals for tax cuts, deregulation and tougher enforcement of trade laws will achieve annual growth exceeding 3 percent in the coming years.
Most economists, though, have said they think that even 3 percent annual gains will be hard to achieve for an economy that, for all its strength, is enduring a slowdown in work productivity as well as an aging workforce.
Many analysts believe annual growth in the current October-December quarter will amount to a rate of around 2.7 percent.
Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said he envisions just 2.1 percent growth for all of 2017.
He suggest that if the Trump administration manages to shepherd at least a modest tax cut measure through Congress, growth in 2018 could accelerate to 2.5 percent.
But he said he expects further interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve to slow the economy's growth to just 1.5 percent in 2019.
Harvey made initial landfall in Texas on Aug. 25, and Irma blitzed Florida on Sept. 10.
The government said that while economic activity ranging from energy refineries in Texas to citrus farming in Florida were hurt by the storms, it could not estimate how much the hurricanes had weakened overall U.S. growth last quarter.
Private economists have estimated that the storms sapped between one-half and 1 percentage point from annual growth in the July-September period.
But analysts say they think much of that lost output will be recovered as the affected areas are rebuilt.
The 3 percent annual growth rate for third quarter GDP and the 3.1 percent pace in the second quarter followed a much weaker 1.2 percent annual increase in the January-March quarter.
In the third quarter, consumer spending remained solid, though it slowed slightly to a 2.4 percent annual pace from a sizzling 3.3 percent rate in the April-June period.
Part of the gain in consumer spending was due to auto sales, which accelerated from August to September the strongest month this year so far.
The biggest drivers in last quarter's growth were a robust increase in business investment in equipment and an acceleration in companies' rebuilding of inventories.
Other areas of the report showed weakness.
Government spending fell for a third straight quarter.
Residential construction declined.
But trade added 0.4 percentage point to growth, with exports growing briskly while imports fell.
On Thursday, the House gave approval to a Republican-proposed budget that would provide for $1.5 trillion in tax cuts over the next decade.
Administration officials have said the tax cuts will spur faster growth and that the faster growth will erase much of the cost of the tax cuts.
Democrats and many economists have challenged that forecast as unrealistic.
Amazon announced today that it is launching a service that allows a driver not only to drop a package off at your doorstep but also to go inside your home even when you are not there to make a delivery.
Interested in Amazon?
Add Amazon as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Amazon news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The tech giant's new in-home delivery feature, Amazon Key, which was announced on "Good Morning America" today, lets customers opt to employ an app, a camera and a smart lock to oversee when parcels are delivered inside their homes.
Amazon "A lot of customers would love having their packages delivered in their home even when theyre not there," Peter Larsen, Amazon's vice president of delivery technology, told ABC News, saying the new service comes in response to customer requests.
Amazon Key works by alerting customers by phone when a driver arrives at their home and scans their package.
That triggers a signal to the Amazon Cloud that verifies the driver, and then the Amazon Cloud unlocks a smart lock on the front door.
Amazon Meanwhile, a camera inside the home begins recording, and customers can watch the delivery live or watch the video later.
The in-home delivery service will come at no additional cost for the 85 million Amazon Prime subscribers, after they purchase the Amazon Key In-Home Kit, starting at $249.99, which includes the new Amazon Cloud Cam and a compatible smart lock.
Larsen addressed the skepticism that many may feel about remotely allowing a stranger to enter their home, telling ABC News that all drivers will be "background checked."
"Amazon is really focused on safety and security for all of our customers across the board," he said.
"These drivers are the same drivers that you know and trust to deliver your Amazon packages today.
They're background checked, and they are approved to deliver for Amazon."
Larsen acknowledged the cybersecurity concerns some customers may raise when using technology that controls access into their home, saying "all of the devices are encrypted."
"The data traveling between the devices and the Amazon Cloud is encrypted," he said, adding that Amazon has an "over-the-air update system so we can update all of the devices if we need to."
Amazon Key users have the option to turn off the smart lock whenever they choose, requiring a physical key for entry.
Amazon In addition to delivery services, people can use Amazon Key to remotely allow friends or family members to enter their homes without a key.
Amazon announced that it hopes to use the new technology to let service providers, such as housekeepers and dog walkers, have access to homes.
In a statement announcing the release of Amazon Key, Larsen added that the service can give people "peace of mind" in knowing that their orders "are waiting for them when they walk through their doors."
Amazon The new delivery service is one way online retailers are working to combat parcel theft, which is estimated to affect millions of Americans annually.
Amazon Key will become available Nov. 8 in 37 U.S. cities.
ABC News' Taylor Dunn contributed to this report.
U.S. businesses added a solid 235,000 jobs in October, according to a private survey, partly reflecting a rebound from the previous month when hiring was held back by several hurricanes.
Payroll processor ADP said Wednesday that last month's gain was the largest in seven months.
Hiring fell to just 110,000 in September, the lowest in nearly a year.
October's rebound was driven by construction firms, which reported a huge gain of 62,000 jobs, the most in 11 years.
That's a sign that rebuilding efforts after Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria are already under way.
Manufacturers added a healthy 22,000 jobs, and professional and technical services, a category that includes higher-paying jobs such as architects and engineers, gained 68,000.
A category that includes hotel and restaurant workers added 45,000.
The government's jobs report for September showed that damage from the hurricanes caused a loss of 33,000 jobs that month, the first drop in seven years.
The ADP report doesn't include government payrolls and often diverges from the official figures.
Economists forecast that the Labor Department's report for October, to be released Friday, will show a much bigger gain of 308,000 jobs.
Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, which compiles the ADP report, said the gap between the ADP and government figures reflects the way the two numbers are calculated.
If a business was closed during the hurricanes and employees weren't paid, that would be counted as a job loss in the government data.
But if they remain on the company's payroll and can return to their jobs after the storms, they are likely to be counted as employed in the ADP figures.
As a result, the ADP data is less affected by the storms than the government figures, Zandi said.
Aside from the impacts of the hurricanes, "the job market is still very healthy," he added.
Zandi expects the government's report on Friday will show a gain of roughly 300,000 jobs.
A grand plan once spearheaded by Jared Kushner to rescue the biggest deal in his career by razing a Fifth Avenue skyscraper and building luxury apartments in its place is all but dead, the co-owner of the building said Tuesday.
The comments from Vornado Realty Trust CEO Steven Roth suggest that Kushner's most ambitious purchase will continue to bleed money tens of millions a year as a deadline for repayment of the giant mortgage on the office building nears.
Kushner sold his personal interest in the tower, the family's flagship property and headquarters, before joining the White House as a senior adviser to his father-in-law, President Donald Trump.
Kushner bought the famed aluminum-clad skyscraper at 666 Fifth Avenue for a record $1.8 billion a decade ago when he was CEO of Kushner Cos., at the time mostly known for thousands of garden apartments in suburbia.
Then he almost lost the building to lenders.
Roth swept in with a rescue plan in 2011, offering cash in exchange for a big ownership stake.
The outlook for the office section of the building has not improved lately.
Its 1.4 million square feet of office space is nearly a third empty and the Kushners and Roth must pay back a $1.2 billion mortgage in a little over a year.
While the clock is ticking for the Kushners, the opposite is true for Roth.
The Kushner Cos. is privately held and small compared with the company that Roth heads, the publicly traded Vornado Realty Trust, which has stockpiled hundreds of millions in cash.
Roth can afford to wait until the last minute and, some analysts say, perhaps grab a bigger ownership stake in any crisis.
"The worse this thing turns out," said Joe McBride, a project manager at research firm Trepp LLC, "the higher the chance that Vornado can take ownership of the property at lower entry."
In a conference call with Vornado investors on Tuesday, Roth described the building as "overleveraged," meaning it owes too much.
Referring to the Kushner plans to tear down the building, he said "it's likely that those are not feasible" and that the building will probably remain offices.
Vornado had no other comment for this article.
A spokesman for the Kushner Cos. did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
The Kushner Cos. had hoped to construct a tower where the Mad Men-era offices now stand, a gleaming building about twice as high and featuring luxury condominiums on most of floors.
The plan looked impressive on paper, with drawings by the late architect Zaha Hadid.
But Roth reportedly has never embraced the concept.
Among other problems, it would require billions of dollars from outside investors and would allow corporate tenants to leave the building when their leases run out so it can be demolished, leaving less money to pay the bills.
The hunt for billions has turned up nothing so far and, given Roth's comment, it looks likely the Kushners may have to reverse course, leaving the offices at 666 Fifth Avenue as they are.
The family had been negotiating with Anbang Insurance, a Chinese company with close ties to the ruling Communist party there.
But Democrats in Congress and good-government watchdogs complained that China could use the investment as leverage with the White House, and negotiations were called off in March.
Talks with a Qatari billionaire have also ended, a Kushner Cos. spokesman recently confirmed.
And Bloomberg has reported the Kushners have also gotten nowhere with other potential partners, including a South Korean government fund, a French billionaire and a Saudi investor.
Meanwhile, the finances of the building have only gotten worse.
When Jared Kushner bought it, 6 percent of the offices were empty.
Now 30 percent are empty as leases are allowed to run out and tenants leave.
Kushner long ago sold the retail space at the bottom of the building, but the interest rate on the $1.2 billion mortgage for the offices has steadily climbed from 3 to 5.5 percent in just four years.
Adding to the troubles, the luxury condo market has shifted recently, undermining a key assumption behind the raze-and-rebuild plan.
There is a glut of luxury apartments in Manhattan now, prices are falling and they are taking longer to sell.
Looming above all this is a deadline.
Lenders are expecting their $1.2 billion back, plus another $200 million in other charges, in February 2019 15 months away.
If they don't get the money, they can foreclose on the property.
One idea is to sell the offices, but that might not be a good solution.
Jed Reagan, a commercial real estate analyst at Green Street Advisors, doesn't think the offices are worth as much as the debt.
And fixing up the offices to make them more appealing could cost a lot, too.
"This office building has a lot vacancies now, and there is quite a bit of deferred capital maintenance," Reagan said.
"Even if you stick with the offices as is, that's going to take money to attract tenants."
Just how much money the Kushners have to spend on the building is not clear because they don't release financial figures to the public.
And their recent moves leave a cloudy picture.
They have been buying more properties lately, suggesting they have cash or at least access to lenders.
The Kushner Cos. and two partners reportedly paid $340 million for the former Jehovah's Witnesses headquarters near the Brooklyn Bridge over a year ago.
Four months later, the same group bought a nearby parking lot for $345 million.
Then, in August, the company paid $190 million for garden apartments near Princeton, New Jersey.
The Kushners have borrowed heavily in some deals, though, and they nearly always bring partners to invest with them, so it's not certain how much has been pulled from the pockets of the family business.
No one is guessing about the resources available to Roth, though, and that he can use a crisis to his advantage, as he did in 2011 when he made his big move on the Fifth Avenue building.
Back then falling rents had sent the building's assessed value plunging, a reserve fund set up to pay interest on the mortgage was running dry and lenders had just hired a "special servicer" in anticipation of a default.
Roth pounced, getting a 49.5 percent stake in the office building above the retail stores for $80 million, along with other financial commitments.
He also got a bit of a bonus.
The $80 million would be treated as "preferred equity," which meant it would earn interest like a loan, according to a Credit Suisse report.
The rate was 11 percent, remarkable at a time when borrowing rates had plunged to their lowest in decades.
On Monday, Vornado reported that it had it took in $1.5 billion in rent and fees from dozens of its properties in the first nine months of this year.
Its cash holdings for an emergency or a big deal stand at $1.3 billion.
"They are a very patient poker player," said Alex Goldfarb , a managing director of Sandler O'Neill & Partners.
"And when they get the right opportunity, they will act."
Transcript for Worst Advice: Peter Thomas Roth I ask everyone what the worst advice they receive wise when someone says don't do that's a stupid idea.
Like if it's your idea it's not stupid.
And if you look if you like it just go within that someone will like it.
You believe that if you like something you believe someone else will if you like it you and you want to use it so if it's.
Yes you created not just an idea that you like like if it's a product and you act on a genuinely enjoy your product and use it and it works.
That just means whoever that buyers are either get on dislike you either they can't buy if there's no room for in store.
Maybe it's not priced re priced rate drizzle in babies the wrong size containers and right there's a lot of things that go into a product but that just means.
Changes.
A little bit lists as they come out with it and it smells god and me realize that she's now.
Or if you have a pock buttons and you know maybe you think its hottest because it's like you know lime green and you love it at the pocketbook itself can be fabulous.
We could colorless and so if you like it just be open to tweaking and hand if you're open to tweaking it.
Then and you believe that really works don't listen to anyone I didn't ask raided by.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Peter Thomas Roth: How to get on QVC Or allow it to sell it and que me say.
They.
That's a good question.
If if you know this if they knew the secret every won't be successful.
There isn't a secret.
Is just code that effective even you can pick acted people acutely viewing leakage or because there are.
Huge amount to a new easing brands that needs Ingraham and that is to work right for no reason.
Law and then there's some brands and with the wecht can play them on from MR Putin's it really matter what you look like or who you are just have to.
Just.
Houston's.
What kind of preparation to be flagging now here like you've done it for so I'm.
But when you are very first going on QVC.
Where you trying to like memorize and make sure you knew every single thing about every prop.
First time we call QVC because it's time to go Mercury's and 1112 years ago finally got my appointment.
And he said well give you like six minutes and I boldly said.
I'm attitudes experience and that wasn't truth extreme because it why.
Because they needed an hour show.
On my competitors were there at the time it Irish Catholic when Alex you know sliced bread you know but that's simple bill because they could have said they no doubt I'll I'll I just.
You know sometimes.
I knew I can do it and they agree.
So bad its show on May twentieth its seventh a remember in 2006.
And I'd buyer who is lovely she sort of gritty on for eight minutes.
The Saturday before Israel went to go before camera the first time in might be deer in headlights like a fun way to sell I'd go there.
And used to prepare.
I actually didn't have ended before and after they didn't have any statistics I had like nothing.
You that in yeah and we went on with on wrinkle 120 dollars on wrinkle which is my number one product and time.
And I had a thousand products in 2000 for that Tuesday's yes I don't know what happens thanks sitting there standing like looking.
And that you know the hodes says.
And we saw that 2000 units in between and that's where you got it that's two and 40000 dollars in like wow.
In six minutes you earn 40000 dollars in sales to that end units and we saw that look at some more and then Tuesday was still another to donate.
Tuesday they go so what does that mean they say okay that hour's worth.
450000.
And QVC is happy with it in person and it shouldn't speak for them but.
He doesn't get an idea there if you do 80% we're OK if you do goal there are thrilled if you go over ago.
Your vote you can come back any tax you know can do 350 will be good.
And they.
I need to.
They think they do we still got a four products at Coosa more I think we do almost 700000.
Wow.
Am I so that a four items show was wild.
And what's and that if you go on QVC FICO on QVC UB instead.
You could write that three year.
And we have to work for.
You have to really come out with products that customer wants his the only good.
I think for a year and if you don't have that youth in the area you probably don't.
So how do you get you.
What you need to due to his seat that call them incessantly Unita a product that's exciting.
IE.
While there Peter Barton and combative beauty.
Yes you you would definitely have to call the buyer who has by the Giuliani yes obviously like you're selling book exactly because whoever's in pocketbooks.
If you call that does.
Introduction is that important awards you know QQBC's kind of wonderful and I think to have.
They had a while ago 18100 gas.
They have a lot of people.
And.
If you go look at QBC a lot of the rams select homegrown and then you know they don't have to be big Brandon says they're all opened you know kind of making you wanna figure out like how to argue he thought I had a product yet but I love the idea of 700000 dollars in sales and that's spent time.
And it's also fun because you've direct its instant yeah.
It's like Tony Vegas that having your numbers immediately and that if they don't like to do you know immediately you don't like right okay that which are.
Actually be teachable and it would be devastating moment because you've literally put everything probably answer that one product but it's also useful for me.
Yes but does and it's about pride.
Okay does result is I saw it I see it means it's not a QVC product accused.
So the QVC cuts for depth relax certain things and if not every.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Global fears of wine shortage as production to hit 50-year low You know, I try to bring happy stories but today I'm sorry, let's get serious, people.
We are in the precipice of an international wine crisis.
Wine drinkers worldwide production is predicted to hit a 50-year low this year.
Yes, I'm not encouraging you to be like squares and collect nuts but I'm just saying that the bleak outlook is being blamed on frost and drought in the European vineyards especially Italy where production is down a whopping 23%, but the harsh weather conditions have also wreaked havoc in Spain and, yes, even France.
Analysts are again not suggesting that you have to stockpile.
They are saying that you are probably in for a price increase.
I rarely have seen so many glum faces in this audience.
I know.
I know and especially during "Pop news."
You're telling on yourselves right now.
When you run low come over to my place.
I have so much I never drink -- All right.
Everybody, come over!
I got you.
Squirrel trying to get a nut.
All right.
Next up in "Pop news," you know, Michael bey is known for his huge blockbuster action S like "Transformers."
In fact he has a style, a nickname that meme call him beyhim so he was quite surprised that the guy who brought us armageddon will take on "Dora the explorer" as his next project.
He's versatile and will tell the popular nickelodeon cartoon in a live action film that picks up with Dora as a teenager in the big city.
No idea on plot who will play Dora, or die agent go but we'll sure adventure will ensue.
I've seen with my twins, thank goodness for "Dora the explorer."
Vamaos number.
Swiper, no swiping.
And then finally in "Pop news," Jenner Lopez always has been a fashion trendsetter but her most famous choice of all, you know what I'm talking about, that green tropical print low cut Versace number.
She wore that to the grammys back in 2000.
We're still talking about it.
Because it started a totally different trend.
People package's Jess Cagle a dear friend revealing after the grammys that year so many people went on Google searching for pictures of J.
Lo in that dress, I have no idea why, that the tech giant Google decided to launch Google images.
Oh, come on.
That is how Google images was born.
Something we often use daily because of the green dress.
We knew it looked fantastic on J.
Lo but who could have predi predicted the cultural significance of a dress that has been parodied and copied so many times.
The original by the way still sits right there in Jen's closet.
Wow.
Kind of interesting.
That is interesting.
A real mix.
And I have to go so hurry up.
I have to get to the store.
For the crisis.
Oh, Lara Spencer.
Thanks so much.
Lara.
To that surprising This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Target's new e-gift feature allows recipients to swap their presents Thanks for all that.
Also, our next guest, funny guy, Emmy nominated guy, a mission to make America laugh again, please welcome Denis Leary.
???
Welcome to my house ???
Are you ready?
Yes.
Hi.
Mwah.
Hi.
How are you?
Mwah.
Nice to see you.
Hi, guys.
Hello.
Wow.
Holy cow.
I'm so excited.
This is like -- I'm like an anchor on "Good morning America."
Right?
This is like -- Yeah.
This is kind of official.
This is it.
Oh, my god.
You don't have a tie on.
George, I'm never wearing a tie again.
So like I'm the main guy.
I'm in the middle.
That's true.
Dr. Denis Leary here with "Good morning America."
I'm here to announce that George Stephanopoulos is running for president in 2020.
And we're not going to use the last name, it's going to be George 2020 and I'm taking over his slot so we're announcing that today.
So -- Big news story.
He's going to run for president and I'll be a "Good morning America" regular.
How is that?
Dr. Dennis leer which without a tie, thank you.
I am a doctor.
All rit.
I'm ray celebrity -- are you a celebrity doctor, a fake doctor, celebrity -- I think I am.
Really?
I hate that.
It's true.
They give it to anybody, right?
So I got one from my ALMA mater and Emerson college and I did well there and graduated with a degree in acting and writing then when I got famous they gave me a celebrity doctor at and it is real.
You get it framed and everything, right?
So -- Actually wear a white coat here.
You're really taking it quite seriously.
I take it seriously.
I called a good friend, Michael J.
Fox, Mike fox who's like -- yeah So I was so puffed up.
At first I called my mom.
She's like oh, my god.
My son is finally going to be a doctor.
My Irish immigrant mom.
Big move and Mike, I said you're not going to believe this.
I'm going to be a doctor.
He said, welcome to the club.
I go, what do you mean.
Mike didn't even finish high school, okay.
He was on "Family ties" when he was like 16.
He said, I have eight doctorates because they just hand them out to famous people.
Great.
We'll get you another one.
Now I'm upset.
Spreeing of handing things out, no, but I'm going to give you a fruitcake.
What do you think about that?
I'll tell you what I think -- don't applaud.
Please.
This is -- I just want to say something about fruitcake.
I'm Irish.
I had aunts that used to make these things and I play hockey.
They last longer than hockey.
These are not food.
You can throw this at somebody in an argument and hurt them, okay.
This is the most thoughtless gift you could give to a person.
This is like walking outside and going, hey, a rock, let me give it to robin.
Merry Christmas.
That was -- you just proved the point, fruitcakes are known as the most thoughtless gift.
Horrible and have you ever tasted one.
No, I have not.
Just once.
I have not.
They're horrible.
No, no.
The reason I'm talking about this, target is actually trying to combat people receiving gifts they don't like and saying a feature called gift now, sends an e-mail to your recipient.
They can either accept the gift you've chosen for them whether it be a fruitcake or choose an entirely different gift.
What do you think about that?
Before they ship it you can say, no, thanks, I don't want to fruitcake I'll take socks.
I think it's brilliant.
I'm tired of my kid, adult, 27 and 25.
I know it's a cliche when they say what do you want.
I say, this rancwrench.
Then they buy me sog I don't want and don't get the socks or wrench.
So now you can change it.
I do like it.
I think it's good.
Is it already up and running for the holidays?
But Dr. Denis Leary, this is his new book out right now and, you know what, we have been -- Can we say the title.
You can say it.
We can't say all of it.
So I'll say it.
So you won't get in trouble.
Look, we blocked it out, the last word.
It's called "Why we don't suck."
Hang on and how all of us need to stop being such partisan little -- rhymes with stitches.
What are you doing here?
I can see it's on the book.
Are you blurring it out.
Blurring it out right there.
You did start with a warning.
I start the book with a warning.
Listen, here's how I wrote the book because I -- I voted for Hillary Clinton but I didn't want to, okay.
I thought she was a terrible candidate.
They don't know what to clap for.
[ Laughter That's like, Donald Trump, I didn't vote for Donald Trump obviously.
I knew Donald Trump.
He did a cameo on an ABC sitcom I did years ago called "The job."
He also did a tinge on "The apprentice" for my foundation.
He was a nice guy.
He was generous.
He was on time.
He knew his lines when he had them memorized but he was a different color.
He was white.
He was actually -- he made me look like I was a dark skinned person.
He was so white so it was a different guy.
But he -- whatever you want to say about trump, he has changed the game.
So after the election I did -- I do this concert every year for the cancer foundation at T.D.
Garden.
This year it's November 18th.
Yeah.
So four days after the election, I did a concert and what I basically did was go up and stage and vent against Hillary and against trump and the audience was explosive so people -- I could tell they had -- half voted for Hillary and half voted for trump so to me I thought I got to write ray book about it because it got more and more divisive and nothing is getting done.
So in trump's world which he's changed the game, celebrities can now become president so I think we have to look at it that's why I said George 2020.
Weed to to stop -- yeah, let's change the process.
I want to have -- talk about so you think you can dance or "Dancing with the stars" we should have a reality show to elect the next president.
Someone said we already did that.
Right.
I mean, because the debates suck.
We don't learn anything at the debates so I say you have a 13-week reality show called "President idol" as Howard Stern was calling it or I call it "America's got leaders."
Four celebrity judge answer have all these people that want to run for 1 week, give them tanks, make them dance, sing, whatever you want to do and on November 2nd or 7th we vote by phone.
That's it.
No electric tort college.
That's it.
The winner is the winner.
I mean I think that's the future, you know.
Something to think about.
It's so scary.
Nick lachey would be a great presidential candidate on that show.
I'm telling you.
Justin Timberlake could be president.
I think we need a woman.
I want Oprah.
Yay.
There we go.
I want Oprah.
There you go.
Because --S if.
Oprah would be so great because you know every three weeks she'd give us free stuff.
You know what I mean.
That wouldn't suck.
That would be great.
That would be awesome.
So anyway the book is about -- it starts with the election and just want to remind I'm out to make people laugh their asses off but I want to talk about racism.
All the stuff that was so divisive that's still happening, racism and sexism and all that stuff and make people laugh about how twisted we have been in the last couple of years.
And that we don't suck.
And we don't suck?
That is nice and remind ourselves how great of a country we are and like my democratic friends have lost their sense of humor.
My Republican friends have lost their sense of humor and nothing is getting done.
Look at the carvilles.
No, no, no.
You don't want me to be president.
I'd be impeached within four months.
All I would do can just a free beer for everybody.
No fruitcake.
No fruitcake.
No fruitcake.
But you can doesn't "Why we don't suck," it's out today.
Out today.
Are we done?
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Republicans in Congress are considering changes to 401ks ???
And that's the sound.
Some Republicans are considering major changes to your 401(k).
Rebecca Jr. Voice, my good friend, is here.
Good to see you.
Lawmakers Aring looing for ways to pay the president's tax plan.
This gets to the 401(k).
Can you walk us through what a 401(k) Is and does.
It's the easiest way to save for retirement.
You tell your employer what percent of your paycheck you want to go in there.
They deduct it before taxes.
You don't pay taxes on that money.
It can grow over time sflp and a hot of people don't think about this until they're approaching retirement.
They should think about a lot sooner.
What are the changes being considered right now.
Today, you can put up to $18,000 a year into that.
If you're over 50, you can put $4,000 in.
Those changes would reduce that amount to $2400.
A huge reduction in the amount peechl could put into the plans.
Already some pushback from Wall Street.
What would this mean for save sngs.
The biggest issue is people are not saving enough for retirement.
We know this.
We hear it all the time.
4 out of 5 Americans have access to these plans.
A tiny percentage are actually using them.
You want to be using it.
You still can.
The changes haven't taken effect.
They might not.
The most important thing you can do is put money into that 401(k).
Give hr a call and tell them you want to do it.
If you can't get access, go to an Ira plan through a brokerage company.
Never too early so taif.
I learned that from you.
Good to see you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Fall considered best time to buy new car The fall season to be considered the best time to buy a new car.
Dealers looking to clear space for next year's models.
Some are willing to slash hundreds of thousands of dollars off the price.
Here's Clayton Sandell with the tips tonight.
Reporter: Shoppers in the market for a new car.
My car is 17 years old and I don't want to try another winter.
Reporter: Are finding the time for big discounts is now.
This one's cheaper than the used one we just looked at.
Reporter: At this Denver area Chevy lot -- Inventory nationwide is definitely up.
Reporter: They're in the mood to make a deal.
We're getting brand new 18's coming in, we're clearing out our 2017 mod tells, so it's a great time to see both models, and take advantage of savings.
Nationwide 2017 sales are slightly down compared to last year, meaning dealers have more cars sitting unsold.
So dealers are offering incentives to move old inventory, making way for the new.
Right now is a great time to buy a sedan.
Car companies are having sh shutdowns of their plants.
Reporter: For buyers that can mean big savings.
Take this year's Ford F-150 pickup, the discount can total nearly $3,400 more than the 2018 model.
For the Toyota Camry, the discount on the 2017 model saves about 1,700 bucks.
The experts tell us yes you might get a better deal if you wait until the end of the year but by then, selection might be way down and the make and model you want might be gone.
David.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple unveils its store of the future We are back now with an exclusive look inside the brand-new apple store revoluti revolutionizing retail.
It's completely transparent and when you walk in, you may have a hard time finding products to buy and that is intentional.
Our chief business correspondent Rebecca Jarvis is there this morning with all the details.
Good morning, Rebecca.
Reporter: Good morning, Michael.
Amy, that's right.
This is the future of in-store shopping according to apple.
20,000 square feet along the Chicago river.
Completely surrounded by glass building with an estimated price tag of 30million.
It is apple's most ambitious new store opening in a decade.
Apple is reimagining the in-store shopping experience starting with a giant monitor where you can do everything from create your own music -- ???
I'm just putting together some music.
Reporter: To design your own artwork.
Add in a dash of augmented reality.
Are the butterflies there now?
Yes.
I love the butterflies.
Really colorful.
Reporter: Sprinkle in a few automated robots.
Run my code.
And enjoy an amazing array of classes like coding where you can turn the virtual into real life.
The woman behind it all, apple's Angela orentz.
I think our job is to carry apple's legacy forward and always keep it relevant for now, for today.
This is where the best of apple comes together.
Reporter: Apple says they want this to be the ultimate meeting place tore people.
They have even designed it so that when the store is open or closed, you can hang out here outside right nix to the store, guys.
So, Rebecca, do they think if you make it like a gaming lounge, people will hang out more and buy more stuff or are people going to come there, use it and go home without.
Reporter: It's interesting.
They tell me they're okay with either option.
I said it remights me of the children's museum where I used to hang as a kid and that's by design.
They want this to be a place where people come, where they can learn and where whether or not they're interested in buying they can come in and spend some time and hope that's the future of retail not just for apple but for all retailers.
They know the kids when they start playing with it they'll start begging at home for it.
Thank you.
An exclusive with the This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Amazon CEO smashes bottle of champagne on top of wind turbine Remember the pretty stunning views so that's Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos smashing a champagne bottle celebrating the company's latest wind farm.
All the way up there as you can see.
That is in Texas more with dozens more in the works the company hopes to eventually produce enough.
Clean energy to power the equivalent of 330000.
Homes for a year.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Wall Street sets another record high President trump he docile on Twitter celebrating a new record breaking high on Wall Street for the first time ever.
The Dow closed above 23000 points on Wednesday experts say solid corporate Ernie they milled highly anticipated tax cuts.
But what are behind the third didn't pay far cry from thirty years ago coincidentally thirty years ago today is known as black Monday.
That's when the Dow fell 23% and hit a historical low clothing the load of 2000 mark a lot has changed in thirty years and certainly has.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for President Donald Trump drops to bottom half of Forbes 400 list of richest people in America All right so the president just dropped 92 points on the latest Forbes list of richest Americans you know prison Trump's net worth.
Apparently dropped by 600 million dollars last year knocking him down to number 248.
He again men only three point one.
Billion dollars for his now.
Alien yes.
That can't prayers.
Her Bill Gates at top the list of the 24 consecutive year Amazon founder Jeff base just held on a number two Warren Buffett came in there.
89 billion dollars back in excellence unique event I mainly got his bed must be so neat.
Art.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Stock market hits 23K milestone We'll talk about some money news right now.
A lot of eyes are on the stock market this morning after the Dow reached a major milestone on Tuesday crossing 23,000 points for the first time ever before closing just below that mark, ABC's Paula Faris is on wall Street with more.
Good morning, Paula.
Reporter: And good morning to you, Michael.
The market is on fire right now.
A lot of us are going to be tempted to peek at our 401(k)s this morning but as you heard the Dow surpassed 23,000 for the first time ever and just to give you a sense of how hot things are since election day, we've seen a 25% increase in the market.
66 record highs and it's up 4600 points so why is the market as strong as it is right now?
A couple of reason, number one being solid earnings reports.
Another reason, news of a GOP tax cut plan.
That makes significant progress yesterday when senator John McCain said he would back a bill, the senate is expected to vote on this a little bit later this week and trump continues to tout the largest tax cut in the had is tri of our country so what does that mean for you?
Here's what it means.
If the American family had $10,000 in the market on election day this morning they're waking up, it's worth about $12,600.
There are question, though, how long this bull run could last.
We're in the midst of an eight plus year run.
No signs it will be slowing down any time soon especially with news of this possible tax cut but there is concern the market is too hot and melts.
Too much of a good thing, too fast.
The best long-term strategy, Michael, look at your money but don'ttouch.
We'll send things back to you.
That's the hard thing, look at it but don't touch.
A lot of people wondering how long this could continue.
We'll see.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Real Biz With Rebecca Jarvis': Hyperloop One co-founder Hey everybody I'm Rebecca Jarvis happy Friday welcome to reeled is here coming to you live from ABC news.
We have a great guests today with us Schuermann commissioned art he is co-founder.
She'll avengers and co-founder of virgin hyper loop one looking out my paper because.
Your company hyper loop want you just got to name change because of the big investment from none other than Richard Branson this week hyper loop one knows sell this big investment.
From a Richard Branson you also are now changing the name to virgin hyper loop one true.
Tell people out there who haven't heard about hyper loop one until now what idiots like an all about.
Well I believe one is revolutionary new transportation.
Company and that is pursuing the idea that you on Moscow originally proposed.
During transportation that airline speeds and into.
And the way you accomplished.
You basically in venture on sky in side of the steel tube.
You create a vacuum in your vacuum you basically suck out here of that vacuum.
For the same time you have levitation on the parallel tracks city of the pot actually levitating about it and should above two of a Christian and there are.
Then you have a propulsion system the U we've invented over the last three years since just got enormous the company.
The propulsion system.
We've invented from Scruggs and we manufacture in Vegas.
That is probably the biggest breakthrough that we've done he engineers.
Virgin have removed one now.
Are are really some of the very the most brilliant minds in the world.
And just struggle is one of those I say.
He's got one of those Manhattan Project type of brains.
He can actually.
You know invent these things created and build it was time incredible people around the world that he's been able to recruit.
So now or it's last summer we reached a major milestones and actually.
Launch the first pod.
We didn't launch in North Las Vegas and in the deserts of Vegas.
We bought the land.
And thanks to the leadership of the governor and manner of governor of Nevada and the mayor of North Las Vegas we are able to accelerate the regulatory process.
So we didn't have the usual obstacles that should build the structure and the structure is pretty epic it's.
About two million pounds and we Bolton eleven months.
Which will get to in a second is a signal.
There were living in a pretty historical time we're actually able to build these tapes and shod.
Challenges and faster periods of time than any other time in human history.
That should get a lot of hope to people who are watching if they have dreams of building.
You know incredible things that might seem impossible and and you know there are.
We're here to tell you that this is actually in our over if you are you know.
Have the tenacity and the commitment you can ban together with a bunch of people who also are believers.
They make ideas that seem like Tennessee is actually real.
We're living in a time where private companies are doing what nations used to do.
You on this shooting rockets into the sky right.
He's trying to colonize Mars.
You sound like you know science fiction books I think that we grew up.
Something like Asimov would have dream 4050 years ago.
Except now it's not just streams in science fiction.
This session the reality of our lives.
Her physical laws so there's George Jess and dreams and cartoons that we June grew up was.
And tables.
Welcome to the future.
I want to let people out there who are listening to you sure tonight top now.
That we're taking your questions you can post your questions below I also have questions here from many of you who have already written to me on Twitter.
I'm sure there will be a lot of that because.
This whole thing everything that you described it is sort of like at page street Adams five but it isn't coming to life gives you had your test mission in that would could you call it a test mission load Goldberg hitting a moment your yacht it is losing your first flight how the first flight go how far.
Did you did it actually helped.
And two great questions so we Dylan.
Pond and may and June unmanned July.
We actually tested the entire system full skilled so this is a says two million pounds.
The to really build on pile ons in the desert.
With a fully integrated system.
It's about almost twelve feet wide so it seems pretty much.
It's above ground above ground an.
I wanna just clarify for people because Ilan mosque between mention was one of the first people to start talking about this he has his boring company and their underground frighten him so can you let her above ground they're under I don't know we know it's not.
So the on the choice point yes as you can you can do above ground now for version of who won you can also do.
Underground for the tunneling they need and also do on the ground so many of you base of the use right of way is exempt existing right of ways.
To build this.
And you can also basically tunnel on borer your way and so.
Now art it be going back to the original enough art at Al so me this structure.
It's 500 meters long.
What we do with the pod and and in the actual full full house.
We we when 290 miles per hour in 500 feet and stop safely.
So bit of mistrust us of seeing you know in that kind of environment could be make this happen we see if we break the answer was yes.
The key thing that's important for you in the audience to understand.
Is that all of the system and everything that we've built in the tests that we showed actually proves that we will get to settlement miles per hour.
The only limitation was the distance of the tube itself.
Still the tube went from 500 meters to three kilometers.
OK and it would hit 700 miles per hour with the existing.
System in design that we did that's why we're we say is worried there.
OK if you can hit a 192 miles per hour in 500 feet the means are gonna hit southerner miles per hour in three kilometers the reason as.
There's no friction it's a near vacuum.
The propulsion is gonna continue into two speeded up.
And in about thirty seconds forty seconds later it's gonna hit 700 miles per hour in that distance.
Now when you commercialize a woman gets in his next phase which were and now we're in commercialization.
Is.
With.
Visionary like Richard Branson.
And investment by by virgin group.
And how they were to join the board.
That's gonna help us in the commercialization process we've graduated now from the R&D process solution on all the works so now we go to phase of signing contracts with governments and actually building.
And breaking ground high food systems around the world five version if we bought.
How far away are we from that actuality of governments signing up for this and saying.
We're cool with S we're gonna regulated in some capacity and we're gonna allow you to take up the space to make this happen.
It's a great question we're right there I think.
You know and I was finished within.
The and the next year.
We should deal to make announcements of our first contracts with governments around the world not and the U.
So most likely we're going to be building the first article loops and and places like.
The middle East Asia and potentially your of my dream of course would be the bring it to America would love to build you a New York to DC.
And do you know 35 minutes travel.
Basically turning the citizens of metro stops.
Bends the idea of Kano where you live and where you work.
To zipping ghost city Center City center.
And that's reality is we don't need a lot of realistic to build I believe stations they can be in the middle of the city.
And then you're gonna build it you know transfer people on things done for us.
So some of the questions 11 question we got from bong bong.
Well I think it I don't know what your name is on bond but that's your Twitter handle Obama bonds BO and GE O Yong -- so bond bond asked.
Will brands and hold a controlling interest what's his role in all of.
It's.
Richard Branson and the virgin group Vuitton made a minority investment and and and having of one.
Richard is join the board of directors.
We better than to a strategic partnership.
For the same time we've merged goodies to global brands I've who have won and version.
Together and we'll be rolling out of ground is version has bloop on.
In the name in the company were illegally also changed to reflect that.
So that's that's.
He seems like up the kind of partner that would be very useful in this and that he in figuring out virgin airlines worked with government is accustomed to you.
Dealing with some of the bureaucracy.
And that weighed it definitely be in the path of any kind of moon shot venture likeness.
Yes of soil amid.
I've looked up to Richard for very long time he's on the great.
Hunters in the world is built Brandon done is known worldwide.
He inspires a lot of people's well and has a good human being.
How many conversations dictate to sell him on the idea.
Well we've known each other for some time so he's a for and became a virgin galactic astronauts some years ago early on.
And so I wanted to go to space for the childhood you know my name is.
Hide myself under coffee table I was growing up and Legos and spaceship.
For hours and hours traveling on space so.
That's why I signed up for virgin galactic and I look forward to making that trip in the future.
What comes first your trip to Mars or someone taking a higher early.
One the virgin higher early line from New York to Washington DC it.
Over neglecting his has been around for along time that coin of you know goal takes time.
You know long term vision.
I think there are there they're nearer.
You know getting there.
So.
I don't know what the exact dates are but.
I would I would think that it's it's eminent.
In terms of in order through so I guess you only announced it.
Then.
The in terms of Turkoglu.
You know working around the world virgin have who have won tends to kind of break ground and build these things and you should be seeing them operational in the next 24 years.
Two to four years and all right we have a question from Kalla who wants to know the estimated price for one way travel do you even have a sense for what pricing could be like.
Sure.
Well the key way to understand.
The answer that question.
As we don't intend to really try to you know profit from passenger travel or business model from the beginning when it started the company.
One of two.
Basically focus on cargo.
And logistics because in the movement of goods is actually a much more.
Interest and business model in the world if you can kind of shrink.
Commerce.
You can accelerate the economic growth of the world and create economic opportunity for many many more people are on the world.
So this is very much on a mission driven from now perspective it is also was.
The ideas the business phone I think is a beautiful business model and what I mean by the if you can move you know people on things as fast if he can move things in cargo this house.
And by the way green.
Queen lane.
Then you can actually take the ports around the world and most salute the in the major ports in the world.
Our.
Because of their function.
And the existing technologies are on the water fronts of all the major cities of the world.
Now there's something about waterfront property.
Real estate.
It's actually quite valuable.
Waterfront properties of these cities around the world are extremely valuable but they have they're forced to use it.
To be able to bring goods and guess what happens in LA port.
The value of the real estate deal and poors were worth about 200 billion dollars just by itself.
It also brings in about 8000 trucks and these aren't small trucks is are 8018.
Wheelers they go on the highway systems of LA every single day.
That's a waste.
Causes pollution causes congestion and it causes a lot of pain and loss of productivity.
So you can actually move the port and make it in the desert.
The trucks move out of the way have a cleaner city of less congestion.
Also on law 200 billion dollars of those states to develop.
And guess what that subsidizes the other business model which actually should make it very cheap for people travel back and forth.
And the reason is if you're gonna unlock all of those goods.
In that way and you gonna move those goods and real time.
You actually want people moving around you wanna make the very cheap because that's gonna make the economic flows mover on the city's.
And those reasons regions much not faster than ever before.
I can hear the argument but with the way that you would lay this out to any and regulatory authority and government in terms of making the case for a why you should be on site be.
Should there be subsidies for example for what your trying to build out I do think we have some questions coming in is that right Taylor human.
Okay.
Furnish Thomas that this isn't capable of withstanding a joke and he is.
Good question some parishes are people out there in case they can hear it garish asked how much can the system withstand natural calamities if there's an earthquake or hurricane what happens.
Sure thanks Dershowitz a great question I'm safety.
Is extremely important for version has moved on.
And it's actually quite term months to how we think about things.
If you look at can a safety.
Airlines.
From the airline perspective.
You're in a tin can up in the air 30000 feet if anything goes wrong.
You know what's gonna happen for an it's not a very safe.
Environment at that point so.
In on the trains side.
If you have the real man's.
Due to any other cause.
Because it's in open error.
When a train or high speed rail.
The rails.
What happens is that.
It moves all over the place it did it crashes.
And that's also not very safe.
If you have an environment where you're controlling the whole environment here and steal to.
And you.
The system we've designed.
We've been very mindful of it reduces the possibilities of any kind of derailment.
We've also designed the pods.
Who also designed the pylons.
So that they actually shift.
We did that in terms of actually shifting towards temperatures and so it expands and contracts to the tube itself can slide around.
Because of what we've actually invented so I can show that you if you ever come to Vegas.
How big is is one pot how many people could be it seated in one hot and and do you believe that.
The people would also be traveling with the cargo.
Considered your very question you wanted to be bi directional C to use ago both ways it.
You could and turned mixed pods.
Where we are one part house cargo in the other part 'cause people.
And so you will be able to makes those around.
Because of the speeds that it goes you want and also have enough buffer in between the pods.
And all of its automated so that it's extremely safe if you need one part of the stop.
It creates a there's a sixty.
And of logic to you actually regulate.
Through the automation system all of those rules.
Then on the cargo side and the people's side you want ability to different kinds a cargo and he also won a house.
Plaza might fit more people and less people depending on you just let your location that's right.
So the size of the plot does not need to be uniform.
But you know if we need a pod for 35 people are putt for 65 people we can make that work.
Because this is all inside of a steel container and the steel container this does the sides of it won't change all of that much.
Does the technology to propel different shapes and sizes of pods for example or different sizes rather of pods.
Did that technology have to change and adjust and given that and what happens if you know there are multiple different size pods all traveling within this this.
That that the steel container.
Sure.
We'll some some to you and me wider than others depending on you know function.
So so the idea wouldn't be an necessarily have different size pot in one Q that would just be different routes are going to be different sized chips right.
And so it kind of you gotta think about it and kind of morphology -- ensued.
If the functions and to determine what the actual design vision of the year of the size of the actual tube.
The pods.
You're not gonna have different widths of positive of this you know if I would.
I have longer publish order prods.
The other hospital this is you know creating a people talk about self driving automation etc.
but the pause themselves should be able ago until April.
And if you design different kinds of pods you can actually.
Have the pods continue to do the last miles well so once you get in between mostly in Europe DC.
The paused and then leave and take you home or to due to the office.
You can kind of could you know create.
Pooled situations where you know people commuting together.
But all of these are electric bill that screen.
I'm reminded of there's a boat in Chicago then starts out as a bus and then turns into a boat that takes people around the Chicago river anyway it'll exam the article yet that it's not.
A we when my another ten million of them don't pogs.
By luck.
Of the teamwork.
Meeker.
And me.
No Manila.
Do you have any schedule through market rollout.
Schedule for market roll out Malden.
I am 08.
Day.
Her thoughts on.
But the thanks to your questions in terms a commercialization.
Version have to move on.
The role it is you know once we sign the first contraris.
We'd like to be able to break ground.
Somewhere in the world in 2019.
And then be operational by two points when he won 21 to.
And those who believe.
Either cargo or passenger.
Just depends on what you know it the government there were talking to.
What they need.
For the nation.
Here.
Killing my math.
It really be powered by.
Funny adversity and we will really be powered by humans humans what a picture on its parent had great close.
You know my daughter's favorite movie news monsters things and is remembered.
They went from.
Screams to laughter and joy actually high approval be powered by human joy people are going to be extremely happy.
To deal move around them save time.
In a way that you know changes if Robert I think the way people live their lives not just in terms of jobs.
Mostly personal if you can go visit your.
And parents or grandparents of the grandchildren can be around.
People can come and visit each other there's not just going to be enjoying the experience of being transported there.
We'll have more moments of life with her loved ones share.
And that I think is probably keep this empire that we can now.
Great thank you so much for joining me Sherman as well nice chatting with you thanks for all the great questions I've on both FaceBook and Twitter remember.
There's a new episode of no limits that's up you can check it out it's with both in the Saint John she is the new missions swell she worked at the company invested in him over.
Recently joined over from apple as their chief brand officer and it really enjoyed our conversation.
I hope.
Right and I am certain literally that if it started to make it at a high.
There were right on time hoping I'll have a great weekend happy Friday be well take care.
It hurt or hit.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Ford and Nissan posted big sales jumps for October, but Fiat Chrysler and General Motors reported declines Wednesday.
The drop by two of the Detroit Three reinforces analyst predictions that September's big gain in U.S. auto sales would fizzle in October.
They believe sales will continue to slow nationwide and fewer people than expected will replace hurricane-damaged vehicles in Texas and Florida.
Fiat Chrysler sales fell 13 percent for the month, while GM's dropped 2 percent.
But Ford reported a 6 percent gain that included big increases in F-Series pickups and sales to fleet buyers.
Nissan's sales rose 8 percent largely on an October record for the Nissan Rogue small SUV, with sales up 43 percent.
Industry analysts believe that when all automakers have released their final numbers by Wednesday afternoon, they will show that October sales fell between 2 percent and about 4 percent.
If those predictions are correct, it will mean that a consecutive streak of sales gains for automakers will come to an end after seven years.
In 2016, sales hit a record of more than 17.5 million, but most analysts are predicting that this year will come in around 17.1 million.
Replacement of hurricane-damaged vehicles, especially in the Houston area, was expected to push sales up in October.
But Jeff Schuster, senior vice president of forecasting for the LMC Automotive consulting firm, said sales through the first three weeks of the month didn't match forecasts.
Sales in Florida rose 5 percent as shoppers finished purchases delayed by Hurricane Irma, but in Houston, they rose only 3 percent as the recovery from Hurricane Harvey wound down.
"There's a lift, but the lift is not very pronounced, and it looks like based on what we saw from Houston, it's going to be short-lived," said Schuster.
Early data show that more buyers than expected replaced damaged vehicles with used ones, Schuster said.
Used vehicles normally make up around 70 percent of total sales, but it appears that 80 percent of hurricane replacement buyers bought used, Schuster said.
Millions of used cars are returning to the market from leases, and analysts say that is likely to pull sales from new vehicles.
To get to October's expected sales of 1.32 million vehicles, automakers had to raise discounts on vehicles to an average of $3,901, beating the previous record for October of $3,835 set last year, according to J.D.
Power.
But the average sale price, including incentives, rose to an October record of $32,185, showing that buyers are willing to load out vehicles with more options.
It's also taking longer for vehicles to be sold, especially cars.
Cars and trucks sold through Oct. 22 spent an average of 75 days on dealer lots, a number not seen since July of 2009, when it hit 80 days just after the Great Recession ended, J.D.
Power said.
Schuster said more time on dealer lots is a further indication that sales are slowing.
"All in all, it's still a very solid market.
It's behaving in a way as expected after coming off the year that we had."
LMC is forecasting that sales will be down slightly next year from this year's levels.
U.S. construction spending increased 0.3 percent in September as the biggest advance in government building activity in four months offset weakness in other areas.
The Commerce Department said Wednesday that the September gain followed a tiny 0.1 percent rise in August and declines in June and July.
Despite a slump in homebuilding this year, economists remain optimistic that the low level of unemployment will soon spark a rebound in sales and construction.
The overall economy grew at a 3 percent annual rate in the third quarter, even though residential construction was down for the second straight quarter.
All of the strength in Wednesday's report came from a 2.6 percent increase in government construction with state and local activity up 2.5 percent and federal spending up 3.4 percent.
Residential housing showed no increase, while non-residential construction dropped 0.8 percent, its fourth straight monthly decline.
Overall spending was $1.22 trillion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, a gain of 2 percent from a year ago.
In the non-residential area, office construction was down 1.1 percent and the category that includes shopping centers was down 1 percent.
The latest on developments in financial markets (All times local): 9:40 a.m. Stocks are opening higher amid optimism over global economic growth and corporate earnings.
Energy jumped Wednesday as U.S. crude oil rose to $55 a barrel, its highest price since February.
Concho Resources rose 5.6 percent and Marathon Oil rose 2.6 percent.
Stocks headed higher after an ADP survey showed that private businesses added 235,000 jobs in October, a solid result.
Cosmetics giant Estee Lauder rose 5.9 percent after a strong quarterly report.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 10 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,585, inching further into record heights.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 99 points, or 0.4 percent, to 23,476.
The Nasdaq composite is up 27 points, or 0.4 percent, to 6,755.
U.S. businesses added a solid 235,000 jobs in October, according to a private survey, partly reflecting a rebound from the previous month when hiring was held back by several hurricanes.
Payroll processor ADP said Wednesday that last month's gain was the largest in seven months.
Hiring fell to just 110,000 in September, the lowest in nearly a year.
October's rebound was driven by construction firms, which reported a huge gain of 62,000 jobs, the most in 11 years.
That's a sign that rebuilding efforts after Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria are already under way.
Manufacturers added a healthy 22,000 jobs, and professional and technical services, a category that includes higher-paying jobs such as architects and engineers, gained 68,000.
A category that includes hotel and restaurant workers added 45,000.
The government's jobs report for September showed that damage from the hurricanes caused a loss of 33,000 jobs that month, the first drop in seven years.
The ADP report doesn't include government payrolls and often diverges from the official figures.
Economists forecast that the Labor Department's report for October, to be released Friday, will show a much bigger gain of 308,000 jobs.
Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, which compiles the ADP report, said the gap between the ADP and government figures reflects the way the two numbers are calculated.
If a business was closed during the hurricanes and employees weren't paid, that would be counted as a job loss in the government data.
But if they remain on the company's payroll and can return to their jobs after the storms, they are likely to be counted as employed in the ADP figures.
As a result, the ADP data is less affected by the storms than the government figures, Zandi said.
Aside from the impacts of the hurricanes, "the job market is still very healthy," he added.
Zandi expects the government's report on Friday will show a gain of roughly 300,000 jobs.
Global stocks rose on Wednesday amid optimism over global economic growth and corporate earnings.
KEEPING SCORE: France's CAC 40 added 0.4 percent to 5,526, while Germany's DAX was up 1.8 percent at 13,473.
Britain's FTSE 100 gained 0.2 percent to 7,508 after an upbeat report on manufacturing.
U.S. shares were also set to advance, with Dow futures up 0.6 percent and S&P 500 futures climbing 0.4 percent.
GOOD EARNINGS: More than half the companies in the S&P 500 have reported their results for the July-through-September quarter, and most have topped Wall Street forecasts.
Several big names are still on the docket for this week, with Facebook set to report on Wednesday and Apple on Thursday.
CENTRAL BANKS: Several of the world's largest central banks are meeting this week, and the Bank of Japan decided on Tuesday to keep its interest rates at ultra-low levels.
The Bank of England is expected to raise interest rates on Thursday, which would be the first increase in a decade.
The Federal Reserve wraps up a two-day meeting Wednesday, though most economists expect the U.S. central bank to wait until its December gathering to raise rates for the third time this year.
Meanwhile, attention is on President Donald Trump's choice for the next Fed chair.
ASIA'S DAY: Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 added 1.9 percent to close at 22,420.08.
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 added 0.5 percent to 5,937.80.
South Korea's Kospi gained 1.3 percent to 2,556.47.
Hong Kong's Hang Seng rose 1.2 percent to 28,584.06, while the Shanghai Composite climbed 0.1 percent to 3,395.91.
Shares in Taiwan and Southeast Asia were higher.
ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude oil added 58 cents to $54.96 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It rose 23 cents to settle at $54.38 per barrel overnight.
Brent crude, the international standard, rose 42 cents to $61.32 per barrel.
CURRENCIES: The dollar rose to 114.18 yen from 113.12 yen late Tuesday in Asia.
The euro rose to $1.1617 from $1.1638.
AP Business Writer Stan Choe in New York contributed to this report.
AP Business Writer Yuri Kageyama can be reached at https://twitter.com/yurikageyama Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
Driving a small hatchback offers many advantages.
They're efficient, maneuverable, practical and, above all, affordable.
Sometimes they're even fun to drive.
Kia and Honda have each updated their cars in this segment for 2018.
The Kia Rio is all-new, while the Honda Fit has received a number of minor upgrades.
Each has its own appeal, so how do Kia and Honda's updated small cars compare?
DRIVING One of Kia's objectives with the 2018 Rio redesign was improving handling and stability, and the company has succeeded.
Handling is sporty, and the car is rock steady at freeway speeds.
Steering is precise, and on-center feel has improved tremendously over the previous generation.
Even with its 2018 updates, the Fit doesn't feel as sporty.
In turns and at freeway speeds, the Fit feels less planted and isn't as engaging or confidence-inspiring as the Rio.
Both cars use efficient four-cylinder engines that produce 130 horsepower, which is sufficient for such small cars.
Both offer a choice of manual or automatic transmission.
Honda's continuously variable automatic transmission maintains peak power without changing gears.
Kia's six-speed automatic has to spend more time shifting, although it does so smoothly and quickly.
COMFORT AND INTERIOR The Rio and Fit are surprisingly roomy on the inside, offering comfortable seats with ample space for adults in both the front and rear.
There's more rear legroom in the Fit, and the rear seats recline slightly, but tall passengers will find that reclining costs them a little headroom as the roofline dips down behind the seat.
In keeping with its sportier character, the Rio's driving position feels lower than the Fit's, which is upright and almost SUV-like.
We appreciate the Rio's well-placed armrests and its steering wheel's wider range of adjustment.
Both cars feel well put-together, even with the extensive use of plastics throughout their cabins.
The Rio's smart interior design and quieter cabin give a more upscale impression than the utility-oriented Fit.
Though the Rio has a firmer ride, it's more settled over broken or uneven pavement.
By comparison, there's more jitter from the Fit's suspension on rough surfaces.
UTILITY Not only do the Honda Fit's rear seats fold flat to open up 52.7 cubic feet of storage space, but the front passenger seat can fold flat to accommodate longer items.
The rear seat bottoms can also be folded up to create extra space to fit tall items.
The Rio's rear seats don't fold perfectly flat so, unlike in the Fit, you don't get a perfectly flat load floor.
Still, the Kia's cargo area offers up to 32.8 cubic feet of space, so it is capable of swallowing a solid amount of gear.
TECHNOLOGY AND SAFETY Both cars are available with 7-inch touchscreen systems that support Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, along with HD and satellite radio and Bluetooth music streaming.
The Fit offers navigation as an option, but Kia figures most people would rather rely on their phones via Apple CarPlay or Android Auto.
On the safety front, the 2018 Rio is available with forward collision warning and automatic emergency braking, but the Fit offers those features and a bit more.
Adaptive cruise control and lane departure warning with lane keeping assist are also available for the Fit, along with a passenger-side blind-spot camera.
PRICING The Kia Rio starts at $15,095 for a base LX 5-Door hatchback with a manual transmission, and it tops out at $19,595 for a top-tier EX 5-Door hatchback.
(All prices include destination fees.)
The LX is a basic commuter with a sparse feature set.
Only the EX receives smartphone integration, though the midrange S gets a rearview camera, Bluetooth music streaming and most basic amenities you expect from a modern car, such as power windows and keyless entry.
The Honda Fit, meanwhile, starts at $17,065 for a base LX with a manual transmission, and it runs to $22,395 for an EX-L with leather upholstery and navigation.
The base Fit is more well-equipped than the base Rio, with features such as power windows and a rearview camera, but it lacks smartphone integration.
Honda's suite of safety features is available on all trim levels, but for lower trims it's an optional extra that requires the continuously variable transmission, a total of $1,800 in added cost.
EDMUNDS SAYS: Choosing between the 2018 Kia Rio and Honda Fit comes down to deciding what you want from your small car.
Would you prefer the Rio's slightly more upscale presentation and handling?
Or the Fit's versatility and space?
Similarly equipped, the Rio and Fit are close price competitors, but buyers looking for a no-frills subcompact can save money on the Rio while getting the good design and driving dynamics that set the Rio apart.
Deciding what features you want and how much you're willing to spend for them will be an important part of the decision.
This story was provided to The Associated Press by the automotive website Edmunds.
Will Kaufman is an associate staff writer at Edmunds.
Instagram: @didntreadthestyleguide.
Related links: 2018 Kia Rio review: http://edmu.in/2gwVw6b 2018 Honda Fit review: http://edmu.in/2l39Fd7
Honda Motor Co.'s fiscal second quarter profit slipped compared to a year ago as costs related to a massive air-bag recall erased the perks of strong sales, the Japanese automaker said Wednesday.
Honda reported its July-September profit totaled 174 billion yen ($1.5 billion), down 1.7 percent from 177 billion yen a year earlier.
Quarterly sales jumped nearly 16 percent on-year to 3.78 trillion yen ($33 billion), according to the Tokyo-based maker of the Accord compact, Odyssey minivan and Asimo robot.
In September, Honda and some people suing the automaker over faulty Takata Corp. air-bag inflators agreed to a $605 million settlement in the U.S. Honda was among Takata's biggest customers.
The defective inflators are linked to 19 deaths and dozens of injuries.
Some 100 million air-bag inflators were recalled worldwide.
Honda raised its full year forecast through March 2018, to 585 billion yen ($5.1 billion) from 545 billion yen ($4.8 billion) projected earlier, but that's still 5 percent lower than what it earned the previous fiscal year.
For the latest quarter, a favorable currency rate helped Honda's bottom line.
A weak yen is a plus for giant Japanese exporters like Honda, whose overseas earnings rise in value when converted into yen.
The biggest sales growth for Honda is recently being marked in China, where demand is strong for the Civic compact, as well as the UR-V and Avancier sport-utility vehicles.
Honda is also banking on electric car sales growth in China, where the government is pushing EVs as a major policy, the company said.
Honda's sales did well in Japan as well, where its N-Box series, a tiny car that looks like a box, was a hit.
Its motorcycle sales rose 15 percent during the quarter compared to the previous year on healthy demand in India, Indonesia and Vietnam, the company said.
Honda recently marked a milestone with its Super Cub motorcycle, reaching 100 million units of global production.
Super Cub production began in 1958, and the small scooter-like motorcycle is now produced in 15 countries and sold in more than 160 countries.
Although the U.S. auto market lagged in recent months, Honda marked solid sales of its new Accord sedan, Civic Hatchback and Acura RDX luxury crossover, doing better than the overall market trend, it said.
Yuri Kageyama can be reached at https://twitter.com/yurikageyama Her work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/yuri%20kageyama
Image copyright PA It's decision time.
On Thursday, Bank of England policymakers will reveal their move on interest rates.
How the nine members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) vote will affect households and businesses across the UK.
That's because the Bank of England base rate is used as a reference point for millions of mortgages and savings accounts.
Higher rates would hit borrowers - but benefit savers.
Interest rates are at a record low of 0.25% and there has not been a rise in interest rates in more than a decade.
The Bank's job is to try to keep inflation at about 2%.
The fall in the value of the pound pushed up the Consumer Prices Index to 3% in September - a rate not seen since 2012 - and recent sluggish growth has led to fears of a prolonged slowdown.
The Bank has a supplementary goal of supporting economic growth, which means it has faced a tricky trade-off over the past year.
How rates are set While there are eight MPC meetings a year, Bank policymakers meet several times before casting their votes.
This includes a designated pre-MPC meeting, where Bank of England economists provide committee members with a whistle-stop tour of the economy a week before the interest rate decision.
During this session, policymakers are shown dozens of charts on all aspects of the economy.
Martin Weale, who served on the committee between 2010 and 2016, says these meetings sometimes influenced his vote.
The King's College London economics professor says: "I remember when I joined the MPC in July 2010, I wondered how long it would be before I thought I was voting differently through going to the meetings from the way I would have voted had I been looking on from the outside.
"And the answer was that in January 2011, I voted for an interest rate rise because I saw the short-term inflation forecast that the Bank was producing.
"Bank staff suggested that inflation was likely to rise to 5%, which was what it did.
Based on historical experience I thought that, as a result, wage growth would pick up and high inflation would become entrenched."
Image copyright PA Image caption Low interest rates have been good for borrowers but bad for savers As well as economic data, the MPC is provided with reports from its regional agents, which are described by the Bank as its "eyes, ears and voice" across the UK.
David Miles, an economics professor at Imperial College London who served on the MPC between 2009 and 2015, says these reports were invaluable - especially during the financial crisis.
"In early 2009, everybody knew there had been a major financial event in the UK, the banks had got into terrible trouble in October [when HBOS and RBS were rescued by the taxpayer], but it wasn't yet clear from backward-looking growth data what the impact would be.
"But we were hearing from the agents that sentiment of companies was spectacularly dire.
"And that was why not only were interest rates cut to 0.5% in March 2009, but shortly after, we embarked on asset purchases [quantitative easing],which was bigger than anybody thought."
Following the pre-MPC meeting, policymakers meet for three days to thrash out their arguments.
Both former MPC members describe the committee's debates as "candid, open, lively and active", but Professor Weale insists that meetings were "always cordial - and never heated".
Image caption Mark Carney is governor of the Bank of England The discussions are chaired by Bank of England governor Mark Carney, while chief economist Andy Haldane circulates talking points agreed by the MPC earlier in the week.
The first day, usually a week before the vote, is used to thrash out initial arguments.
Policymakers also agree on economic forecasts if an Inflation Report - or quarterly economic evaluation - is due to be published.
Officials usually hold their first policy meeting on the Monday before the vote.
This is transcribed and published with an eight-year lag.
The first transcripts will be made public in 2023.
Day three, normally on the Wednesday, is voting day.
Mr Carney puts forward a proposal on interest rates and quantitative easing he believes will command a majority.
Anyone who disagrees declares what level of interest rates he or she would prefer.
The result of the vote is published on a Thursday, along with the minutes of the meeting.
Plans to shake-up the UK's ATM network may lead to a "vast reduction" in the number of free-access cash machines.
Link, the UK's largest ATM network with 70,000 machines, is proposing to overhaul the operation.
Under the change, Link would reduce the amount it charges card issuers to allow customers to use the machines.
But the move will hit individuals and businesses, warned the ATM Industry Association, a trade body for users of cash machines.
On Wednesday, Link published a range of proposals, including a cut in the fees it charges card companies from around 25p to 20p per withdrawal.
It said the changes - which would come into effect next April - would help protect the network, which currently includes 55,000 free-to-use machines.
Link said it is committed to maintaining an extensive network of free-to-use machines But the ATM Industry Association criticised the plans.
It warned that unprofitable machines would be shut down, leaving "ATM deserts" where communities have no access to cash and other financial services.
"A unwarranted shake-up of Link will hit the most hard-up the heaviest - particularly the millions of people who rely on cash for day-to-day budgeting," said Ron Delnevo, of the association.
But Link chief executive John Howells said: "Free access to cash is vital for UK consumers and Link intends to maintain this for many years to come."
He said Link's financial inclusion programme will help maintain "extensive free access to cash for all in the UK".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sales of vinyl topped three million last year, the highest total since 1992 It's a case of Sex and Drugs and Sausage Rolls: Sainsbury's is setting up its own record label.
The supermarket giant is releasing a series of vinyl albums in 168 of its stores, starting this week.
The first two releases are 20-track compilations curated by Saint Etienne star and pop scholar Bob Stanley.
The musician, whose own hits include You're In A Bad Way and He's On The Phone, said he wanted to put music back on the high street.
"Growing up, one thing I loved was the number of high street shops where you could buy new releases," he told the BBC.
"I remember buying Dusty Springfield's Greatest Hits, the one with a striking high contrast black and white cover, at Woolworths in Croydon.
"I knew a few of the hits, but that was the first place I came across songs like Goin' Back and The Look Of Love, life-changing songs.
"Those kind of compilations - where some of the songs are familiar, and the rest of the album is a revelation which can shape your tastes - I think are just as important as classic standalone albums like Pet Sounds or Parallel Lines."
Image copyright Sainbury's Image caption Bob Stanley says vinyl has a "heft" that CDs and cassettes can't compete with Stanley's first two compilations are titled Coming Into Los Angeles - A Taste Of West Coast; and Hi-Fidelity - A Taste of Stereo Sound.
They combine familiar tracks like Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells and Al Stewart's Year Of The Cat with deeper cuts - such as The Flying Burrito Brothers' cover of The Rolling Stones' Wild Horses.
The records come with essays by Stanley and striking, modernist artwork inspired by Sainsbury's in-house design studio of the 60s and 70s - whose minimalist packaging designs became classics.
Image copyright Sainsbury's The resurgence of vinyl is an unexpected success story for the music industry.
Fans bought more than three million vinyl records in 2016 - the highest number in 25 years - and sales in 2017 are up 30.6% year-on-year.
Sainsbury's began selling vinyl in March 2016 and, with 120,000 sales so far this year, claim to represent 5% of the total UK vinyl market.
Its label - called Own Label in reference to the supermarket's own-brand line in the 1970s - is a standalone imprint, released via Universal and Warner Music.
Image caption St Etienne (L-R: Sarah Cracknell, Bob Stanley and Pete Wiggs) received rave reviews for their recent album Home Counties Stanley says the format holds a certain romance for music-lovers.
"The heft of a vinyl album, the weight of it in your hands, and the impact of the artwork are all something that CDs and cassettes can't compete with."
His future Sainsbury's compilations will hopefully include tracks by The Scone Roses, Bread Zeppelin, Ryvita Ora, Korn Flakes, Martha And The Blueberry Muffins and Pick and Little Mix.
At the time of writing, St Etienne have no plans to re-record their 1992 hit single, Join Our Club (Biscuit).
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright PA Ofgem should use its powers to impose a wider cap on energy bills more quickly, according to Business Secretary Greg Clark.
The watchdog has warned it could be sued by gas and electricity firms if it capped standard variable tariffs without the backing of new legislation.
Ministers published a draft law last month allowing Ofgem to cap such bills.
But Mr Clark said he would prefer the energy regulator to act now "so we could get on with it immediately".
The business secretary could not guarantee that a new cap would be in place by winter 2018 if it required parliamentary approval.
About 12 million households are on some form of default tariff, which can cost hundreds of pounds a year more than the cheapest deals.
There is already a cap in place for customers on pre-payment meters, which is being extended to include another one million low income households from February.
Under the government's draft bill, Ofgem would set the terms of a new broader cap on standard variable tariffs, which would initially last until 2020.
But Mr Clark would like Ofgem to act before legislation is passed.
"I've been very clear that I would much prefer them to make use of the powers they have," Mr Clark told MPs on the business select committee.
He said policy changes were often at risk from potential legal challenges, but added that public bodies can also defend themselves against such action.
"I would be very disappointed if there were a legal challenge by some of the energy companies," he added.
Legal challenge Rachel Reeves, the chair of the business select committee, noted that Ofgem had said it would not set its own price cap for default tariffs "because energy companies would not rule out a legal challenge".
As a result the government has said it will go ahead with the Draft Domestic Gas and Electricity (Tariffs Cap) Bill.
However, it is unlikely such a cap would come into effect in time for this winter.
Asked if it would be in place by Winter 2018, Mr Clark said he could not give any guarantees until the draft legislation was given a slot in parliament.
But he hoped that with cross-party support for a cap, the bill would be passed "as soon as possible".
Image copyright Getty Images Who benefits this winter?
One million households who get the Warm Home Discount will see an energy price cap from February - an extension of the cap already in place for prepayment meter customers.
This will also apply to another two million vulnerable households the following winter.
What is a standard variable tariff?
When customers' fixed-term deals end they usually automatically move to this tariff, which applies to 12 million households.
Ofgem says the price difference between the average standard variable tariff default deal and the cheapest rate in the market recently hit more than 300.
What does the government want to do?
It has revived a plan to cap these variable tariffs, overseen by Ofgem, but the regulator says this will not happen until new legislation has been passed by Parliament.
It is unclear just how long this will take.
What happens in the meantime?
Some suppliers are moving towards abandoning variable tariffs.
Ofgem has also changed the rules to allow suppliers to automatically switch customers onto another fixed deal.
Customers are still likely to be better off by searching and switching themselves.
Image copyright Getty Images British manufacturers reported stronger growth in October, driven by higher domestic demand and export orders.
The IHS Markit/CIPS purchasing managers' index (PMI) rose to 56.3 last month, from 56 in September.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion.
It was the fifteenth consecutive month of expansion for the sector, and will fuel debate over whether the economy is ready for an interest rate rise.
The news sent the pound to its highest against the dollar since early October.
Sterling rose 0.2% to $1.331.
The pound also rose 0.3% versus the euro to 1.143, marking its highest level against the eurozone currency since early June.
"UK manufacturing made an impressive start to the final quarter of 2017 as increased inflows of new work encouraged firms to ramp up production," said Rob Dobson, a senior economist at IHS Markit.
The report said the UK domestic market was the prime source of new manufacturing orders.
However, growth of the consumer goods sector fell to a seven-month low as new contracts eased.
New export orders increased at a slightly slower pace as well, according to IHS Markit, due to the recent fluctuations in the pound sterling.
More than 50% of manufacturers surveyed said they expected output to be higher in one year's time.
However, Duncan Brock, a director at the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply, which compiled the survey with IHS, warned about rising commodity prices and competition for raw materials.
Manufacturers, he said, faced an "endless onslaught of inflationary pressures" caused by rising commodity prices and competition for raw materials.
He added that the PMI data "should not lull anyone into a false sense of security, as the Brexit negotiations are still causing some jitters amongst clients".
Image copyright NEXT Next has once again seen growth in online sales offset a decline in its shops, amid what it called "extremely volatile" trade in the third quarter.
The fashion retailer's website sales rose 13.2% in the three months to October, but in-store sales fell 7.7%.
Overall, total sales rose 1.3%.
This continued the trend from the first six months of 2017 with online sales offsetting a fall in shop purchases.
Next's shares fell by more than 7% in early trading after the announcement.
A Next spokesman told the BBC that the company's results "mirrored the national trend" as more consumers moved online and that all retailers were having similar experiences.
In its trading update, Next predicted that sales in the fourth quarter would fall by 0.3% - the same figure by which its sales have fallen so far this year.
It said its prediction for the rest of the year "may seem pessimistic compared with our performance in the third quarter, particularly as we believe that our product ranges have continued to improve".
But it said the third quarter last year was very weak with a fall in sales of 3.5%, while the Christmas period only fell by 0.4%.
'Rising expectations' Next said its sales performance in the third quarter had been "extremely volatile" and was "highly dependent on the seasonality of the weather".
So far in 2017, the retailer's online sales have gone up by 9.4% with purchases in-store falling by 7.7%.
The company said that clearance rates in its summer end-of-season sale were lower than last year and that trend had continued into the third quarter.
Sofie Willmott, senior retail analyst at GlobalData, said: "Next's first positive results in over a year are not enough to signal a long-term reliable turnaround for the High Street stalwart.
"Though the online channel continues to outstrip store performance, the rate of growth continues to slow year-on-year.
"Next must continue to invest in its online platform to meet rising consumer expectations."
Neil Wilson, a senior market analyst at ETX Capital, said: "Next had better hope that British shoppers are a little less fickle than the weather, because sales performance is so volatile the firm has no idea what to expect over the vital Christmas trading period.
"This is a worry, although there does seem to be an improving trend in sales growth throughout the year."
Image copyright PA The Court of Appeal has thrown out the latest attempt to trademark the shape of London's traditional black cabs.
It has upheld a decision by the High Court in 2016 that the shape lacked "distinctive character" and was not a "valid registered trademark".
The London Taxi Company, which makes traditional hackney carriages, had taken rival firm Frazer-Nash to the High Court last year.
It argued the design of Frazer-Nash's Metrocab was "substantially copied".
However, last year's ruling by High Court judge Mr Justice Arnold was upheld by Lord Justice Kitchin and Lord Justice Floyd at the Court of Appeal.
The London Taxi Company has indicated that it may take the case to the Supreme Court.
No-one from the London Taxi Company or Frazer-Nash was immediately available for comment.
Image copyright Getty Images Shell has completed the $3.8bn sale of a package of North Sea assets to Chrysaor following the approval of regulators and stakeholders.
The package includes Shell's interests in several fields - notably Buzzard, Beryl, Elgin-Franklin and Schiehallion.
Shell is aiming to sell $30bn of assets by 2018 as it seeks to pay off debt following its takeover of BG Group.
More than 250 staff have transferred to Chrysaor as part of the transaction, which was first announced in January.
The deal represents about half of Shell's 2016 North Sea output.
A Shell spokesman said the company "retains a significant, more focused and strengthened presence in the UK North Sea, to which it remains committed".
He added: "Completion of this deal shows the clear momentum behind Shell's $30bn divestment programme and is in line with Shell's drive to simplify the upstream portfolio and re-shape the company into a world class investment."
The sale means Chrysaor has now become the largest independent operator in the North Sea.
Image copyright AFP Shares in Next fell nearly 9% in early trade after the fashion retailer issued a cautious trading update.
Next said third quarter trading had been "extremely volatile", adding that this volatility made it hard to determine any underlying sales trend.
Online sales growth at Next's Directory business continued to offset falling sales on the High Street, with sales up 1.3% overall in the quarter.
Shares in rival retailers were also hit by Next's update, with M&S down 5.6%.
Primark owner Associated British Foods dropped 1.8%, while Debenhams fell 3.4%.
Away from the retail sector, shares in Standard Chartered bank dropped 6.2% after its third quarter revenue growth of 4% fell short of expectations.
However, the wider market was up, with the benchmark FTSE 100 index 14.38 points higher at 7,507.46 shortly after midday.
Paddy Power Betfair was the biggest riser in the index, climbing 4.5%, after it reported higher third-quarter revenues and made a small increase to its full-year earnings forecast.
Revenues in the three months to 30 September rose 9% to 440m, and it now expects underlying earnings to be between 450m and 465m.
On the currency markets, the pound was bolstered by the latest PMI survey, which indicated robust growth in the UK's manufacturing sector.
Sterling rose 0.1% against the dollar to $1.3296 and was 0.3% higher against the euro at 1.1444.
Image copyright Getty Images The impact of a small rise in interest rates is likely to be modest for most UK households, according to mortgage lender Nationwide.
The Bank of England has been widely tipped to increase rates for the first time in a decade on Thursday.
If rates do go up from 0.25% to 0.5%, the effect will be smaller than in the past because more homeowners are on fixed mortgages, Nationwide said.
It comes as house prices rose by 0.2% in October, according to Nationwide.
The average price of a house in the UK rose by 284 to 211,085.
Annual house price growth edged up to 2.5% from 2.3% in September.
Nationwide chief economist Robert Gardner said the share of mortgages on variable rates - and so likely to see higher payments if the Bank Rate is increased - has fallen to a record low of about 40%, down from a peak of 70% in 2001.
"Moreover, a 0.25% increase in rates is likely to have a modest impact on most borrowers who are on variable rates," Mr Gardner said.
He estimated such a rate rise would increase monthly payments by 15 to 665 for the average mortgage, or an extra 180 a year.
Howard Archer, chief economic adviser to the EY Item Club consultancy, said a rate rise could weigh on the housing market.
"Housing market activity remains under pressure from squeezed consumer purchasing power, fragile confidence and appreciable caution over engaging in major transactions," he said.
Brexit impact In its latest update on the housing market, the Nationwide also said the UK's departure from the European Union could affect demand.
"With the ongoing uncertainty around Brexit and the rights of EU citizens once the UK leaves the EU, we may see a slowing in housing demand (and particularly rental demand) in the years ahead," Mr Gardner said.
Population growth has fuelled housing demand in recent years, the building society said, with international migration accounting for almost two-thirds of the 11% increase in England's population rise between 2001 and 2015.
That has affected the number of residents privately renting properties.
"Recent migrants are more likely to privately rent than live in social housing or their own home," said Mr Gardner.
The biggest impact has been in London.
"There is a regional dynamic, with migrants accounting for a much higher proportion of the private renting population in London than elsewhere in England," he said.
Image copyright Reuters Betting firm Paddy Power Betfair has expressed frustration that a government review did not make a decision on fixed-odds betting terminals.
The firm's chief executive Breon Corcoran said the review, released on Tuesday, failed to provide "clarity".
Ministers proposed that bets on the machines be cut from a maximum of 100 a spin to somewhere between 2 and 50.
Mr Corcoran has previously called for the stakes to be slashed to address widespread social concerns.
Campaigners argue the electronic machines feed gambling addictions and can see players lose large amounts of money very quickly.
Some had hoped the government would lower the 100 stake on Tuesday, but ministers decided instead to consult on a range of options.
Mr Corcoran said on Wednesday: "We have sought long-term certainty and clarity.
Yesterday doesn't deliver that, but hopefully we will get there at the next stage."
The consultation closes on 23 January, but Mr Corcoran said there could be some "drift" before the government makes a final decision.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'I was completely caught up in gambling' Mr Corcoran was speaking as Paddy Power Betfair reported an 8% rise in machine gaming in the three months to the end of September.
Group revenue rose by 9% to 440m.
He has previously written to the government saying the stakes on fixed-odds machines should be cut to "10 or less" because the debate has become "so toxic", according to the Financial Times.
The machines generated more than 1.8bn in revenue for the industry last year, helping to support growth for bookmakers.
According to the consultation documents, cutting the stake to 2 would cost companies 639m over the next 10 years.
The Association of British Bookmakers said on Tuesday the onus was on the gambling industry to help cut problem gambling.
Image copyright Reuters Gambling revenues in Macau hit a three-year high in October as a national holiday week led to more visitors.
Revenues rose by a higher than expected 22% from a year earlier to $3.3bn (2.5bn), marking the 15th consecutive month of increases in the special administrative region of China.
Macau is the only place in the country where casino gambling is legal.
An 11% rise in visitors from the mainland and several big bets from VIPs helped to boost revenue.
The VIP sector consists of gamblers who typically make bets of about $150,000.
However, the market is volatile and casino operators Sands China and Wynn Macau are keen to develop the mass market area, in which growth was slower.
The holiday week, which took place from 1 to 8 October, lasted one day longer than in 2016.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The town of Odaka in Fukushima was devastated by a 2011 earthquake and tsunami Drones are delivering food to residents of a Japanese town devastated by the Fukushima nuclear disaster where access to shops is limited.
Residents were allowed to return to the Minamisoma area last year but obtaining supplies can be difficult.
Operators of the drone food delivery service said it was the first of its kind in Japan.
A 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Fukushima triggered the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.
Convenience store chain Lawson has worked with e-commerce firm Rakuten and this week launched a drone service in the Odaka district of the city of Minamisoma, which has a large population of older people.
The district is roughly within a 20km radius of the Fukushima Daiichi Power Station, the site of the nuclear disaster triggered by an earthquake and tsunami six years ago.
People were forced to leave their homes because of radiation concerns.
The Japanese government lifted an evacuation order for Minamisoma in October 2016 and allowed residents move back to the area following decontamination efforts.
"The town is starting to regain its former liveliness as its residents continue to return home," Lawson spokesperson Ken Mochimaru told the BBC.
"However, improving the shopping environment for daily necessities, food, and other products represents a high-priority challenge," he said.
The drone service is designed to help.
Shoppers can order hot food like fried chicken and household items, which are sent from a nearby Lawson store to a mobile food van that operates at a community centre in the area.
The companies are trialling the service for the next six months.
Image copyright Lawson Image caption Operators said the drone food delivery service was the first of its kind in Japan The drone can carry up to 2kg of goods.
As well as its shops, Lawson operates mobile vans across Japan, particularly in rural and mountainous regions where access is difficult, as well as serving ageing populations in urban areas.
More than a quarter of Japan's population is aged over 65, and set to increase over the next two decades, as the total number of people in the country shrinks.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Facebook says hundreds of accounts backed by Russian trolls filled news feeds with inflammatory messages Facebook, Twitter and Google lawyers defended themselves to US lawmakers probing whether Russia used social media to influence the 2016 election.
The three firms faced hard questions at a Senate panel on crime and terrorism about why they missed political ads bought with Russian money.
Lawmakers are eyeing new regulations for social media firms in the wake of Russia's alleged meddling in 2016.
The firms said they would tighten advertising policies and guidelines.
Senator Al Franken, a Democrat from Minnesota, asked Facebook - which absorbed much of the heat from lawmakers - why payment in Russian rubles did not tip off the firm to suspicious activity.
"In hindsight, we should have had a broader lens," said Colin Stretch, general counsel for Facebook.
"There are signals we missed."
A day earlier Facebook said as many as 126m US users may have seen Russia-backed content over the last two years.
Lawyers for the three firms are facing two days of congressional hearings as lawmakers consider legislation that would extend regulations for television, radio and satellite to also cover social media platforms.
The firms said they are increasing efforts to identify bots and spam, as well as make political advertising more transparent.
Facebook, for example, said it expects to have 20,000 people working on "safety and security" by the end of 2018 - double the current number.
"I do appreciate these efforts, but I don't think it's enough," said Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota.
Ms Klobuchar has proposed legislation that she says would make social media firms subject to the same disclosure rules for political and issue pages as print, radio and television companies.
The companies said they would work with her on the bill, but did not say they would support it.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Facebook's Colin Stretch (L), Twitter's Sean Edgett, and Google's Richard Salgado testify before a Senate panel Senators questioned whether the firms are up to the task of weighing free speech and privacy rights against concerns over terrorism and state-sponsored propaganda.
"I think you do enormous good, but your power sometimes scares me," said Senator John Kennedy, a Republican from Louisiana.
What happened during the election?
Russia has repeatedly denied allegations that it attempted to influence the last US presidential election, in which Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton.
But Facebook revealed as many as 126m American users may have seen content uploaded by Russia-based operatives.
The social media company said about 80,000 posts published between June 2015 and August 2017 and were seen by about 29m Americans directly.
These posts, which Facebook says were created by a Kremlin-linked company, were amplified through likes, shares and comments, and spread to tens of millions of people.
That company, Internet Research Agency, was also linked to about 2750 Twitter accounts, which have been suspended, Twitter said.
The firm also said it had identified more than 36,000 Russian bots that generated 1.4m automated, election-related Tweets, which may have been viewed as many as 288m times.
Google also revealed on Monday that Russian trolls had uploaded more than 1,000 political videos on YouTube on 18 different channels.
The company said they had very low view counts and there was no evidence they had been targeting American viewers.
Most of the posts focused on sowing political and social divisions, the firms have said.
The companies said they used a combination of staff and big data to police that content, disabling fake and spam accounts.
Key recent developments: Image copyright Reuters
Video How a small company in the Czech Republic became the world's largest maker of vinyl records.
Video journalists: Duncan Hess and Tracey Hobbs
Video Pregnant mothers in Nepal giving birth in rural areas face an easier birth thanks to a solar power suitcase.
The device is a miniature power station that provides light, heat and battery charging and a baby monitor.
Video Singapores Changi Airport launches operations at its new Terminal 4 this week.
A key feature, say airports bosses, is its automated check-in system, which allows passengers to check in and board without having to talk to counter staff.
Karishma Vaswani gives us a walk-through.
Video produced by Christine Hah, filmed by Vince Sia and edited by Fahmi Jamal.
Video Former Miss Liberia and now entrepreneur, Patrice Juah gives us her tips for success.
Video produced by Trystan Young Listen to BBC World Service's Newsday programme on the iPlayer.
Video A warning about economic forecasts has come from a former economic forecaster, who went on to be a business minister and Paymaster General in the government.
Asked about a Bank of England report suggesting up to 75,000 jobs in the financial market could be lost when the UK leaves the EU, Digital Minister Matt Hancock predicted the City of London would be hugely successful after Brexit.
And he told Daily Politics presenter Jo Coburn: I used to be an economic forecaster, and one of the things I have learned to do is never to make economic forecasts, and I think the last couple of years have strengthened me in that position."
Video For 45 years, the UK's agriculture industry has been entwined with Europe's Common Agricultural Policy.
While little is clear about the details of Brexit and how the UK will trade in future, we do know that the landscape for food and farming will change with food policy decided in London not Brussels.
BBC Wales' economics correspondent Sarah Dickins has been following the issues from "farm to fork" in west Wales.
Video Flat-pack or modular homes have traditionally been used to build low-cost housing, but now Filipino entrepreneur Robbie Antonio is using prefab technology to build luxury homes designed by world-famous architects - at low cost.
In making these houses more affordable, the company has become the first Filipino start-up to achieve a billion dollar valuation.
'If we soften up, our readers will go' Known as the Private Eye of the tech world The Register loves to satirise industry giants - and it's paying off.
Image copyright Strawdog Publishing Image caption The Simon's Cat game requires players to connect matching coloured treats The UK's advertising watchdog has intervened after an adult advert was shown within a video game app popular with children.
The pop-up ad featured a "temporary tattoo" that looked like a deep bite mark, placed on a woman's shoulder.
The imagery appeared in the match-puzzle title Simon's Cat Crunch Time in July.
Wish.com, the retailer responsible for creating the ad, failed to respond to the complaint.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said it was concerned by the San Francisco-based company's lack of response and ordered the business to ensure its adverts were properly targeted in the future.
Although the body does not have the power to impose fines itself, it can refer repeat offenders to Trading Standards, which can take further action.
The game's publisher has also banned Wish.com from serving ads to its products in the future.
'Red and bloody' The Simon's Cat game has a Pegi 3 rating - meaning it has been judged to be suitable for anyone above the age of three - and has been installed more than one million times on Android and iOS devices.
As with many titles, adverts are automatically placed within the software by algorithms, which are supposed to screen out adult content.
Image copyright Wish Image caption This Wish.com ad was spotted within the game app on 24 July The publisher, Strawdog Studios, told the ASA that it also had the power to remove ads manually.
But it added that it relied on customer reports to flag unsuitable content, and had not been alerted to the tattoo image before the watchdog had become involved.
"We considered the app was likely to have strong appeal to children and therefore children were likely to have seen the ad," said the ASA in its ruling.
"We noted that it was not clear from the ad that the product shown was a fake tattoo and we considered that the image... which was red and bloody, might cause distress."
The authority added that Wish.com was obliged to ensure the ad was not promoted again in an untargeted manner.
The company - which describes itself as the world's sixth biggest e-commerce business - sent an automated response to the BBC when asked for comment but has yet to address the problem.
"The ASA has a growing problem with non-UK online businesses, who will sometimes take the view that a self-regulatory body can be ignored," said Andy Milmore, a partner at the law firm Harbottle & Lewis.
"This is especially so where the complaints relate to 'inappropriate' marketing, where the ultimate backstop of enforcement action under criminal statute is unlikely to apply."
Image copyright Getty Images Just how much would you pay for a cask of rare Scotch whisky?
For some, it seems, the sky is the limit when it comes to liquid gold.
Earlier this month, an anonymous buyer in Hong Kong paid an auction-record 285,000 for a sherry cask filled with a 30-year-old Macallan single malt.
Its contents, if emptied, would work out at a neat 1,000 per 70cl bottle.
Others have paid even more for a cask of the hard stuff, with one Scotch whisky brokerage reporting a sale in excess of 500,000.
Some industry experts believe there are 1m casks out there waiting to be found.
Image copyright Spink Auctions Image caption A 30-year-old Macallan single malt sherry cask was sold recently at auction for 285,000 So why are people willing to spend such eye-watering amounts of money on the spirit?
The answer isn't straightforward.
For some, casks are merely an investment.
For others, such as connoisseurs and collectors, there's more emphasis on the experience - tasting a spirit that has been ageing in oak casks for decades.
But rarity is also highly prized.
That may sound strange when an estimated three billion litres of the spirit is busy maturing in storage - enough to fill 1,200 Olympic-sized swimming pools.
But in reality much of it is relatively new - bearing in mind that it requires three years of maturation before a spirit can legally take on the name Scotch.
Those operating at the top end of the market - the really rare stuff - say there is no shortage of interest from potential buyers.
Analyst and broker Rare Whisky 101 (RW101) has noted increased demand for "quality casks" from connoisseurs, collectors and investors.
The Dunfermline-based firm, co-founded in 2014 by Andy Simpson and David Robertson, says its past deals with brands such as Ardbeg, Laphroaig, Macallan and Springbank have achieved an average cask price of more than 130,000.
Image copyright RW101 Image caption RW101 was co-founded by Andy Simpson (left) and David Robertson Mr Simpson says buyers are drawn by "rarity and uniqueness".
He explains: "The vast majority of distillers will not part with aged stock as it's too important for them to maintain the brand.
"If they do allow cask sales, as with Diageo's Casks of Distinction programme, these are, again, exceptionally rare.
"It's also about the unique factor of cask ownership - no two casks are the same - so they're truly unique.
"We've tried many concurrently numbered casks, distilled on the same day, filled into (theoretically) identical casks and the samples are hugely different."
Image caption Source: Scotch Whisky Association But Mr Simpson also makes the point that while older casks can bring greater rewards - they also bring bigger risks.
He explains: "With older casks, there's a risk they drop to below 40% ABV (alcohol by volume), the legal minimum for spirit to be called Scotch.
"If that happens then the cask becomes worth a fraction of its former price.
"A couple of years ago we got excited by a 49-year-old sample coming through.
On paper it should have been the oldest ever expression from the distillery of origin.
"When the sample arrived it was like Castrol GTX - thick, viscous, green gloop.
And with an ABV of just 28%, it was worthless."
He adds: "Casks do also evaporate, so the longer it's left, the fewer bottles will be yielded upon bottling.
"The first rule of buying Scotch as an investment is to make sure it's exemplary quality.
"One person's investment today could be - and frequently is - another's favourite drinks cupboard dram tomorrow."
Image copyright John Paul Photography Although rare casks are highly prized by collectors, connoisseurs and investors alike, the marketplace for people with less deep pockets also appears to be thriving.
One whisky specialist has been tapping into the market by appealing to investors who don't feel the need to touch, smell or even taste the product.
Whisky Invest Direct launched an online trading platform for Scotch two years ago.
Describing itself as a "stock exchange for whisky", the company allows private investors to buy and sell Scotch whiskies early in their maturation process.
The firm now has 4,500 whisky accounts with more than 12m invested in 3.5 million litres of spirit.
Chief executive Rupert Patrick, a former director of whisky giant Diageo, says: "Buying maturing stocks of whisky on our platform has allowed investors to enjoy net returns of over 7% per year since we launched two years ago.
"Two of the key benefits that we offer investors are that we give them access to an un-inflated tangible asset, and our market place is very liquid - a 24/7 trading exchange."
Image copyright SCDA Image caption Strathearn Distillery founder Tony Reeman-Clark says customers "want something that is unique" Although the big whisky firms hold the lion's share of the 20 million or so casks currently stored around Scotland, smaller craft distilleries are now eyeing what they see as a gap in the market.
They include Perth-based Strathearn Distillery, which prides itself as being "probably Scotland's smallest distillery" with a capacity of just 10,000 litres.
Founder and owner Tony Reeman-Clark argues that small is beautiful when it comes to meeting customers' tastes.
'Something unique' He says: "We have found that people want a strong provenance, something that is unique, and there is no better way to do that than buy your own cask of whisky from a craft distillery.
"If you buy a hogshead cask, you will end up with 300 bottles and they are all the same.
"But because we are a small distillery, we generally offer casks with only 40 or 50 litres of whisky in them.
"We have had customers buying two or three of them at one go - casks with different finishes, such as sherry or brandy, so they can experience different tastes."
Mr Reeman-Clark says the firm has attracted customers from as far as Germany, Sweden and the Far East.
He adds: "People buy our casks for a wide range of reasons - for example, for their children, for investment purposes and even for weddings.
"We had a group of oil workers here recently who refilled their cask with peated spirit after finishing the first batch.
"They know they are welcome back anytime to taste the spirit so they have a good idea of what it will be like when they are ready to bottle it."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How a small company in the Czech Republic became the world's largest maker of vinyl records Whether gathering dust in your loft or currently spinning on your turntable, it's a fair bet that at least some of your vinyl records came from a small factory in the Czech Republic.
The facility in question is the headquarters of GZ Media, based in the small town of Lodenice, 25km (16 miles) west of the Czech capital, Prague.
GZ is today the world's largest producer of vinyl records, of which it expects to press 30 million this year, for everyone from the Rolling Stones and U2, to Lady Gaga and Madonna.
The success of the company is a far cry from the early 1990s, when vinyl records appeared to be on the way out, with music fans having switched en masse to compact discs.
Back in the early 1970s more than three-quarters of album sales were on vinyl, but by the 1990s that had plunged to just 1.5%.
Image caption Producing vinyl records is a multi-step process "In 1993 our output was at its lowest, vinyl was almost dead," says GZ's chief executive Michal Sterba.
"If we'd have stayed as a vinyl-only producer in the 90s, GZ would be no more."
The operation had only become a private company two years earlier after the fall of communism.
Prior to that it had been a state-run enterprise called Gramofonove Zavody (Gramophone Record Factory) which had started in 1951, and had pressed records for the world's largest music companies.
With demand for vinyl having dwindled, GZ realised that it had to diversify to survive, so it branched out into printing and making packaging for consumer goods.
Image caption Michal Sterba is now expanding GZ, with new sister factories in the US and Canada Crucially though, it kept pressing vinyl to satisfy what little demand there was.
At the lowest point in 1993 it made just 350,000 discs.
"We wanted to be the last company standing in the field of vinyl record production," says Mr Sterba.
So when the resurgence of vinyl began around 2010, GZ was in a position to take advantage of it.
Unlike most rivals, GZ still had the vinyl-making equipment and the expertise.
Its successful diversification also gave it the cash to invest.
Image caption The company has also seen a rising demand for picture discs Mr Sterba says: "Our competitors could buy machinery and materials, but the know-how is very hard to acquire."
The firm's printing and packing capabilities give it another advantage over its rivals, he adds: "As well as producing the actual vinyl discs, GZ also makes the packaging, prints the artwork and any extras such as posters or booklet."
One particularly tough job, he recalls, was producing a real metal zip on the cover of the reissued Rolling Stones' Sticky Fingers album.
How vinyl records are made The original music, on tape or a digital file, is transferred to a diamond-tipped cutter This cuts a groove of the music into a steel disc coated in a layer of copper just 100 microns thick This master disc is then placed into a solution of nickel salt though which an electric current flows.
This forms a layer of nickel on top of the copper The nickel layer is then peeled off, and has ridges that are a mirror image of the grooves on the master disk.
This nickel plate forms the "stamper" that will imprint the vinyl Next the vinyl compound (a type of plastic) is heated to 160C, and the stamper is pressed into it with the weight of more than 100 tonnes, to produce one side of a vinyl record To keep up with demand, GZ Media's Czech factory now runs 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and employs 1,600 permanent workers.
It's a fast-paced operation at every stage of the production process; from the initial stamping to the high-speed ballet of forklifts loading trucks for delivery.
The company has invested $20m in equipment, building 12 new presses, but the old still runs alongside the new.
Image caption GZ's Czech factory has a permanent workforce of 1,600 plus 400 seasonal workers Bright white, computer-controlled stations sit next to their huge, pale-green iron counterparts, still dripping oil into trays and buckets.
GZ's revenues this year are expected to total $110m (83m), and are growing by 9-10% per year.
Meanwhile, its vinyl output has tripled since 2010.
For the industry as a whole, global sales of vinyl records are expected to reach $1bn in value this year.
This may be just 6% of total music industry revenues but vinyl sales are now at a 25-year high.
With most of its customers in North America, GZ recently bought a vinyl plant in Memphis, Tennessee, to supplement its Czech production.
It has also opened a production facility in Ontario, Canada.
Image caption Staff at the factory listen to the records to test them GZ still makes albums for small indie bands - the punk and metal bands that kept the company going in the 1990s, but now it also works with massive global stars.
"We'll still press 100 records for a small metal band," says Mr Sterba, "but we're also pressing 100,000 for U2."
"As for the future," he says, "we're concentrating on making a success of our plants in North America.
But in the longer term, we think manufacturing in Asia and preferably Japan [as well], is the right thing to do."
This is the third story in a new series called Connected Commerce, which every week highlights companies around the world that are successfully exporting, and trading beyond their home market.
Yet, while vinyl sales are growing, some who buy the records don't actually play them.
Last year a BBC/ICM poll found 48% of those questioned said they'd never played the vinyl they'd bought and 7% said they didn't even own a turntable.
These fans buy a vinyl album for the "feel" of owning a physical object and for the artwork that often comes with it - but they never actually play it.
Image caption Staff at GZ had to add a real metal zip to the cover of the Rolling Stones album Sticky Fingers While vinyl sales are growing, they remain tiny compared with their 1980s heyday, says Paul Lee, a music industry expert at accountancy group Deloitte.
"Vinyl's first and biggest peak was back in the 80s when a billion records, just albums were sold per year.
This year we're expecting about 40 million, so it's about one 25th... so it is nothing like that we had back in the 80s."
Image caption The company can make vinyl records in any colour Mr Lee adds: "The reality is vinyl is a lovely product, it's also very difficult to consume compared to just tapping in the name of a song on a smart phone... so we would expect the market to be approaching a peak."
Yet with music giant Sony announcing earlier this year that it was to re-open its vinyl manufacturing plant in Japan for the first time since 1989, it doesn't look like the vinyl revival is coming to an end any time soon.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Trade tensions will be top of mind during US President Donald Trump's visit to China When US President Donald Trump visits China, one subject high on the agenda will be the sweeping trade investigation of Chinese policies that he ordered in August.
The White House said it would probe practices that encourage the theft of intellectual property from US businesses - a long-simmering source of tension in the US, Europe and elsewhere.
The Chinese government has said the inquiry was a "serious concern" and has warned that it will not sit back if the US takes actions it deems unfair.
But one of the biggest challenges for Mr Trump's investigation comes from his own country.
Since the White House started its inquiry, a slew of US business groups have submitted formal comments describing their concerns.
But just six companies have proved willing to come forward with complaints, according to the public record of comments.
Many of them are smaller businesses describing already known incidents.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The US could risk a trade war with one of its biggest trade partners Analysts say companies are hesitant to put at risk their access to one of the world's biggest markets by speaking out.
But the decision to stay quiet has consequences: it is likely to limit the administration's ability to build a strong case against China.
It may hurt the ability to identify effective remedies, while also making unilateral action more appealing to the White House.
"It's going to be a huge problem that companies are unwilling to provide specifics because it's going to be very difficult for the United States government to take effective action," says Lee Branstetter, a professor of economics and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University.
Intellectual property The White House's focus on intellectual property theft in China follows years of concerns in the US, Europe and elsewhere over counterfeit goods, piracy, hacking, patent violations and other forms of theft.
The Commission on the Theft of American Intellectual Property estimates that the annual cost to the US economy from counterfeit goods, pirated software and theft of trade secrets is between $225bn and $600bn.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption General Motors, which has opened factories in China, is among those working with local partners In recent years, the US says the Chinese government has encouraged some of those practices as part of its economic and national security strategies.
Those involve state-backed enterprises and are focused on boosting certain industries such as aerospace, robotics and biotech.
The US inquiry asked for information about topics including policies that pressure companies to share information with local business partners; opaque approval processes; and possible cyber espionage backed by the government.
But previous US efforts to tackle the issue have been hindered by the hesitance of major companies to speak out, says Phil Levy, senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.
"This has been the problem," says Mr Levy, who served as a trade economist under former President George W Bush.
"If you want to say China has these violations and we are acting in response to that... you need to have that fairly well documented.
And to do that you need to have the co-operation of the companies involved."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Beijing has promoted renewable energy and US firms in the industry have been among the few to speak out Edwin Rogers is co-founder of Bonumose Biochem, a small Virginia-based start-up that was one of the six companies that shared its complaints.
In his case, he says scientists in China filed a copycat patent for a process of making a healthy rare sugar - technology that he believes his company had purchased rights to after acquiring a firm last year.
The scientists worked in the US for that firm, he says.
They are affiliated with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, a government-backed entity, and have political connections.
He says he felt a "duty" to come forward and hopes his story will help the White House craft a response.
China's response The office of the US Trade Representative, which is leading the inquiry, did not respond to requests for comment about the investigation.
China maintains it has responded to concerns, pointing to laws that forbid intellectual property theft, success by western companies in Chinese courts, and its own efforts to address cyber crime.
In September, after the Trump administration launched its investigation, it announced a four-month crackdown focused on intellectual property and foreign investors.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China says it has made strides to prevent intellectual property theft In comments submitted to US investigators, Chinese organisations told the US that decisions to establish joint ventures and share technology are voluntary agreements between private companies.
They cast government initiatives, such as Made in China 2025, as "promotional" - not mandatory - programmes.
Some US businesses also defend China's approach.
William Mansfield is the intellectual property director at Abro Industries, a 25-person company based in Indiana that makes products such as glue and tape for sale overseas.
He says he has spent years fighting against counterfeiters in China - and has figured out successful ways of using China's system, like asking for help from local authorities instead of immediately pursuing a lawsuit.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption President Trump has reportedly told advisors he wants "tariffs" He says US companies often don't understand how China works and unfairly blame problems on the government.
"I've just never seen anything that would lead me to believe it's anything other than individual counterfeiters acting to maximise their profit and not really caring about the rules," he says.
What next?
Many US analysts expect the White House to find fault with Beijing; pointing to the growing corporate involvement of the Communist Party and rules that require foreign companies in some sectors to use local partners.
But it is unclear what the White House might do after that.
The US could work with the Chinese government, collaborate with other countries to craft a response, bring a complaint in an international forum such as the World Trade Organisation, or take unilateral action.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The US has long had concerns over Chinese intellectual property theft and hacking That risks triggering a trade war but President Trump - who has repeatedly attacked China while dismissing international pacts - may be more open to that approach, Mr Levy says.
The White House China's strategy remains unclear as different advisors appear to promote clashing approaches, he adds.
Investigation of Chinese steel companies, for example, has not led to action.
The White House also wants Chinese cooperation as it responds to missile tests from North Korea.
"It's hard to puzzle out what they're doing," Mr Levy says.
Business concerns US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross says he expects addressing the issue to take time.
But he says the US is looking for immediate deals, like ones struck between Boeing and Saudi Arabia, as a sign of good faith.
Many businesses remain worried the White House could damage the US relationship with China to satisfy isolationists among President Trump's supporters.
Erin Ennis, of the US China Business Council, says about 20% of its members have faced pressure in China to transfer key technology in recent years, but adds that they also report that the environment in China is improving.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chinese President Xi Jinping visited a US Boeing plant in 2015.
Aerospace is one of the industries the Chinese government has promoted She urges the administration to focus on specific changes in China, rather than simply imposing penalties, such as sanctions.
For example, China could stop making a distinction between foreign and domestic companies, she says.
Even without testimony from major companies, associations like hers have provided enough suggestions for the White House to work with the Chinese government, says Ms Ennis.
But Prof Branstetter says the US will need to take stronger, more targeted action if it expects intellectual property thefts to stop.
He says it doesn't have the information to do so now and he has doubts about this administration's abilities to craft an adroit response.
"It's easy to see this going badly," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There were protests over the threats to deport undocumented young migrants from the US Hundreds of thousands of Mexicans are deported to their home country each year from the United States.
The Trump administration's pressure on undocumented young migrants - the so-called "Dreamers" - could mean many more coming home.
But what are so many returning people going to do?
Starting a new life in Mexico has been harder than expected for Reyna del Rio, a 29 year old who spent most of her childhood in South Carolina before returning to Mexico.
Like many returning bilingual Mexicans, she was able to get a job at a call centre.
Tough returning But the long hours and angry customers started to take a toll on her.
A new initiative by Mexico's public education ministry, known by the Spanish acronym SEP, could be her ticket to a stable career.
"If you work at a call centre you do things repeatedly.
I don't see it as enjoying my job," said Ms del Rio.
Image caption Reyna del Rio has returned to find work in Mexico, having left for the US as a young child "I would like to teach and learn new skills.
I would like to pass on what I've learned because I think it will fulfil me more than just doing customer service."
She is part of a group of young deportees and voluntary returnees who are in the process of applying for English teaching positions through SEP.
It's a project trying to make the most of their English language skills.
For more than 600 new teaching jobs, the education ministry adapted the application process to encourage repatriated Mexicans.
There were changes to make the positions more accessible to returnees, who often face bureaucratic roadblocks related to their time outside of Mexico.
The goal is twofold.
It aims to provide employment for young deportees and help Mexico reach its goal of being bilingual - in Spanish and English - in 20 years.
"We made that clause flexible particularly for repatriated Mexicans, because the idea is that no one who might have the possibility of being an English teacher should be left without the chance of doing so," said Mario Chavez Campos, director of the general directorate of higher education for professionals in education, an office within SEP. 'Dreamers' sent back As well as those deported, there are others returning by their own choice, although often forced by the lack of higher education and job opportunities.
This was the case for Ms del Rio, who left South Carolina at the age of 18, hoping to access better educational opportunities in Mexico, when she couldn't get financial aid as an undocumented student in the US.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Prototypes for the proposed border wall between the US and Mexico When she arrived in 2009, she barely remembered the country she left when she was five years old.
But she persevered.
"We have the culture of never giving up," Reyna said of her fellow "Dreamers".
"We have always had to fight for many things."
These undocumented young people, who might have come to the US as children, are feeling vulnerable.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Looking through from Mexico into New Mexico in the US President Donald Trump decided in September to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals programme, known as DACA.
This allowed young undocumented immigrants to work legally in the US and be temporarily shielded from deportation.
About 800,000 youths received protected status under DACA, and more than 600,000 were from Mexico.
Many could soon face deportation as their DACA permits expire in the upcoming months.
Retraining as teachers Mexico has pledged to support returning deportees, with initiatives to help them access employment, health and education.
But many of these still remain promises.
So far 80% of the returned deportees trying to get a job as an English teacher through SEP have had difficulty meeting requirements, primarily for reasons related to their time spent outside of Mexico, according to Israel Concha, founder of the New Comienzos group which support people returning to Mexico.
More from Global education Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
"They have to understand it's an emergency," said Mr Concha, a deportee himself.
"Tomorrow if thousands of people get deported because there is no immigration reform or there is nothing for DACA, we need to be ready and the federal government is not ready."
To be eligible for teaching, all candidates must have their US schooling recognised in Mexico, pass a test in Spanish grammar and Mexican history, and earn a college degree.
The scheme intends to break down the barriers returnees face in completing these steps, but there are still discussions about how to achieve this.
Mexican dream Not all bilingual deportees have the training required to become a teacher, so the SEP is brainstorming other ways to incorporate Dreamers into English language lessons at public schools, such as through conversation clubs or as teacher's assistants.
"This call for English teachers is just the first step," said Mr Chavez Campos of the public education ministry.
"From there, we have a list of the dreamers and deportees who are interested in participating in the national English strategy."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption What opportunities are there for those returning to Mexico?
He says this is Mexico's "rapid response to the migration policies of the US".
Working as an English teacher would mean a new start for many of Mexico's deportees.
If selected to be an English teacher for SEP, Ms del Rio would receive much more than the minimum wage with a starting salary of about $1,100 (830) per month, plus benefits and holidays.
Unlike working in a call centre, an English teaching position would provide a long-term career.
"We need more opportunities where we can have a job where we can retire," said Mr Concha.
"That's what we are looking for: the actual American dream in Mexico."
"The Mexican government wants to make Mexico bilingual in 20 years," said Mr Concha.
"What better place to start than the dreamers that are coming back?"
The United Kingdom imports the majority of the pork products we consume, from loins to bacon.
With 17 months to go until we are due to leave the European Union, how will Brexit affect our pork?
Denmark is the main supplier of the UK's imported pork.
There are thousands of pig farms across the country and pork is the Danes' third most valuable export.
And it is Jutland which is the heart of Danish pig country.
At one farm, Baldershave, 35,000 pigs are born every year.
Soren Sondergaard's farm has been in his family for five generations and the UK is one of their biggest markets.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Denmark is the largest overseas supplier of pork products to the UK "We follow it a lot, and we keep an eye on what is happening in the UK at the moment," says Mr Sondergaard.
"We hope of course we can continue to do trading together, but we have 130 markets all over the world which we will be looking to instead if it will be a hard Brexit."
The Danish port trade with the UK started 150 years ago, and now about 25% of all UK imported pork products come from Denmark.
What might happen to food exports after Brexit?
The single market has meant there are no tariffs on the food we import from this Nordic country.
There have been warnings from the meat industry that if the UK adopts world trade tariffs then imported food could be more expensive.
Transport Secretary Chris Grayling said earlier this month that the UK would respond by: "Growing more here and buying more from around the world".
Image caption Soren Sondergaard hopes that Brexit won't significantly affect Danish pork exports to the UK At the annual conference of the Danish pig industry, there is a positive mood about Denmark's future trading relationship with the UK.
Brexit is one of the key issues on the agenda.
"The ideal situation for us would be that the UK would remain within the European Union, that unfortunately is not going to happen," says Christian Fink Hansen, from the Danish Agriculture and Food Council.
"So we hope that we will reach an agreement that will be as close as possible to the current situation."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Rearing pigs is big business in Denmark Mr Hansen adds: "We have high levels of animal welfare, high veterinary standards.
"The alternatives for you would be to look to Brazil, to Canada, to the US, where they have lower standards of animal welfare."
At its facility in the Danish city of Horsens, staff at Danish Crown - the world's largest pork exporter - are preparing pork loin which will be sent to the UK to be cured and made into back bacon.
"The only thing we know is uncertainty, and the one thing we know we don't like as a business is uncertainty," says Lars Albertsen, head of exports at Danish Crown.
Image caption Lars Albertsen hopes that Denmark's close ties with the UK will limit the impact of Brexit on Danish pork exporters "We don't know what the trade agreement with the UK will be, but we know there is a need for imports [in the UK].
"And we also think the affinity there is between Denmark and the UK, especially with food, will prevail.
We need the UK and the UK needs us as well."
The majority of the pork exported from Denmark to the UK travels via Esbjerg on the country's west coast.
Daily shipments sail to Immingham in Lincolnshire, and currently there are not any border checks.
Authorities at the port of Esbjerg are now closely watching what is happening across the North Sea.
"The UK is one of our top five export markets for Denmark," says Jesper Bank, the chief operating officer at the port.
Image caption Jesper Bank says that Danish ports can cope with any extra Brexit paperwork "The total value of our exports [to the UK] is about 10bn euros ($12bn; 9bn) a year, so obviously we are concerned about what is going to happen [with Brexit].
"Mostly our concerns are not about the practicalities of what will happen, we are quite sure that if we get administrative burdens we can sort some of those out with the technology.
"But some of our concern is what will happen in the UK.
Will your economy slow down?
Will the buying power of the British people slow down?".
British hauliers have warned that the possible introduction of checks for goods coming into the UK could lead to queues at both British and continental ports.
Mr Bank says that he and his team are confident about their ability to cope with the possible changes.
"We are aware that even small delays in times can have effects on ports due to custom clearance," he says.
"This will obviously create some sort of line in this port we have the capacity to cope with that, but I'm aware that some of our colleagues in the UK will have raised this issue."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The solar suitcase was the brainchild of obstetrician Dr Laura Stachel and husband Hal Aronson, co-founders of We Care Solar Hari Sunar is a 24 year-old mum whose second child is due in a few days.
She walked from her home in the remote Nepalese village Pandavkhani for her final antenatal check up at her local birthing centre through shuddering thunder, a drenching rainstorm and one of the village's frequent power cuts.
These power cuts can last up to two weeks and used to cause the birthing centre significant problems.
But now it has its own power solution.
The light in the birthing centre stays on and she smiles.
"I am really happy," the young mum says.
"Because we have a solar light at the birthing centre."
That light is powered by a bright yellow suitcase bolted to the delivery room wall.
This is a solar suitcase.
Image caption Hari Sunar's final antenatal check at Pandavkhani health post in Nepal Connected to a solar panel on the roof, the device is a miniature power station that provides light, heat and battery charging and a baby monitor.
Life saving For local midwife, Hima Shirish, the solar suitcase has been a lifesaver.
She was determined find a solar solution for her health centre's energy problems.
A charity called One-Heart Worldwide sourced the solar suitcase and installed it in Pandavkhani in 2014.
Since then there have been no maternal or baby deaths here.
"Pregnant mothers used to be afraid of the dark when they came to give birth at the health post," Hima says.
Image caption Midwife Hima Shirish switches on the solar suitcase to power life-saving medical equipment "They feared losing their babies.
But now the fear is gone and they are relieved that they are going to have a baby using the solar light."
Off-grid solution The solar suitcase is the brainchild of California-based obstetrician-gynaecologist Dr Laura Stachel of We Care Solar.
While in Nigeria in 2008, she witnessed complications and even deaths when babies were delivered at night without reliable light or power.
Dr Stachel devised a suitcase-sized, off-grid, solar electric system with her husband, solar engineer, Hal Aronson.
The prototype was so successful in Nigeria, they decided to bring the innovation to clinics and health stations in other countries with high rates of maternal and new-born baby mortality.
Earthquake challenge In Nepal, the 2015 earthquake destroyed many of its hospitals and left most of the remaining facilities without reliable power.
Weighing just 16kg (35lbs) solar suitcases were ideal for deployment over tough terrain.
They provided life-saving power to makeshift medical and birthing tents in the immediate aftermath of the quake.
The BBC's Innovators series reveals innovative solutions to major challenges across South Asia.
Ever heard of the concept of "jugaad"?
It's a Hindi term meaning cheap innovation.
If you have created a life hack or innovation that you are proud of, or spotted one while out and about on your travels, then share your picture with us by emailing yourpics@bbc.co.uk, use the hashtags #Jugaad and #BBCInnovators and share your picture with @BBCWorldService, or upload your submission here.
Learn more about BBC Innovators.
But, even without such natural disasters, Nepal is a long way from being able to generate the electricity its people need.
"There are a lot of maternity or small clinics in rural areas where they have no electricity at all."
Up to a third of rural areas have no reliable power, says Raj Kumar Thapa, managing director of Solar Solutions Private Limited.
Government schemes to increase small-scale power generation using solar, wind or hydro have had limited success, he says, because it is difficult for private companies to install and maintain systems in remote areas while still making a profit.
"So as long as the users are provided with proper training on the operation of the system I think there is a bigger role to play for solar energy especially on a charitable basis in Nepal."
Before the birthing centre was built in Pandavkhani in 2013, most babies were delivered at home, sometimes by torchlight or in total darkness.
Image copyright We Care Solar Image caption The 16kg solar suitcase was light enough to be deployed to remote earthquake zones in Nepal In difficult cases, mothers in labour would be taken on a 65km (40-mile) mountainous trek over mud and rocks to the hospital in the nearest town, Baglung.
"Some babies were in the wrong position and we did not have the equipment to help them," Hima recalls.
"Mothers used to die from haemorrhaging."
Now Hima and her staff are also able to charge their mobile phones, another vital piece of kit in this remote part of the world.
"Sometimes the power cuts can last for 15 days," Hima explains.
"We used to be completely out of contact because we could not charge our mobile phones."
Mrs Sunar is just one of 175 mothers who have already given birth at the centre at least once.
As she waits to deliver her second child, she is reassured by her experience during the birth of her daughter.
"When I was in labour with my first child I arrived at the health post and the light had just been cut.
But the health worker said they had a solar suitcase so I didn't need to worry."
Image copyright Innovate Ventures Image caption Muraadso co-founders Abdiqani Ibrahim, Hamse Musa and Saed Mohamed When Saed Mohamed, a young entrepreneur from Somalia, pitched his online shopping business Muraadso as part of an East African start-up competition in 2015, he was prepared for rejection.
And rejection is what he got.
Abdigani Diriye, head of the Somalia-based accelerator, Innovate Ventures, which oversaw the competition, was not impressed.
"We had a few applications from e-commerce start-ups and they just weren't really doing it for me," he told the BBC.
But Mr Mohamed and his team were not about to give up.
"We have had a lot of rejections and we have learned to be persistent.
We wouldn't take no for an answer," he says.
They did eventually get on the programme and ended up winning it.
"The irony is they went on to become the most successful start-up we took on," joked Mr Diriye.
But the business they were pitching - a online store selling mainly electronics - "failed miserably" at first, admits Mr Mohamed.
Image copyright Muraadso Image caption Users can see goods before they buy by visiting one of Muraadso's three offline stores It seemed Somalia wasn't ready yet for online only.
Perhaps this isn't surprising given that less than a third of its 14 million people are able to access the internet and few have bank accounts.
It's an uphill struggle to get any online business off the ground.
So he looked to how Western retailers were combining offline and online sales to revive the flagging brand.
"The hybrid model is the thing right now.
Amazon has opened a physical store and Walmart and other traditional retailers are acquiring e-commerce sites," he told the BBC.
Muraadso did the same and "sales sky-rocketed," he said.
Opening bricks and mortar stores in three different cities meant that potential buyers could go and touch the goods first before committing to buying them.
The site offers traditional home deliveries and flexible ways to pay, including cash on delivery.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Amazon opened a physical bookstore in Seattle in November, 2015 Many purchase are made via mobile money transfer service, Zaad, which operates in a similar way to Kenya's famous M-Pesa platform.
Zaad has an 80% market share in Somalia, charging no fees to send or withdraw money, but making its money instead from offering extra services and mobile airtime.
"The hybrid model wasn't a concept that I was familiar with, but Muraadso started implementing it late last year and they have been growing ever since, going from a three-man team to employing dozens and looking to raise another round of funding," says Mr Diriye.
E-commerce in Somalia is nascent, and across Africa generally, online shopping remains niche, says Matthew Reed, a consultant at research firm Ovum.
"Many people are still living on desperately low incomes, so e-commerce is really just for the middle classes.
And there are other big challenges for e-commerce firms, not just in Somalia," he says.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption Terrorism, drought and famine have hampered Somalia's technological progress Chief among them is lack of infrastructure - both decent roads that enable quick and efficient deliveries, and the telecoms infrastructure that allows people to access the platforms in the first place.
But things are changing.
Millions in Africa have bypassed traditional telephone landlines and leapt straight to mobile - the oft-quoted "leapfrog" effect.
According to mobile body the GSMA, there will be 725 million unique mobile subscribers on the continent by 2020.
And Somalia is benefiting from this improved connectivity.
In 2013, fibre optic firm Liquid Telecom connected the East African country to its network of cables, which now spreads 50,000km (31,000 miles) across 11 other African countries.
"There is increasing connectivity, mobile is increasingly widely available, and more of that is data-enabled with the increase of 3G and 4G networks," says Mr Reed.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "Devices are also becoming more affordable."
Changing social and cultural patterns of behaviour, an increasingly youthful population, and urbanisation, mean the stage is set for e-commerce to thrive, he believes.
According to Mr Mohamed, Facebook is "huge" in Somalia among younger people, so Muraadso is aggressively exploiting the platform to market its products, gaining 25,000 likes along the way.
It aims to have 100,000 by the end of the year.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, South Africa has the most mature e-commerce market in Africa, with others such as Kenya and Nigeria gaining user quickly.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jumia delivers goods via scooter and offers a variety of payment options Online retailer Jumia is in all three countries and, while it offers a very similar set of services to global market leader Amazon, there is one crucial difference.
"They realised that they couldn't just copy-and-paste the approach and methodology of Amazon because of factors such as infrastructure, access to couriers and cultural preferences," explains Dr Diriye.
So Jumia pioneered the idea of letting customers see the goods before they paid for them.
Safari.com, Kenya's leading communications firm, recently announced that it would be launching its own online shopping offering by the end of the year and it plans to expand that service beyond Kenya.
Muraadso is still small - its turnover is at around $40,000 (30,000) a month - but already it has a rival - Samionline - and Dr Diriye predicts more will follow.
"Every day another one pops up in Somalia as the digital wave starts to flow," he says.
"People are getting online, becoming more tech-savvy and the cost of owning a smartphone is falling."
The benefits to the people of Somalia go beyond access to better quality goods and more choice, he adds.
"It also saves them time as they don't have to travel to town, and it saves them money because they don't have to pay for a bus.
"People are more productive with their time, and when you multiply that to a whole city or country, the impact can be very significant."
Image copyright Getty Images Here's a Brexit recipe: lamb with grapes and lemon.
I haven't tried it, but the recipe does exist and it looks delicious in the pictures I've seen.
It also gives us the ingredients for looking at one of the food issues that comes up as the UK prepares to leave the European Union.
All of them are covered by a trade arrangement that most people have spent their lives blissfully unaware of.
It goes by the name of "tariff rate quotas".
Now what on Earth does that mean?
When countries import goods, including foods, they often impose a tariff, a tax that is applied only to traded goods.
The UK does not currently have its own national tariffs.
They are set by the EU for all member nations.
Countries and blocs of countries such as the EU, that are members of the World Trade Organization, have made commitments to the others that the tariffs will not exceed certain levels.
Many countries have agreed to import a certain quantity of some goods at a lower or even zero tariff, as a negotiated compromise between the interests of: overseas exporters domestic producers concerned about exposure to foreign competition consumers That quantity of goods that gets in on the lower tax rate is called a tariff rate quota.
It is a bread and butter dish on the trade negotiating menu, routine enough to have its own acronym, which is TRQ.
TRQs are often used for farm products.
The EU has about 100, negotiated at the WTO on behalf of all member states, which currently have an impact on the UK.
All three of our ingredients have a TRQ for imports into the EU.
Image copyright Getty Images In the case of lamb, 280,340 tonnes a year can be imported at a reduced tariff.
There's a quota for table grapes of 1,500 tonnes, and for lemons it's 10,000 tonnes.
So how does Brexit come into this picture?
The UK and the remainder of the EU have to work out how to divide the existing TRQs.
The EU doesn't want to take the existing TRQs for the 28 states and use them for the remaining 27, because each EU country may end up importing more food on the low tariffs, therefore creating tougher competition for EU farmers.
Image copyright Getty Images Unlike on many other Brexit issues the UK and the EU actually agreed, and told the other WTO members, in a letter, that they wanted to divide the TRQs in line with recent trade flows.
That would mean, for example, the UK taking a large share of the quota for lamb because comparatively the UK has been importing more lamb than the other EU countries.
But the proposal was met with a raspberry by several countries, including the United States, Canada and New Zealand.
Although the UK-EU proposal would give the same total TRQs as today, they would lose flexibility.
As things stand, if the price of lamb fell in the UK, they could divert some or all of it to other parts of the EU.
After Brexit, that would not be possible.
Image copyright Getty Images The other WTO countries feel they should be compensated with a higher combined TRQ in order to maintain the same commercial benefit they currently enjoy.
In other words, they see Brexit as an opportunity to negotiate better access for their goods to Europe.
There is another option.
In some cases, the UK could decide to remove the tariffs altogether.
Now, some economists think we should do that anyway with all tariffs, that Brexit is a glorious opportunity for unilateral free trade.
This seems politically unlikely for products where there are UK producers.
In our recipe, lamb is a case in point.
Unrestricted tariff free access for lamb from anywhere in the world would be a problem for many British lamb producers.
With lemons, that is not an issue.
We are not citrus producers.
There are British table grapes.
It's not a big industry, but it is a new one so that might need some consultation with producer and consumer groups too.
There's another complication: cross-Channel trade.
British farmers can now automatically sell, for example, their lamb to France tariff free.
The same applies to French cheese sold in the UK.
Depending on what sort of deal there is, that might not be true after Brexit.
So will the UK and the EU get some share of each other's TRQs?
That's another thing to be negotiated.
Read more from Reality Check Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Are the new ideas and approaches pioneered by management consultants worth their fees?
The place: a textile plant near Mumbai, India.
The time: 2008.
The scene?
Chaos.
Rubbish is piled up outside the building - with almost as much inside.
There are piles of flammable junk, and open chemical containers.
The yarn is at least bundled up in white plastic bags, but the inventory is scattered around the plant in unmarked piles.
Such shambolic conditions are typical in the Indian textile industry, and that presents an opportunity.
A team of researchers from Stanford University and the World Bank is conducting a novel experiment.
They're going to send in a team of management consultants to tidy up some of these companies - but not others.
Then they'll track what happens to their profits as part of a rigorous, randomised controlled trial.
It will tell us conclusively whether the management consultants are worth their fees.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
That question has often been raised over the years.
If managers often have bad reputations, what should we make of the people who tell managers how to manage?
Picture a management consultant.
What comes to mind?
A young, sharp-suited graduate, earnestly gesturing to a bulleted PowerPoint presentation that reads something like "holistically envisioneer client-centric deliverables"?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some management consultants are criticised for their reliance on business jargon Okay, I got that from an online random buzzword generator.
But you get the idea.
The industry battles a stereotype of charging exorbitant fees for advice that, on close inspection, turns out to be either meaningless or common sense.
Managers who bring in consultants are often accused of being blinded by jargon, implicitly admitting their own incompetence, or seeking someone else to blame for unpopular decisions.
Still, it's big business.
The year after Stanford and the World Bank started their Indian study, the UK government alone spent well over $2bn (1.5bn) on management consultants.
Globally, consulting firms charge their clients a total of about $125bn (94bn).
'Noble' origins Where did this strange industry begin?
There's a noble way to frame its origins: economic change creates a new challenge, and visionary men of business provide a solution.
In the late 19th century the US economy was expanding fast, and thanks to the railway and telegraph it was also becoming more of a national market and less a collection of local ones.
Company owners began to realise that there were huge rewards to be had for companies that could bestride this new national stage.
So began an unprecedented wave of mergers and consolidations.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Heinz, which dates back to 1869, grew substantially at the beginning of the 20th century Companies swallowed each other up, creating giant household names: US Steel, General Electric, Heinz, AT&T.
Some employed more than 100,000 people.
And that was the challenge: nobody had ever tried to manage such vast organisations before.
Enter a young professor of accountancy by the name of James McKinsey.
His breakthrough was a book published in 1922, with the not-entirely-thrilling title Budgetary Control.
Accounting for the future But for corporate America, Budgetary Control was revolutionary.
Rather than using traditional historical accounts to provide a picture of how a business had been doing over the past year, McKinsey proposed drawing up accounts for an imaginary corporate future.
These future accounts would set out a business's plans and goals, broken down department by department.
And later, when the actual accounts were drawn up they could be compared to the plan, which could then be revised.
McKinsey's method helped managers take control, setting out a vision for the future rather than simply reviewing the past.
Image copyright McKinsey & Company Image caption James McKinsey saw the potential of setting out a corporate vision of the future McKinsey was a big character - tall, and fond of chomping cigars, ignoring his doctor's advice.
His ideas caught on with remarkable speed: by the mid-1930s he was hiring himself out at $500 (380) a day - about $25,000 (19,000) in today's money.
And as his own time was limited, he took on employees.
If he didn't like a report they wrote, he'd hurl it in the bin.
"I have to be diplomatic with our clients," he told them.
"But I don't have to be diplomatic with you bastards!"
Aged just 48, James McKinsey died of pneumonia.
But under his lieutenant, Marvin Bower, McKinsey & Company thrived.
Bower was a particular man.
He insisted that employees wore a dark suit, a starched white shirt, and, until the 1960s, a hat.
McKinsey & Co, he said, was not a business but a "practice".
It didn't take on jobs, but "engagements".
It was not a company, but a "firm".
Eventually it simply became known as "The Firm".
'Business philosopher-kings' Duff McDonald wrote a history of The Firm, arguing that its advocacy of scientific approaches to management transformed the business world.
It acquired a reputation as perhaps the world's most elite employer.
The New Yorker once described McKinsey's young Ivy League hires parachuting into companies around the world as a "Swat team of business philosopher-kings".
But hold on.
Why don't company owners simply employ managers who've studied those scientific approaches themselves?
There aren't many situations where you'd hire someone to do a job, and also hire expensive consultants to advise them how to do it.
What accounts for why companies like McKinsey gained such a foothold in the economy?
Part of the explanation is surprising: government regulation.
The Glass-Steagall act of 1933 was a far-reaching piece of American financial legislation.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption The Glass-Steagall act - signed by Franklin Roosevelt in June 1933 - was meant to limit conflicts of interest Among many provisions, Glass-Steagall made it compulsory for investment banks to commission independent financial research into the deals they were brokering.
Fearing conflicts of interest, Glass-Steagall forbade law firms, accountancy businesses and the banks themselves from conducting this work.
Effectively, the act made it a legal requirement for banks to hire management consultants.
In 1956 the Justice Department banned the emerging computer giant IBM from providing advice about how to install or use computers.
Another business opportunity for the management consultants.
More from Tim Harford: How market research revolutionised advertising and shopping How a creative legal leap helped create vast wealth How much wealth is hidden offshore?
The great intellectual property trade-off Minimising conflicts of interest was a noble aim, but it hasn't always worked out well.
Some time after McKinsey's long-serving boss, Rajat Gupta, left the firm, he managed to get himself convicted and imprisoned for insider trading.
McKinsey also employed Enron's Jeff Skilling, and then was paid for advising him, before quietly fading into the background while Enron collapsed and Skilling went to jail.
Here's another argument for employing management consultants: ideas on management evolve all the time, so maybe it's worth getting outsiders in periodically for a burst of fresh thinking.
'Land and expand' But often it doesn't work like that: the consultants continually find new problems to justify their continued employment.
Some use the analogy of leeches, attaching themselves and never letting go.
It's a strategy known as "land and expand".
One UK government ministry recently admitted that 80% of its supposedly temporary consultants had been working there for more than a year - some for up to nine years.
Needless to say, it would have been much cheaper to employ them as civil servants.
No doubt the consultancy firms will claim that their expertise is giving the taxpayer value for money.
Which brings us back to India, and that randomised controlled trial.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Management consultants saw an opportunity in the often shambolic Indian textile industry The World Bank hired a global consulting firm to put some structure into these jumbled Mumbai textile factories, instituting preventive maintenance, proper records, systematic storing of spares and inventory, and the recording of quality defects.
It worked.
Productivity jumped by 17% - easily enough to pay the consulting fees.
We shouldn't conclude from this study that cynicism about management consulting is always misplaced.
These factories were, after all, what a jargon-filled PowerPoint presentation might call "low-hanging fruit".
But it's scientific proof of one thing, at least.
As so often in life, when an idea is used simply, and humbly, it can pay dividends.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Rachel Lapierre set up Le Book Humanitaire after winning the lottery What would you do if you won the lottery?
Buy a new house, a sports car, or travel the world perhaps?
But how many of us would use our winnings to set up a charity?
That is exactly what Rachel Lapierre, a former Miss Quebec, did back in 2013.
The Canadian always loved volunteering, and after running her own modelling agency and working as a nurse, she was looking for a way to follow her idol, Mother Teresa, and dedicate her life to charity.
Then fate came knocking when she won a lifetime salary of C$1,000 (605) a week in the Quebecois lottery "Gagnant vie", or "winner for life".
Image copyright Andreane Williams Image caption Ms Lapierre meets a family of Congolese refugees living in Quebec "At first I couldn't believe it, but I didn't celebrate or shout it from the rooftop because I had made a promise to the universe and I was determined to keep it.
"I wanted to do something I loved for the rest of my life.
I wanted to help others," she says.
It took Ms Lapierre only two months to quit her nursing job and launch her own charity, Le Book Humanitaire.
Her non-profit organisation, which is located in Saint-Jerome, about 60km north west of Montreal, uses social media to connect those in need with people who can help.
Image copyright Rachel Lapierre Image caption Ms Lapierre became Miss Quebec in 1982 On its Facebook page, which has 22,000 followers, those who are struggling can let the community know about their plight.
At the same time, members of the public can advertise services or goods they want to donate.
"Let's say that you have clothes to give away.
We will put you in contact with a family that needs those clothes and will allow you to go give them yourself," Ms Lapierre explains.
"It's not only about material things.
You might end up driving a cancer patient to a doctor's appointment."
It's a far cry from Ms Lapierre's former career in the more glamorous, and some might argue consumerist, world of modelling.
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world: In the early 1980s she joined a local modelling school where she was encouraged to enter the Miss Quebec beauty pageant.
To her surprise, the then-21-year-old won the contest.
"I thought modelling was for tall blondes with blue eyes and I was short and brunette...
But I am so glad I entered, it was a great experience."
The following year she toured Canada as Miss Quebec and even got to meet Rene Levesque, the then-premier of Quebec.
Image copyright Andreane Williams Image caption Ms Lapierre meets with a family of Syrian refugees in Saint-Jerome It inspired her to set up her own modelling school in 1984, to teach young women how to build careers in the industry.
It had about 10 staff.
"Running my own business taught me about accounting and how to manage employees," Ms Lapierre says.
She closed the business in the late 1980s to focus on bringing up her four children, but also dedicated herself to voluntary work - making numerous trips with humanitarian organisations to places like India and Haiti.
It was this passion that led her to set up Le Book Humanitaire four years ago.
This year, the charity has made 15,000 "direct actions" in Quebec, ranging from furnishing an apartment for a family of Syrian refugees, to finding a home for a homeless mother who had just given birth.
Image copyright Andreane Williams Image caption The charity donates food to those in need She has also funded the organisation - which has 10 full-time volunteers and its own board - entirely by herself, investing $70,000 to date.
"This weekly C$1,000 I get from the lottery allows me to not go to work anymore and finance my organisation," she says.
"I pay for things such as our office rent and other administrative costs."
There are limits to Ms Lapierre's budget, though.
After she was interviewed by a popular Quebecois television station earlier this year, Le Book Humanitaire saw a huge increase in its Facebook followers, from around 4,000 to more than 20,000.
It led to an influx of requests for help, as well as donations, and the charity has struggled to keep up.
Image copyright Andreane Williams Image caption A volunteer, Ms Lapierre and her sister Guylaine discussing strategy at the charity's offices It needs to open several new facilities to store donated items, but Ms Lapierre can't afford to do this alone.
"We are counting on municipalities to lend us offices and make donations," she says.
"But there are always ways to make things work."
Growing pains Jean-Pierre Tchang, the founder of IRIS Mundial, a non-profit group that works to improve visual health in developing countries, says that building a successful charity is not easy.
"The main difficulty is money and getting funding," says Mr Tchang, who worked with Ms Lapierre earlier in her volunteering career.
"You also have to know your limits.
You can start feeling overwhelmed by all the work and forget oneself...
I am sure Rachel's nights must be very short."
Despite the challenges, Ms Lapierre shows no sign of slowing down.
She is also taking a workshop class on managing non-profit organisations to get better at what she does.
She continues to get joy from her work, which, she says "is nothing like running a regular business" and instead "feeds her soul".
"Volunteering work represents billions of unrecorded dollars across the world.
Without it, the world would not function."
Image copyright Alan Brandt A mill town with high unemployment has seen its fortunes changed by Facebook's need for data servers.
But will the town have to radically change to save itself?
The people of Prineville live deep in a valley surrounded by dense forests.
In the 1800s, it was the first place in central Oregon where white settlers drove out Native Americans to start a city.
Steve Forrester's grandparents got here in 1902.
When he was growing up in the 1970s, Prineville felt idyllic.
"It was a magical, magical place to grow up," he remembers.
"My dad worked in the sawmill industry as an electrician; my mom didn't work.
We all learned to hunt and shoot a gun.
"We all learned how to drive in the forest before we were 16.
In the spring, we could snow-ski in the morning and water-ski in the afternoon.
"And everybody had a job, and everyone did well."
Prineville was the largest producer of ponderosa pine in the world.
But when the federal government restricted logging and increased protections for animals like the spotted owl, the city's milling industry was decimated.
As an adult, Forrester took a job with one of the few remaining mills, because he wanted to live in Prineville.
Eric Klann was driven by the same devotion.
He's the seventh generation of his family to live here.
Out of college, he also took a job in Prineville that he knew wouldn't last.
"There was always a little voice in the back of my head saying, 'What are you doing - you want to be here, but you're in a dying industry,'" he says.
A few years later, the US housing bubble burst and demand declined for parts made by the last mills.
Lots of people lost jobs and left.
It felt like Prineville couldn't catch a break.
Image copyright Alan Brandt Image caption One of Prineville's new kind of "factory" - a data server farm Both Forrester and Klann felt lucky to land jobs at the city - Forrester as city manager, Klann as city engineer.
Their chance to save Prineville arrived in 2009 in the form of a mysterious email from a company called Vitesse.
"For the longest time, we had no idea what Vitesse meant," he says.
All Klann knew is that Prineville's natural resources made it perfect for a new industry - the information industry, created to save the massive amounts of information people post on the web.
Vitesse wanted to build a big warehouse and fill it with rows and rows of servers - servers that tend to get hot.
Central Oregon's cold nights could cool them naturally.
Klann remembers the first in-person meeting with Vitesse, and how it felt like Prineville's last chance.
"Right before I walked into our conference room to meet with their nine lawyers, I got an email and our unemployment rate had peaked at 23%," Klann says.
"I got that email and I walked into that room, and I kept thinking, 'I better not screw this up.'"
Klann and Forrester decided to outperform the other cities Vitesse was considering.
They showed the company their small town could move at big-city speed, by responding to Vitesse's questions day and night.
"What we heard back is that other cities weren't doing that," Forrester says.
Their strategy worked, and in 2010, Prineville finally learned who Vitesse actually was.
"They had the big finger with a thumb-up Facebook sign, and we all pressed the button and it lit up, et cetera," Mayor Betty Roppe says, recounting the new data centre's groundbreaking.
"That was the big announcement - it was Facebook."
It was Facebook's first data centre of its own.
Mark Zuckerberg was there, and Roppe had planned to give him a cowboy hat to show the city's pride in its cowboy culture.
"Cowboy hats are not cheap.
They said, 'Do not get Mark Zuckerberg a cowboy hat.
He does not want a cowboy hat.'
OK.
So, I got him a hoodie.
He wears hoodies all the time," she says.
When she presented the gift, Roppe gave Facebook's founder a kiss on the cheek.
"He just blushed like he wanted to have the floor open up and swallow him."
Image copyright Rupa Shenoy Image caption Mayor Betty Roppe oversaw Prineville's transformation after data centres were built in the city Seven years later, Facebook has two more data centres in Prineville and six others across the world.
Apple's moved into Prineville, too - it's built three data centres here.
All of them sit high above Prineville's valley, in huge, long, flat buildings painted pale blue and grey so they blend in with the sky.
About 500 employees work in the centres, most of them from Prineville.
Security's tight, so few other people ever see inside.
Despite their low profile, the data centres have had a profound impact.
Roppe says the mills taught Prineville a lesson - not to rely on just one industry.
So they're putting in things that appeal to lots of employers - like good roads, walking and biking paths, modern wastewater treatment, a new hospital and a state college outpost.
But now that the city's successful, officials have a lot more to think about.
Like, how do you slow success down?
"We can keep the small-town feel.
I'm sure of it," Roppe says.
"We don't want to be a big city."
The cost of housing is up, so city officials know they have to build more affordable housing.
And Mayor Roppe's own granddaughter, with a college degree, can't find a living wage job.
So, they have to keep bringing in new employers.
All city manager Forrester can do is calibrate the development carefully.
He worries about Prineville changing too much, too.
"We are small-town people.
We live the Western lifestyle," Forrester says.
"The quiet and peace of central Oregon is a beautiful, beautiful thing, and to be able to make a living here is tremendous."
But Forrester says he's seen that central Oregon towns that don't adapt will die.
And he knows they have to risk changing Prineville in order to save it.
The World is a co-production of the BBC World Service, PRI and WGBH.
This piece is part of the series 50 States: America's place in a shrinking world.
Image copyright Getty Images An explosion in tourism saved Iceland's economy.
But in a country of just 300,000 people, how much tourism is too much?
It's a cold, overcast and blustery day in Iceland, but that hasn't put off the busloads of tourists at the Blue Lagoon - one of the country's most popular attractions.
The lagoon is a pool of geothermally heated water.
It is rich in minerals and is said to be good for your skin.
Its creation is something of an accident.
Locals noticed the run-off from a local geothermal power plant was a strange shade of blue and started bathing in it.
Located between Reykjavik and the airport, it's now become a "must-do"' on tourist itineraries.
"In our first year in 1994 we had about 50,000 guests, and this year we will be welcoming 1.3 million," says Grimur Smundsen, the Blue Lagoon's chief executive.
That success reflects the astonishing growth of tourism in Iceland as a whole.
Last year 1.7 million people visited Iceland - more than triple the number that came in 2010, when the small island nation of just 330,000 was still reeling from a catastrophic banking crisis and the eruption of Eyjafjallajkull - a volcano that grounded air traffic across Europe for a week.
Image caption This year 1.3 million tourists will visit the Blue Lagoon, says Grimur Smundsen At the time the eruption was seen as a disaster for tourism, but that pessimism proved ill-founded.
"In the long term it had a tremendous positive effect because Eyjafjallajkull was one of the things that put Iceland on the map."
Mr Smundsen says.
"Maybe tourists heard of Iceland for the first time in the various airports when they were stranded."
The sudden interest from travellers could not have come at a better time.
When Iceland's three major banks collapsed in 2008 at the height of the financial crisis, there were fears they would take the rest of the economy with them.
Nine years later the economy is growing at more than 7% a year, unemployment is less than 3% and foreign currency is rolling in.
The tourism boom is leading to a construction boom and the creation of tens of thousands of jobs.
"Tourism really helped us take off," says Gylfi Magnusson, a professor at University of Iceland and a former minister for economic affairs after the banking crisis.
"Certainly the recovery would have taken considerably longer if it hadn't been for this unexpected boom."
But the sudden influx of foreign visitors has not come without problems.
Some sites lack the infrastructure to cope with the rising numbers.
Image caption "We don't have any neighbours anymore," says Reykjavik resident Benony Aegesson In summer Reykjavik's restaurants are filled to capacity.
There is a shortage of hotel rooms, meaning that AirBnB has flourished, and Reykjavik's main shopping streets have been turned into a stream of tourist shops selling Icelandic wool jumpers and soft toy puffins.
"We don't have any neighbours anymore," says Benony Aegesson, who has lived in downtown Reykjavik since the 1970s.
He says virtually all the flats around his home are now rented out to tourists.
"It was very fashionable for young people to live here, but the prices are getting so high that the young people can't afford it anymore.
"Speculators have come here and bought up apartments and stores and we're worried about its future as a residential area.
If it's only old people and tourists here, there is a danger it will die."
Is there a limit to the number of tourists a small nation like Iceland can accommodate?
Inga Hln Plsdttir is the director of Visit Iceland, and has been in charge of promoting Iceland as a tourist destination for the past decade.
She says the question is a difficult one to answer.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Areas outside the capital Reykjavik are looking for more travellers to come and visit, says Inga Hln Plsdttir "If you said there would be five million people coming to Iceland in five years and you told me they would all be coming to Reykjavik, i would really worry," she tells me.
"But we've been putting the focus on the other regions of Iceland.
If you get numbers like that spreading around Iceland, visiting other communities then you have a completely different scenario.
"At this point I don't think we have an overflow - if you talk to someone just outside Reykjavik they're complaining that they want more travellers to come and visit them."
I asked long-time Reykjavik resident Benony Aegesson if he would ask people not to come to Iceland on holiday.
"No, I wouldn't do that," he says: "We're not against tourists per se, but nobody wants to come to a ghost city.
Of course they saved us from our financial crisis - that we are grateful for."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Pinc's flying drone scans warehouse packages Flying drones and robots now patrol distribution warehouses - they've become workhorses of the e-commerce era online that retailers can't do without.
It is driving down costs but it is also putting people out of work: what price progress?
It could be a scene from Blade Runner 2049; the flying drone hovers in the warehouse aisle, its spinning rotors filling the cavernous space with a buzzing whine.
It edges close to the packages stacked on the shelf and scans them using onboard optical sensors, before whizzing off to its next assignment.
But this is no sci-fi film, it's a warehouse in the US - one of around 250,000 throughout the country, many gargantuan in size: retail giant Walmart's smallest warehouse, for example, is larger than 17 football fields put together.
And these automated drones are now doing the jobs humans - on foot, or operating fork-lift trucks and mechanical lifts - used to do: and they're doing them more cheaply and more accurately.
"Every year companies lose billions of dollars due to misplaced items and faulty inventory records in their warehouses," says Fadel Adib, an assistant professor of media, arts and sciences at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Image copyright Hardis Group Image caption Hardis Group's EyeSee drone can fly autonomously "Today's inventory management requires workers to scan items manually, which is a very time consuming and error-prone process.
It's impossible to keep track of all items in the warehouse."
Two drones can do the work of 100 humans over the same time period, according to supply chain specialist, Argon Consulting.
This means they can do several tours of a warehouse - even at night - compare results, identify discrepancies, and build up a much more accurate picture much more quickly.
Drone makers claim scanning accuracy of close to 100%.
Matt Yearling, chief executive of Pinc, one of the firms offering such aerial robots, says they can save warehousing and logistics companies millions of dollars.
"Nobody has 100% accuracy - including Walmart and Amazon," he says.
"For a warehouse that is 95% accurate, it means that 5% is ambiguous.
So if the warehouse is storing $100m [75m] worth of inventory, then $5m is uncertain.
"Typically the retailer will have more than one warehouse.
So, if you multiply the problem across the warehouse network you are talking big dollars."
Pinc's drones use hydrogen fuel cells, enabling them to fly for up to two hours - four times as long as some battery-powered drones.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images French firm Hardis Group has also launched an inventory-scanning drone - EyeSee - and emphasises how autonomous it is.
"Flight orders and flight plan execution are ensured by our Android application," says Stephane Cadenet, manager of the firm's drone programme.
"Our solution is simple to use: no installation, no infrastructure adaptation and no driver.
The only thing to do is unpack the drone.
The calculation of the flight plan is automatic."
Other companies, such as Infinium Robotics, have also developed drone scanning systems.
Of course, retailers have been using robots and automated systems in warehouses for some years.
In 2012, fashion brand Net-A-Porter said its robot pickers were already 500% faster than humans, while online retailer Amazon's Kiva robots have almost become famous.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Instead of humans walking miles to pick goods, these robots take the shelves to the pickers "Innovators are working to make drones and robots an integral part of warehousing, inventory, and logistics," says JP Gownder, a principal analyst at research firm Forrester.
"Over the next 10 years, these technologies look set to revolutionise these spaces."
But all this cost saving and efficiency comes at the expense of jobs for humans.
The $2.3tn e-commerce industry is huge and growing, but almost 75% of e-commerce companies employ no more than four people.
So it is no coincidence that in the US some 89,000 shop workers were laid off between October and April this year, while employment in New York City clothing stores has declined for three consecutive years.
Forrester estimates that automation technologies, including artificial intelligence, will replace 17% of US jobs by 2027.
And growth in new types of employment will not be enough to compensate.
"Automation does create opportunities for new jobs - equivalent to 10% of today's jobs," says Mr Gownder.
"But that still leads to a net 7% loss of jobs due to automation, which has to be made up by macro-economic growth, non-automation related jobs, and monetary policy."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Ocado warehouse run by robots Ryan Bax, industry analyst for mobility at research consultancy Frost & Sullivan, concedes that the use of drones and robotics in warehousing will lead to job losses, but believes growth elsewhere will compensate for this.
"As automation reduces the demand for lesser qualified jobs, the need for specialised skills within the logistics sector will grow," he maintains.
And he thinks automation tech may even become mandatory once it has been shown to reduce accidents in the workplace.
"The use of automated technologies will permit warehouses to operate 24-hour days and improve stock management accuracy, but beyond this they will provide significant benefits to safety within the workplace."
This will be small comfort for the thousands of warehouse workers displaced by drones and robots, but it is the inevitable consequence of our desire for online convenience, cheaper prices and faster deliveries.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Analysts believe the strong appetite for Asian stocks can continue Memory chips and China's economic muscle are among the factors that have put a rocket under Asian stocks this year, pushing markets to record or multi-year highs.
"Everyone hated Asia markets for a long time," says Josh Crabb, head of Asian equities at Old Mutual Global Investors.
"Now we've moved on from there".
Moved on indeed: South Korea's Kospi sits at a record; Japan's Nikkei 225 index is above a two-decade high; Hong Kong's Hang Seng is around a 10-year peak, while markets in India, Taiwan and Indonesia are among the others scaling fresh heights.
It's an unusual moment for equities in the region as strong corporate profits, economic stimulus and growth are overshadowing nearby political risks.
"Markets seem impervious to events," says CMC Markets analyst Michael McCarthy.
"Sabre-rattling from North Korea barely makes a dent".
And some analysts argue that as long as US markets keep their cool, there's plenty of good times for investors in Asia still to come.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Many markets in Asia are trading at historic or multi-year highs Since the 2009 crash, global markets have been moving steadily higher - with a few stumbles en route.
Regional growth Massive liquidity coupled with ultra-low interest rates has created a fertile environment for stocks to thrive.
Asia has enjoyed a tailwind from record gains on Wall Street.
At the same time, China's economy - aiming for 6.5% growth this year - has been underpinning the broader region for some time.
The world's second largest economy has a big impact on the fortunes of other countries, even as its growth rate moderates.
Take South Korea: It's seen double-digit export growth for the last 11 months, thanks largely to China, which buys about one-quarter of its products sold offshore.
"China's improving economic conditions can really be seen as a trigger for the equity run in Asia," says IG Markets analyst Jingyi Pan.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Asia is home to two of the world's three largest economies, China and Japan Japan's economy is also gathering steam.
Exports are climbing and strong domestic spending on devices like cameras and computers from China is driving growth.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's re-election, and the likely continuation of his Abenomics policies, was met with cheers from investors.
Ed Rogers, chief executive of Rogers Investment Advisors in Japan believes the benchmark Nikkei index can track even higher.
"Japan has a long way to go.
There's $18tn in cash on the sidelines," he says, adding that most of that money is currently invested in low-yielding Japanese government bonds.
"There's a similar boat load of money that wants to get out of China," Mr Rogers says.
Earnings bump That money could find plenty of homes in Asia where equities are cheap relative to other parts of the world.
Companies in the region are strengthening, and well-received results this earnings season have given markets a boost.
For South Korean firms, the outlook is even brighter.
CLSA analyst Paul Choi says at the beginning of 2017, people were expecting 10% corporate earnings growth, now that forecast is around 50%.
It's got a lot to do with memory chips.
Higher prices for chips used in electronic devices have spurred index heavyweights like Samsung and SK Hynix, as well as the broader market.
In fact, Mr Choi says that fluctuations in the value of memory chips is more threatening to South Korea's market than provocations from its northern neighbour.
Which brings us back to North Korea.
Image copyright AFP Image caption North Korea insists it needs a nuclear-weapons programme to ensure its survival Investors appear largely unshaken by displays of military aggression - missile tests and provocations against Japan - and analysts say markets have factored in the risk.
Rogers Investment Advisors Mr Rogers describes the North Korea threat as "kind of overblown".
That attitude will shift dramatically if threats turn to action.
Until then, other risks to the Asian rally loom larger.
'Unknown' threat Turning off the stimulus tap and the ratcheting up of interest rates will dampen enthusiasm, while analysts point to China's ballooning debt as another threat to the region.
Mr Rogers says political risk and "unpredictability" hang over Asian markets and unexpected moves could stunt recent rallies.
The threat of the "unknown" is a familiar refrain from market-watchers in the region.
"The most damaging risks are the ones we don't forecast," says CMC Markets' Mr McCarthy.
A final recurring note of caution is the rush on Wall Street.
Recent gains have been inspired by strong earnings, along with hopes of tax reform and business friendly policies under President Trump.
But the chorus of concern about the market's sharp rise is growing on Wall Street.
History shows a gradual climb-down from the record highs on US markets is unlikely, and a collapse could shock the world.
"If the US blows up, most things will come off.
[Asia] won't be immune," says Josh Crabb of Old Mutual Global Investors.
"Markets tend to get euphoric and then they get fearful.
Theoretically you shouldn't have boom and bust, but human behaviour drives stock markets more than logic."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Relations between the US and Iran have an outsized impact on the global trade in pistachios There are lots of casualties in international conflicts but this one is nuts, you might say - although strictly speaking the pistachio is a seed.
The international pistachio trade has faced unexpected headwinds due to the tensions between Iran and the US.
The global pistachio industry is a multi-billion dollar a year sector that is continuing to grow in value as its popularity as a foodstuff grows.
The US and Iran dominate the world's trade in pistachios - collectively controlling between 70% and 80% of yearly output for the last decade.
Over the last forty years, Iran's growers have faced pressures from sanctions, tariffs and restrictions on their ability to access international financial tools.
Although pistachios themselves were not on the list of sanctioned products, restrictions on global banking made trade difficult for Iranian farmers.
All that changed in 2016 following the Iran nuclear deal, officially The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).
This agreement with the US and its allies removed sanctions.
It wasn't just Iranian oil that came flowing back onto the international market, pistachio exports began gaining overseas markets.
Trump's threat That progress could face challenges though.
US President Donald Trump called the agreement created under his predecessor the "worst" deal the US has ever made.
In October he decertified the agreement.
The move passes responsibility to the US Congress to evaluate and determine whether it believes Iran is compliant with the terms and if the US should remain in the deal.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Over 90% of US pistachios are grown in California President Trump said in the speech announcing his decision that the agreement "threw Iran's dictatorship a political and economic lifeline," but had failed to prevent Iran's "sprint" towards nuclear weapon development.
For Iran's pistachio industry the threat of losing the deal and reinstating sanctions could mean the return of what Hojat Hassani Sadi, deputy director of the Iran Pistachio Association calls "unfair and unequal competition".
Ancient roots The pistachio industry in Iran dates back thousands of years.
By contrast, pistachio farming in the US started in the 1930s with Persian seeds.
The boom in commercial pistachio cultivation came after the US severed ties with Iran following the 1979 hostage crisis, after which the US and its allies placed sanctions on Iran.
Over the next several decades, even in countries where Iranian pistachios were welcomed, restrictions on its companies' ability to access international financing made it hard for the industry to flourish.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Archaeological evidence suggests pistachios were first grown in what is now Iraq in 7,000BC During that time the US market expanded, with farmers - mainly across California - planting the crop.
But in 2014. hot and dry weather conditions across the western US cost the industry nearly half its crop and cut profits for 2015 - the year those nuts were sold - by close to $1.4bn (1bn).
Globally, pistachio prices rose, but for Iran's growers it was also an opportunity.
Price competition The price of pistachios has been on the rise since 2002.
Richard Matoian, executive director of the American Pistachio Growers (APG) trade association, attributes this to increased awareness of their health properties and global demand for healthy snacks.
"The industry has been pushing the products with advertising," he says, adding that middle-class demand in developing markets has also boosted exports.
Global Trade More from the BBC's series taking an international perspective on trade: Increased demand in China has been key to sector growth.
Between 2008 and 2013 Chinese imports of US pistachios rose 146% according to APG.
But the 2014 drought saw the price of California's nuts rocket from $3/lb (453g) to over $5/lb.
By contrast Iran's pistachio yield that year was strong.
In markets like China, they were able to undercut American prices by close to $0.20/lb.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Pistachio plants grow best in arid climates but that leave crops vulnerable to water shortages A strong growing year in 2016 has helped the US market recover and led to a moderation in price.
But Iran has another advantage that helps it in global trade - its location.
"Iran has a transportation advantage.
They can certainly take markets away and China is an example of that," says Mr Matoian.
Uphill march The advantages and disadvantages for Iran are not only linked to sanctions.
Iran claims its pistachios have a better taste, as do several large European distributors, though the US and Iran mainly grow the same strain.
(Turkish pistachios, for example, are a different variety.)
The US also imposes a 241% tariff on Iranian pistachios meaning even without sanctions the US market has been all but cut off for Iran.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Aging water infrastructure in Iran is a major difficultly for Iran's farmers Water shortages are another problem for Iran.
According to Mr Sadi it is the "major obstacle to growth" for his industry.
Iran's pistachio sector is second in the world following the strong 2016 season in the US.
And with the two countries dominating so much of the global market, Iran isn't in dire need of a comeback.
But for the growing number of pistachio fans around the world increased access to Iran's pistachio exports and decreasing prices would be a sweet outcome.
Image copyright Getty Images Whenever any report has a "global" subject matter it's never long before there's a massive, global-size statistic, counting people by the millions and billions.
News reports on global problems like to gesture to devastation and deprivation on an epic scale, counting out the suffering in numbers so big that they almost lose meaning.
And maybe they actually do go astray.
Because the annual monitoring report on education from the United Nations education agency, Unesco, makes the point that global figures on access to education could be out by a factor of 350 million.
That's not a minor gap in the headcount.
That's the equivalent of the combined populations of the UK, Germany, France, Italy and Spain.
Undocumented and invisible These "invisible" people, below the demographic radar, are described as "the poorest of the poorest".
These are families growing up in places where censuses and administrators do not reach.
These are millions of unregistered lives in sprawling slums around some cities in the developing world, or in families living illegally and undocumented as migrants.
Unesco's report says that the conventional means of gathering information - such as household surveys, censuses and records of birth and death - are only likely to be accurate for populations that are settled, visible and accessing services.
Image copyright EPA Image caption How accurate are international figures on education targets?
Shifting and excluded populations, even in their tens of millions, are harder to identify and can slip away from the spreadsheets and the data gatherers.
Children living on the streets might not show up in the numbers not making it to school.
They won't even count enough to be absences.
The homeless or nomadic are missing from population studies going from house to house.
Unwanted refugees driven over borders by political violence can be left uncounted and unrecognised by reluctant hosts.
The UN agency estimates an undercount of 250 million in household surveys used in developing countries and says another 100 million are likely to be outside the reach of official statistics, including those living as illegal immigrants in wealthier countries.
Taking account This year's education monitoring report focuses on accountability.
But the Unesco study highlights that holding governments accountable for failing to deliver education services depends on knowing how many people need to be supported.
More from Global education Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
International goals to cut illiteracy and increase access to school places need to recognise that some of the most disadvantaged are not even part of the target.
Unesco says that it raises the question of who is responsible for people who don't even appear in national figures.
Such discrepancies appear in the UN agency's own range of figures.
Unesco says that its annual statistics for children without access to school include an estimate for those hard to reach communities.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption More pupils are getting access to school - but 264 million are still missing out But in comparisons for inequalities in access and public spending on education, Unesco says these "invisible" millions are not included.
The UN agency makes the point that if the "mantra" of the current development goals is that "no one is left behind", for hundreds of millions, they never even get as far as being recognised as existing.
As such, "no one is ultimately held to account for protecting their rights".
Missing school This year's newly-released figures show 264 million young people without access to primary or secondary school.
The report warns of six successive years in which education has received a declining share of aid budgets.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Undocumented migrants and the homeless can go below the radar of official figures And an international group of former education ministers, the Atlantis Group, including former UK education secretary Nicky Morgan and US education secretary Arne Duncan, has called for a greater commitment to aid for education.
Last month, another UN agency, Unicef, reported there had been "nearly zero progress" in the past decade on improving access to school in the poorest countries.
And earlier this month, Unesco's Institute for Statistics warned of a "staggering" problem in lack of quality in schools, with more than 600 million young people who have been to school but are lacking basic skills in literacy and numeracy.
Counting in education and making education count remain a challenge.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The firm that sends two billion text messages per year If you think that WhatsApp is killing the humble text message you may need to think again.
A growing number of us are sending far fewer text messages than we used to.
Armed with our fancy smartphones, in recent years we have instead switched to the likes of Facebook Messenger, Google Hangouts, Snapchat, and of course WhatsApp for our chats.
As a result, the number of text (or SMS, as they are officially known) messages being sent per day around the world has now fallen far behind the more hi-tech rivals.
At WhatsApp alone, 55 billion messages are now sent globally every day, more than twice the 22 billion figure for SMS messages.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption People are switching from texts to the likes of WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger Yet while the number of text messages being sent by people in the developed world has fallen since 2011, there continues to be one big growth area - notification SMS messages sent from businesses to customers.
Most of us are now increasingly receiving such text messages on a regular basis, such as when you are being reminded of an opticians' appointment, when an engineer will come to repair your boiler, or when a delivery is going to arrive.
One company at the forefront of this business text messaging industry is a small English firm Esendex, based in Nottingham, in the East Midlands.
With just 200 employees, it now sends out two billion text messages per year, on behalf of 30,000 businesses and other organisations, up from 100 million texts in 2010.
Image caption Businesses are now increasingly sending text messages to their customers Esendex is already the biggest player in the UK, France and Italy; it is growing strongly in Germany, Spain and Australia.
And it is a lucrative business.
Esendex has annual revenues of 23m a year, as firms pay it a fee for every text sent.
Meanwhile, a report earlier this year predicted that the global business text message industry would be worth $70bn by 2020, up from $55bn in 2014, as more and more texts are sent out to customers.
Geoff Love, Esendex's chief executive, says while friends may like to chat over Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp, there are a number of key reasons why businesses prefer to send out text messages instead.
"SMS is the only app that's on every phone in the world, so no matter who you are trying to communicate with, you know they can receive a text message."
Test messaging facts SMS stands for Short Message Service The first text was sent in 1992 by British software engineer Neil Papworth.
It read simply "Merry Christmas" 15.2 million texts are sent globally every minute Text messages are read, on average, within five minutes of being received Text messages are up to 160 characters in length Google is working on a new version of text messaging called RCS or Rich Communication Services, which aims to make it more similar to WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger "That's not the same with WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger or any of the other applications.
SMS is simply ubiquitous," he says.
"SMS is also very powerful - people read text messages.
95% of text messages are read within five seconds, so you know your message will get there quickly and cheaply.
"And with SMS we know that the text message has been delivered to the person's phone."
Image caption Geoff Love says firms use SMS because it is on every mobile phone in the world Majority-owned by a private equity firm, Esendex is continuing to quickly expand overseas through a determined acquisitions policy.
Given that the global marketplace is a crowded one, with a large number of firms touting to help businesses send out text messages to their customers, mobile phone industry expert Ben Wood, says Esendex is right to have wanted to grow quickly.
"It is a cutthroat business, down to fractions of a penny in terms of margins," says Mr Wood, who works for research group CCS Insight.
"So scale is all important, companies need to be growing in the space in order to make sure that they're able to buy messages at scale, and therefore compete when they're tendering for business."
Image caption Esendex's head office is in Nottingham With its main overseas offices in Barcelona, Spain, and Melbourne, Australia, plus others in France and Italy, Mr Love says an attempt to break into the US market failed.
"Melbourne and Barcelona grew quickly, [but] things were tougher in America, and we ended up closing down our American operation.
"Not all of the [US] mobile telephone networks could communicate with each other, so you'd be in a situation where you might send a message and it wasn't received because the two networks didn't have any kind of agreement between them to receive messages, which was crazy."
This is the second story in a new series called Connected Commerce, which every week highlights companies around the world that are successfully exporting, and trading beyond their home market.
The first feature in the series, looked at a Canadian winemaker who has to battle winter temperatures of less than -25C.
"In Europe, whilst it appears to be more complicated because people speak different languages, in reality they are far more similar," says Mr Love.
Yet there are some differences in Europe, he adds, with companies in Germany demanding far more stringent tests on the software and technology.
Image caption The global mobile phone market is taking over the world Entering the Australian market also brought an unforeseen issue - due to the time difference it can't shut down its UK head office computer systems overnight for maintenance, because it is daytime in Australia.
"It forced us to become a 24/7 business," says Mr Love.
"That was quite hard to begin with because it meant changing the way we operated... but in the end it turned into quite an advantage because the companies we are working with are using us for mission-critical stuff 24/7 anyway.
"Our customers are in every single industry you can think of, it could be a very small business or a massive enterprise.
But typically it's organisations who really need to communicate with a large number of people very quickly."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Zymal Umer has discovered there is money to be made in recycling "If people just thought for a moment before dumping their rubbish then maybe they wouldn't do it as it harms our environment."
Zymal Umer, 10, sighs as she takes in the view of a makeshift rubbish dump on the outskirts of her hometown Sargodha in Punjab, Pakistan.
But could the girl dubbed the country's "youngest social entrepreneur" by many have a solution?
For now, there are colourful piles of plastic bags, metal and general waste as far as the eye can see.
Wafts of smoke fill the air with a putrid and toxic stench as much of the refuse is set on fire.
What's in front of Zymal is just the tip of the iceberg that is Pakistan's problem with waste.
According to the country's environment protection department, 20m tonnes of solid waste is generated a year and the figure is growing by 2.4% annually.
Landfill issues "This is a situation you can find across all of Pakistan - these bags are not biodegradable and people carelessly discard them.
They don't really think about recycling," Zymal says.
Image caption Zymal turns old newspapers into gift bags Proper solid waste management has never been practiced in the country; only half of the rubbish generated is collected by the government and there is a severe lack of adequate landfill sites.
Dumping and burning remain the most common methods of disposal and much of the uncollected waste poses serious risks to public health.
Beautiful bags Zeebags is Zymal's bid to try to reduce pollution and increase awareness about the environment.
The schoolgirl turns old newspapers into bright and beautifully decorated gift bags which are then sold to family and friends and most of the profits distributed to various local charities.
In the space of just three years she has gone from selling a few bags to selling hundreds - worth $4-5,000.
Image caption Pakistan has a real problem with waste "I learnt to make the bags by watching YouTube.
"It is hard to balance my schoolwork with running Zeebags, so I make them at the weekend or during the holidays with my cousins.
"My father and grandfather pay for my raw materials and if they didn't help me, it would be very hard to keep my project going," she says.
One charity Zymal's money goes to is called SOS Children's Villages, which helps orphaned and destitute children across Pakistan.
Image caption Zymal has used the money she has raised to help other children "Through my income I've been able to pay for water coolers, washing machines, batteries and the type of things they need for daily life," Zymal explains.
"To see the happiness on their faces gives me a lot of satisfaction and motivation to carry on."
Her innovative and charitable enterprise has attracted a fair bit of attention with TV and newspaper coverage labelling Zymal as "Pakistan's youngest social entrepreneur".
Award winner Zeebags has also won a number of awards in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the USA.
"I was very excited to get some international recognition for my work and proud to get some positive exposure for my country and parents."
Image caption Zymal believes her business has the potential to grow much larger Selling online has opened up her business to a new world of possibilities.
"In Pakistan it's thought girls cannot work independently but I haven't faced any difficulties and my aim is to continue my work.
"I want to become a businesswoman in the future and expand Zeebags through my website and showcase other people's products, too."
The BBC's Innovators series reveals innovative solutions to major challenges across South Asia.
Ever heard of the concept of "jugaad"?
It's a Hindi term meaning cheap innovation.
If you have created a life hack or innovation that you are proud of, or spotted one while out and about on your travels, then share your picture with us by emailing yourpics@bbc.co.uk, use the hashtags #Jugaad and #BBCInnovators and share your picture with @BBCWorldService, or upload your submission here.
Learn more about BBC Innovators.
"My biggest ambition is to grow my project not just in Pakistan but also globally," she says.
Kalsoom Lakhani is founder of Invest2Innovate, an organisation that helps start-up companies in Pakistan grow and attract funding.
She says the country needs to think about the future for entrepreneurs.
"While we have this enormous potential we need to be always thinking, how we enable that potential and how we continue to not only allow young people to start a business but allow them to grow businesses."
Pakistan has already begun to tackle its environmental problems through legislation, establishing government agencies and accepting technical help from international donors.
But the response is still fragmented and not a particularly high priority in a country racked with more pressing security and political issues.
Image caption Zymal has to balance her social enterprise with her schoolwork This gives Zymal's work even more urgency.
She hopes her success will start to change people's minds about the seriousness of taking care of their environment.
"It is important so future generations can live in a clean and safe world," she says.
"I want to be able to say I've played my part but it's up to others to do something themselves, too."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cartoon characters Postman Pat and Mr Plod represent a bygone era in deliveries A growing number of start-ups are trying to help retailers deliver goods to customers more quickly and at lower cost.
But can they really compete with the big courier and postal firms?
It was a road accident in the Norwegian mountains that inspired the idea for start-up delivery company Nimber.
One of the founders was on his way to a ski-jumping competition near Lillehammer when he saw a postal truck had overturned on the road.
"No one was hurt, but all these cars were just passing by," says Nimber chief executive Ari Kestin, whose partner Knut Bjerke made the trip.
"He thought, why don't they stop and carry some of the parcels to their destinations?
A light-bulb came on."
Nimber was launched soon after, joining a wave of new apps aimed at shaking up the delivery market.
The website connects people who want to send large, awkward-to-carry goods, with members of the public travelling in the same direction.
These "crowdsourced couriers" name their own price, Mr Kestin says, but are usually cheaper than using a traditional courier service or postal firm, such as FedEx or Royal Mail.
Image copyright Nimber Image caption Nimber's crowd-sourced couriers often transport large goods "If you're driving from London to Manchester anyway, you will probably accept a lower price to deliver a package than a big delivery firm would," he says.
"We are making use of spare capacity and allowing people to monetise their movements."
The site, whose main markets are Norway and the UK, has more than 40,000 registered "bringers" and 80,000 senders.
It handles hundreds of deliveries a day of things like bikes, car parts and furniture.
So far it has focused on serving people selling second-hand goods on sites like e-Bay and Norway's finn.no, but it has just started working with several big retailers, including Norway's largest meat and eggs producer, Nortura.
"Nimber is a great choice because it is environmentally friendly and doesn't create more traffic or pollution," a Nortura spokeswoman tells the BBC.
But using members of the public to deliver goods does have its drawbacks.
Mr Kestin admits that his service may not be as economical as a traditional delivery service for smaller items.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images Its crowdsourced couriers are not always available to handle deliveries, and, on occasion, pull out at the last minute - although "that's quite rare", he says.
This isn't stopping other firms experimenting with the crowdsourcing model.
Some, like Uber Rush, Deliveroo and Instacart are using crowdsourced couriers to deliver packages, groceries and hot food locally - often more cheaply and quickly than major couriers could.
Belgium postal giant Bpost and DHL are among those to have experimented with crowdsourced couriers.
And Amazon launched its "citizen delivery" service Flex in 2015.
With global retail e-ecommerce sales forecast to rise 23% this year to $2.3tn (1.8tn), it's not surprising start-ups are trying to muscle in on a delivery market still dominated by national postal services and courier firms like UPS, DHL, FedEx, Blue Dart and PostNL.
These account for more than 90% of e-commerce deliveries, not including food, estimates Alex le Roy, an analyst at consultancy Transport Intelligence.
"These start-ups are basically serving the needs that the larger delivery companies can't meet," he says.
"That's because typically, traditional postal companies can deliver packages more or less anywhere, but they can't do it quickly.
"And the big courier firms can deliver quickly, but charge much higher prices when they deliver to out-of-the-way places or carry awkwardly shaped goods."
Nimbler start-ups can also help smaller retailers reach new markets.
Image copyright Fetchr Image caption Idriss Al Rifai and Joy Ajlouny co-founded Middle East-based Fetchr Fetchr, for example, is a Dubai-based delivery company aiming to connect retailers with around four billion people worldwide who live in places without street names or house numbers.
"There is this huge demand for online shopping in emerging markets, but many big retailers are facing the same problem," says Fetchr co-founder Idriss Al Rifai.
"How can you grow if you can't deliver large numbers of parcels?"
The firm uses a customer's smartphone GPS location as the address.
As soon as one of Fetchr's couriers has picked up a package from a retailer, it notifies the customer, offering them a two-hour delivery slot.
The customer then shares their location with Fetchr.
"Fifteen minutes before the firm delivers, we will ask the customer to share their location again - and if they have moved elsewhere, that's fine," Mr Al Rifai says.
"Even when there is an address, people don't want to be pinned down for hours to receive a package."
The firm, which employs 2,000 of its own couriers, serves brands such as supermarket chain Carrefour and Gucci, in countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
It hopes to expand internationally, having raised $41m (31m) in investment in May, but will face competition from the likes of the UK's What3Words and South Africa's WumDrop, which are also addressing the "lack-of-address" issue.
Image copyright Weengs Image caption Weengs collects retailers' goods, packs and delivers them Some start-ups, such as Red Stag Fulfilment in the US and UK-based Weengs, are offering one-stop-shop services aimed at taking the delivery hassle away from small businesses.
"Shipping companies expect you to have packed your items properly, have done an analysis of your shipping costs, and prepared your customs paperwork," explains Weengs co-founder Alex Christodoulou.
"But many small businesses don't have the expertise to do this efficiently - it costs time and money."
Weengs manages the whole shipping process from end-to-end, collecting your items unboxed and packing them at its warehouse in Kings Cross, London.
"We then measure your item with a laser and create a box exactly fitting the dimensions of your goods," says Mr Christodoulou.
This reduces costs because some delivery companies charge by volume, not weight, he says.
Big retailers sending lots of parcels can often negotiate bulk discounts on delivery costs.
Smaller retailers can't.
So Weengs pools its customers' orders and shops around between 10 to 30 courier firms to bring down costs, says Mr Christodoulou.
His firm has handled 200,000 orders since launch in 2015, but faces competition from more established comparison services, such as parcel2go.com.
"These firms are already re-distributing the share of delivery volume from traditional delivery companies to smaller ones and individuals," says e-commerce consultant Kunle Campbell.
"I think more delivery companies will adopt their approaches, and it could cut the costs of delivery across the board."
That will be music to the ears of all e-commerce entrepreneurs.
Image caption Dolly Parton is known as much for her business acumen as her song-writing skills Even when she's talking about cold, hard cash, Dolly Parton manages to seem down to earth.
She's promoting her new children's album "I Believe in You" and is in top, self-deprecating form, talking to the BBC.
"It's hard for me to spend money on tonnes of stuff because I'm going to look the same, no matter what I wear.
If I wear diamonds I'm still going to look like a rhinestone," she tells me.
Still, if Dolly was inclined to buy diamonds, she could afford them.
She's known as much for her business acumen as her song-writing skills.
At the start of her career she took lessons from her dad, she says: "Even though he wasn't an educated man, he wasn't able to read and write, daddy had a great sense of business.
Image caption Dolly Parton at Glastonbury - in the past year she's earned some $37m "He said, 'Don't let other people take advantage of you, keep your mind on your business.'
So when I got into the music business I thought of it as a business."
Early on she launched her own publishing company and hung on to the rights to her songs, and she says that other artists should do the same.
"As soon as you start making money, you should invest and get into other businesses that you can fall back on if you don't make it big, or if you make it big and you fall on hard times."
That attitude has served her well over the years and continues to do so, according to Forbes magazine's Celebrity 100 list.
It claims Dolly earned $37m (28m) in the year to June 2017, with most of this coming from her Pure and Simple concert tour and income from her Dollywood theme park in Tennessee.
Image copyright Jason Davis Image caption Dolly visits Vanderbilt children's hospital in Tennessee Brian Warner, founder of website CelebrityNetworth.com, estimates her total fortune to be $500m (379m) but says this is conservative.
"We think that Dollywood alone is worth around $200m; $100m for the land itself and $100m for the brand - you could class it as an intangible asset.
"On top of that she makes a lot of money from touring and has had a 50-year career in which she's sold millions of records and has also written songs for other artists."
Mr Warner says "I will always love you", a hit Dolly wrote and recorded in 1973, has made her more than $20m in total.
He explains that although individual music contracts may vary, "as the writer of a song you might be keeping 50% of the revenue or more and as a writer and performer you could be getting 80%".
Image copyright Wes Ramey for Dollywood Image caption The Barnstormer ride at Dollywood Dolly's own version of "I Will Always Love You" was a big commercial success, topping the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart twice, in 1974 and 1982.
Whitney Houston made the song a hit all over again when she recorded a version for the 1992 film The Bodyguard.
It was number one for 10 weeks in the UK charts and for 14 weeks in the US.
The song had another resurgence in 2012 after Ms Houston's death.
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world: The proceeds from Dolly's latest album won't be adding to her fortune, though; instead they'll be going to the Imagination Library.
Set up in 1995 it aims to improve child literacy by distributing free books to children in the US, Canada, the UK and Australia.
Image copyright Keystone Image caption Dolly in London in 1977 Dolly says her own impoverished childhood in Tennessee inspired the library and has shaped her attitude to money in general.
"Being brought up poor means I don't take things for granted, and no matter how much money I make, I'll always count my blessings quicker and more often than I count my money.
She has "always realised the value of a dollar", too.
"Even now if I go in a store it's hard for me to pay a huge amount of money for one item.
I say 'good Lord', what could mummy and daddy have done with that!"
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dolly's Imagination Library scheme provides books for children At 71 years old, Dolly's career has spanned more than five decades and following her Glastonbury performance in 2014 she's reached a whole new audience.
So what's the secret of her longevity?
"I think a lot of people can relate to me, because of my upbringing and because I'm from a big family.
I think people see me as an aunt, an older sister or a cousin.
I've been around so long I'm part of their family."
Dolly will be hoping that this loyal fan base will support ambitious plans to expand her empire.
The DreamMore hotel at Dollywood, opened in 2015, is "doing well" and she is thinking of franchising it.
She'd also like to do more kids projects and launch a line of wigs, cosmetics and clothes.
"I've still got a lot to do...
I'm going to be an old lady before I get it done but at least I'm going to be working till I fall over dead!"
Dolly Parton is a force of nature and a tremendously successful one at that; it's hard to imagine her ever stopping.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Renaissance mathematician Luca Pacioli is seen as the father of double-entry bookkeeping In 1495 or thereabouts, Leonardo da Vinci himself, the genius's genius, noted down a list of things to do in one of his famous notebooks.
These to-do lists, written in mirror-writing and interspersed with sketches, are magnificent.
"Find a master of hydraulics and get him to tell you how to repair a lock, canal and mill in the Lombard manner."
"Draw Milan."
"Learn multiplication from the root from Maestro Luca."
Leonardo was a big fan of Maestro Luca, better known today as Luca Pacioli.
Pacioli was, appropriately enough, a Renaissance Man: - educated for a life in commerce, but also a conjuror, a chess master, a lover of puzzles, a Franciscan Friar, and a professor of mathematics.
Today he is celebrated as the most famous accountant who ever lived.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Pacioli is often called the father of double-entry bookkeeping, but he didn't invent it.
The double-entry system - known in its day as "bookkeeping alla Veneziana," or "in the Venetian style" - was being used two centuries earlier, around 1300.
The Venetians had abandoned as impractical the Roman system of writing numbers, and were instead embracing Arabic numerals.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Venice in the 1300s - when Marco Polo set off on his famous travels to the Far East - was already a sophisticated crossroads of trade and ideas They may have also taken the idea of double-entry book keeping from the Islamic world, or even from India, where there are tantalising hints that double-entry bookkeeping techniques date back thousands of years.
Or it may have been a local Venetian invention, repurposing the new Arabic mathematics for commercial ends.
Intricate transactions Before the Venetian style caught on, accounts were rather basic.
Early medieval merchants were little more than travelling salesmen.
They had no need to keep accounts - they could simply check whether their purse was full or empty.
But as the commercial enterprises of the Italian city states grew larger, and became more dependent on financial instruments such as loans and currency trades, the need for a more careful reckoning became painfully clear.
We have a remarkable record of the business affairs of Francesco di Marco Datini, a merchant from Prato, near Florence, who kept accounts for nearly half a century, from 1366 to 1410.
They begin as little more than a financial diary, but as his business grew more complex, he needed something more sophisticated.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption We can see how Datini tracked his increasingly intricate financial transactions Late in 1394, Datini orders wool from Mallorca.
Six months later the sheep are shorn.
Several months after that, 29 sacks of wool arrive in Pisa, via Barcelona.
The wool is coiled into 39 bales.
Of these, 21 go to a customer in Florence and 18 go to Datini's warehouse, arriving in 1396, over a year after the initial order.
They are then processed by more than 100 separate subcontractors.
Eventually, six long cloths go back to Mallorca via Venice, but don't sell, so are hawked in Valencia and North Africa instead.
The last cloth is sold in 1398, nearly four years after Datini's original order.
Fortunately, he had been using bookkeeping alla Veneziana for more than a decade, so was able to keep track of this extraordinarily intricate web of transactions.
Enormous influence So what, a century later, did the much lauded Luca Pacioli add to the discipline of bookkeeping?
Quite simply, in 1494, he wrote the book.
"Summa de Arithmetica, Geometria, Proportioni et Proportionalita" was an enormous survey of everything that was known about mathematics - 615 large and densely typeset pages.
Image copyright Stockholm University Library Amidst this colossal textbook, Pacioli included 27 pages that are regarded by many as the most influential work in the history of capitalism.
It was the first description of double-entry bookkeeping to be set out clearly, in detail and with plenty of examples.
Pacioli's book was sped on its way by a new technology: half a century after Gutenberg developed the movable type printing press, Venice was a centre of the printing industry.
Symmetry and balance His book enjoyed a long print run of 2,000 copies, and was widely translated, copied, and plagiarised across Europe.
Double-entry bookkeeping was slow to catch on, perhaps because it was technically demanding and unnecessary for simple businesses.
But after Pacioli it was always regarded as the pinnacle of the art.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption This 1585 woodcut shows a German merchant's accountant doing double-entry bookkeeping As the industrial revolution unfolded, the ideas that Pacioli had set out came to be seen as fundamental to business life.
The system used across the world today is essentially the one that Pacioli described.
Pacioli's system has two key elements.
First, he describes a method for taking an inventory, and then keeping on top of day-to-day transactions using two books - a rough memorandum and a tidier, more organised journal.
Then he uses a third book - the ledger - as the foundation of the system, the double-entries themselves.
Every transaction was recorded twice in the ledger.
If you sell cloth for a ducat, you must account for both the cloth and the ducat.
The double-entry system helps to catch errors, because every entry should be balanced by a counterpart, a divine-like symmetry which appealed to a Renaissance Man.
Practical tool It was during the industrial revolution that double-entry bookkeeping became seen not just as an exercise for mathematical perfectionists, but as a tool to guide practical business decisions.
One of the first to see this was Josiah Wedgwood, the pottery entrepreneur.
At first, Wedgwood, flush with success and fat margins, didn't bother with detailed accounts.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Josiah Wedgwood used the insight gleaned from detailed accounts to weather a severe recession But in 1772, Europe faced a severe recession and demand for Wedgwood's ornate crockery collapsed.
His warehouses began to fill with unsold stock and workers stood idle.
Wedgwood turned to double-entry bookkeeping to understand where in his business the profits were, and how to expand them.
He realised how much each piece of work was costing him - a deceptively simple-sounding question - and calculated that he should actually expand production and cut prices to boost business.
Others followed, and the discipline of "management accounting" was born - an ever-growing system of metrics and benchmarks and targets, that has led us inexorably to the modern world.
More from Tim Harford: How the invention of paper changed the world The warrior monks who invented banking How the world's first accountants counted on cuneiform What tally sticks tell us about how money works But in that modern world, accounting does have another role.
It's about ensuring that shareholders in a business receive a fair share of corporate profits - when only the accountants can say what those profits really are.
Here the track record is not encouraging.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Enron's collapse in 2001 was the biggest in US corporate history A string of 21st century scandals - Enron, Worldcom, Parmalat, and the financial crisis of 2008 - have shown us that audited accounts do not completely protect investors.
A business may, through fraud or mismanagement, be on the verge of collapse.
Yet we cannot guarantee that the accounts will warn us of this.
Complacency Accounting fraud is not a new game.
The first companies to require major capital investment were the British railways of the 1830s and 1840s, which needed vast upfront investment before they could earn anything from customers.
Investors poured in, and when railway magnates could not pay the dividends that the investors expected, they simply faked their accounts.
The entire railway bubble had collapsed in ignominy by 1850.
Perhaps the railway investors should have read up on their Geoffrey Chaucer, writing around the same time as Francesco Datini, the merchant of Prato.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Accountancy did not protect Chaucer's Shipman character from an audacious con In Chaucer's Shipman's Tale, a rich merchant is too tied up with his accounts to notice his wife being wooed by a clergyman.
Nor do those accounts rescue him from an audacious con.
The clergyman borrows the merchant's money, gives it to the merchant's wife - buying his way into her bed with her own husband's cash - and then tells the merchant he's repaid the debt, and to ask his wife where the money is.
Accountancy is a powerful financial technology - but it does not protect us from outright fraud, and it may well lure us into complacency.
As the neglected wife tells her rich husband, his nose buried in his accounts: "the devil take all such reckonings!"
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images It was the year Australia went to war in the Gulf, when Monica Seles and Boris Becker won tennis grand slams in Melbourne, and The Simpsons was first shown on Aussie television, while a swooning Bryan Adams was a hit with love-struck teenagers ("Look into your heart, baby").
It was 1991, and the last time Australia tasted the bitter economic taste of recession, defined in these parts, at least, as two or more back-to-back quarters of negative growth in real gross domestic product, or the value of all services and goods.
Since then, Australia has sidestepped the worst effects of the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and its more destructive big brother that hammered global markets a decade or so later.
Australia's economy - the "wonder down under" - has somehow dodged the unstoppable forces that sent other wealthy countries tumbling into reverse.
For this, a nation of 24 million people must thank not only sound judgement by those in charge but also good fortune, according to Shane Oliver, chief economist at financial services company AMP in Sydney.
"I certainly don't see Australia as being a miracle," he says.
"It has had a bit of good luck and good management, but it would be dangerous to assume that it is never going to have a recession again."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Coal production helped the Australian economy stay afloat The economy is growing by about 1.9% per year, according to the Reserve Bank.
In 2012, that figure was 3.7%.
Weaker growth means that pay packets are shrinking for many workers when adjusted for the rising cost of living, and near-record levels of underemployment are stifling wage increases.
In August, retail sales posted their biggest retreat in about four-and-a-half years, falling by 0.6%, with cafes and restaurants reporting declining turnovers.
Period of transition?
Rocks, coal and demand from China insulated this country from the global financial meltdown in 2008, as a red-hot mining industry delivered unprecedented wealth.
Surging commodity prices fuelled the bonanza in Western Australia and Queensland, which propped up under-performing states in the south-east, where most Australians live.
Shane Oliver says the situation has now "been turned on its head" and Australia is once again in transition.
The mining boom has faded, but areas that once struggled have bounced back in part because of record low interest rates that have unleashed a frenzy into the housing market.
Image copyright Getty Images Meanwhile, eye-watering wads of public money have poured into infrastructure projects, which are redefining parts of New South Wales, the most populous state.
There was another critical factor that helped Australia to largely avoid the ravages of the global financial crisis - unprecedented spending by the Labor government that boosted public expenditure by a whopping 13% in an attempt to stimulate growth.
It was a classic Keynesian economic manoeuvre to use billions of dollars to sustain household spending, demand and employment.
Australia loves to win.
Here international cricket matches are akin to "wars" and Olympic gold medals - or a lack thereof - are greeted with congratulatory back-slapping - or hand-wringing.
If there was a podium for economic success, this is a country that would be bending forward to accept the award.
More than 25 years of uninterrupted growth is a remarkable achievement, although there is debate about the competition.
Some commentators believe the recent economic prosperity enjoyed by the Netherlands lasted for (only) 22 years, putting it firmly into silver medal position behind the Aussies.
Right place, right time Tim Harcourt, an economics fellow at the University of New South Wales, believes Australia deserves the plaudits.
"This time the 'lucky country' made its own luck.
"The Hawke-Keating [government] reforms of the 1980s and 1990s - the currency float, tariff changes, and embrace of Asia - set up us up for a quarter of a century of growth.
"Australia found itself in the right place at the right time and embraced the Asia century," he argues.
Image copyright Getty Images But as the economy has soared, some Australians have been left behind.
At almost 13%, youth unemployment is more than twice the national average.
Labouring work had left 21-year-old Mohammad Al-Khafaji, the son of an Iranian refugee, with endless back pain and homelessness soon followed.
"I was just trying to apply for jobs online, and then people were just putting me down saying 'you are never going to get that job', so I just stopped trying," he says.
'Muddling along' Mohammad is now employed by a hire car company in Sydney, and has ambitions to one day be the boss.
He works with Shiv Dhingra, an Indian migrant from Punjab.
They are proof that much of Australia's economic might is down to immigration.
"I am the only one working in my family," Shiv explained.
"I am the main financial support they have.
I am working seven days a week for the last year.
I've got plans for my own business."
Image copyright Charity Bounce Image caption Charity Bounce runs sessions in partnership with professional athletes Both young men were helped by Charity Bounce, a Sydney-based non-profit organisation that uses basketball to reach out to the disadvantaged and long-term unemployed, who, according to chief executive, Ian Heininger, also deserve a slice of Australia's prosperity.
"We find a lot of the young people are desperate to find work," he says, "desperate to find an opportunity that is going to get them into a place where they are contributing back to the world."
But will they be part of an ever-expanding economy?
Mr Oliver thinks Australia's luck will eventually run out, but not for a while.
"The Aussie economy is probably going to continue muddling along, not fantastically strong as housing slows and consumer spending remains a bit weak," he predicts.
"We are probably going to go for at least another few years before we have that recession some people say is inevitable."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Online shopping has become a $2.3tn global business In 1995, someone sold a broken laser pen for $14 on a site called AuctionWeb.
This was the rather inauspicious start for online shopping, an activity that now generates a colossal $2.3tn (1.75tn) in global sales.
But these days, shoppers want to pay in any number of ways and this can cause headaches for retailers wanting to expand abroad; so what should they do?
Nigel Whiteoak is the co-founder of LoveCrafts, a virtual hub for knitting and crochet enthusiasts to share their creations and buy supplies.
Having a website rather than a bricks-and-mortar shop meant the team could sell their wares to the world.
But taking payments for these international sales wasn't proving straightforward.
"One of the biggest realisations we had when looking to expand was that credit card penetration is generally much lower in most markets outside the UK and US," he explains.
"In Germany, open invoices are very common where you process the payment using a third party, deliver the goods directly to the customer, and then they pay that third party once we have delivered their crafts.
Image copyright LoveCrafts Image caption LoveCrafts founder Nigel Whiteoak says selling abroad has significantly boosted sales "Whereas in Brazil and Turkey they tend to use local credit cards and pay in instalments."
These regional quirks were difficult to cater for.
But then he came across a Dutch payment company, Adyen, whose payment processing platform harnesses machine learning to customise the payment method depending on which country the buyer is in.
Adyen's clients include heavyweights such as Netflix, Uber and Spotify, so Mr Whiteoak was surprised to find out how affordable its service was, with a minimum monthly invoice of $100 (75) and transparent per-transaction processing and commission charges.
"Before we started selling outside of the UK we had a turnover of around 6.5m," he says.
"Last year we posted 10.9 million, and with the bulk of our sales coming from overseas, this growth is directly linked to our ability to offer local payment methods."
Sales have grown 125% over the last three years, he says, proving that knitting and crochet is big business.
Image copyright LoveCrafts Image caption LoveCrafts has found that people in different countries like to pay in different ways Payment difficulties contribute to about 15% of online shoppers abandoning their virtual shopping baskets before completing the purchase, research suggests.
That and difficult-to-navigate, fiddly websites.
Research from Barclaycard finds that while customers demand faster, more innovative and mobile-friendly ways to pay, the reality is one of declined cards, verification delays and annoying hidden transaction fees.
"Remove the need for consumers to set up an account first," advises Greg Liset, Barclaycard's head of small business, "and partner with suppliers that have reliable payment systems that work first time.
"Also, with online cross-border sales expected to soar over the next few years, being able to offer multiple currencies is essential."
Knowing what payment options locals prefer is crucial to e-commerce success.
Research from 2Checkout finds that in the US, Visa, MasterCard, PayPal and American Express still dominate the payments landscape.
But in other countries different favourite payment methods have emerged.
For example, in China Alipay now accounts for 54% of online sales.
In the Netherlands the iDEAL payment system is used for 44% of sales.
In Japan, JCB and Konbini are popular.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Shoppers in different countries have their own favourite ways of paying But in India many shoppers still prefer paying in cash.
So Indian start-up BookMyTrain is aiming to simplify the online purchase of rail tickets by offering a cash-on-delivery payment option with its app, as many people in India don't have payment cards.
It is also using chatbots to take customers through the booking process one step at a time.
Simon Johnson, general manager at software provider Freshworks, the firm providing the chatbots for BookMyTrain, says: "Most customers today use messaging apps such as WhatsApp or Facebook Messenger because they like how you can keep a conversation going with whatever device they are using.
"You don't have to be a massive company to personalise the experience more effectively and [smaller] retailers need to have that personal touch to compete with big e-commerce players."
Other payment platforms besides Adyen helping online retailers sell globally with tailored experiences include 2Checkout (formerly Avangate), PayU, PayPal, Stripe and Braintree.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images Costs are usually transparent and related to sales volume.
With PayPal, for example, retailers can expect to pay 2.9 % of the transaction value plus about 23p per order.
Similarly, Stripe doesn't charge extra for accommodating different cards or currencies with a flat rate of 1.4% plus 20p per transaction.
But selling abroad isn't just about offering flexibility over ways to pay and support for multiple currencies, it's also about understanding local customs and cultures, argues Nir Debbi, co-founder of e-commerce platform Global-e. "A common pitfall for businesses marketing themselves abroad is a lack of awareness of the different cultural phenomena," says Mr Debbi.
Planning for international shopping events such as Singles Day in China or Japan's "lucky shopping bags" at New Year "can improve international conversion rates dramatically", he says, "but you need the insight, local knowledge and access to these sales peaks to be able to plan and apply an appropriate strategy."
Later in this e-commerce series we'll explore the best ways for online businesses to market themselves.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Milwaukee Bucks' Giannis Antetokounmpo is an emerging star in the NBA What has historically made Milwaukee famous has been its beer and its motorcycles, but now NBA basketball side, the Bucks, is also hoping to fly the flag for the US city.
Although the team situated on the western shore of Lake Michigan has picked up just one NBA national title, in 1971, in its 50th season it is now hoping to transform its fortunes.
The club has wealthy owners in the shape of New York hedge fund billionaires, and has one of the top young players in Giannis Antetokounmpo.
It has also signed a groundbreaking shirt sponsorship deal with Harley-Davidson, and as the current regular season gets under way it is moving into a new stadium.
As well as being specifically designed for basketball and offering a better fan experience, the Wisconsin Entertainment and Sports Center stadium will also host music and entertainment events.
And the playing season has got off to a bright start, with victory in the opening game over Boston Celtics.
Championship dream "Our aims are sporting and financial," Bucks president Peter Feigin, who has previously worked in the theme park and executive jet industries, tells me.
Image copyright Milwaukee Bucks Image caption The Wisconsin Entertainment and Sports Center stadium is due to open in August 2018 "Our owners are very motivated about the team winning on the court, and also about growing the business to be one of the best in US sport."
At present the club is closer to breaking-even financially rather than making a profit, but it is hoped playing success can bring wider brand exposure and enhanced commercial revenues.
Meanwhile, the new venue where the club will be the main leaseholder will also bring in increased match day income through executive boxes and improved catering.
The team has high hopes for the season ahead.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Milwaukee Bucks (green) won their opening match against the Boston Celtics 108-100 "There are four rounds of play-offs, we got to the first round last year and the expectation is to go at least one round better this time," says Mr Feigin, a former head of marketing for the New York Knicks NBA team.
"It is achievable - we are in the Eastern Division, which is not as strong as the Western Division, and if we are healthy for the season and have no injuries we will do great."
He adds: "We are in these games to win a championship; it is all directed towards ultimately winning a championship."
'International appeal' Central to any playing success is up-and-coming star Giannis Antetokounmpo, a 22-year-old born in Athens to Nigerian immigrant parents.
"We have the most-emerging star in the NBA, he is already in the top seven of uniform sales, and had tens of millions of video views," says Mr Feigin.
"He has gone from 'recognised' to superstar in less than 12 months.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Giannis Antetokounmpo sports a shirt with the fans' chant: Fear the deer "We have been able to grow our European appeal and our Asian appeal via Giannis."
And the potentially exciting nature of the team has seen the Bucks double the number of live TV games they will be involved in this season, from nine to 18.
"That will be big for us not only on viewing impressions, but big for the brand too," adds Mr Feigin, who prior to joining the Bucks three years ago worked for Six Flags Theme Parks in the US.
He was also previously president and chief operating officer of Marquis Jet, where he was the driving force behind Warren Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway's NetJets acquisition of Marquis in 2010.
Image copyright Milwaukee Bucks Image caption NBA rules allow teams to sign shirt sponsors for three years Mr Feigin says Milwaukee as at a city is at an "inflection point" between its industrial heritage past and a newly-modernised future, something which also applies to its shirt sponsors for the next three years - local motorbike brand Harley-Davidson.
"Harley are trying to reposition themselves for the next generations, and the NBA can help them do that," he says.
"They want to reach a young, diverse, more international market."
Public funding Mr Feigin has been in London this month meeting to publicise the new stadium, pitching it as "a must-play for sports and entertainment" which will host 200 major events a year.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Post-industrial Milwaukee is in the midst of regeneration The $524m (395m) arena is a public-private partnership, with just over half the cash coming from hedge-fund club owners Marc Lasry, Wes Edens and Jamie Dinan, as well as $250m in public funding.
"It was very challenging to get this approved; especially at at time when there have been questions about the economy, and debates around healthcare and education," admits Mr Feigin.
"But a professional sports team can bring in much more than the stadium outlay, through income tax and sales tax."
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Kareem Abdul-Jabbar led Milwaukee to their only title success in 1971 He says in return for that $250m outlay, the venue will help bring in more than $1bn over 15 years for the state.
"The stadium will also create a ripple effect in increasing nearby commercial and residential values," he adds.
Bucks season-ticket holders and members will be offered deals on entertainment tickets.
Conversely, it's hoped music fans will enjoy the stadium experience enough to come back for a Bucks game.
Naming rights Building work began on the new stadium last June, with the club due to move into its new home on Labor Day weekend next year - the first weekend of September.
"The current venue was not built around basketball as the lead sport, but for ice hockey," says Raj Saha, the arena's general manager, and formerly on the management team of the O2 in London.
Image caption Mr Feigin and Mr Saha have been in London to get support for the new stadium "The viewing sight lines where we currently play are not ideal for basketball," says Mr Saha, with only one third of the seats close to the action.
The club is looking for six to eight long-term founding commercial partners for the new stadium, paying around $2m a year.
Those who have signed up include multi-industrial firm Johnson Controls and bank BMO Harris.
The search is on for a stadium naming rights partner, which would pay about $7m a year for 20 years.
"We are still looking for a naming rights partner.
We would have loved to have finalised it by now but are in negotiations with a number of potential partners," says Mr Saha.
Image copyright Populous Image caption The new stadium will host a variety of non-basketball entertainment As well as music acts, the arena will also host attractions such as UFC martial arts, boxing, Disney on Ice, and other events.
"We have an idea of how the first four weeks will look," says Mr Saha.
"Opening night is important and we'll go big for that, but the first 100 days will also be very important, too, to creating a success story."
Image copyright European Photopress Agency Image caption In Hong Kong, 2,500 tonnes of waste paper are piling up at its docks every day Imagine the world as a global waste disposal system.
Now imagine it with a blockage.
And what if that waste is backing up around the world, reappearing in places where you really don't want it to be.
That blockage is about to happen in China and the flood is going to start seeping out into waste disposal operations around the world.
Three months ago, China decided to ban 24 different grades of rubbish as part of its "National Sword" campaign against foreign garbage.
Until now China has been importing millions of tonnes of the world's waste every year to feed its recycling industry.
The Bureau of International Recycling China estimates that China last year imported 7.3 million tonnes of plastic scrap from Europe, Japan and USA, and 27 million tonnes of waste paper.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's action in halting various categories of waste imports will hit recycling around the world Robin Wiener, president of the US-based Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, said: "More than 155,000 direct jobs are supported by the US industry's export activities, earning an average wage of almost $76,000 and contributing more than $3bn to federal, state, and local taxes.
"A ban on imports of scrap commodities into China would be catastrophic to the recycling industry."
The new restrictions have yet to be agreed by the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and China could still change its mind, but the waste is already starting to back up.
In Hong Kong, 2,500 tonnes of waste paper are piling up at its docks every day.
Easy option For China the problem is simply one of pollution.
Its submission to the WTO reads: "We found that large amounts of dirty wastes or even hazardous wastes are mixed in the solid waste that can be used as raw materials.
This polluted China's environment seriously."
Image copyright Jamie Robertson Image caption Mike Baxter says sending waste overseas was the easy option Western recyclers admit that China has been a cheap and easy waste bin for their industry.
In theory the rubbish from your recycling rubbish bin is meant to be treated or sorted before it goes in the container overseas, but the rules have too often been ignored and rarely enforced.
Mike Baxter, external affairs director at the recycler RPC Group, says: "The easiest option for years has been put it into a container and send it overseas where the labour is cheaper and it can be sorted by hand."
But with the ban expected to come into full effect by the new year, if not before, the UK industry has written urging the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs to help with the expected overflow.
Even so, Robin Latchem, editor of the recycling industry magazine MRW believes the recyclers are not spelling out the problems loudly enough, and says: "Why no mention of growing domestic stockpiles of waste and the danger of more fires or incidents of waste crime?
"I don't think it is scare-mongering to set out such fears, along with concern that public perception of the recycling industry in its widest sense will be heavily scarred by greater fly-tipping, larger-scale dumping and more plumes of heavy black smoke crossing housing estates."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Western recyclers admit that China has been a cheap and easy waste bin for their industry No minister from Defra was available for comment, but a spokesman told the BBC: "We are aware of this situation and are looking into the potential implications."
Opportunities But there is flip side to the problem - an opportunity for the recycling industry.
In the UK for example, a lot of the waste is high quality, such as off-cuts from plastic manufacturing and plastic bottles that have failed quality tests but can be reprocessed.
That presents "a great opportunity", says David Wilson commercial manager of Vanden Recycling, a Hong Kong-based company with a new plastics recycling operation in Peterborough, in the UK.
"China has voluntarily given up a six million tonne a year industry.
We'll be selective about it and we'll go for materials we understand and markets we understand, but some of that lost capacity will be rebuilt here," he says.
Image copyright Jamie Robertson Image caption Vanden Recycling's David Wilson says the China ban creates new opportunities Low quality waste is a different matter, however, and it requires some drastic rethinking of the whole supply chain.
As waste begins to back up through the system, like any commodity in oversupply, it loses value.
In the UK, for example, local authorities have been able to generate useful income from selling that waste on to the recyclers.
That income is going to fall sharply.
Andrew Bird, chairman of the UK's Local Authority Recycling Advisory Committee (LARAC) says as demand from China disappears, other markets are emerging, especially in India and wider Asia.
Nevertheless, "there is going to be a little bit of pinch point, to say the least, and that will have an effect on price - that's the biggest risk for local authorities".
New technologies One answer to tackling the global oversupply of low quality waste is the development of new technologies.
Recycling Technologies has developed a method of recycling the most unappetising mix of dirty plastic into something it calls Plaxx, a fuel oil which can be used for myriad applications, including as a source for new recycled plastic.
Image copyright Jamie Robertson Image caption Adopting new technologies is one long-term solution, says Adrian Griffiths Adrian Griffiths, the company's chief executive, admits there's no shortage of "feedstock" - the term for all the raw material that feeds the process.
"We chemically recycle plastic.
We take it back to the original material so it can become more plastic again: plastic, back to oil, and back to plastic again.
Anything that goes to landfill currently is feedstock for us, and since the recycling figures are so low the vast majority of the plastic we want is not in recycling use anyway."
Global Trade More from the BBC's series taking an international perspective on trade: But tackling the global back-up of waste after China's changes will require investment.
Surprisingly, it is waste paper recycling that can cost the most.
A plastics recycling plant could require a 5m ($6.5m) investment to get it up and running, says Simon Ellin, chief executive of the Recycling Association.
But a paper mill could cost up to 500m.
However, RCP's Mr Baxter says investors are not going to step in unless there is a market for recycled goods, and he believes governments have a role to play.
"It's not just a case of recycling the material.
It's having markets for the recyclates that are produced, and this is where government could come in."
In the UK, he would like to see the government push local authorities and all government institutions to purchase recycled products.
For Mr Bird, from LARAC, responsibility for tackling the long term problems of waste must lie throughout the global product supply chain, but especially with manufacturers.
And he says one particular change could have a dramatic effect - the widespread adoption of Extended Producers' Responsibility.
"It means producers having to pay to ensure the products they are manufacturing can be dealt with in an effective, and environmentally cost-effective way."
Meanwhile, the waste is piling up and the clock is ticking.
Listen to Jamie Robertson's report on China's ban on waste imports here on BBC World Service's World Business Report programme.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How the wines of Canadian winemaker Norman Hardie are winning fans around the world.
With winter temperatures regularly dipping below -25C at his vineyard, winemaker Norman Hardie definitely didn't choose an easy place to grow his grapes.
"Minus 25 is the absolute death knell for vitis vinifera [the common grape vine], we actually have to bury our vines in the winter [to protect them].
It's a huge job," says the 51-year-old.
"And then we can get snap spring frosts that can quickly ruin a crop.
We lost more than 80% in 2015."
While most of us associate winemaking with warm countries, Mr Hardie has since 2004 been making wine in Canada.
Image copyright Johnny C Y Lam Image caption Norman Hardie Winery is currently continuing with its 2017 harvest Based in picturesque Prince Edward County, Ontario, a two-hour drive east of Toronto alongside Lake Ontario, the summers are more often glorious.
The winters, on the other hand, are harsh, which means that the team at Norman Hardie Winery face a race against the cold weather every November.
"I have 80,000 plants today, so that is almost a quarter of a million canes [the vine's branches] that we have to tie down by hand, and then cover with a mound of earth," says Norman.
"Before we then carefully open up and untie in the spring."
If that wasn't labour intensive enough, come April and May Norman and his team have to light fires and position wind turbines to try to drive away late frosts.
But sometimes, such as in 2015, they just aren't that successful.
Image copyright Johnny C Y Lam Image caption Norman Hardie says that Canada's cool weather helps him to make excellent wine Up against such challenges, you might question why Norman ever chose to plant vineyards and build a winery in Ontario.
He says that despite the challenges, the combination of cool weather and the clay and limestone soil of Prince Edward County allow him to make world class wines.
"The great wines are always made on the edge, and we're certainly on the edge," says South African-born Norman, who prior to going into winemaking had been a sommelier (wine waiter) in Toronto.
"I'd rather be here than anywhere else in the world because the flavours we get out of these soils are unique."
Image copyright Norman Hardie Winery Image caption While many wine regions around the world have cold winters, they aren't as cold as Canada's Primarily making white wines from chardonnay and red wines from pinot noir, Norman Hardie's wines now have a cult following in Canada, and are even said to be the favourite tipples of Canadian Prime Minster Justin Trudeau.
But from day one, Norman - who studied winemaking in Burgundy, Oregon, California, South Africa, and New Zealand prior to establishing his own winery - wanted his wines to be sold internationally.
This brought his next big challenge - how to persuade a sceptical world to take Canadian wine seriously, when even Norman admits that 30 years ago the country made "terrible wine".
Image caption Canadian wine production remains a drop in the global ocean Norman's solution was to turn himself into a travelling salesman, and build up his wine's global reputation "one top sommelier one top buyer, and one top wine journalist, at a time flying around the world, pounding the pavement, speaking to people, changing people's ideas about Canada".
So attending wine fairs, visiting wine importers, and knocking on the doors of Michelin-star restaurants, he started to slowly build up export orders.
This is the first feature of a new 20-week series called Connected Commerce, which highlights companies around the world that are successfully exporting, and trading beyond their home market.
Focusing particularly on the UK and New York, Norman says his personal, face-to-face approach enabled him to let some of the most influential people in the global wine world "understand what we're doing, why we're doing it, and how we are doing it".
He adds: "You can only do that with face time, and once you have them they are your evangelists."
From selling 6,000 bottles in 2004, Norman Hardy Winery produced 240,000 in 2016.
From that 6,804 bottles were exported across eight countries - China, Denmark, Japan, New Zealand, Sweden, Taiwan, the UK, and the US.
And he still is regularly overseas promoting his wines, including spending five to six days every year in the UK.
Back at the winery, there are now six year-round employees, rising to 50 in the busy summer months and at harvest time in late September and October.
The business now has annual revenues of 4.1m Canadian dollars ($3.3m; 2.5m).
John Downes, a London-based wine expert, who has the top master of wine qualification, says that Norman was right to recognise the fact that as Canada is such a little known wine region he had to do a lot of marketing work to "stand out" on the global stage.
Image caption Prince Edward County is now home to 40 wineries Mr Downes adds: "A lot of people in wine don't tell stories, they say 'here's my wine what do you think about it?'.
"But they don't tell the story behind the wine, and that gives the picture of the wine to the consumer.
Norman does that very well."
While exporting wine is not without its challenges, such as the need to produce different labels for each country, Norman says that building up a vibrant export business has also boosted his sales in Canada.
Now preparing to bury the vines for another winter, Norman says: "That credibility, that international credibility, says you're doing something right."
Image copyright AFP Luo Yanli is worried about the bad smell from the electric car factory over the road and what the fumes might be doing to her baby and toddler.
Mr Yu is worried that millions of workers the Chinese government plans to lay off from failing state owned companies will be "abandoned" like he says he was 15 years ago.
Mark Weinberger is worried about China's mountain of national debt, the possibility of bankruptcies and - ultimately - what it might mean for the thousands his multinational firm employs in China.
All three tell me they support reforms to overhaul China's mammoth economy; but their stories, from three very different parts of China, reveal the consequences and anxieties associated with the changes.
Health fears Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What has China's president achieved so far?
The early autumn nights are still warm and humid in Shenzhen where Yanli lives in the south of China.
But she doesn't open the windows in her apartment because of the strong smell from the sprawling BYD electric car factory.
"Before we bought the apartment the developer told us the plant would move elsewhere" she says.
"After we moved here little seems to have changed."
The factory was inspected last year after protests.
Airtight seals were installed to contain the fumes.
When we visited locals told us some production had been moved to another site.
With her baby boy on her lap and her daughter playing with a plastic fork beside her, Yanli says: "The smell is very strong and it has severely affected out lives".
They don't know if it's dangerous but, like most of their neighbours, they have plants in their apartment in the hope they'll absorb the smell seeping in.
Image caption Luo Yanli has concerns about fumes from a local factory The complex is home to the world's biggest manufacturer of electric cars.
BYD is a global leader in a technology that China hopes it can dominate; electric vehicles, and specifically the batteries that power them.
The big push towards electric isn't just about industrial strategy, it's about trying to tackle China's immense pollution problems - the most obvious of which is dirty air.
With incentives for infrastructure and aggressive quota demands for, mostly foreign, manufacturers, this is part and parcel of Beijing's effort to make China's economy less focused on government investment and cheap exports - and instead to one that is technologically advanced, with a sustainable base and driven by consumer spending.
So is a bad smell and worries about fumes a price worth paying for this progress, I ask Yanli?
Yes it is, she intimates.
The windows are firmly shut, though.
Survival of the fittest Almost 3,000km (1,800 miles) away in Shenyang, taxi driver Mr Yu points to where the lead smelting plant used to stand, where he worked.
It's long gone, replaced by car dealerships and apartment blocks.
You can buy a Cadillac where he used to walk through the now demolished main gate.
It's 15 years since he was laid off in the wave of liberalising economic reforms with compensation of just over a year's salary - about $5,000 (3,700).
Despite the years he gets visibly emotional when I ask if there's any part of the city that's still recognisable from his time as a steel worker.
He says he was "abandoned" by the government.
There was no training for a new job, no support aside from the pay-off.
But two children and a taxi licence later he's a believer in reforms that bring competition to the market place.
Image caption Mr Yu was laid off from his job as a worker and now drives a taxi "I think the rule 'survival of the fittest' should apply", he says as we drive around, "baggage should be cast aside" he adds.
But there is also this, "isn't it true that the people should be properly settled?"
They know a lot about "settling" workers in Shenyang.
It's the capital city in China's weakest performing province.
Liaoning was once the manufacturing heartland.
Now it's trying to rescue the towns and cities around the coal mines and steel plants that help make up this country's "rust belt" and is about to get its first privately owned bank, called the "revitalisation" bank.
Away from car dealerships and the mega malls we go to Linsheng on Shenyang's outskirts.
Food and rubbish is dumped in piles on its main street.
One ground floor apartment in a housing estate has a home-made pigeon coop in a bay window.
Parts of the building are decaying.
It's home for the workers at the nearby coal mine.
As China tries to tackle chronic over-capacity in its traditional industries it's also moving away from dirty coal to heat homes and power its economy.
Many mines are being mothballed.
A bus driver outside Linsheng's pink-painted community hospital tells me he used to do 17 trips to the mine every day, now it's just seven.
"A lot of people have retired but the company is not able to hire new employees - nobody wants to come because the salary is low."
Image copyright AFP Image caption A construction site in Shenyang, the capital of China's weakest performing economic province As the sun goes down a woman who runs a fruit stall says her business had taken a 30% hit in the last two years, which she puts down to workers' salaries falling.
The market boss claims people are buying pork and making it last for two or three days instead of buying daily.
A retired miner, who like most of the people we talk to in Linsheng doesn't want to go in front of a microphone, says income for some is down 50%.
Still growing So what of taxi driver Mr Yu's call for "survival of the fittest"?
President Xi Jinping shows little sign of going that far.
It looks like his government's early pledge to enhance market forces - giving them a "decisive role" has remained just that, a pledge.
Thousands of factories have been closed but that's as much about their polluting effect than their productive inefficiency.
There have been consolidations in various sectors of the myriad state-owned enterprises.
The (almost all state-owned) banks have come in with debt for equity deals - something close to a bail out - for the most troubled companies.
But there hasn't been a wave of bankruptcies.
Preserving social stability is likely to be the main reason for this.
A wave of concentrated unemployment could see protests that could threaten order.
Indeed 2016 actually saw increased cheap credit and a boost in government spending.
Rather than an assault on inefficient state-owned entities, many going, only with increased - and cheaper - debt.
Still, the world's second largest economy continues to grow, at rates many in the developed world would envy; 6.7% last year, but the rate of growth is slowing, a plateau is approaching.
Debt bubble?
Debt and risk are the two things that some think will combine to produce an economic catastrophe in China - but not Mark Weinberger, the CEO of EY, one of the big four accountancy firms.
"I don't see an impending catastrophe," he says, when we met in Shanghai: "The growth is still there to be able to pay off debt".
Such optimism is perhaps not surprising from a man who advises the mayor of China's second city.
But Mr Weinberger warns nobody should be complacent: "When the debt gets so large it crowds out growth because of the cost of that debt - that becomes a problem".
And China's debt is huge; it is currently about 260% of annual economic output and is predicted to rise.
What makes it particularly worrisome is that the bulk of this is held by state-owned corporate entities.
Risky practice has been growing too, particularly around the so called "shadow banking" sector.
So much so that Beijing cracked down on the insurance market in particular, and went after some of China's best known private firms who were deemed too risky in the way they raised money.
Image caption EY chief executive Mark Weinberger says he doesn't see "an impending catastrophe" Firms who owned or had stakes in New York's Waldorf Astoria, Deutsche Bank, Club Med and Wolves FC were all targeted.
It's steadied the boat, but that appears all.
Other far more significant reforms have not yet happened; financial market reforms, substantial rural land reform, changes to the internal passport-like hukou welfare system.
One thing that is happening though is a deepening of the role of "the party" at the top of China's state firms.
There were reports this summer that foreign owned firms or joint ventures have been asked to give the Communist Party equal say over their major corporate decisions.
Xi Jinping faces a multitude of challenges in his country's economy as he embarks on his second term at the top.
Strengthening the party's hold on the means of production is one of Beijing's responses.
Image caption Noura Al Jizawi has come to study in Toronto after escaping Syria's civil war Noura Al Jizawi has survived more than a decade of extreme risk.
Now she's going back to her interrupted life as a student.
Growing up in Homs in Syria, the 29 year old has been a student activist, experienced imprisonment and exile and has been a leader in Syria's opposition.
Now eight months pregnant, she has gone back to her studies, beginning a master's degree at the University of Toronto's Munk School of Global Affairs.
Noura's first awareness of human rights - and of their absence - came early: "I remember when I was just a kid, I was angry because we couldn't choose our notebooks.
"We could have only one type of notebook - one with a photo of Assad's father on it."
Missing persons She soon learned that other, much worse things were wrong with her country.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Homs this summer showing the damage of war "Many of the students, a couple of years older than me, were mentioning their missing fathers.
I became aware we had missing persons in Syria.
"While I was growing up, I remember hearing mothers supporting each other... they were the mothers of missing persons.
"Those guys were the detainees arrested by Assad's father in the 1980s.
Some of them are still until this moment missing there were no bodies, there was nothing, just silence."
Activism and arrests Noura came up against the regime as an undergraduate at the University of Homs - and reading books such as George Orwell's Animal Farm chimed deeply with her own experience.
More from Global education Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
Noura's increasing activism, her work as a blogger, publishing imaginative allegorical fiction, and her readiness to speak out, led to two early arrests.
Nevertheless she continued this dangerous work, accessing forbidden websites to distribute anti-regime articles, disseminating ideas of democracy and non-violent protest.
"We never believed there would be a real revolution in our lifetimes," she said.
And then, in December 2010, the Arab Spring began in Tunisia, and spread rapidly, arriving in Syria with a demonstration in Damascus in March 2011.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption A mother in Homs with a locket of her lost son "For me it was like a dream.
We have a revolution."
Noura was still in Homs, but was in touch with activists around the country, and abroad.
She became an organiser of demonstrations and an advocate for the rapidly rising numbers of detainees.
Social media In the response that followed, many of her friends were killed, many others imprisoned and tortured.
"To be honest we were not shocked, we knew too well that this regime would not allow people to demand their rights."
They were more shocked, she said, by the lack of any effective response from the international community.
"We were saying, back in the 70s and 80s, when there were great massacres in Syria, there was no internet, there no media channels.
"But we thought, now we have the social media channels, hopefully this would protect us.
But it did not protect us."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Noura's young life has been against a background of war: A fighter in Homs Noura moved from city to city, organising, motivating, dodging the authorities - until in May 2012, she was ordered off a bus in Damascus by armed men and bundled into a car.
"It was not an arrest, it was abduction, a kidnapping," she said.
Tortured in prison Noura emerged seven months later.
During that time she was detained in some of Syria's most notorious prisons, and said she had been tortured with electric shocks and beatings.
She plays this down, saying that so many have endured - and are still enduring - far worse.
For her the hardest experience to bear was hearing the sounds of her fellow-prisoners being tortured.
Her captors realised this psychological torture would be more effective in her case - but still she remained silent.
Noura explained how she survived: "I was not afraid for myself, I didn't care about myself...
I cared only about the revolution I cared about the people who were still continuing this revolution outside."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Homs this summer showing the damage of war "We were still a non-violent movement on the ground... and I kept thinking about them...
I wanted to make sure that in the questioning I would not speak about any one of those activists.
I would pray to my body not to break down."
Noura was released late in 2012, and believes that an international campaign played a part in this: "For sure, all of those activities protected me.
That is why we need this advocacy, all the time, for all detainees and for missing persons."
For Noura, the torment continued, as her younger sister, Alaa, had also been imprisoned and was suffering even worse: "They tortured her harder than me, many times, because of me."
Alaa was released in a terrible physical state; the family decided they had to leave Syria, and fled to Turkey to get urgent medical treatment.
"She was my only reason to leave Syria," said Noura.
"Otherwise I would still be there."
Image caption Noura became a representative in peace talks in Geneva In four years of exile in Turkey, she joined the coalition of Syrian opposition forces, (SNC) and became its vice-president in 2014, as well as being elected to sit on its negotiation panel in Geneva.
She joined because she realised this much-criticised group of mainly male, middle-aged "hotel revolutionaries" needed "the blood of youth" and also a strong female voice.
Geneva was a real challenge for Noura: "I felt I had to be calm and clever, I had do everything I could do, to interact."
She worked hard to get an agreement to break the two-year siege of Homs.
Many of its surviving citizens were dying of starvation.
'Scholars at risk' Noura resigned from the coalition in 2016, but continued working for an NGO she had created, Start Point, which provides advocacy and psychological support to Syrian women who have suffered torture and sexual violence in detention.
She had also met her husband in Turkey, another Syrian activist in exile, who was one of a network of cyber-security experts working for the Munk School's Citizen Lab; hence the Toronto connection.
Noura came to Canada as one of 24 international students with scholarships in the university's "scholars at risk" programme.
With her daughter due to be born next month, Noura is aware of how this might change her activism.
But she's determined not to give up the fight.
She sees the master's degree as another step to help her continue her work to bring democracy to Syria.
"I feel also that being a mother makes me closer to the future... this baby is the future, and maybe will not have to live as our generation live."
Image copyright Geoff Pugh Image caption Lavinia Davolio says selling her luxury sweets on Amazon Marketplace has been good for business What are the best ways to sell online?
And how do you make sure you have a website that really works?
Part one in our eight-part series exploring all things e-commerce.
Lavinia Davolio makes luxury handmade sweets inspired by her Italian heritage.
She says her business received a boost when she opened a store on Amazon's Marketplace.
"It's easy for clients to discover something unique and handmade if it's available through such a trusted online platform," she says.
"And it means we can offer convenient next day delivery at a competitive price and give our boutique confectionary an incredible reach and visibility."
Lavinia is one of thousands of small businesses who've decided to set up shop on an e-commerce marketplace - Amazon, eBay, Etsy, Alibaba's Taobao, Rakuten to name some of the largest - rather than go through the hassles of setting up their own websites.
Amazon charges retailers a 15% commission, but in return even the very smallest entrepreneurs can get a slice of the retail titan's global pulling power just by uploading images and descriptions of their products and then setting their pricing.
For an additional fee, Amazon will store and dispatch your goods - the kind of one-stop convenience that is ideal for newbies, suggests Alan Braithwaite, a visiting professor at Cranfield School of Management.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Despite the convenience of online shopping, people still love the physical store "Something like Amazon Marketplace is a no-brainer," he says.
"Entry costs are very low and straightaway you have a very wide marketplace at your fingertips.
"When you're starting out with your own website you're having to attract the traffic, which means a lot of search engine optimisation [SEO].
This can be complicated and mean extra costs if you need outside help."
Some e-tailers want more creative control over their online shops, however - and to keep more of the sales income for themselves.
Going it alone is certainly a lot cheaper than it used to be, but according to payment processor WorldPay, the average small business spends 2,500 on setting up an e-commerce platform.
At its most basic this will cover product display and listing, navigation structure, a shopping cart facility, search features and secure payment gateways - a checklist that swells with business growth.
DIY website providers such as Wix, Weebly and SquareSpace, help the technical novice with design templates and SEO support from as little as $4.50 (3.40) a month.
And these days, off-the-shelf "software-as-a-service" add-ons can give a basic website selling and fulfilment functionality that "means you can be online and trading for as little as 500," says Prof Braithwaite.
But "cheap isn't always best," he warns.
"It's your front window so it can be worth spending a bit extra - around 5,000 on a developer."
And Clare Jackson, founder of e-tailer The Wooden Furniture Store, points out that you have to be prepared to improve and adapt your website constantly or risk losing sales.
You can't pay your set-up fee then sit back and relax.
Image copyright The Wooden Furniture Store Image caption Clare Jackson says she had to adapt her website's content for mobile screens When they discovered that most customers were coming to their website from mobiles, they had to completely rethink the design.
"With mobile users likely to be on slower connections it's crucial to get more speed into the user experience, so we introduced image optimisation and a content delivery network.
"This adapts content to the sizes of screen and devices being used, meaning that the images load much quicker."
A fast website loading speed is crucial for e-commerce success.
Research by application performance company, Apica, finds that 40% of online shoppers refuse to wait more than 10 seconds for a website to respond.
The website change cost just $200 but has contributed to a 500% hike in sales from mobile and a 230% upturn in mobile visitors, says Ms Jackson.
"As a small business, we combine our agility with the kind of technologies which just a few years ago would have been unaffordable for someone our size," she says.
Image copyright Iffley Road Image caption Wife-and-husband team Claire Kent and Bill Byrne moved their running wear business to Shopify Claire Kent and Bill Byrne, the husband-and-wife team behind luxury running wear, Iffley Road, found that replacing their bespoke website with the "easy and intuitive" e-commerce platform, Shopify, made a big difference to their online business.
They liked the fact that they were no longer reliant on a third party but could make changes to the site themselves in minutes.
Ms Kent, a former Morgan Stanley equity analyst who had never used Facebook or Twitter before, and who admits to being "completely untechnical", says she has found analysing customer data surprisingly straightforward using Shopify.
A range of tools gives her data on purchase frequency, customer lifetime value, gross margins and net profit - insights she credits with doubling sales.
"It's like I've suddenly got glasses on whereas before I was blind," she says.
"I'd say to anyone that you really need to be looking at analytics every day as you learn so much."
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images She advises retailers to accept that a website will need to evolve with customers' changing expectations.
"Many SMEs prioritise aesthetics over function; you can have a site that looks amazing but if you don't have the right platform then it just isn't going to deliver."
Listening to feedback and acting on it is also crucial, argues Prof Braithwaite.
"Get friends and families to transact on [your website] and listen to feedback, making sure that payment is secure and seamless is an absolute priority; customers won't come back if this isn't right."
"Fail fast, fail often" may be the mantra amongst the technology giants in Silicon Valley, but it is also apt for online retail entrepreneurs.
You have to make mistakes, learn from them, and adapt quickly to achieve success in this global online marketplace.
The next feature will look at the best way to take payments and market your online shop.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A handful of these resin beads can save lives The beads of resin may not look like much but they could save hundreds of thousands of at-risk people in Bangladesh and parts of India.
Human Rights Watch says up to 20 million people are at risk from arsenic poisoning in Bangladesh.
Millions have already suffered from what the World Health Organisation calls "the biggest mass poisoning in human history".
Millions of "tube-wells" have been dug across Bangladesh since the 1940s.
The simple pumps were rolled out across the country by the government and NGOs from the 1970s onwards as a way of delivering cost-effective bacteria-free water.
However during the 1980s cases of arsenic poisoning began to emerge.
Arsenic can not be seen or smelt; the first signs of its impact are skin lesions which only emerge once the poisoning has taken place.
The poisoning can set off a range of heart diseases and cancer and the external symptoms look a lot like leprosy, which can lead to victims and their families being shunned by the local community.
A heavy price Image caption Siaton Nessa says arsenic poisoning has ruined her life and affected her family as well Siaton Nessa Meherpur has lesions on her skin from arsenic poisoning.
She's in her mid-50s and she says the disease has blighted her entire family.
"Because of this well my whole skin is filled with black patches," she says.
"I am worried about my children because no one is prepared to marry them."
While the government has made efforts to replace the wells, in many rural areas they are still the primary source of water especially as many families have dug their own tube wells.
Human Rights Watch estimate 43,000 people die each year in Bangladesh from illnesses caused by arsenic poisoning.
New solutions Image caption Minhaj Chowdhury's Drinkwell is offering an "entrepreneurial solution" to the water crisis Minhaj Chowdhury, 28, was raised in the United States but visited family in Bangladesh during school holidays.
"It shocked and deeply saddened me to think how we never had to worry about water being fatal in the US but here in Bangladesh one in every five deaths was associated with unsafe drinking water," Mr Chowdhury says.
After his grandfather died due to a disease linked to water he decided to take action.
The BBC's Innovators series reveals innovative solutions to major challenges across South Asia.
Ever heard of the concept of "jugaad"?
It's a Hindi term meaning cheap innovation.
If you have created a life hack or innovation that you are proud of, or spotted one while out and about on your travels, then share your picture with us by emailing yourpics@bbc.co.uk, use the hashtags #Jugaad and #BBCInnovators and share your picture with @BBCWorldService, or upload your submission here.
Learn more about BBC Innovators.
In 2013 he founded Drinkwell, in partnership with Dr Arup K SenGupta who invented a particular type of resin technology and had already been active in implementing it in India.
The resin removes arsenic and other harmful substances from water and once it has been used Drinkwell filters the water through a series of other tanks to take out other harmful substances.
The water is sold locally by "Drinkwell" entrepreneurs and the money raised is used to maintain the system.
The pricing is set depending on location but a monthly subscription costs anywhere between $0.05 (4p) and $0.12 for 20 litres (4.4 gallons) a day.
Entrepreneurial opportunity According to the United Nations, 30% to 50% of all water projects fail after huge investments because of a failure to maintain the facilities.
Image caption Drinkwell entrepreneur Habibur Rehman's plant in Manikganj, Bangladesh sells 150,000 litres a day Dr Khairul Islam, the country director for the charity Water Aid in Bangladesh' believes that social entrepreneurs have a role to play in tackling the arsenic poisoning.
Dr Islam told the BBC that the main problem so far has been operation and maintenance.
Because Drinkwell includes operational and maintenance costs at the centre of its model he says it is the kind of model "this country needs".
The first Drinkwell plant began dispensing water in the Manikganj district in 2015.
Today that one plant alone has 750 daily customers and dispenses 150,000 litres a day.
The network has grown across the country, often by going into schools to deliver safe drinking water for students' meals, from there the word spreads across communities.
There are now 30 Drinkwell filtration plants in India and Bangladesh serving more than 100,000 people.
Mr Chowdhury believes this is just the start for Drinkwell.
He hopes to eventually reach hundreds of millions of people across Asia.
He is already talking to the Bangladesh government about rolling out the technology across the country.
By involving the communities in the maintenance through their entrepreneur network Mr Chowdhury believes the system can provide clean water "forever".
Image copyright RationalFX Image caption Mr Davdra's wife recently treated him to a new Harley Davidson Paresh Davdra is thrilled about the brand new Harley Davidson waiting for him in a friend's garage.
It's not a sign of a mid-life crisis, he insists, but a wedding present from his wife who he married in August.
He just has one more test to pass to get his motorcycle licence, then he can hop on the bike and whizz around London for meetings.
The boss and co-founder of money exchange firm Rational FX, which reported revenues of more than 1bn ($1.3bn) last year, has a life that's worlds apart from his parents and grandparents.
They were forced to flee Uganda in 1972 when dictator Idi Amin gave the Asian population just 90 days to leave the country.
"They came to the UK with just 50 between them," says the softly-spoken Mr Davdra.
"My grandfather had his own tailoring shop, but they had to leave everything behind."
His family pulled together and bought a house in Harrow, north London, with his dad securing a job as clerk, and later as a financial controller, at a foreign exchange broker.
Image copyright RationalFX Image caption Paresh Davdra co-founded RationalFX in 2005 Their fighting spirit rubbed off on the younger Davdra.
"We were never really given anything - if I wanted something, I had to earn it."
From the age of 16, he spent the school holidays holding jobs in a mobile phone shop and in telesales, while out of term at Middlesex University, he worked at his dad's firm, taking up roles from filing to working in compliance.
He studied marketing and computer science at university, but tells me that technology does not come naturally to him.
"If you told my team I had this degree, they wouldn't believe you.
I'm always the one calling IT to connect the laptop to the printer," he laughs.
As soon as Mr Davdra graduated, in 2003, he joined his dad's company as a foreign exchange dealer, helping clients to buy and sell large quantities of foreign currencies.
He was in the role for just over a year, working with Indian-born Rajesh Agrawal, a friend of his father's who had arrived in the UK in 2001.
But two factors would spur him to quit.
"I'd tried to buy a property with my dad but the bank rejected the mortgage application," Mr Davdra says.
"It deflated me."
Image copyright RationalFX Image caption RationalFX is based in Canary Wharf, London At the same time, Mr Agrawal resigned from his IT manager role.
"When he decided to quit, I badgered him.
I asked him to tell me what he was doing," Mr Davdra says.
The two met for coffee and quickly agreed they wanted to set up a company together.
The idea was to support customers buying property abroad with their currency needs.
"Everything we were doing at the old firm was manual, but we thought we could offer the same service online," Mr Davdra says.
However, the duo faced a serious challenge: money.
Mr Davdra was only a year out of university and had already taken out a personal loan to buy a BMW.
When Mr Agrawal took their business plan to the bank and asked to borrow 10,000, he was swiftly rejected.
But he returned a few days later and asked for 20,000 to buy a car.
The bank said yes.
"I then sold my BMW and we were set," says 37-year-old Mr Davdra, who also moved into Mr Agrawal's home to save on rent.
Image copyright RationalFX Image caption Mr Davdra's grandfather had to flee Uganda in 1972 With just 32,000 between them, the pair launched their foreign exchange brokerage, RationalFX, in 2005.
Like many start-ups, the next difficult task was signing up customers.
"We got on the phones and started pitching to estate agents and attended every property industry event there was," recalls Mr Davdra.
"We'd be in the office all day from 8am, then we'd just be at it in the evenings."
Their big breakthrough came when they signed a number of estate agents who were selling properties in Dubai.
However, just two years after launching, the financial crisis hit.
Mr Davdra reflects candidly on how it changed his young mindset.
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world: "I was 27 at the time and the business was doing great guns, and I was well on my way to being rich.
That's all I thought about it.
"It wasn't really about building a business - that comes with time and maturity.
But the crash brought that along.
It was a good learning curve."
Rational FX also felt the fall-out from the crash, with its growth slowing.
But it weathered the storm and went on to diversify.
Today, its clients range from high-net worth individuals, either buying property or making investments, to medium-sized businesses, such as firms exporting cars or importing textiles.
Image copyright RationalFX Image caption RationalFX employs 110 people It reported revenues of 1.3bn in 2016, up from 1.1bn the year before, and pre-tax profits of 2.3m - largely because the firm reinvested heavily in its business, Mr Davdra says.
After enjoying success with Rational FX, the founders had an idea for an offshoot company - an online money transfer platform aimed at individuals sending lower sums to family overseas.
"We felt that Rational FX was driving revenues, but Xendpay [the new company] was more of a social initiative, to try and bring the costs of remittance down for people working hard to bring their families out of poverty."
Xendpay has a "pay what you want" model, although it does suggest a minimum commission of 0.3-0.4% of the transaction.
Mr Davdra says that more than 70% of users pay the suggested fee, 10% hand over more, and the rest pay nothing.
The platform isn't profitable yet, although Mr Davdra expects it to break even next year.
"It was a bit of gamble but a risk we were willing to take."
'Still growing' Last year Mr Agrawal stepped down from the firm after he was appointed Deputy Mayor of London for Business.
He still owns 70% of the business, and is a non-executive director, while Mr Davdra holds the remaining shares.
Mr Davdra says he "misses him".
"Apart from business, over the last 12 years we have developed a good relationship.
He's a very very close friend."
For now, there are no plans to sell RationalFX, although private equity firms approach the firm "an average of twice a day".
"Our brands are still growing and are quite young.
It's all about the right opportunity," Mr Davdra says.
Headquartered at Canary Wharf, RationalFX and Xendpay together employ 110 members of staff.
Despite his penchant for expensive bikes and cars, Mr Davdra - who still lives in Harrow - has his feet firmly on the ground.
"I think we're pretty humble.
We're working class, and we just do normal stuff.
It's the way we've been brought up."
Image copyright Alamy "Gentility of speech is at an end," thundered an editorial in London's City Press, in 1858.
"It stinks!"
The stink in question was partly metaphorical: politicians were failing to tackle an obvious problem.
As its population grew, London's system for disposing of human waste became woefully inadequate.
To relieve pressure on cess pits - which were prone to leaking, overflowing, and belching explosive methane - the authorities had instead started encouraging sewage into gullies.
However, this created a different issue: the gullies were originally intended for only rainwater, and emptied directly into the River Thames.
That was the literal stink - the Thames became an open sewer.
Image copyright Alamy Cholera was rife.
One outbreak killed 14,000 Londoners - nearly one in every 100.
Civil engineer Joseph Bazalgette drew up plans for new, closed sewers to pump the waste far from the city.
It was this project that politicians came under pressure to approve.
The sweltering-hot summer of 1858 had made London's malodorous river impossible to politely ignore, or to discuss obliquely with "gentility of speech".
The heatwave became popularly known as the "Great Stink".
Unlikely figure If you live in a city with modern sanitation, it's hard to imagine daily life being permeated with the suffocating stench of human excrement.
For that, we have a number of people to thank - but perhaps none more so than the unlikely figure of Alexander Cumming.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations that helped create the economic world.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
A watchmaker in London a century before the Great Stink, Cumming won renown for his mastery of intricate mechanics.
King George III commissioned him to make an elaborate instrument for recording atmospheric pressure, and he pioneered the microtome, a device for cutting ultra-fine slivers of wood for microscopic analysis.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Alexander Cumming's S-bend was crucial in the development of the flushing toilet But Cumming's world-changing invention owed nothing to precision engineering.
It was a bit of pipe with a curve in it.
In 1775, Cumming patented the S-bend.
This became the missing ingredient to create the flushing toilet - and, with it, public sanitation as we know it.
Simplicity Flushing toilets had previously foundered on the problem of smell: the pipe that connects the toilet to the sewer, allowing urine and faeces to be flushed away, will also also let sewer odours waft back up - unless you can create some kind of airtight seal.
Cumming's solution was simplicity itself: bend the pipe.
Water settles in the dip, stopping smells coming up; flushing the toilet replenishes the water.
While we've moved on alphabetically from the S-bend to the U-bend, flushing toilets still deploy the same insight.
Image copyright Alamy Rollout, however, came slowly: by 1851, flushing toilets remained novel enough in London to cause mass excitement when introduced at the Great Exhibition in Crystal Palace.
Use of the facilities cost one penny, giving the English language one of its enduring euphemisms for emptying one's bladder, "to spend a penny".
Hundreds of thousands of Londoners queued for the opportunity to relieve themselves while marvelling at the miracles of modern plumbing.
If the Great Exhibition gave Londoners a vision of how public sanitation could be - clean, and smell-free - no doubt that added to the weight of popular discontent as politicians dragged their heels over finding the funds for Joseph Bazalgette's planned sewers.
More than 170 years later, about two-thirds of the world's people have access to what's called "improved sanitation", according to the World Health Organization, up from about a quarter in 1980.
That's a big step forward.
Economic cost But that still means two and a half billion people don't have access to it, and "improved sanitation" itself is a relatively low bar.
It "hygienically separates human excreta from human contact", but it doesn't necessarily treat the sewage itself.
Fewer than half the world's people have access to sanitation systems that do that.
More from Tim Harford: What the dynamo reveals about technological revolution Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars How the lift transformed the shape of our cities How air conditioning changed the world The economic costs of this ongoing failure to roll out proper sanitation are many and varied, from health care for diarrhoeal diseases to foregone revenue from hygiene-conscious tourists.
The World Bank's Economics of Sanitation Initiative has tried to tot up the price tag.
Across various African countries, for example, it reckons inadequate sanitation lops one or two percentage points off gross domestic product (GDP), in India and Bangladesh over 6%, and in Cambodia 7%.
That soon adds up.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Open sewers are a common sight in Kibera, in Nairobi, Kenya The challenge is that public sanitation isn't something the market necessarily provides.
Toilets cost money, but defecating in the street is free.
'Positive externality' If I install a toilet, I bear all the costs, while the benefits of the cleaner street are felt by everyone.
In economic parlance, that's a "positive externality" - and goods that have positive externalities tend to be bought at a slower pace than society, as a whole, would prefer.
The most striking example is the "flying toilet" system of Kibera, in Nairobi, Kenya.
The flying toilet works like this: you defecate into a plastic bag, and then in the middle of the night, whirl the bag around your head and hurl it as far away as possible.
Replacing a flying toilet with a flushing toilet provides benefits to the toilet owner - but you can bet that the neighbours would appreciate it, too.
Contrast, say, the mobile phone.
That also costs money, but its benefits accrue largely to me.
That's one reason why, although the S-bend has been around for 10 times as long as the mobile phone, many more people already own a mobile phone than a flushing toilet.
If you want to buy a flushing toilet, it also helps if there's a system of sewers to plumb it into, and creating one is a major undertaking - financially and logistically.
Image copyright Otto Herschan Image caption Joseph Bazalgette, standing top right, views the Northern Outfall sewer being built below the Abbey Mills pumping station in 1862 When Joseph Bazalgette finally got the cash to build London's sewers, they took 10 years to complete and necessitated digging up 2.5 million cubic metres (88 million cubic ft) of earth.
Because of the externality problem, such a project might not appeal to private investors: it tends to require determined politicians, willing taxpayers and well-functioning municipal governments.
And those, it seems, are in short supply.
According to a study published in 2011, just 6% of India's towns and cities have succeeded in building even a partial network of sewers.
The capacity for delay seems almost unlimited.
Geographical quirk London's lawmakers likewise procrastinated- but when they finally acted, they didn't hang about.
As Stephen Halliday recounts in his book The Great Stink of London, it took just 18 days to rush through the necessary legislation for Bazalgette's plans.
What explains this sudden, impressive alacrity?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Houses of Parliament, photographed in 1858, the year of the Great Stink A quirk of geography: London's Parliament building is located right next to the River Thames.
Officials tried to shield lawmakers from the Great Stink, soaking the curtains in chloride of lime in a bid to mask the stench.
But it was no use.
Try as they might, the politicians couldn't ignore it.
The Times described, with a note of grim satisfaction, how MPs had been seen abandoning the building's library, "each gentleman with a handkerchief to his nose".
If only concentrating politicians' minds was always that easy.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Japan's reputation for precision manufacturing is coming under more pressure Japan has long been held up as a shining example of integrity, assured quality and reliable products.
But the deepening scandal at Kobe Steel over falsified figures could further tarnish the Made in Japan brand.
Kobe's troubles started when it admitted last weekend to faking data about the quality, strength and durability of some of the materials it delivered to more than 200 companies including Boeing, Nissan and Toyota.
On Friday it said the number of firms involved had risen to 500.
The news has wiped out about $1.8bn (1.3bn) off Kobe Steel's market value this week.
But with at least half a dozen major Japanese companies admitting to fraud and misconduct in as many years, questions are being raised over why this keeps happening and if there's a systemic problem in Japan.
'Cutting corners' Experts say the long term slowdown in economic growth from the 1990s onwards has been a major contributing factor.
It has forced Japanese firms to change their business models, and this appears to have taken its toll.
"Large corporations used to live in a stable, predictable and growing market, but things have changed and some companies may have resorted to cutting corners," says Takuji Okubo, managing director and chief economist of Japan Macro Advisors, in Tokyo.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kobe Steel's Hiroya Kawasaki apologised for the "tremendous trouble" the firm had caused Until two decades ago, Japanese firms were focussed on growth strategies but the realisation that their economy would no longer grow as strongly anymore meant companies had to concentrate on restructuring, cost-cutting and extreme efficiency.
Speaking to the BBC, Martin Schulz, senior research fellow at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo says these painful adjustments have seen some companies struggle "to adjust to the new rules of the game".
The push to improve efficiencies made management desperate to show positive results, sometimes even testing the limits of quality control, he says.
Mr Schulz adds core-employees and managers have been stretched to the limit, which in some cases, resulted in overwork and misconduct.
But the need to open up new markets overseas to boost profits has created other problems for Japanese firms, especially at their subsidiaries abroad.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kobe Steel is Japan's third largest steelmaker Florian Kohlbacher, director of the Economist Corporate Network for North Asia, says some companies tried to grow too quickly by expanding overseas without having enough experienced managers to supervise operations.
Detecting fraud The misconduct at Kobe Steel follows scandals at carmakers Nissan Motor and Mitsubishi Motors, as well as car airbag-maker Takata Corp, which filed for bankruptcy in June after a global recall sparked by 16 deaths and many injuries.
Just two weeks ago, Nissan Motor recalled 1.2m vehicles that had been certified by unauthorised technicians.
And the electronics giant Toshiba Corporation is still reeling from the consequences of an accounting scandal in which its profits were inflated.
Despite the prevalence of such high profile cases, experts say quality and compliance remain paramount in Japan.
But they still expect more scandals involving fraud and misconduct to be uncovered in future.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Manufacturers of cars, trains and planes are checking if they used sub-standard Kobe Steel materials Mr Kohlbacher says this is partly because new technology such as the internet of things and sensors have made it easier to detect wrongdoing, errors and fraud, while digitisation has helped to spread information about problems and improve transparency.
While it is still unclear how the data tampering at Kobe Steel was uncovered, "in a more transparent corporate environment, companies have to come clean on mistakes and misconduct much earlier," says Mr Schulz.
Expect more scandals Furthermore, more fraud and misconduct scandals are also expected to be uncovered as a result of laws to protect whistleblowers that came into effect in 2006.
The most explosive case came to light five years later when Michael Woodford, the British president of Olympus, became the most senior corporate figure in history to blow the whistle on his own company.
His revelations uncovered a $1.4bn (880m) accounting fraud scandal in which the Japanese medical and equipment firm hid investment losses dating back to the 1990s.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Quality control questions at Kobe Steel could further erode trust in Japanese firms Mr Kohlbacher says more people have reported wrongdoings since the laws were enacted but it is difficult to confirm exactly how many people have been able to use the legislation to raise the alarm about wrongdoing in their companies.
And debate still rages in Japan on whether whistleblowers are adequately protected because the laws do not provide for penalties against companies that punish staff by dismissing or demoting them.
Some argue there are further safeguards from wrongdoing provided by Japan's Consumer Affairs Agency, which opened in 2009.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The news has wiped out about $1.8bn off Kobe Steel's market value It was created following several accidents caused by substandard products and a number of food poisoning scandals including a case involving Chinese dumplings.
"Any manufacturer that had a defective product would once have been dealt with by a government ministry but the Consumer Affairs Agency took over these responsibilities," says Keith Henry from the consultancy firm Asia Strategy.
Mr Henry adds that the new reporting system focuses much more on the consumer rather than the manufacturer, with regulatory authorities willing to investigate and prosecute cases of misconduct.
Rebuilding the brand Some people believe the unwanted spotlight on Japanese firms could actually have a positive effect.
"There seems to be wide agreement now that just focusing on costs and increasing profitability won't be sufficient as future strategies," says Mr Schulz.
Mr Kohlbacher says he now expects "companies to have a close look at their operations and make sure they amend any problems before they turn into something major".
But some warn tougher penalties are needed for companies that fail to meet government standards because self-regulation does not always appear to work.
Citing the recent Dentsu case last week in which the Japanese advertising giant was only fined 500,000 yen (US$4,400; 3,321) for breaching labour regulations, Mr Okubo says "I think there's something very wrong here."
But rather than highlighting a systemic problem in Japan, Mr Okubo says the prevalence of misconduct cases was evidence that "corporate governance in Japan is working" because firms are reporting internal problems so that they can be dealt with.
As for companies that want to distance themselves from the fraud and misconduct, he says: "It is about time that each manufacturer stops branding itself as 'Japanese' and instead starts to build their own brand".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Lewis Hamilton during the Japan F1 Grand Prix Next weekend Britain's Lewis Hamilton could secure his fourth Formula One title at the United States Grand Prix.
His Mercedes team is a staggering 145 points ahead of arch-rivals Ferrari despite the sport introducing rules this year which aimed to put the brakes on the dominance of a single outfit.
They came at a hefty cost.
The new regulations were designed to make for closer racing by increasing aerodynamic and mechanical grip through the introduction of wider tyres and wings.
According to one of the teams it has "rewritten" the rulebook and the impact is just as noticeable off track as on it.
But if some had hoped the rules might stop Mercedes from running away with the F1 championship they will have been disappointed.
Ironically, they have also forced up its rivals' costs.
Only the frontrunners have had the resources to foot the bill from their cashflow whilst one of the outfits lower down the grid even had to get a driver to cover the cost.
Research has revealed that new regulations fuelled a 167.6m increase in the F1 teams' costs in 2016.
They rose 14.5% to hit a combined 1.3bn - the highest-ever total recorded in the sport.
F1 cars are designed the year before they race so the bulk of the investment in them is paid for then, too.
It means that the cost of this year's campaign is reflected in the teams' 2016 accounts and the final one of them was filed last week.
Eight of F1's ten teams have to file publicly-available accounts - the only exceptions are Ferrari as its outfit is run by the car manufacturer itself, and Swiss-based Sauber where firms don't have to release their finances.
The costs of the teams' operating companies came to an average of 165.9m in 2016, topped by Northamptonshire-based Mercedes which spent 274.9m excluding the investment in its engines.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption F1 teams' costs rose 14.5% to hit 1.3bn last year It is the highest ever total recorded on the accounts of a British F1 team and even eclipses the turbocharged spending levels before the 2008 economic crash which drove Toyota and Honda out of the sport.
At the other end of the spectrum is last year's new entrant Haas F1 which spent a third as much as the championship leaders.
Haas has managed to keep its costs down by taking advantage of a new rule allowing teams to buy in more parts than before.
Haas uses a Ferrari engine with a chassis created by Italian manufacturer Dallara which also makes the cars for the F2 junior series.
Relying on suppliers reduces research and development expenditure which, along with staffing and engine costs, is one of their biggest costs - it rose across the board in 2016 as teams had to design cars to meet the new regulations.
They were introduced by F1's governing body the Federation Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) to address criticism that the outcome of races was clear before they started due to the dominance of Mercedes.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Haas has kept costs down by buying in more parts than before With Hamilton at the wheel it has won both the constructors' and the drivers' championship for the past three years running.
This year is set to be no different but there has been a far higher price to pay.
Writing in the introduction to its accounts Mercedes' team boss Toto Wolff notes that there has been "an increase of 27.9m in operating costs mainly due to the impact of technical regulation changes and movement in foreign exchange rates".
The 2016 accounts for Force India, also based in Northamptonshire, give more insight into the effort required to meet the new rules.
It says that combined with the change in tyre-sizes "our traditional method of retaining 50% of the previous season's car and updating the remaining 50% is not possible for 2017".
Over 90% of Force India's car this year is completely new.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Force India has helped cover its increased costs with cash from driver Nikita Mazepin The team planned to cover its increased costs with income from an unlikely source: a driver contract signed with Russian youngster, Nikita Mazepin, "secured a cash injection ahead of significant regulation changes ahead of the 2017 season", said Force India.
Mazepin was just 16 when he signed up last year and he has tested for the team twice since then, most recently in July after the Hungarian Grand Prix.
He has ample resources to pay as his father Dmitry became a billionaire through owning the mineral fertiliser producer Uralchem.
Despite this, Force India still chalked up a net loss of 11.6m - the largest of any team in 2016.
The regulation changes even dented the bottom line of British manufacturing giant McLaren.
Its went from a net 3.4m profit in 2015 to an after-tax loss of 3.2m the following year.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption For F1 teams, victory on the track is more important than making a profit Overall the teams made a combined net loss of 2m last year.
Perhaps surprisingly this is nothing new as unlike most businesses, profit is not the barometer of success in F1.
Instead teams judge their performance on racing results and tend to spend all of their income on this in a bid for victory.
Some even pump in more than they make, with additional funds usually coming from owners' pockets or debt.
The theory is that it is better to win and make no profit than make money and finish low in the standings.
Victory on track increases a team's ability to bring in more sponsorship,, as brands are prepared to pay more to be associated with a winner.
The teams' revenue generally comes from three sources with two providing the lion's share.
They are fuelled by F1's huge television audience (390m viewers last year).
The first key revenue source is sponsorship which comprises around a third of the teams' revenue, Another third comes from prize money.
F1's parent company, which is owned by American investment firm Liberty Media, pays the teams around 66% of its annual profits as prize money and it came to $985.5m (742m) in 2016.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Despite numerous failed attempts there are new proposals to introduce a budget cap for F1 teams Payments from owners represent around half of the teams' remaining revenue and the marketing benefit from the exposure on TV compensates for this investment.
If costs increase these payments often rise to compensate and last year Red Bull poured in four times more money into its flagship team.
Its investment into Red Bull Racing hit 40.6m as costs surged 9.2% to 197m.
As its owner has deep pockets Red Bull Racing doesn't need to rely on drivers who pay but income from them is the remaining source of revenue for F1 teams.
They are a hallmark of teams at the bottom of the grid but their days could be numbered.
Despite numerous failed attempts F1 hasn't given up on introducing a budget cap and recent reports suggest that Liberty Media will shortly present plans to the teams for introduction in 2021 when their current race contracts expire.
But it will be the sport's governing body, the FIA, that will ultimately decide on any changes A limit of 114m has been suggested and this would level the playing field as the smallest teams are already below this whilst the frontrunners would have to scale back.
Although it may seem like a logical direction for the sport to go in it would make the recent boost in spending seem all the more pointless.
