The massive asteroid that is thought to have wiped out the dinosaurs was one of the most significant events in Earth's history, and without it there's a really good chance humans might never have existed at all.
With that in mind, it's hard to imagine how the space rock's impact could have been even more devastating than scientists have assumed, but new research suggests exactly that, and paints an even more dire picture of what life was like on Earth in the years that followed.
Results of the study, which focused largely on the impact of the asteroid itself and the amount of various gasses that were ejected during the event, was published in Geophysical Research Letters.
To get an idea of just how dramatic the climate shift would have been in the days, months, and years following the impact, scientists have relied on computer models of the collision.
The data comes from knowledge of the impact site, which is now the Chicxulub crater located near the tip of the Yucatan Peninsula in present day Mexico.
Previous computer models of the asteroid strike were not as refined as the new version, which takes into account the speed of the gasses that were released.
The velocity at which the various material was sent skyward has a huge impact on whether or not it was able to enter the atmosphere and affect the climate on a longer scale.
The antiquated models simply assumed all gas that was ejected made it into the atmosphere, which doesn't appear to have been the case.
According to this newest round of data, the impact would have released significantly more sulfur gas than previously though, by a factor of three, which would have had a devastating effect on Earth's temperatures.
Previous estimates suggested the planet's temperature plummeted by as much as 47 degrees Fahrenheit, which would have spelled doom for many, many species, but this new study hints that it might have been even colder than that.
It's terrifying to consider what would happen to humanity if such an event were to take place today, and we've been incredibly fortunate to not have a repeat thus far, but we can never be certain what the future holds.
What killed off the Neanderthals?
It's a big debate, and now a study says that no matter what the answer, they were doomed anyway.
Our close evolutionary cousins enjoyed a long run in Europe and Asia, but they disappeared about 40,000 years ago after modern humans showed up from Africa.
The search for an explanation has produced many theories including climate change, epidemics, or inability to compete with the modern humans, who may have had some mental or cultural edge.
The new study isn't intended to argue against those factors, but just to show that they're not needed to explain the extinction, says Oren Kolodny of Stanford University.
He and colleague Marcus Feldman present their approach in a paper released Tuesday by the journal Nature Communications.
They based their conclusion on a computer simulation that represented small bands of Neanderthals and modern humans in Europe and Asia.
These local populations were randomly chosen to go extinct, and then be replaced by another randomly chosen population, with no regard for whether it represented the same species.
Neither species was assumed to have any inherent advantage, but there was one crucial difference: Unlike the Neanderthals, the modern humans were supplemented by reinforcements coming in from Africa.
It wasn't a huge wave, but rather "a tiny, tiny trickle of small bands," Kolodny said.
Still, that was enough to tip the balance against the Neanderthals.
They generally went extinct when the simulation was run more than a million times under a variety of assumptions.
If survival was a game of chance, "it was rigged by the fact that there's recurring migration," Kolodny said.
"The game was doomed to end with the Neanderthals losing."
Kolodny said the evidence that such migrations actually occurred is suggestive rather than conclusive.
Such migrations would not be expected to leave much of an archaeological trace, he said.
Experts in human origins said the paper could help scientists pin down the various factors that led to the Neanderthals' demise.
It fits in with other recent attempts to explain the extinction without assuming behavioral differences between Neanderthals and our ancestors, said Wil Roebroeks of the University of Leiden in the Netherlands.
The notion of such differences is largely disproven, he said.
Katerina Harvati of the University of Tuebingen in Germany said while the new work could be useful in solving the extinction mystery, it doesn't address the question of why modern humans dispersed from Africa into Europe and Asia.
It's important to figure out what was behind that, she said in an email.
Chill-proofed divers are about to plunge beneath the Ross Ice Shelf in Antarctica in an attempt to figure out how global warming is affecting the diverse array of life that hangs out there.
And for the first time, they are recording 360-degree video of the entire six-week expedition to create a virtual-reality experience of the mysterious polar environment above and below the ice.
"The aim of the outreach is to raise awareness about the unique and fragile Antarctic coastal under-ice ecosystems and the broader effect climate change might have on the ecosystems and the whole planet," Alf Norkko, a marine biologist at Helsinki University, said in a statement.
Norkko is one of three Finnish members of the expedition, along with University of Helsinki marine biologist Joanna Norkko, who is also married to Alf Norkko, and the explorer and photographer Patrick Degerman, which set out Thursday (Oct. 26) from Scott Base in Antarctica.
[In Photos: Diving Beneath Antarctica's Ross Ice Shelf] In addition to their scientific studies and diving duties beneath the ice shelf, the Finnish team members are responsible for shooting the 360-degree video and keeping the world informed through a series of regular updates, photographs and videos on their Facebook page.
Science under the ice Last week, the team from Finland joined six researchers from New Zealand's National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research and the University of Auckland at Scott Base, on Ross Island in McMurdo Sound in the New Zealand Antarctic territory, a short distance from the large U.S. Antarctic base, McMurdo Station.
The digital equipment for the social media component of the expedition includes 32 cameras, three drones, a remote-controlled drone submarine and "countless" batteries, the team said.
Their updates, photographs and digital recordings will be sent from the field through scheduled communications over satellite telephone to a back-up team at the University of Helsinki.
They also have five 360-degree video cameras to shoot the virtual-reality record of their work, which will become available in early 2018, after it can be processed and edited back in Finland.
Bad weather and low visibility delayed their departure for several days, but yesterday, the expedition members made the journey to their first camp on the Ross Ice Shelf, near New Harbour in the Ross Sea, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) from Scott Base.
[Antarctica: 100 Years of Exploration (Infographic)] Joanna Norkko told Live Science in an email that the expedition team would spend about 20 days diving and taking samples from the sea floor at New Harbour before moving on to a second site on the ice at Cape Evans on Ross Island, about 18 miles (30 km) from Scott Base.
Depending on the weather and ice conditions, the team would reach the new site either by helicopter, or by traversing the sea ice, with the expedition equipment being pulled by Hgglund and PistenBully snow vehicles, she said.
The gear for the entire nine-member expedition was considerable, Joanna Norkko added: "scientific gear, camera equipment, computers, dive gear, dive compressors, hole-melters, generators, heaters, two skidoos for transport around the camp tents, sleeping bags, personal clothing, kitchen gear, cookers, a few hundred kilos of food, first aid supplies, radios, satellite phones, [a] toilet tent, pee canisters and poo buckets, and lots of fuel."
Southernmost ecosystem Both sites on the Ross Ice Shelf were chosen because they will allow comparison studies to be made with the results of previous expeditions, Joanna Norkko explained.
[Life on the Edge: Photos from Drilling the Ross Ice Shelf] "The objective of this diving expedition is to examine the sensitivity of Antarctic seafloor communities to climate change," Norkko said.
"This area is special, because it is the most southerly marine ecosystem on the planet."
The team made their first visit to the sites in 2001 and several times since then.
"Each time the seafloor communities have been sampled in a standardized way, so these sites are so-called monitoring sites [where] we can start assessing whether there have been any changes," she said.
Seven of the nine-member team would be diving beneath the ice, and they hoped to complete four dives each day by two-person diving teams, for a total of 60 dives during their six weeks of fieldwork on the ice shelf, Joanna Norkko said.
Safety while diving under the ice will be a top priority, she said: Whenever two divers enter the water, one safety diver will be suited up on the surface and ready to jump in immediately if there is a problem.
The divers will also be attached to ropes and can communicate with team members at the surface through rope pulls, she said.
The water temperatures will be around 28.6 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 1.9 degrees Celsius), which is below the normal freezing point because of the high salinity so the divers could get very cold in a 45-minutes dive despite their thick diving suits, she said.
There is also a danger of their metal regulators freezing up, which means they have to carry extra tanks and regulators.
In addition, for each dive the expedition members will need to melt two access holes into 10-foot-thick (3 meters) ice, so that one could be used as a safety hole if the divers could not return through the main hole, she said.
"The greatest risk is posed by seals, who in general are harmless, but who might take a fancy to our nice dive holes and just decide to occupy them," Joanna Norkko said.
"A 300-kilogram [660 lb.]
seal that does not want to move away from your dive hole is a bit of a problem."
Original article on Live Science.
"What we are witnessing is the power and unpredictability of nature," the BBC quotes Jane Francis of the British Antarctic Survey as saying.
For the second Antarctic winter in a row, the Halley VI research station will be closed as two giant cracks continue to spread across the 500-foot-thick Brunt ice shelf.
In a press release, BAS calls it a "complex and unpredictable glaciological situation."
The first crack started moving north in 2012 after 30 years of dormancy and has sped up in the last half a year, the Guardian reports.
The second, the "Halloween crack," has been moving east since appearing in October 2016 and is now more than 30 miles long.
The European Spacey Agency has a map of both cracks and the location of Halley VI created from satellite images.
Halley VI will be closed between March and November 2018.
Francis says it would be difficult to rescue the station's 14 staffers should the ice shelf break apart during winter's permanent darkness and frozen seas.
"The safety of our staff is our priority in these circumstances," she says.
In the meantime, staffers arriving for the summer season this week plan to install automated experiments that can run on a generator unsupervised during the winter.
But that's easier said than done.
"For it to keep running at -50C with nobody around to chip the ice off it or keep the snow away from it will be a significant challenge," David Vaughn at BAS tells the BBC.
The first Halley station was opened in 1956; the station collects data on climate, the ozone, and space weather.
(After 106 years in Antarctica, fruitcake still looks "like new.")
This article originally appeared on Newser: Fear for Antarctic Researchers' Safety as Ice Cracks Grow More From Newser
It's not quite the Norman conquest, but another invasion is worrying locals in West Wales.
Scores of octopuses have "walked" out of the Irish Sea and beached themselves on the sand in New Quay, Ceredigion, Wales Online reports.
The phenomenon has marine experts scratching their heads.
"We don't quite know what's causing it," says Brett Jones, owner of a local dolphin-watching tour company.
"They were walking on the tips of their legs," he adds.
More than 20 of the apparently confused creatures were reported on the sand on Friday night, and the Telegraph notes the migration continued the following two nights.
James Wright of the National Marine Aquarium in Plymouth says it is "quite odd" to see so many of the curled octopus, also called the horned octopus, on the same beach.
Wright says there were a few other octopus sightings last week in areas hit by storms.
Hurricane Ophelia, then Brian, battered the Irish and Welsh coasts earlier this month.
The cephalopods, which the Guardian notes grow to about 20 inches, may be injured or sensitive "to a change in atmospheric pressure," Wright tells the Telegraph.
A marine biologist says "its hard to imagine" the wandering octopuses found a new food source on shore.
He speculates the solitary species may be looking to reproduce.
Dry land isn't hospitable to the creatures, who hide in rocks some 10 feet below the surface.
Since a number of the octopuses were dead, Jones hints they became stranded.
He's urging people to put any octopuses they come across in the future back in the sea.
(Squid and chips, anyone?)
This article originally appeared on Newser: Mysterious Octopus Invasion Rocks Beach in Wales
An incredible image released by NASA shows the Sun bearing a striking resemblance to a jack-o-lantern.
The image was captured on Oct. 8, 2014 by NASAs Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO), which watches the Sun at all times.
The orbiting space observatory was launched on Feb. 11, 2010.
'MONSTER' PLANET DISCOVERY STUNS SCIENTISTS Happy Halloween!
the space agency tweeted Tuesday with the stunning picture of the jack-o-lantern sun.
Active regions on the sun combined to look something like a jack-o-lanterns face, explained NASA, in a statement on its website.
The active regions in this image appear brighter because those are areas that emit more light and energy.
They are markers of an intense and complex set of magnetic fields hovering in the suns atmosphere, the corona, it added.
The image blends together two extreme sets of ultraviolet wavelengths, which are typically colorized in gold and yellow, to create an appearance resembling a jack-o-lantern, according to NASA.
The father of the famous baby hippo Fiona died Tuesday at the age of 36, the Cincinnati Zoo announced.
Henry was struggling with health issues for months and had lost "hundreds of pounds," according to the zoo.
After taking an "obvious downward turn" in the past few days, the zoo said Henry was weak and unsteady and staffers made the decision to euthanize the hippo after concluding his "quality of life would not improve."
Henry's death came after his daughter Fiona became a social media starlet when she was born six weeks early but managed to survive and thrive.
FISHERMAN CATCHES FISH THAT GREW AROUND A DRINK WRAPPER After watching Fiona fight, defy the odds and literally make history, it feels especially unfair and defeating to have to accept this outcome for Henry," Wendy Rice, Africa Head Keeper, said in a news release.
"While our time with him has been short in quantity, no one can deny that his quality of life before becoming ill was exceptional."
Henry had mated with Bibi, the zoos 18-year-old female hippo, and followed her everywhere.
The two were put together when the zoo's Hippo Cove exhibit opened in July 2016, and Fiona was born shortly after.
FLORIDA MAN SCARES BLACK BEAR OUT OF HIS GARAGE The zoo said Tuesday the average life expectancy for a Nile hippopotamus such as Henry is 35 years.
Officials plan a full necropsy to help veterinarians at the zoo understand what caused his death.
Astronomers have discovered a planet the size of Jupiter orbiting a star thats only half the size of the sun a celestial phenomenon that contradicts theories of planet formation.
NGTS-1b, a massive, 986-degrees-hot ball of gas revolving around a red M-dwarf star 600 light years from Earth, is the largest planet compared to the size of its star ever found.
The discovery contradicts theories that a star so small could form a planet so large.
Scientists previously theorized that small stars could form rocky planets, but they did not gather enough material to form planets the size of Jupiter.
STARGZERS FIND TWENTY NEW EARTH-LIKE PLANETS THAT COULD HOST LIFE As red M-dwarf stars are the most common type in the universe, scientists now believe there may be many more planets like this.
NGTS-1b was spotted by an international collaboration of researchers using the Next-Generation Transit Survey (NGTS) facility in Chile, according to a report from the University of Warwick.
It is about 2.8 million miles away from its star only 3 percent of the 93-million-mile distance between Earth and the sun.
A year on NGTS-1b the time it takes to revolve around its star occurs every 2.6 Earth days.
NASA RELEASES EERIE PLAYLIST OF SPELLBINDING SPACE SOUNDS "The discovery of NGTS-1b was a complete surprise to us.
Such massive planets were not thought to exist around such small stars, said the lead author of the research, Dr. Daniel Bayliss of the University of Warwicks Astronomy and Astrophysics Group.
This is the first exoplanet we have found with our new NGTS facility, and we are already challenging the received wisdom of how planets form.
NGTS-1b was difficult to find, despite being a monster of a planet, because its parent star is small and faint, said Warwick Professor Peter Wheatley.
Small stars are actually the most common in the universe, so it is possible that there are many of these giant planets waiting to found.
Having worked for almost a decade to develop the NGTS telescope array, it is thrilling to see it picking out new and unexpected types of planets.
I'm looking forward to seeing what other kinds of exciting new planets we can turn up.
SUNSCREEN 'SNOW' FALLS ON SCORCHING-HOT ALIEN PLANET The astronomers report, NGTS-1b: a hot Jupiter transiting an M-dwarf, will be published in the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.
Stargazers have discovered 20 worlds "hiding in plain sight" which they believe could be habitable.
Analysis of data from the Kepler space telescope revealed a list of planets that orbit stars like our own sun.
Each potential new world comes with varying orbit times, including one that takes the equivalent of 395 Earth days to circle its star and another which takes just 18.
The exoplanet with a 395-day year is one of the most exciting, according to Jeff Coughlin, the Kepler team leader who helped analyse the data.
It is about 97 per cent the size of Earth but colder and more like our tundra regions.
Despite its chilly climate, it is still warm and large enough to hold liquid water - which is vital for life.
Coughlin told New Scientist: "If you had to choose one to send a spacecraft to, its not a bad option."
The planets will form part of an investigation from the Hubble Space Telescope.
Earlier this year the Kepler spacecraft has detected 219 new exoplanet candidates and ten could be habitable.
There are around 4,034 observed potential planets in our galaxy, according to Nasa's Ames Research Center.
The centuries-old hunt for other worlds like our own was recently rejuvenated thanks to the Kepler Telescope, which is currently orbiting Earth.
Scientists have spotted thousands of contenders after sifting through data collected by the instrument.
They are hoping to find terrestrial planets - around one half to twice the size of our planet and in the habitable zone.
The Kepler telescope began observing a fixed point in the Milky Way back in 2009 but suffered a technical glitch that put an end to its work in 2013.
A second mission was launched again in 2014 and will continue to send data back until 2018.
There are high hopes that humans will soon colonise Mars, in our very own solar system.
Tesla billionaire has made public his bold plans to send humans to Mars by 2024.
This story originally appeared in The Sun.
The weirdness of exoplanets continues to amaze.
It snows titanium dioxide, one of the active ingredients in sunscreen, on one giant, scorching-hot alien world, a new study suggests.
Astronomers used NASA's Hubble Space Telescope to study Kepler-13Ab, a planet that's six times more massive than Jupiter and that lies 1,730 light-years from Earth.
[Hubble in Pictures: Astronomers' Top Picks (Photos)] Kepler-13Ab is very close to its host star, completing one orbit every 1.8 Earth days.
As a result, the planet is one of the hottest worlds known, with a dayside temperature of nearly 5,000 degrees Fahrenheit (2,760 degrees Celsius), researchers said.
(Like many other tightly orbiting worlds, Kepler-13Ab is "tidally locked," always showing the same face to its star.
So, it has a dayside and a nightside.)
The Hubble observations showed that temperatures higher up in Kepler-13Ab's atmosphere are cooler than those below a surprising result, given that other "hot Jupiter" exoplanets tend to display the opposite pattern.
On most hot Jupiters, gaseous titanium dioxide in the dayside's upper atmosphere absorbs starlight and radiates this energy as heat, warming the air up.
So, what's going on with Kepler-13Ab?
The study team thinks that strong winds carry the planet's titanium dioxide around to the nightside, where the stuff cools and condenses into clouds.
These clouds then drop the sunscreen "snow" into the lower atmosphere, where it stays, thanks to Kepler-13Ab's powerful gravity.
"These observations of Kepler-13Ab are telling us how condensates and clouds form in the atmospheres of very hot Jupiters, and how gravity will affect the composition of an atmosphere," study lead author Thomas Beatty, an assistant research professor of astronomy at Pennsylvania State University, said in a statement.
"When looking at these planets, you need to know not only how hot they are, but also what their gravity is like."
The "cold trap" process invoked for Kepler-13Ab had never been seen in action on an exoplanet before, researchers said.
The new study, which was published in the October 2017 issue of The Astronomical Journal, could eventually help astronomers better understand exoplanets more like our own, Beatty added.
"In many ways, the atmospheric studies we're doing now on these gaseous, 'hot Jupiter' kinds of planets are test beds for how we're going to do atmospheric studies of terrestrial, Earth-like planets," he said in the same statement.
"Understanding more about the atmospheres of these planets and how they work will help us when we study smaller planets that are harder to see and have more-complicated features in their atmospheres."
As its name suggests, Kepler-13Ab was discovered by NASA's planet-hunting Kepler space telescope, back in 2011.
The planet is part of a triple-star system that includes the hot Jupiter's host star, Kepler-13A, and two companion stars (Kepler-13B and Kepler-13C).
Originally published on Space.com.
To start, the scientists captured 14 wild pregnant Egyptian fruit bats, a highly social and vocal species commonly found in the Middle East.
Each mother gave birth in one of three chambers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In these chambers, the researchers played different soundtracks to the pups continuously, starting from birth.
The tracks sampled calls from actual bats, each mimicking a cave or tree roost with 300 bats in it, but featured different ranges of pitch.
For a few months, the bat mothers were also kept in the chambers and would regularly communicate with their offspring.
But at 14 weeks, when a pup would normally become independent in the wild, the mothers were set free.
At this point, the researchers started recording the pups vocalizations every few months until the bats reached adulthood.
Over time, the scientists found, the three pup groups took on distinct dialects.
When we examined the dialects more carefully, we found that they were similar to what the bats were hearing the high-pitched group shifted toward higher-pitched calls and the low-pitched group shifted toward lower-pitched calls, Dr. Yovel said.
Photo He added that the difference between the calls the bats learned from their mothers and the ones they adopted from the soundtracks could be considered similar to the difference between New England and Texan accents.
And while its not known whether bat colonies in different locations naturally communicate with varying frequencies, Dr. Yovel said, our findings suggest they do.
Next, his team wants to see how dialects affect the bats social behaviors.
If I teach a few bats a new dialect and then send them into a new colony, how will they be treated?
he said.
The research also touches on broader evolutionary questions, like whether human vocal learning emerged independently, or whether its a more primitive behavior, spread across the mammalian kingdom, Dr. Yovel said.
So far, aside from bats, vocal learning has anecdotally been reported in just a few other nonhuman mammals, including whales, seals and other primates.
Mirjam Knrnschild, a bat expert at the Free University of Berlin who was not involved in the study, suspects vocal learning takes place in far more species.
The departure from the classical songbird model intrigued me most about this paper, she said.
I think vocal plasticity, or vocal learning, is something not rare, but prominent, in the lives of many animals.
Photo The ocean is full of plastic.
Eight million tons are dumped in the seas every year.
Plastic bags have been found in the guts of dead sea turtles, which mistake them for jellyfish.
More than 200 species have been documented eating plastic, which looks colorful and edible but can kill them.
In lab experiments, even tiny corals, the organisms that make up reefs, have been observed nibbling on a confetti of broken down plastic fragments similar to what swirls through the depths.
But they arent just eating whatever floats by.
Instead, according to a new study in Marine Pollution Bulletin, some of the chemicals infused in the plastic may actually taste like food to the corals.
It isnt yet clear how much plastic is consumed by corals in the wild, or what harm it might do to these important marine organisms, which are already threatened by environmental dangers like warming seas and pollution.
But understanding why plastic might appeal to them is important, especially because some particles appear to get stuck in the corals, potentially disrupting their digestive process.
Hundreds of chemicals are mixed into plastics to achieve certain textures or other characteristics.
Because the corals sense the presence of food with receptors, it would not be all that surprising if some chemical additives mimicked substances that set off the corals appetites, suggested Alexander Seymour and Austin Allen, who were both graduate students at Duke University when they led this study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In their experiment, the researchers offered corals collected from North Carolinas coastal waters two different kinds of plastic to see what would be more popular: plastic dipped in seawater and covered with a thin layer of bacteria, or weathered plastic without added bacteria.
The corals seemed to prefer the bacteria-free plastic, ingesting more of it than the other shards.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The difference between the consumption of the two plastics could come down to the concentrations of additive chemicals.
Perhaps the microbes on the first set of plastic kept those added compounds from reaching the corals as swiftly.
Or maybe the microbes produced substances that kept the corals from eating them as quickly.
Daniel Rittschof, the pairs adviser, and other members of the lab are now working to verify whether specific substances in plastic are tasty to marine invertebrates.
Finding out what these are and how they work could have far-reaching implications.
Photo WASHINGTON Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, stripped a half-dozen scientists and academics of advisory positions Tuesday and issued new rules barring anyone who receives E.P.A.
grant money from serving on panels that counsel the agency on scientific decisions.
The move will effectively bar a large number of academic researchers, many of them experts in fields ranging from toxicology to epidemiology, from advising the E.P.A.
on scientific matters, since the agency is one of the largest funders of environmental research.
Mr. Pruitt was expected to appoint several industry representatives to the panels.
He did not impose any new restrictions to prevent them from offering advice on environmental regulations that may affect their businesses.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
In an announcement at agency headquarters surrounded by conservative activists and Republican lawmakers who have long called for an overhaul of the advisory boards, Mr. Pruitt said he made the decision to ensure the agency would receive data and advice free from conflicts of interest or any appearance of a conflict.
He said that people currently serving on E.P.A.
advisory boards had received $77 million in grant money over the past three years as they were issuing advice on policy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Our focus should be sound science, not political science, Mr. Pruitt said.
We want to ensure independence.
Allowing fishing in the few protected seamounts left would be a huge mistake, said Dr. Roark.
Its a sentiment widely shared among marine ecologists.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Trump administration is considering rolling back federal protections for 10 national monuments, including two in the central Pacific.
The Pacific Remote Islands National Marine Monument and the Rose Atoll National Marine Monument protect the waters around a handful of islands, most uninhabited, to the south of the Hawaiian Islands.
The shore reefs of the islands have long been protected from commercial fishing; the monument designations extended that protection to 50 miles from shore in some cases and 200 miles in others.
According to a memo obtained by The Washington Post in September, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has recommended that the designations of the Pacific Remote Islands and the Rose Atoll be amended to allow commercial fishing.
(A similar recommendation was made for another marine monument, the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts, off the coast of New England.)
The memo did not mention the largest marine reserve: Papahnaumokukea, a string of mostly uninhabited atolls and reefs that have been largely undisturbed since World War II.
At about 583,000 square miles, it is the largest protected area on the planet.
(Industry officials in Hawaii are pressing for commercial fishing to be allowed there, too.)
Papahanaumokuakea M.N.M.
JAPAN HAWAII Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument (M.N.M.)
Marianas Trench M.N.M.
AMERICAN SAMOA Rose Atoll M.N.M.
FIJI AUSTRALIA Many scientists see these marine reserves as among the last rich, untouched ecosystems where they can study the effects of climate change in isolation from the impacts of overfishing or pollution.
The fishing industry here in Hawaii sees it differently.
A driving force behind the administrations reconsideration is an obscure but powerful quasi-governmental organization called the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council, or Wespac, based in Honolulu.
The council has jurisdiction over the waters where 140 long-line vessels based in Hawaii as well as a handful in American Samoa fish mostly for tuna and billfish.
Wespac has argued that limits on catch, gear and fishing seasons are the best tools to regulate fishing and to ensure that the Pacific yields the maximum sustainable harvests.
Over the years, the council has strongly opposed the creation and expansions of each of the marine monuments.
This year, the council has embraced a new slogan: Make America Great Again: Return U.S. fishermen to U.S. waters.
In a presentation to members of the other fisheries councils in February, Wespac officials claimed the marine monuments curtailed economic growth and compromised national food security.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ray Hilborn, a fisheries expert at the University of Washington and a scientific adviser to Wespac, argues that tuna and billfish are highly migratory and travel in and out of the reserves.
The monuments just force the fishermen to go farther and spend more fuel to catch the same fish, he said in an interview.
Its a fake protection.
Photo Asked whether Wespac sought to reintroduce fishing only in monument waters or also in near-shore reefs, Kitty Simonds, the longtime executive director, said in an email that the council also would review the management measures that were in place before the monument designation and may recommend changes.
The fishing industry in Hawaii is hardly in trouble, several experts noted.
Indeed, the Hawaii fleets bigeye tuna catch has doubled since 2006, even though half of Americas Pacific waters are now off-limits to fishing.
Robert Richmond, a marine ecologist at the University of Hawaii, pointed out that the Hawaii fleet filled its yearly quota of bigeye in August this year, so they obviously dont need more space to fish.
Theyre just against all protected areas on principle.
Over 500 million people depend on reefs for protein, Dr. Richmond said, and they already yield far less than they could if they were sustainably fished.
Reef ecosystems may become even less productive as the ocean gets warmer and more acidic.
Dr. Richmond and other scientists also took issue with Dr. Hilborns criticism of marine monuments.
They say the reserves serve as havens for species depleted elsewhere and for populations migrating away from the Equator, where warming waters are lowering plankton density.
The fisheries benefits of marine reserves are now beyond doubt, Callum Roberts, a marine conservation biologist at the University of York, said in an email.
They allow fish populations to grow back and spill fish into surrounding waters, they pour fountains of offspring into ocean currents that seed fisheries, and they provide resilience to environmental shocks.
The tools favored by fisheries officials target a few species to the neglect of others, he added, while reserve benefits reach entire ecosystems.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story One of the islands on Mr. Zinkes list is Palmyra, an atoll that lies 1,000 miles south of Hawaii and is part of the Pacific Remote Islands National Marine Monument.
The Nature Conservancy has been running a marine lab there since 2005, the only site with housing and a runway for small aircraft located in one of the most untouched tropical marine ecosystems in the world.
When hundreds of thousands of publications appear in predatory journals, it stretches credulity to believe all the authors and universities they work for are victims, Derek Pyne, an economics professor at Thompson Rivers University in British Columbia, wrote in a op-ed published in the Ottawa Citizen, a Canadian newspaper.
The number of such journals has exploded to more than 10,000 in recent years, with nearly as many predatory as legitimate ones.
Predatory publishing is becoming an organized industry, wrote one group of critics in a paper in Nature.
Many of these journals have names that closely resemble those of established publications, making them easily mistakable.
There is the Journal of Economics and Finance, published by Springer, but now also the Journal of Finance and Economics.
There is the Journal of Engineering Technology, put out by the American Society for Engineering Education, but now another called the GSTF Journal of Engineering Technology.
Predatory journals have few expenses, since they do not seriously review papers that are submitted and they publish only online.
They blast emails to academics, inviting them to publish.
And the journals often advertise on their websites that they are indexed by Google Scholar.
Often that is correct but Google Scholar does not vet the journals it indexes.
The journals are giving rise to a wider ecosystem of pseudo science.
For the academic who wants to add credentials to a rsum, for instance, publishers also hold meetings where, for a hefty fee, you can be listed as a presenter whether you actually attend the meeting or not.
One of those meetings, held in New York in June by a group called the World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, seemed more like a Potemkin village.
On the publishers website, the convention promised to be large and lavish.
But when I visited, the only venue was a small windowless room on the sixth floor of a hotel undergoing renovation.
A handful of people sat in the room, diligently listening to a talk.
Most who were listed on the program were not in attendance.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Participating in such dubious enterprises carries few risks.
Dr. Pyne, who did a study of his colleagues publications, reports that faculty members at his school who got promoted last year had at least four papers in questionable journals.
All but one academic in 10 who won a School of Business and Economics award had published papers in these journals.
One had 10 such articles.
Academics get rewarded with promotions when they stuff their rsums with articles like these, Dr. Pyne concluded.
There are few or no adverse consequences in fact, the rewards for publishing in predatory journals were greater than for publishing in legitimate ones.
Dr. Pyne does not know what role those studies played in the promotions.
But, he said, I can say that such publications do not seem to hurt promotion prospects.
Tensions over this kind of scholarship have spilled over Queensborough Community College, part of CUNY, the City University of New York.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Although it is hardly known for its research, college administrators urge the faculty to publish.
Recently a group of concerned professors complained that nearly a dozen colleagues have repeatedly published in at least one of the dubious journals and have been promoted and rewarded for it.
Noting that a number of these papers apparently depended on federal and city funds, the professors brought the matter to the attention of the vice chancellor for research and even wrote to the New York State inspector generals office.
The school referred inquiries to its head librarian, Jeanne Galvin.
Just as with many colleges, faculty submit their work for publication in a variety of journals based on individual judgment, she said in an email.
Queensborough offers several advisory resources, such as workshops and individual consultation with expert librarians.
The research that I have seen published by our faculty is of the highest quality.
Some say the academic system bears much of the blame for the rise of predatory journals, demanding publications even from teachers at places without real resources for research and where they may have little time apart from teaching.
At Queensborough, faculty members typically teach nine courses per year.
At four-year colleges, faculty may teach four to six courses a year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Yet every university requires some level of publication, said Lawrence DiPaolo, vice president of academic affairs at Neumann University in Aston, Pa.
Recently a group of researchers invented a fake academic: Anna O. Szust.
The name in Polish means fraudster.
Dr. Szust applied to legitimate and predatory journals asking to be an editor.
She supplied a rsum in which her publications and degrees were total fabrications, as were the names of the publishers of the books she said she had contributed to.
The legitimate journals rejected her application immediately.
But 48 out of 360 questionable journals made her an editor.
Four made her editor in chief.
One journal sent her an email saying, Its our pleasure to add your name as our editor in chief for the journal with no responsibilities.
The lead author of the Dr. Szust sting operation, Katarzyna Pisanski, a psychologist at the University of Sussex in England, said the question of what motivates people to publish in such journals is a touchy subject.
If you were tricked by spam email you might not want to admit it, and if you did it wittingly to increase your publication counts you might also not want to admit it, she said in an email.
The consequences of participating can be more than just a rsum freckled with poor-quality papers and meeting abstracts.
Publications become part of the body of scientific literature.
There are indications that some academic institutions are beginning to wise up to the dangers.
Dewayne Fox, an associate professor of fisheries at Delaware State University, sits on a committee at his school that reviews job applicants.
One recent applicant, he recalled, listed 50 publications in such journals and is on the editorial boards of some of them.
A few years ago, he said, no one would have noticed.
But now he and others on search committees at his university have begun scrutinizing the publications closely to see if the journals are legitimate.
If something gets published in one of these journals and its complete garbage, it can develop a life of its own, Dr. Fox said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Think about human medicine and how much is on the line.
When people publish something that is not replicable, it can have health impacts.
For the first time that we know, an interstellar visitor has zoomed through our solar system.
The small space rock, tentatively called A/2017 U1, is about a quarter of a mile long and astronomers across the world are racing to study it before it departs just as quickly as it arrived.
Weve never seen anything like this before, said Rob Weryk, an astronomer at the University of Hawaii Institute for Astronomy.
On Oct. 19, Dr. Weryk was reviewing images captured by the universitys Pan-STARRS 1 telescope on the island of Maui when he came across the object.
At first he thought it was a type of space rock known as a near earth object, but he realized its motion did not make sense.
It was much faster than any asteroid or comet he had seen before.
He quickly realized that it was not of this solar system.
Its moving so fast that the Sun cant capture it into an orbit, Dr. Weryk said.
After contacting a colleague at the European Space Agency to discuss the find, he submitted it to the Minor Planet Center, which tracks objects in the solar system, to share with other astronomers.
Photo I was not expecting to see anything like this during my career, even though we knew it was possible and that these objects exist, said Davide Farnocchia, a navigational engineer with NASAs Center for Near-Earth Object Studies at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.
It shows that the world of dinosaurs wasnt so crazily far from what we could imagine today, said Fiann Smithwick, a doctoral student at the University of Bristol and lead author of the study.
Photo A couple of years ago, Mr. Smithwicks adviser, Jakob Vinther, went to China and took high resolution images of Sinosauropteryx specimens under specially polarized light, which brought out their colors.
The dark feathers the only ones that were preserved on the fossils were filled with melanin, the same pigment that colors our hair and skin.
It is a strong molecule that is resistant to decay and can survive in fossils for hundreds of millions of years.
Mr. Smithwick mapped the pigmented feathers on the fossils, finding that the Sinosauropteryx had brownish feathers covering its back and sides that stopped about halfway down its body.
The rest of the feathers were most likely lightly colored.
The color pattern is a form of camouflage known as countershading, and on the Sinosauropteryx the transition from dark to light happened relatively high on the body.
Mr. Smithwick said that the pattern could provide insight into the type of environment where the dinosaur lived.
He made 3D models of the dinosaurs color shading and tested them under different types of light to see where they would perform best as camouflage.
He found that the pattern was most useful in open environments where sunlight is coming straight from above with little interference.
When sunlight illuminates an animals top, it also keeps its underside in shadow, he said.
This means that when something is looking at it, whether a predator or prey, the animal is seen as a three-dimensional object.
More Reporting on Paleontology But countershading distorts the shadows in a way that makes the animal look less three-dimensional, and harder to spot.
Animals that live in open, grassy environments have sharp transitions high on their body, from dark to light.
But those that live in wooded or forested areas, like deer, tend to have a more gradual transition that appears much lower on the body.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The research suggests that countershading is not a modern evolutionary development, but a timeless camouflage technique.
Mr. Smithwick added that the dark feathers around the eyes indicate that Sinosauropteryx had bandit masks, most famously seen in raccoons, but also in some badgers, ferrets and red pandas.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Researchers tend to think mammals use the patches as warning signs that tell predators they are aggressive and not to be messed with.
But Mr. Smithwick thinks Sinosauropteryx used its eye patches either as camouflage or to block glare, like athletes who paint dark stripes under their eyes to reduce incoming sunlight.
Steve Brusatte, a paleontologist at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland who was not involved in the study, said the research was a leap forward in paleontologists understanding of Sinosauropteryx.
We knew before that its feathers were vibrantly patterned, but this study shows that it was countershaded and even striped, Dr. Brusatte said in an email.
These findings breathe life into this dinosaur.
Here we start to see human interaction with some nasty earthquakes and tsunamis, said James Goff, a retired geologist at the University of New South Wales Sydney and author of the study.
Papua New Guinea occupies the eastern half of a large, bountiful island just north of Australia (the western side is part of Indonesia).
In 1998, after decades of relative geological quiet, a devastating tsunami rocked the country, killing more than 2,000 people.
This huge volume of water struck the coast and swept away everything, said John Terrell, an anthropologist at the Field Museum in Chicago who has completed research in the country and is a co-author on the paper.
The villages I knew and loved were sheared off.
Photo Following the tsunami, Dr. Goff and some colleagues went to the country to assess the damage.
The visit helped spark his interest in investigating whether there was a link between ancient tsunamis and the Aitape skull.
After struggling for almost two decades to get funding for the project, he returned to the island in 2014 to explore the rain forests and crystal clear creek where Dr. Hossfeld had discovered the skull 85 years earlier.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Hossfeld had left detailed notes about where he had found the skull, which helped guide Dr. Goff and his team as they collected samples from the same sediment layer at a nearby river-cut cliff.
Back at the lab, they performed geochemical analysis to determine whether the sediment level had been deposited by a tsunami 6,000 years ago.
Because they had previously analyzed geochemical signals from sediment on the island following the 1998 tsunami, the team knew which clues to look for, like grain size and composition.
They found that the sediment collected from the skull site contained fossilized deep sea diatoms.
These microscopic organisms were a telltale sign that ocean water had drowned the area at some point.
The researchers also found geochemical signals that matched the signatures they collected in 1998, offering additional evidence that a tsunami had struck around 6,000 years ago.
Bang!
Right where the diatoms were looking very sexy and youre getting excited, you have a signal that says, Hi, Im seawater, said Dr. Goff.
More Reporting on Archaeology He said the findings checked all the boxes for a tragic tsunami tale.
Yes, this was a tsunami.
And yes, this is most probably a tsunami victim, and he or she is the oldest one we know.
Sue Dawson, a geographer the University of Dundee in Scotland who studies tsunami sedimentation, said that the teams diatom evidence was similar to what she found examining sediments in Papua New Guinea after the 1998 tsunami and could be suggestive of a tsunami flooding the area.
But she added that the findings do not rule out that the skull could have belonged to someone who died before the tsunami occurred and whose grave was disturbed by the event.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ethan Cochrane, an archaeologist at the University of Auckland in New Zealand and an author of the paper, questioned that alternative scenario.
Tsunamis do not rip up the ground enough to remove already buried bodies and put them into suspension and transport them, he said, pointing to findings from rescue efforts with recent tsunamis.
Overwhelmingly, the dead you find were killed by the tsunami.
The geochemistry analysis supported the authors conclusions, another scientist not involved in the study said, although he added that it didnt contribute much to our understanding of the dangers posed by tsunamis.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It is more of an intriguing geological snapshot of an ancient catastrophic event, said Iain Stewart, a geologist at the University of Plymouth in England.
As the seasons change, a riot of red shows up in the world around us, showcasing some of the most vivid hues that plant biochemistry can create.
The red pigments in maple leaves, called anthocyanins, are the same kind that light up the cranberries you might cook for a Thanksgiving feast or the ruddy apples youd put in a pie.
But as you slide a tray of beets into the oven to roast, youll be seeing something thats completely different at the molecular level.
Beets, it turns out, have evolved another, separate way of being red.
In a paper published in New Phytologist, biologists recently reported that they have discovered a key step in the evolution of this process, which not only helps explain the origins of a brilliant natural color, but could have uses far beyond brightening your dinner table.
The pigments that give red beets their incandescent tint are called betalains.
Theyre made using an amino acid called tyrosine, the starting material for thousands of compounds made by plants.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Plants modify tyrosine by adding other molecules to create an enormous array of useful substances.
This is how morphine is made in the opium poppy, and mescaline in cactuses.
Intrigued by this process, Hiroshi Maeda, a professor at University of Wisconsin and senior author on the paper, collaborated with beet experts to study how the plants make betalains from tyrosine.
The debates importance, though, may ultimately go well beyond the fate of the Arctic refuge.
Analysts say Senator Murkowskis stance symbolizes a fundamental challenge of climate politics: How to bridge the gap between moderate Republicans from states reliant on fossil fuels on one side, and Democrats and environmental activists on the other.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
To move on the climate front in Washington youre going to need to bring a non-trivial number of Republicans into a coalition, which means there has to be compromises, said Jerry Taylor, president of the Niskanen Center, a libertarian think tank.
Were going to have to address conservative concerns and policy demands.
Its not unfair for environmentalists to argue that if you take climate change seriously, it simply requires the rapid decarbonization of the economy.
Full stop.
Climate change is real and demands a policy response, Mr. Taylor said.
Of Senator Murkowski, he added, Her skepticism is about that policy response.
Anything thats going to increase oil and gas prices is something shes going to be very skeptical about.
Senator Murkowski has walked a delicate line on climate change for much of her 15 years in Congress.
She routinely acknowledges that the climate is changing and that warming poses a threat to Alaska.
This year, she urged President Trump not to withdraw from the Paris agreement.
But she also has championed natural gas exports, expanding offshore and onshore drilling and the 2016 lifting of a 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports.
She has introduced legislation to open the Arctic wilderness every term she has served in the Senate.
The senator, for her part, said she sees no inconsistencies in her views.
I think for anybody who has spent any time in Alaska, there is an awareness that we all have that we are seeing the impacts of climate change perhaps more readily than in other parts of the country because of our Arctic environment, Senator Murkowski said in an interview.
But were also a place where we recognize that in order to stay warm, we have to have a resource that can keep us warm, and oil has been a mainstay for us, she said.
Weve provided it to the country and that has allowed for jobs and revenues, it has allowed for schools and roads and institutions that everybody else around the country enjoys.
Money from oil and gas development is a critical source of income in Alaska.
Since the completion of the trans-Alaska Oil Pipeline in 1977, petroleum revenues have averaged more than 85 percent of the state budget.
According to the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, petroleum supports a third of all jobs in the state.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Champions of opening the refuge assert that shifting Alaskas economy will take time, and, despite gains in renewable power, the reality is that oil will be around for decades to come.
On Thursday, the debate over the Arctic refuge begins in earnest.
A budget blueprint passed by the House and Senate in recent weeks has set the stage for Republicans to overhaul the tax code with the support of only 50 senators, rather than the 60 needed to overcome a filibuster.
The budget blueprint also paves the way for a drilling measure to be attached to the tax overhaul.
Using that approach, Republicans would be able to open the refuge to drilling without encountering a filibuster.
The Trump administration has cited possible revenues to federal coffers totaling $1.8 billion by 2018.
Senator Murkowskis energy panel, where Republicans hold a majority, could vote as early as next week to approve legislation directing part of the refuge opened.
Democrats have vowed to fight the effort.
Senator Maria Cantwell of Washington, the senior Democrat on the energy committee, pointed to a recent congressional audit warning that global warming had already cost the country billions of dollars.
Alaskas outdoor and tourism economy already generates more jobs than the oil economy, Senator Cantwell said.
Personally, I would be working to protect that outdoor wildlife economy instead of undermining it by drilling in the Arctic.
Proponents of drilling point to Energy Information Administration estimates projecting that oil and gas will account for more than half the worlds energy supply through 2050, despite the gains in renewable power.
Kara Moriarty, president and chief executive of the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, has asserted that Alaskas contribution to climate change is minuscule and it will continue to be small even if new drilling does occur in the refuge.
If we were to immediately shut down production activity that is occurring, even if we went to zero, it is not going to make a difference in stopping any kind of change in our climate, she said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its a case that Senator Murkowski makes as well.
The answer, she argues, lies in using oil revenues to pave the way for alternative energy sources.
Its not something that can be done overnight, and it is something that can only be done if you have resources, she said.
Alaska, Senator Murkowski said, embraces clean energy and has devoted state resources to boosting capital for distributed energy and developing micro-grids to power remote parts of the country.
For the people who live and work and raise their families in a very small population state, we dont think we are the problem, Senator Murkowski said.
We think we are the answer.
Photo WASHINGTON The Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Justice announced Tuesday that Exxon Mobil will pay $2.5 million in fines for flaring gases at eight plants along the Gulf Coast.
Agency officials said the announcement was evidence of the Trump administrations commitment to enforcing the nations environmental laws.
Exxon will spend about $300 million as part of the settlement to install gas recovery and other new monitoring and pollution control technologies at the petrochemical plants in Louisiana and Texas, according to agency officials.
The agencies also settled a second case involving air pollution violations with PDC Energy, a Colorado oil and gas company whose storage tanks were found to be leaking smog-forming compounds.
The company also was fined $2.5 million, which will be shared by Colorado and the federal government.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
We will be enforcing environmental laws in this administration and thats not just my message, its the message straight from the top, said Patrick Traylor, the E.P.A.
deputy assistant administrator for enforcement.
The agency, Mr. Traylor said, is emphasizing the rule of law in this administration, specifically at E.P.A.
The study was published on Tuesday in the journal Obesity.
The lead author, Kevin Hall, chief of the Integrative Physiology Section at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, and his colleagues also presented their work at the Obesity Societys annual meeting.
Although the study is very small and must be replicated, Dr. Hall said, it is the first to assess obese people years after they lost weight with state-of-the-art methods to measure the calories they had consumed and the amount of exercise they had done.
The researchers did their measurements when the contestants were chosen, and again at six weeks, 30 weeks and six years after the contest began.
After The Biggest Loser, Their Bodies Fought to Regain Weight The findings here are important, said Rena Wing, a psychiatry professor at Brown University and a founder of the National Weight Control Registry, which includes more than 10,000 people.
The food eaten is the key determinant of initial weight loss.
And physical activity is the key to maintenance, she said.
The study also helps explain why that might be.
One consequence of weight loss among the Biggest Loser participants was a greatly slowed metabolism.
The subjects were burning an average of 500 fewer calories a day than would be expected, Dr. Hall and his colleagues found.
In essence, their bodies were fighting against weight loss.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Those who kept the weight off are countering the drop in metabolism with physical activity, Dr. Hall said.
During the initial weight loss, the equation was different.
Then, the difference between how much weight Biggest Loser contestants lost could be explained by the number of calories they cut from their diets.
The amount of exercise did not distinguish those who lost more from those who lost less.
The contestants competed for six months to see who could lose the most weight.
Participants followed a grueling diet and an exhausting exercise program.
Contestants average weight at the start of the show was 329 pounds.
At the end, it was 200 pounds, a 129-pound loss.
But six years after the study ended, their average weight rebounded to 290 pounds, just 38 pounds less than when they started.
That average, though, hid wide variations.
To learn more, Dr. Hall and his colleagues divided the group of 14 into two.
There were the regainers, the seven participants who ended up after six years weighing five pounds more on average than they had at the start.
Photo And there were the maintainers, the seven who maintained an average weight loss of 81 pounds.
To measure the number of calories the contestants burned, the researchers asked the subjects to drink doubly labeled water, in which hydrogen and oxygen atoms are at least partially replaced by stable isotopes, which have a different atomic mass.
The oxygen isotopes appear in carbon dioxide exhaled by subjects, which allowed the researchers to estimate the average amount exhaled each day.
The more calories burned, the more carbon dioxide exhaled.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Some Biggest Loser contestants including the first author, Dr. Jennifer Kerns, now an obesity specialist at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Washington said the conclusions of the new study confirmed their own experiences.
Dr. Kerns, a contestant in Season 3 of the show, says she has managed to keep off 100 pounds only by tracking everything she eats and by exercising on an elliptical cross-trainer for 35 to 40 minutes a day.
In addition, her job requires her to walk around the hospital seeing patients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She has learned that she cannot relax this regimen if she wants to maintain her weight.
My natural tendency is to regain, she said.
Erinn Egbert was a candidate for Season 8 of the Biggest Loser but ultimately did not make the cut.
So she went home to figure it out on my own.
She hired two trainers and followed a diet and exercise program while she finished her senior year at Ohio State University.
She weighed 237 pounds when the show began and lost about 120 pounds.
She has maintained a weight that is just eight pounds more.
She does it with rigid portion control and regular, intense exercise 45 minutes to an hour a day, Monday through Saturday, doing the Beachbody programs, a challenging combination of strength training and cardiovascular exercise.
Ms. Egbert, who is 30 and lives in Lexington, Ky., says she learned the importance of working consistently to stay thin, even with a slowed metabolism.
Photo You have got to keep at it every single day, she said.
Its a difficult task for virtually anyone, Dr. Kerns said: The amount of time and dedication it takes to manage ones food intake and prioritize exercise every day can be an untenable burden for many people.
Its totally unfair to judge those who cant do it, she added.
Dr. Hall agreed.
The idea that people who regain lost weight are necessarily slothful and gluttonous is an unfortunate stigmatization that is not based in fact, he said.
Danny Cahill, who is 47 and lives in Tulsa, Okla., is among those who found it increasingly difficult to keep up the sort of regimen he needed to avoid gaining weight.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He won the Biggest Loser competition in Season 8.
He weighed 430 pounds when the show began, and lost 239 of them.
For the four years after the show, he exercised more than two and half hours a day and gained back just 40 pounds.
Then the injuries began, forcing him to cut back his workouts to one and half hours a day.
His weight crept up to 235 pounds.
The next year, my body just started breaking down, he said.
I had a foot injury, a wrist injury.
I couldnt keep it up.
And he was exhausted.
His weight went up to 300 pounds.
For the last two years, his weight has remained stable at about 340 to 350 pounds, but only because I am eating as very little as I can, he said.
Thats the disheartening part, Mr. Cahill said.
Losing the pounds is one thing.
Keeping them off?
I am still struggling with it, he said.
The most pronounced similarities have little to do with the traditional demographic categories, like race, class and marital status.
Rather, other kinds of patterns have emerged: these men begin early, studies find.
They may associate with others who also commit sexual violence.
They usually deny that they have raped women even as they admit to nonconsensual sex.
Clarifying these and other patterns, many researchers say, is the most realistic path toward curtailing behaviors that cause so much pain.
If you dont really understand perpetrators, youre never going to understand sexual violence, said Sherry Hamby, editor of the journal Psychology of Violence.
That may seem obvious, but she said she receives 10 papers on victims for every one on perpetrators.
This may be partly connected to a tendency to consider sexual assault a womens issue even though men usually commit the crime.
But finding the right subjects also has complicated the research.
Early studies relied heavily on convicted rapists.
This skewed the data, said Neil Malamuth, a psychologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has been studying sexual aggression for decades.
Men in prison are often generalists, he said: They would steal your television, your watch, your car.
And sometimes they steal sex.
But men who commit sexual assault, and are not imprisoned because they got away with it, are often specialists.
There is a strong chance that this is their primary criminal transgression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story More recent studies tend to rely on anonymous surveys of college students and other communities, which come with legal language assuring subjects their answers cannot be used against them.
The studies avoid using terms such as rape and sexual assault.
Instead, they ask subjects highly specific questions about their actions and tactics.
The focus of most sexual aggression research is acknowledged nonconsensual sexual behavior.
In questionnaires and in follow-up interviews, subjects are surprisingly open about ignoring consent.
Men who rape tend to start young, in high school or the first couple of years of college, likely crossing a line with someone they know, the research suggests.
Some of these men commit one or two sexual assaults and then stop.
Others no one can yet say what portion maintain this behavior or even pick up the pace.
Antonia Abbey, a social psychologist at Wayne State University, has found that young men who expressed remorse were less likely to offend the following year, while those who blamed their victim were more likely to do it again.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
One repeat offender put it this way: I felt I was repaying her for sexually arousing me.
There is a heated debate among experts about whether there is a point at which sexual assault becomes an entrenched behavior and what percentage of assaults are committed by serial predators.
Most researchers agree that the line between the occasional and frequent offender is not so clear.
The recent work of Kevin Swartout, a professor of psychology and public health at Georgia State University, suggests that low-frequency offenders are more common on college campuses than previously thought.
Its a matter of degree, more like dosage, said Mary P. Koss, a professor of public health at the University of Arizona, who is credited with coining the term date rape.
Dosage of what?
Certain factors researchers call them risk factors while acknowledging that these men are nonetheless responsible for their actions have an outsize presence among those who commit sexual assaults.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Heavy drinking, perceived pressure to have sex, a belief in rape myths such as the idea that no means yes are all risk factors among men who have committed sexual assault.
A peer group that uses hostile language to describe women is another one.
Yet there also seem to be personal attributes that have a mediating effect on these factors.
Men who are highly aroused by rape porn another risk factor are less likely to attempt sexual assault if they score highly on measures of empathy, Dr. Malamuth has found.
Narcissism seems to work in the other direction, magnifying odds that men will commit sexual assault and rape.
What about the idea that rape is about power over women?
Some experts feel that research into hostile attitudes toward women supports this idea.
In general, however, researchers say motives are varied and difficult to quantify.
Dr. Malamuth has noticed that repeat offenders often tell similar stories of rejection in high school and of looking on as jocks and the football players got all the attractive women.
As these once-unpopular, often narcissistic men become more successful, he suspects that getting back at these women, having power over them, seems to have become a source of arousal.
Most subjects in these studies freely acknowledge nonconsensual sex but that does not mean they consider it real rape.
Researchers encounter this contradiction again and again.
Asked if they had penetrated against their consent, said Dr. Koss, the subject will say yes.
Asked if he did something like rape, the answer is almost always no.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Studies of incarcerated rapists even men who admit to keeping sex slaves in conflict zones find a similar disconnect.
Its not that they deny sexual assault happens; its just that the crime is committed by the monster over there.
And this is not a sign that the respondents are psychopaths, said Dr. Hamby, the journal editor.
Its a sign that they are human.
No one thinks they are a bad guy, she said.
Indeed, experts note one last trait shared by men who have raped: they do not believe they are the problem.
Even so, 16,000 barrels is a pretty substantial leak, said Edward B. Overton, an emeritus professor of environmental sciences at Louisiana State University who is studying the environmental effects of Deepwater Horizon.
But it was not enough on the surface to warrant a cleanup response.
In this case, the oil degraded quickly, in part because of environmental forces.
The company that operates the pipeline, LLOG Exploration, believes the pipe fractured in the early morning hours of Oct. 11, a company spokesman, Rick Fowler, said in an email.
On Oct. 12, LLOG discovered that the amount of oil leaving its wells was different from the amount of oil leaving the companys floating production system, Delta House, which is in the Gulf of Mexico, about 40 miles southeast of Venice, La.
The small crack in the pipeline has not yet been fixed, Mr. Fowler said, but the wells were shut and the flow through the pipe was stopped.
What caused the fracture was unclear.
The federal Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, which has regulatory oversight of the offshore energy industry, is investigating.
The authorities determined that most of the oil droplets that escaped from the pipe, which was pressurized to more than 3,000 pounds per square inch, were so small that they were measured in microns, Lieutenant Commander Youde said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
Think of a soda can or a beer can, he said.
If you shake it up and poke a tiny hole in it, it comes out in tiny, tiny droplets.
Officials searched for the oil for several days before determining that it was unlikely to ever be seen, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Those minuscule droplets were ingested by oil-degrading bacteria that live in the Gulf of Mexico, Dr. Overton said.
Some of the larger drops rose to the surface, where sunlight, wind and wave action helped break them down.
As a result, the spill has some environmental impact, Dr. Overton said, but it doesnt appear to be measurable or significant.
You have most of the impact when the oil can congregate into a very thick layer.
Every year, natural oil seepage unrelated to the oil and gas industry releases an estimated 20 million to 50 million gallons into the Gulf of Mexico, he said, from hundreds, possibly thousands of different spots on the ocean floor.
The families of bacteria that can degrade oil already exist in the Gulf, he said.
So when they see more oil, what happens is those bacteria degrade that oil and start reproducing.
The bacteria eat the hydrocarbons in the oil and turn it into carbon dioxide or more bacteria, and those bacteria become a food source for other organisms.
An oil spill essentially serves as food for the bacteria, but there are times, like during Deepwater Horizon, when the bacteria are overwhelmed by the volume and cannot work fast enough to break it down.
The oil released by the LLOG fracture was originally estimated to be between 7,950 to 9,350 barrels, then revised to 16,000 barrels.
There is a high degree of confidence in the new figure, Mr. Fowler said.
The spill is a reminder of the importance of continuing to research the Louisiana marshlands before the next oil spill happens, Claudia Husseneder, a professor of entomology at Louisiana State University, said in a phone interview.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Thats not if, but when, she added.
Eventually there will be another big one that makes landfall.
You can pretend like you are in the bedroom with me, and it is someone you have a crush on, she said.
You are in the experience.
Photo While virtual-reality pornography may feel like something out of a science fiction movie, it already has a formidable, if underground, presence.
According to website Pornhub, views of VR porn are up 275 percent since it debuted in the summer of 2016.
Now the site is averaging about 500,000 views (on Christmas Day in 2016, this number shot up to 900,000.)
By 2025 pornography will be the third-largest VR sector, according to estimates prepared by Piper Jaffray, an investment and management firm.
Only video games and N.F.L.-related content will be larger, it predicted, and the market will be worth $1 billion.
Were getting more and more of it every day, said Mark Kernes, a senior editor at AVN Media Network, which covers the industry.
We are leading the technology in this area.
Sex sells, and where there is money to be made, there will be entrepreneurs who want to adopt it and make money from it, some by offering it for free to increase clicks.
Pornography is what rushed along the first printing press, and spurred developments in the internet, online payment systems and other technology.
Now its time for virtual reality, Mr. Kernes said: Im pretty sure there is more porn VR out there than regular VR.
Headsets Are Just the Beginning Ms.
Darling first experienced regular old VR at E3, a conference for the video-game industry.
Excited by the pornography possibilities, she found a college student on Reddit who knew the technology but lacked a star.
Before long, Ms.
Darling started streaming weekly VR segments live from her bedroom in Los Angeles.
Photo She was one of the first VR webcam women, according to Mr. Kernes.
She then started a company named VRTube.xxx to make the technology, now licensed to Cam4.com, which employs over 40 performers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Though the pornography industry as a whole is challenging to regulate, considering the potential for abuse, disease and exploitation, the virtual kind comes with extra moral and maybe legal issues.
For example, can you use someones likeness to have sex with them in virtual reality?
Virtual reality is like the Wild Wild West, said Bryony Cole, the host of Future of Sex, a podcast that explores technology and sexuality.
At this years AVN Adult Entertainment Expo, a convention and trade show held each January in Las Vegas, the latest advancements in virtual reality pornography were on display.
CamSoda, a website that specializes in live sex videos, had an exhibit featuring pornography stars dressed in plunging bathing suits and waving visitors into the booth.
They were showing off OhRama, a small canister that attaches to virtual reality headsets and releases scent during the action.
Believe it or not, the scents were created by the girls, said Mr. Kernes, who was there.
Its sweet and musty.
They know what they like.
Photo There are also companies that are adding taste and touch to the experience.
Another big player is CamasutraVR, a start-up using 142 cameras that all look at one person, or one body part.
They are creating images from that, which they are hoping will be indistinguishable from an actual person, Mr. Kernes said.
Im sure those people wished they had been using that VR system at home.
Still other virtual reality companies were showing off their partnerships with sex toy companies to create vibrators or penis pumps that link to VR material.
As the action ramps up so does the vibrations of the vibrator, he said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
One of the most buzzed-about inventions has been the sex robot.
The first one, Harmony, was introduced in May by a company named Realbotix.
In seductive videos posted on YouTube, Harmony shows off her long legs, her firm breasts, her full lips, her lifelike hand gestures, even her intellect.
How do you feel about sex?
an unknown presenter asks her in one video.
Sex is one of the most fascinating things in the world, she responds in a raspy voice.
I dont see anything wrong with it.
Harmony can connect with virtual reality so the user can interact with her in that space; she can perform all the acts the viewer is watching.
Its a little bit of a video game combined with sci-fi, said Matt McMullen, the C.E.O.
and creative director of Realbotix.
The company has been making dolls for 20 years that were linked to artificial intelligence but not virtual reality.
Based on our experiences with thousands of clients, Mr. McMullen said, people do use them for sex, but there is something more that exists.
We focus on companionship.
Photo Virtual reality has been nicknamed the empathy machine because it allows people to feel like they are truly connected to the action.
Its neurological, said Holly Richmond, a somatic psychologist based in Los Angeles and Portland, Ore. You arent just watching and thinking about it.
You are feeling it, and its not just your genitals.
There is literally a mind-body connection.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When Ms.
Darling does live X-rated performances, users can leave comments and chat to one another on the side of the screen.
The people who are in virtual reality tell the other people watching me in 2-D to stop being jerks and knock it off, she said.
They feel like they know me and are in the bedroom with me.
Many sex therapists and educators are interested in the new technology, just as a dentist might be with the latest plaque-detection gizmos.
Ms. Richmond worked with BaDoinkVR, a virtual-reality company in Rochester, N.Y., to create Virtual Sexology, a series of free videos that help men and women overcome common sex problems.
A recent video, updated in June, takes women into the bedroom where they see how one blond, busty woman arouses herself before sex.
She sits in front of her partner massaging her arms, her legs, her breasts.
As her breathing heats up, a voice-over says that some women need to be physically touched before feeling any desire for sex.
The first video, aimed at men, was the most downloaded video on BaDoinkVR.com in 2016 an impressive feat considering it was competing with noneducational pornography.
Ms. Cole, the podcast host, is most excited about how virtual reality can be used in sex education.
What if we had young people watch videos where they practice consent or practice identifying at-risk behaviors?
she said.
Or they can be in a room with someone who said, I contacted herpes and this is my experience.
That is way more informative than a gonorrhea slide.
Photo Indeed.
Barbara Rothbaum, a professor in the department of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Emory University School of Medicine and the director of Emorys Veterans Program, is studying how virtual reality can help treat people suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder caused by military sexual trauma.
The program is building scenes that take victims to barracks, tents, private living quarters, latrines, offices or remote buildings and vehicles, where the trauma may have taken place.
The idea is that going back to these places virtually will help victims confront their memories so they can move forward with more internal peace.
But for virtual reality to work, the scenes have to be so lifelike that users get lost in them and take them for reality.
They have to feel like they are participants, not just observers.
We can create 3-D bodies in virtual reality and do whatever we want with them, Ms. Cole said.
As the technology becomes good enough to make that happen, issues are bound to arise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. McMullen said an issue his company has is clients commissioning dolls that look exactly like people they know in real life, maybe an ex-girlfriend they never got over or someone about whom they fantasize.
His company requires written consent from the model for his or her likeness to be used.
Ms. Cole said VR companies are going to have to address this same problem as they get better at customizing avatars to look exactly like what their customers desire.
What are the lines between reality and fantasy and what can we do in this space?
she said.
What does consent mean in virtual reality?
Can you do something to your girlfriend in virtual reality that you wouldnt do in real life?
If you are using someones likeness in virtual reality, do you require their permission?
And what about revenge porn?
That will be even harsher in virtual reality.
She is worried about the technology assimilating into the culture as easily as dating apps, drawing people away from flesh-and-blood encounters.
Certainly partners will also have to negotiate whether virtual-reality sex constitutes cheating.
It is, after all, much more lifelike than traditional pornography.
But Mr. McMullen said a lot of people accuse his sex robot of doing that, but he believes he is helping alleviate a bad situation, not causing it.
There are people who are already lonely, and people who live their lives being alone.
They work all day and come home to an empty house, he said.
This is just offering an alternative to those types of people.
They dont have anyone else.
So, too, may more information about our choices, according to a 2008 study, The Blissful Ignorance Effect: Pre versus PostAction Effects on Outcome Expectancies Arising From Precise and Vague Information, published in The Journal of Consumer Research.
Researchers found that the less knowledge consumers had about something before a purchase, the better they expected it to be and the more they convinced themselves that they liked it afterward.
This reduction of cognitive dissonance is easier inside and after leaving a store, which never reveals anything negative about its products and doesnt typically burden the consumer with an onslaught of information that might impede an impulse purchase.
But the sprawling internet bazaar is filled with scathing critiques, and every pertinent spec exists somewhere online for the diligent buyer to seek out.
That one-star rating is hard to forget when your product is failing in the exact way the unhappy reviewer described.
The most obvious difference between brick-and-mortar and online shopping is physicality, both of the item itself and the consumers presence in the store.
Beyond the potential pitfall of not getting exactly what you thought you were buying online, a problem that is minimized when you can assess the product in person, the lack of tactile interaction may reduce our connection to the object.
Martin Lindstrom, the author of several books on branding, has conducted studies on what makes consumers buy a product and how they feel about it after.
In one, 34 percent of people who asked an employee for a product in a supermarket and were made to touch it ended up buying it; just 21 percent did if the employee merely pointed it out to them.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
In a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study of 20 subjects, when the senses of smell and touch were paired with pictures of a product, the right medial orbitofrontal cortex, a region of the brain involved in the perception of pleasantness, was activated more strongly than when those senses were independently engaged.
(On its own, smell was the most important sense.)
The tactile experience doesnt end in the checkout line.
After purchasing an item, the consumer typically takes it home.
This act of carrying it into ones domestic space can bolster ones proprietary pride: You are now responsible for its existence in your world.
That act, plus roaming through aisles beforehand and going from shop to shop, can also be physically and mentally tiring.
But ordering online for an anonymous deliveryman to leave the item at ones doorstep or, with the help of Amazon Key, just inside is impersonal and not enervating.
Its the difference between the estrangement of ordering takeout and the intimacy of cooking for oneself.
And a pavement-pounding, shop-till-you-drop marathon may recall an even more primal method for acquiring nutrients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Youre coming back to hunters and gatherers, Mr. Lindstrom said of in-store purchases.
Dopamine kicks in when were buying stuff theres a reptile brain that tells us we need to gather things before winter happens.
The more we have to fight for things, the less likely we are to return it after.
When its delivered on Amazon Prime, you forget it was so hard to get this product.
The tactility of how one finalizes the transaction itself can have an effect on remorse, too.
Mr. Lindstrom found that 93 percent of consumers feel a stronger connection to cash than to credit cards and are more careful when spending with it.
Likewise, for the least tactile connection he studied, Amazons 1-Click Ordering, 70 percent of respondents said it made them spend more money than even with a credit card.
But whereas cash-based transactions lead to more immediate remorse, 89 percent of shoppers said they feel guiltier when they receive their credit card statements after 1-Click orders than when they pay in cash.
The remorse still exists with online shopping; its just deferred, with extra pain later.
Shopping on a website featuring attractive models or beautiful homes may engender the same sense of inadequacy that leafing through catalogs can, unlike picking them up in person, and that visual memory may linger when the object has been delivered, leading to remorse.
Buying something online can also lead quickly to a social-media search after the fact for friends and strangers superior products (or better use of the same product).
The sneakers I bought in this troublesomely bottomless marketplace were for casual wear, but I also needed a new pair of running shoes, a purchase that I undertook with more serious online research: reading reviews from specialized publications and individual users, comparing models from different years, taking quizzes to determine what was best for my particular stride.
But even the highest-rated sneakers had their detractors, and those damning, all-caps review headlines (SHODDILY MADE, THEY RUINED IT) made me hesitate whenever I was on the verge of adding them to my virtual shopping cart.
A week after searching in vain and the ensuing deluge of targeted ads, I visited a nearby running store.
I tried on a few pairs and solicited opinions from one employee, then picked the sneakers that felt best.
Within 20 minutes I was walking out with them, glad to have given my money to a local business over a soulless national chain.
There is undoubtedly a better running shoe out there for me, and I could probably find it if I spent enough time scouring the internet.
But je ne regrette rien.
Earlier on Friday, Mr. Zinke met with Mr. Trump to discuss the recommendations.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House spokeswoman, said a final report would be released shortly.
She did not confirm whether the president has signed off on it in part or in whole.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Im not going to get ahead of the presidents announcement on the specifics of that, but I can tell you he will be going to Utah in the first part of early December and we will release more details at that point, if not before, Ms. Sanders said.
A spokeswoman from the Interior Department did not respond to requests for comment.
Environmental groups denounced the decision.
Video It is a disgrace that the President wants to undo the nations first national monument created to honor Native American cultural heritage.
And a travesty that hes trying to unravel a centurys worth of conservation history, all behind closed doors, Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council said, referring to Bears Ears.
National monuments have long been a source of controversy among ranchers, miners and environmentalists.
Conservative groups argue that such designations, similar to national parks, create regulatory burdens that hurt local economies.
Bears Ears, which Mr. Obama created at the end of his term, has been a particular source of friction, as is Grand Staircase-Escalanate.
Republicans in Western states have accused both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Obama of federal overreach in demanding strict protections for those sites.
We believe in the importance of protecting these sacred antiquities, but Secretary Zinke and the Trump administration rolled up their sleeves to dig in, talk to locals, talk to local tribes, and find a better way to do it, Senator Hatch said.
The decision was expected to be challenged in court.
Photo Q.
How come my cats whiskers are striped, with bands of white and brown on each one?
How does the pigment change like that as a single whisker grows?
A.
This banding pattern is typically associated with the agouti gene, which also produces banding in ordinary fur in some cats, said Robert A. Grahn of the Veterinary Genetics Laboratory at the University of California, Davis.
But cat whiskers do not seem to follow the same pigmentation patterns observed in other hair types.
In regular fur, the agouti gene controls the production of granules that carry pigment, speeding it up and slowing it down so that an individual strand winds up with light and dark bands.
This produces so-called ticked coats, seen in many tabbies and Abyssinian cats.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The difference in pigmentation patterns for whiskers is likely due to more complicated development patterns and physiology, he said.
The location of the whisker root is deep in the skin and is associated with a special blood supply and sensory nerves.
Bhakta B. Rath, a former associate director of the naval laboratory, said, Isabella Karle took the task of deciphering the theory to provide not only a solution but also to show that it could be used to solve very complex molecules, such as proteins.
Other scientists took notice in the mid-1960s.
With a clearer picture of the structure of biological molecules, drug researchers now have a much better idea of the chemistry going on inside the body and how to formulate drugs to treat illnesses.
After I found some structures that no one could have dreamt of solving before, it started to get a lot of attention, Dr. Karle told The New York Times in 2013.
When Jerome Karle and Dr. Hauptman were awarded the Nobel for their work in 1985, Jerome Karle was deeply disappointed that his wife was not also honored.
He wanted to not accept it, Ms. Hanson said, and she told him, Go ahead, thats silly, you should accept it.
Photo Isabella Helen Lugoski was born in Detroit on Dec. 2, 1921, the daughter of Polish immigrants.
Her father, Zygmunt Lugoski, worked for the citys transportation system.
Her mother, the former Elizabeth Graczyk, ran a restaurant eventually with Isabellas help.
My mother realized fairly early that I like numbers, Dr. Karle recalled in an interview in 2015.
I soon became the accountant, so to speak.
Fresh meat was delivered every day, and the butcher left the bill that had to be paid once a week.
So once a week I added up all the numbers of the money that was owed him.
She skipped a couple of grades in elementary school.
Later, she learned she would need to take a science class in high school to attend a university.
By whim, she said, she chose chemistry, and the teacher, a woman, sparked her passion for the subject.
(Her father was initially disappointed.
He had hoped she would be a lawyer, as he had wanted to be.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She attended Wayne University (now Wayne State University) in Detroit for a semester before obtaining a four-year scholarship to the University of Michigan, where she received her bachelors, masters and doctoral degrees, all before she turned 23.
She met her husband while an undergraduate: The spaces in the physical chemistry laboratory were assigned in alphabetical order, so Karle was seated next to Lugoski.
I walked into the physical chemistry laboratory and theres a young man in the desk next to mine with his apparatus all set up running his experiment, Dr. Karle said.
I dont think I was very polite about it.
I asked him how did he get in here early and have everything all set up.
He didnt like that.
So we didnt talk to each other for a while.
Eventually, they did talk again.
They married in 1942.
Both worked in Chicago on the Manhattan Project, the government effort during World War II to develop an atomic bomb.
Isabella Karle developed processes to synthesize plutonium chloride out of lumps of impure plutonium oxide.
The Karles moved to the Naval Research Laboratory after the war and stayed there until both retired on the same day in July 2009.
Jerome Karle died in 2013.
In addition to her daughter Louise, Dr. Karle is survived by two other daughters, Jean Karle Dean and Madeleine Karle Tawney; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
Isabella Karle published more than 350 papers.
She was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.
In 1993, the Franklin Institute presented her with the Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science, and in 1995 she received the National Medal of Science from President Bill Clinton in a White House ceremony.
Dr. Rath, who supervised Dr. Karles work in Washington, said that her renown within the scientific community was so wide that when scientists from around the world visited the Naval Research Laboratory, they would very often make one request.
They all wanted to see Isabella, he said.
Photo In the film Bill Nye: Science Guy, Mr. Nye, the 1990s childrens-television personality with the signature bow tie, warns of an anti-science movement afoot in this country.
And this delightful, revealing documentary, directed by David Alvarado and Jason Sussberg, offers evidence supporting that assessment.
Mr. Nye, who left his Emmy-winning series after around 100 episodes, has embraced a new mission: educating an older generation as he champions space exploration and challenges creationists and climate-change deniers.
In TV clips, Sarah Palin impugns Mr. Nyes credentials, and an Obama-era Donald J. Trump declares, Our president is worried about global warming what a ridiculous situation.
Joe Bastardi, the former chief long-range forecaster at AccuWeather and a frequent Fox News guest, insists that extreme weather is merely meteorological variation, not the result of human-caused global warming.
(Mr. Nye is polite but resolute as he argues with Mr. Bastardi during a visit to his home.)
As we stand here, the Juno spacecraft just went into orbit around Jupiter, Mr. Nye says.
Its an extraordinary accomplishment of engineering and rocket science.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Here is anti-science, he adds, gesturing in the direction of the Kentucky tourist attractions the Creation Museum and Ark Encounter, whose exhibits present such sights as prehistoric humans cohabiting, Flintstone-like, with dinosaurs, and a sauropod (a dinosaur species) dwelling on Noahs ark.
Mr. Nye debates the museums chief executive, Ken Ham, on a stage, though his efforts only galvanize Mr. Hams supporters.
The documentary also follows Mr. Nyes work as chief executive of the Planetary Society, as he collaborates with the astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson and spearheads the LightSail project (a small spacecraft powered by photons from the sun), a tribute to Mr. Nyes mentor Carl Sagan.
And it accompanies Mr. Nye to Greenland, where he witnesses melting ice caps and ice-core studies revealing climate temperatures of centuries past and our fossil-fuel-poisoned present.
Photo Like anyone with rowdy neighbors, oysters may be feeling stressed thanks to the growing problem of underwater noise pollution, and are trying to filter out the racket.
New research published Wednesday in PLoS One reveals that oysters will close their shells when exposed to noises along a range of frequencies that includes the sounds emitted by known noise polluters like cargo ships and underwater oil exploration.
In oysters, closed shells are an indicator of distress.
Under optimal conditions, bivalve mollusks will keep their shells open, and are thought to shut them only when feeling stressed or threatened.
Clamping their shells to screen out noise pollution or other artificial irritants could prevent oysters from perceiving important biological cues, said the authors of the study.
Oysters must be able to hear breaking waves and water currents, which could trigger their biological rhythms, said Jean-Charles Massabuau, research director at the French National Center for Scientific Research and an author of the study.
To hear the current arriving could prepare them for eating and digesting, possibly as when we hear and smell that somebody is preparing dinner.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Not being able to detect other natural events, like rainfall or thunderstorms, could also prevent them from knowing when its time to spawn, Dr. Massabuau said.
Once a person has had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in nerve tissue.
Years later, it may reactivate as shingles.
The C.D.C.
estimates that about one million cases are diagnosed in the United States each year.
This is what weve been waiting for, said Dr. Anne Louise Oaklander, an associate professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School and an expert in the disease.
Shingles is an unappreciated and common cause of severe problems throughout the nervous system.
Dr. Oaklander said that while rash symptoms lead some people to consider shingles as minor as a bad sunburn, the illness can cause strokes, encephalitis, spinal cord damage and loss of vision.
Photo Given in one dose, Zostavax had shown a 51 percent reduction in shingles and a 67 percent reduction in nerve pain.
Shingrix is given in two doses, and the company said clinical trials showed it to be about 98 percent effective for one year and about 85 percent over three years.
By preventing shingles, the vaccine also drastically reduces the overall incidence of severe nerve pain, a lasting complication for about one in three people who get shingles.
GlaxoSmithKline said it tested the vaccine in more than 38,000 people.
We believe Shingrix will provide confidence in the protection one can expect from a shingles vaccine, said Luc Debruyne, the companys president of global vaccines.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The recommendation of the advisory committee will be considered an endorsement of Shingrix over Zostavax, although the closeness of the committee vote, 8 to 7, may mitigate the market loss for Merck.
Dr. Kathleen Dooling, a medical officer in the C.D.C.s division of viral disease, said she expected the agencys final recommendation to be issued early next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Shingrix vaccine has the potential to prevent tens of thousands of cases of shingles and its complications, Dr. Dooling said.
She cautioned, however, that more people had adverse reactions to Shingrix than to Zostavax, including fever and muscle aches.
Patients and health care providers should be aware that this vaccine is very effective, but it also causes more reactions than they may be used to with other adult vaccines, she said.
All indications are these are not dangerous to ones health, but they may interfere with your daily activities for a few days.
GlaxoSmithKline said its new vaccine would cost about $280 and would be available next month.
Zostavax costs about $223.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- As global warming yields warmer, more acidic ocean waters, scientists worry interactions between common ocean bacteria could be altered, disrupting entire food chains and ecosystems.
During lab tests at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, scientists found rising CO2 levels can breakup the partnership between a pair of common ocean bacteria, Prochlorococcus and Alteromonas.
"This is a breakthrough that will help scientists do a better job of modeling the ocean ecosystem of the future," Gwenn Hennon, postdoctoral researcher at the observatory, said in a news release.
Previous studies have suggested the ocean's biochemistry could be significantly altered by global warming, but the latest -- published this week in the ISME Journal -- is the first to show exactly how interactions between common bacteria are likely to breakdown.
"What's striking about Gwenn's study is that it's the first time we've been able to show mechanistically how elevated carbon dioxide influences the relationship between these microbes," said Sonya Dyhrman, microbial oceanographer at the observatory.
"We know Prochlorococcus needs helper bacteria or it doesn't grow well, but now we are able to see how this partnership breaks down in future ocean conditions."
Earth's oceans are filled with Prochlorococcus, the smallest, most plentiful photosynthetic organism on the planet.
The microbes serve as a vital food source for slightly larger microorganisms.
They also help trap CO2 and carry it to the bottom of the ocean, assisting Earth's carbon cycle.
The abundance of Prochlorococcus, which can occupy vast expanses of nutrient-poor, mostly lifeless open ocean, is made possibly by Alteromonas.
As lab tests revealed, the bacterial sidekick performs several tasks that Prochlorococcus cannot, like cleaning up excess hydrogen peroxide.
Prochlorococcus lacks the gene needed to produce the enzyme that can prevent a buildup of free radicals like hydrogen peroxide.
When researchers upped CO2 levels in the lab to the atmospheric amount expected by 2100, they measured an increase in the mortality rate of Prochlorococcus.
They also measured an uptick in the number of free radicals invading the ecosystem.
"Under higher levels of carbon dioxide, Alteromonas doesn't provide the same level of ecosystem services," Hennon said.
"It begins to have a more antagonistic relationship with Prochlorococcus."
Genetic analysis showed as CO2 levels rise, Alteromonas turns off the genes responsible for producing the enzymes that breakdown free radicals.
Alteromonas may also begin eating dying Prochlorococcus cells.
If Alteromonas indeed abandons Prochlorococcus as carbon levels continue to rise, the base of the ocean's food chains could be dramatically altered.
Such a drastic change could disrupt entire ecosystems.
"This study is really a wake-up call," Hennon said.
"We need to do a better job in including information like this in models to understand how the global carbon cycle, ocean ecosystems, and fisheries might change in the future.
If we don't do this work now, we'll be blindsided in the future by these ecological changes."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- New research suggests when it comes to the energy of demands of the brain, humans aren't as special as previously thought.
On average, the human brain comprises just 2 percent of a person's body weight, but demands 25 percent of a person's daily energy budget.
In other words, roughly a quarter of all the calories humans consume each day are used to keep the brain operating at full capacity.
Until now, scientists assumed this ratio was unique to humans.
But new research suggests the brains of other animals require similar amounts of energy.
"We don't have a uniquely expensive brain," Doug Boyer, assistant professor of evolutionary anthropology at Duke University, said in a news release.
"This challenges a major dogma in human evolution studies."
Blood vessels carry energy to the brain in the form of glucose, a type of sugar.
To gauge how much energy is consumed by the brains of other animals, scientists collected a variety of anatomical measurements.
Researchers measured the size of the bony canals that encircle cranial arteries in several species, including mice, rats, squirrels, rabbits, monkeys and humans.
Scientists compared the data with estimates of each species' brain energy demands as well as measurements of each species' internal skull volume.
Their analysis -- detailed in the Journal of Human Evolution -- showed larger canals were associated with brains with greater energy demands.
Scientists used their findings to estimate the brain glucose uptake of 15 species for which brain energy costs are unknown, including lemurs, monkeys and treeshrews.
The new analysis confirmed humans use proportionally more energy than rodents, Old World monkeys and great apes to keep their brain functioning.
But several species use similar proportions of energy to power their brains.
Pen-tailed treeshrews, ring-tailed lemurs and pygmy marmosets all used nearly a quarter of their daily energy budget to keep their brain functioning.
"This shouldn't come as too much of a surprise," Boyer said.
"The metabolic cost of a structure like the brain is mainly dependent on how big it is, and many animals have bigger brain-to-body mass ratios than humans."
The findings suggest the ability to grow an increasingly energy-expensive brain developed well before the emergence of humans.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- Scientists at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory have developed a new technique for 3D-printing a low-carbon type of marine grade stainless steel called 316L.
Marine grade stainless steel is prized for its strength, durability and ductility.
It's used for everything from nuclear waste storage facilities to kitchen appliances.
But until now, most methods for strengthening 316L and other forms of marine grade stainless steel have resulted in a sacrifice of ductility.
The new method developed by scientists at LLNL -- and detailed this week in the journal Nature Materials -- requires no such sacrifice.
Instead, the additive production process lends the material both high-strength and high-ductility properties.
"In order to make all the components you're trying to print useful, you need to have this material property at least the same as those made by traditional metallurgy," LLNL materials scientist Morris Wang said in a news release.
"We were able to 3D-print real components in the lab with 316L stainless steel, and the material's performance was actually better than those made with the traditional approach.
That's really a big jump.
It makes additive manufacturing very attractive and fills a major gap."
The new production technology could prove a game-changer for the aerospace industry, which requires strong but lightweight metal alloys capable of withstanding extreme conditions.
Scientists at Lawrence Livermore developed computer models to help them figure out how to fuse metal powders during the 3D-printing process without introducing frailties into the material's microstructure.
"When you additively manufacture 316L it creates an interesting grain structure, sort of like a stained-glass window," said LLNL scientist Alex Hamza.
"The grains are not very small, but the cellular structures and other defects inside the grains that are commonly seen in welding seem to be controlling the properties.
This was the discovery.
We didn't set out to make something better than traditional manufacturing; it just worked out that way."
Researchers believe their findings -- including an improved understanding of how the microstructures of 3D-printed materials affect their physical properties -- could be used to design all kinds of new and improved alloys and other materials.
"Deformation of metals is mainly controlled by how nanoscale defects move and interact in the microstructure," said LLNL postdoc researcher Thomas Voisin.
"Interestingly, we found that this cellular structure acts such as a filter, allowing some defects to move freely and thus provide the necessary ductility while blocking some others to provide the strength.
Observing these mechanisms and understanding their complexity now allows us to think of new ways to control the mechanical properties of these 3D-printed materials."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- New research suggests the social lives of orphaned elephants are significantly altered by the loss of their mothers to poaching.
The maturation process for young elephants in highly social, closely knit communities is reliant upon the relationships between calves and their moms and aunts.
Poaching can disrupt these social relationships and a new study -- published this week in the journal Scientific Reports -- suggests orphaned elephants aren't always smoothly reintegrated into the group's social fabric.
"Previous work in this and other elephant populations has shown that like other social species, elephants strengthen existing bonds if they lose important social partners," Shifra Goldenberg, a postdoctoral researcher at Colorado State University, said in a news release.
"Our study suggests that despite this compensatory social behavior, orphans experience a social disadvantage compared to non-orphans."
Goldenberg and her colleagues have been monitoring the social patterns and behaviors of elephants in northern Kenya's Samburu and Buffalo Springs National Reserves for several years.
The most recent findings suggest orphaned elephants spend less time interacting -- body rubbing and greeting -- with mature females during feeding.
Orphans have slightly more access to older females when groups are resting, but generally spend more time interacting with non-dominant group members.
With poaching, habitat loss and drought putting continued pressure on elephant populations, scientists worry the growing number of orphaned elephants could negatively affect social cohesion and rates of reproduction among elephant communities.
"Access to older, dominant individuals is critical for juveniles, as mature individuals are knowledge repositories and have preferential access to resources," said George Wittemyer, associate professor at CSU.
"Losing this access may have long-term ramifications for orphans."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- According to planet formation theory, NGTS-1b should not exist.
The exoplanet is too big -- so big that scientists are calling it a "monster" planet.
NGTS-1b is a gas giant commonly known as a "hot Jupiter."
Hot gas giants aren't uncommon, but according to planet formation theory, such a massive planet shouldn't be circling such a small star.
The gravity of small stars can accumulate enough material to form small rocky planets, but not enough to birth massive gas planets.
Unlike Jupiter, NGTS-1b orbits extremely close to its host star.
The distance between NGTS-1b and its host star comprises just 3 percent of the distance between Earth and the sun.
It takes the hot Jupiter just 2.6 days to complete an orbit around its host star.
"Despite being a monster of a planet, NGTS-1b was difficult to find because its parent star is so small and faint," Peter Wheatley, professor at the University of Warwick, said in a news release.
While NGTS-1b is the first such gas giant found so close to a faint star, astronomers suggest there could be many scattered throughout the cosmos.
"Small stars like this red M-dwarf are actually the most common in the universe, so it is possible that there are many of these giant planets waiting to be found," Wheatley said.
The repetitive dip in red light caused the by the transit of NGTS-1b across the face of its host star was picked up the telescopes participating in the Next-Generation Transit Survey.
Spectral data collected by the telescopes helped scientists estimate the planet's size and orbit.
Researchers detailed their findings in the journal Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.
"The discovery of NGTS-1b was a complete surprise to us -- such massive planets were not thought to exist around such small stars -- importantly, our challenge now is to find out how common these types of planets are in the galaxy, and with the new Next-Generation Transit Survey facility we are well-placed to do just that."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- Scientists have found a way to trigger the evolutionary process in bacteria that yields a variety of natural compounds -- but at accelerated pace.
The bioengineering feat, dubbed Accelerated Evolution, could allow researchers to generate "libraries" of useful compounds, some of which could be adapted into new drug therapies.
"For 20 years we have been using rational bioengineering to modify the chemical structures of clinically important natural products -- using genetics to make a new molecule in a process that parallels medicinal chemistry -- and that's what we were doing when we stumbled upon this," Barrie Wilkinson, a professor at the John Innes Centre, said in a news release.
"We have discovered a completely new way of doing things, one that will also teach us how to better bioengineer systems in a rational manner."
Scientists were perfecting techniques for producing new versions of rapamycin, a compound used to treat some cancers and prevent the rejection of organs during transplants.
Rapamycin is a type of polyketide, a group of metabolites produced by bacteria and fungi to fend off pathogens and mine resources.
In an attempt to produce a new type of bacteria and new type of rapamycin, scientists installed a temperature sensitive replicon -- a self-replicating DNA or RNA molecules -- in the genome of a strain of soil bacteria called Streptomyces rapamycinicus.
Instead of a single augmented strain of bacteria and a new version of rapamycin, their genetic manipulation yielded a variety of new bacterial strains, each producing new compounds.
The scientists realized further genetic tweaking could yield an even greater variety of natural products.
Scientists believe their insertion of a replicon triggered homologous replication, a DNA repair mechanism.
The repair process spit out the replicon and rearranged the genes.
In other words, scientists found a way to trigger accelerated evolution.
"We think this process mimics and accelerates the processes that are prevalent during natural polyketide evolution," Wilkinson said.
Researchers believe their findings -- detailed this week in the journal Nature Communications -- could prove a game-changer in the field of drug discovery and synthetic biology.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- For the first time, astronomers have measured how quickly relativistic jets 'switch on' and become luminous after they're launched from a black hole.
The research, published this week in the journal Nature Astronomy, promises to bring scientists a step closer to understanding how relativistic jets form.
Relativistic jets are the powerful rays of energized particles that extend outward from many black holes.
Scientists still aren't sure how they form, but some theorize the black hole's intense gravity contorts localized magnetic fields, putting magnetized plasma in the black hole's accretion disk under extreme pressure.
Eventually, the pressurized plasma erupts in opposite directions along magnetic pillars extending along the black hole's rotational axis.
In 2015, astronomers observed one of the brightest flashes of light they'd ever seen.
The light originated from V404 Cygni, a binary system 7,800 light-years from Earth, consisting of a star and a black hole orbiting around one another.
The black hole boasts a relatively small mass of just seven suns.
Scientists were able to measure a 0.1-second delay between the emission of X-rays from the base of the jets, and the bright flash of visible light, produced as plasma was propelled through the pillars.
"Scientists have been observing jets for decades, but are far from understanding how nature creates these mind-bogglingly vast and energetic structures," Poshak Gandhi, astronomer at the University of Southampton, said in a news release.
"Now, for the first time, we have captured the time delay between the appearance of X-rays and the appearance of optical light in a stellar-mass black hole at the moment jet plasma is activated," Gandhi said.
"This lays to rest the controversy regarding the origin of the optical flashes, and also gives us a critical distance over which jet plasma must have been strongly accelerated to speeds approaching that of light."
Scientists liken their discovery to measuring the distance between where multiple light beams exited the Death Star from Star Wars and the point at which the light beams combine to form the death ray.
"But the physics of black hole jets has nothing to do with lasers or the fictional Kyber crystals that power the Death Star.
Nature has found other ways to power jets," said Gandhi.
"Gravity and magnetic fields play the key roles here, and this is the mechanism we are trying to unravel."
In addition to moving scientists closer to an understanding of relativistic jets, the latest observations also suggest the same physics that govern the plasma ejected from small black holes also control the jets protruding from supermassive black holes found at the center of galaxies.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Scientists at Brookhaven National Laboratory's Center for Functional Nanomaterials have developed a new method for making glass more invisible.
Under most light conditions, glass gives its presence away with a slightly glare.
Glare is helpful when you're trying to avoid a sliding glass door, but it can be distracting when you're trying to watch television during the day or use a computer outside.
Glare is created by light reflection.
The amount light waves bend as they move through a material is called the refractive index.
When light passes from glass to air, it experiences a sudden change in refractive index, causing some of the light to be reflected.
Scientists at Brookhaven found they could make the shift in reflective indexes more gradual by texturing glass surfaces with nanoscale patterns.
Researchers used the self-assembling pattern of molecules that form block copolymers as a template for texturing the glass.
The repeating pattern features nanoscale cone-shaped structures.
When applied to glass, the pattern almost completely removes surface reflections.
"We have eliminated reflections from glass windows not by coating the glass with layers of different materials but by changing the geometry of the surface at the nanoscale," Andreas Liapis, a postdoctoral lab researcher at CFN, said in a news release.
"Because our final structure is composed entirely of glass, it is more durable than conventional antireflective coatings."
Tests showed the textured glass reduces glare without limiting the amount of light passing through.
Tests also showed solar cells protected by a nanotextured glass cover outperformed those protected by a conventional glass cover.
Researchers described their new technology in a paper published this week in the journal Applied Physics Letters.
"Our role in the CFN is to demonstrate how nanoscience can facilitate the design of new materials with improved properties," said CFN Director Charles Black.
"This work is a great example of that -- we'd love to find a partner to help advance these remarkable materials toward technology."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Fields planted with cover crops offer migrating birds an ideal place to rest and recharge, according to a new study by researchers at the University of Illinois.
With much of the Midwest's grasslands converted into farmland over the last century, there are fewer and fewer places for birds migrating across North America to stop for some shut eye and food.
"Now that agriculture is the dominant landscape, they're finding it harder to get the resources they need on the way to their breeding grounds," Cassandra Wilcoxen, a graduate research assistant, said in a news release.
When Wilcoxen and her research partners tracked the movements and patterns of migrating birds -- 6,133 individual birds comprising 52 species -- passing through corn and soybean fields with and without cover crops, they found fields with cover crops consistently hosted the largest numbers of birds.
"We think cover crops, such as cereal rye, likely provide migrating birds with more vegetation and a safe area to escape from the elements and from predators," Wilcoxen said.
"Cover crops also increase insect abundance, another food source for birds."
The planting of cover crops can help reduce erosion and runoff.
It can also help replenish nutrients in the soil.
Researchers hope more research will help them develop best practices to ensure cover crops can be planted in ways that best benefit migrating birds.
Most cover crops are planted in the fall and killed in the spring, but exactly when to plant and kill -- and how -- can make a difference.
"Some grassland birds nest in the spring, so in order to give birds the time they need, farmers may need to hold off terminating their cover crop," Wilcoxen said.
"Those are the sorts of recommendations that will require more research.
It's true of any new farming practice.
You have to play around with it to get it right."
Researchers shared their analysis of seasonal bird behavior on farmland in a new paper published this week in the journal Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- New research has offered an explanation for why olivine lithium iron phosphate, a material used to make battery cathodes, often exceeds performance expectations.
The material's secret lies in its defects.
"We know this material works very well but there's still much debate about why," Rice materials scientist Ming Tang said in a news release.
"In many aspects, this material isn't supposed to be so good, but somehow it exceeds people's expectations."
During the process of fabricating olivine lithium iron phosphate, some of the atoms in the crystal lattice are misplaced.
The new research suggests these point defects, called antisite defects, may explain the material's impressive performance.
The defects allow the cathode material to release and take up lithium ions across a surprisingly large surface area.
Until now, scientists assumed lithium ions could only move in a single direction, limiting the amount of the material's surface of area that can actively release or take up lithium ions.
Microscopic imaging and computer models allowed scientists to observe the movement of ions during battery charging.
Their analysis -- detailed this week in the journal Nature Communications -- showed point defects allow ions to move in new directions.
The defects effectively expand the active surface area of the olivine lithium iron phosphate nanorods, enabling more efficient transfer of lithium ions between the cathode and electrolyte.
"What we learned changes the thinking on how the shape of lithium iron phosphate particles should be optimized," Tang said.
Most cathodes are built in the shape of thin disks to accommodate the one-directional movement of lithium ions.
"But as we now know that lithium can move in multiple directions, thanks to defects, the design criteria to maximize performance will certainly look quite different," Tang said.
Even experts in battery science don't always understand the electrochemical properties and processes that underly a lithium ion battery and its components.
But the more scientists can image and analyze these processes and properties, the more they can fine-tune them to perform as efficiently as possible.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- SpaceX delivered another communications satellite into orbit.
The company's Falcon 9 rocket blasted-off from Kennedy Space Center on Monday afternoon.
The rocket carried KT Sat's Koreasat 5A communications satellite into orbit.
It was the company's 16th launch of 2017.
The launch and delivery was streamed live.
Shortly after the satellite separated from the rocket's final stage, SpaceX declared the mission a success.
Successful deployment of Koreasat-5A to geostationary transfer orbit confirmed.
- SpaceX (@SpaceX) October 30, 2017 The satellite, also known as Mugungwha 5A, will be delivered into a geostationary orbit.
Outfitted with 36 Ku-band transponders, Koreasat 5A will deliver broadcasting and internet services to customers in Korea, Southeast Asia and the Middle East.
In preparation for today's launch, Koreasat 5A was lifted upright at launchpad 39A on Sunday.
The new satellite will replace KT Sat's Koreasat-5 spacecraft, which was deployed in 2006.
Problems with the satellite's solar arrays have forced the communications company to retire the craft.
The Falcon 9 has flown more than any other rocket in 2017, and the aerospace company has four more missions scheduled before the end of the year.
Monday's mission once again utilized the Falcon 9's landing capabilities.
The rocket's first stage landed safely on the 'Of Course I Still Love You' droneship, which was stationed in the Atlantic Ocean.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations set new records in 2016.
According to a new report by the World Meteorological Organization, CO2 levels reached 403.3 parts per million in 2016, up from a high of 400 ppm in 2015.
An increase in atmospheric CO2 levels isn't new, but last year's rise was 50 percent larger than the average increase during the last decade.
The dramatic increase was caused by a combination of human activities and an especially strong El Nio climate pattern.
"It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network," Oksana Tarasova, head of WMO's global atmosphere watch program, told BBC News.
Though growth of global CO2 emissions have slowed in recent years, carbon dioxide continues to build up in Earth's atmosphere, increasing the greenhouse gas effect and contributing to the increase in global temperatures.
Carbon dioxide concentrations have been steadily increasing for the entirety of the last century.
The latest WMO report claims population growth, the expansion of agriculture, land-use changes, deforestation and industrialization explain why today's CO2 levels are 145 percent of pre-industrial levels.
"Without rapid cuts in CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions, we will be heading for dangerous temperature increases by the end of this century, well above the target set by the Paris climate change agreement," WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas said in a news release.
"Future generations will inherit a much more inhospitable planet."
Scientists suggest increases in CO2 will have a more immediate impact on Earth's climate than in previous eras.
"The changes will not take ten thousand years like they used to take before, they will happen fast -- we don't have the knowledge of the system in this state, that is a bit worrisome!"
Tarasova said.
The latest report suggests more aggressive action will be necessary to meet the emissions and warming targets set by the Paris climate agreement.
"The numbers don't lie.
We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of the UN Environment.
"We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge.
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency."
Oct. 28 (UPI) -- Astronomers are tracking what they believe may be the first observed interstellar asteroid or comet to travel through Earth's solar system, NASA said.
The space agency said the object is less than a quarter mile in diameter and is traveling "remarkably fast."
They're not sure what exactly it is.
Paul Chodas, manager of NASA's Center for Near-Earth Object Studies, said the agency has been "waiting for this day for decades."
"It's long been theorized that such objects exist -- asteroids or comets moving around between the stars and occasionally passing through our solar system -- but this is the first such detection.
So far, everything indicates this is likely an interstellar object, but more data would help to confirm it," he added.
The University of Hawaii's Pan-STARRS 1 telescope discovered the object, named A/2017 U1, on Oct. 19.
Post-doctoral researcher Rob Weryk first spotted the object.
"Its motion could not be explained using either a normal solar system asteroid or comet orbit," he said.
Weryk said he also reviewed images taken at the European Space Agency's telescope in the Canary Islands and determined: "This object came from outside our solar system."
NASA scientist Davide Farnocchia said the object has the most extreme orbit he's ever seen.
"It is going extremely fast and on such a trajectory that we can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back," he said.
NASA's Center for Near-Earth Object Studies determined the object came from the direction of the Lyra constellation and is traveling about 15.8 miles per second.
A/2017 U1 approached the solar system from above the ecliptic -- the plane on which the planets and most asteroids orbit the sun.
Pulled in by the sun's gravity, the object then made a "hairpin" turn underneath the ecliptic, passing about 15 million miles under Earth.
It began traveling back above the plane and is making its way toward the Pegasus constellation.
"We have long suspected that these objects should exist, because during the process of planet formation a lot of material should be ejected from planetary systems.
What's most surprising is that we've never seen interstellar objects pass through before," said Karen Meech, an astronomer at the Institute for Astronomy.
Since it's potentially the first object of its kind, the International Astronomical Union must first determine a naming convention before A/2017 U1 can get a permanent name.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- How do plant cells know how to organize into the proper pattern as new leaves form?
New research offers clues.
Scientists have made great progress in detailing the communication among animal cells as they develop and form new tissue, but plants evolved separately from other multicellular organisms.
As such, researchers know less about how plant cells organize as they form new structures -- like fresh leaves.
New research out of the University of Tbingen's Center for Plant Molecular Biology suggests plant cells use unique signals called "small RNAs" to mobilize new cells.
Previous studies have highlighted the role small RNAs play in triggering defense mechanisms against herbivores and disease, but the latest findings -- detailed in the journal Developmental Cell -- suggest the signal is also vital to the organization of fresh plant cells.
Small RNA are similar to chemical signals used in animals in that different concentrations can trigger different thresholds, allowing the same basic signal to jumpstart a variety of cellular processes.
"Small RNAs are short molecule chains which perfectly match certain regulatory sections of genetic information in DNA or RNA," researchers explained in a news release.
"They are able to attach themselves there, thereby preventing those particular genes from being read."
By altering the expression of genes, the chemical signals can dictate the formation and behavior of cells.
To better understand how these chemical signals control leaf formation, researchers supplied new cells with artificial small RNA signals and observed how leaf growth was affected.
"The surprising thing was that the small RNAs were able to produce stable patterns," plant geneticist Marja Timmermans said.
"Unlike the conventional development signals, small RNAs operate in a highly specific way, and they can intervene directly in gene activity."
Because plant cells are connected by plasma bridges, small RNA can move freely throughout the entire system.
And the latest research suggests the signals can perform individualized tasks based on its location, enabling it organize new cell growth and form boundaries -- or leaf edges.
"Mobile small RNAs provide a high-performance mechanism for passing on positioning information," Timmermans said.
"They can develop precise development patterns."
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- Scientists have published a new map identifying areas of priority for the conservation of vulnerable mammals.
Researchers prioritized threatened mammals with the fewest close relatives, such as Australia's echidnas, or spiny anteaters, and Madagascar's lemurs.
The team of ecologists analyzed the habitats of thousands of vulnerable and threatened mammal species to find areas of overlap, where targeted conservation projects will benefit several species.
They published their results of their mapping effort this week in the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B.
"Scientists have often focused on the number of species in a protected area, but studies like this one consider the degree to which the family tree of life is well represented," Dan Rosauer, biologist at Australia National University, said in a news release.
"This study seeks to protect all land mammals, but it gives top priority to species with no close relatives, because if they were lost there would be nothing like them left."
With increasing habitat loss and mammal populations on decline, mass extinction has become a real threat in the face of climate change.
As result, ecologists, biologists and conservationists have begun to consider how to prioritize the needs of endangered species.
Some argue conservation efforts should prioritize those isolated on the evolutionary tree.
"This is the first time that anyone has mapped these priority areas for conserving the diversity of mammal evolution along with minimum target areas for habitat protection," Rosauer said.
"People are already working on these challenges, but by using this cutting-edge genetic information we can make far better decisions, protecting up to 32 percent more of the diversity of the mammal tree of life through better use of limited resources."
Of course, researchers don't want to leave behind vulnerable animals.
By also prioritizing habitats rich in biodiversity, conservationists can ensure they help a variety of species.
"By targeting areas with these really unique species, you would also protect a lot of other species too," Rosauer said.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- New lab experiments suggest the sublimation of carbon dioxide -- which freezes in the winter and thaws in the spring -- is leaving unique marks on Mars' sand dunes.
Much science has been devoted to the events and processes that shaped the Martian surface millions of years ago, but a team of scientists at the University of Dublin, in Ireland, wanted to better understand how the Red Planet's surface continues to be altered today.
To find out, researchers tested how CO2 phase changes influence different types of surfaces.
"We've all heard the exciting news snippets about the evidence for water on Mars," Lauren Mc Keown, Ph.D student at Trinity College Dublin, said in a news release.
"However, the current Martian climate does not frequently support water in its liquid state -- so it is important that we understand the role of other volatiles that are likely modifying Mars today."
Because Mars' atmosphere is 95 percent CO2, researcher figured it was the most logical volatile to experiment with.
Unlike water, Mars' changing seasons move carbon dioxide through several phase changes.
"Mars has seasons, just like Earth, which means that in winter, a lot of the CO2 in the atmosphere changes state from a gas to a solid and is deposited onto the surface in that form," Mc Keown said.
"The process is then reversed in the spring, as the ice sublimates, and this seasonal interplay may be a really important geomorphic process."
The experiments were inspired by patterns first observed on Martian sand dunes several years ago by Dublin researcher Mary Bourke.
"I called them 'sand furrows' as they were elongated shallow, networked features that formed and disappeared seasonally on Martian dunes," Bourke said.
"What was unusual about them was that they appeared to trend both up and down the dune slopes, which ruled out liquid water as the cause."
To see whether CO2 could be responsible for the sand furrows, Bourke and her research partners place blocks of frozen CO2 on miniature sand dune models.
They conducted the experiments inside a low humidity chamber.
The tests showed sublimating CO2 can leave a wide variety of uniquely shaped furrows on the sand surface.
"The difference in temperature between the sandy surface and the CO2 block will generate a vapor layer beneath the block, allowing it to levitate and maneuver downslope, in a similar manner to how pucks glide on an ice-hockey table, carving a channel in its wake," Mc Keown said.
"At the terminus, the block will sublimate and erode a pit.
It will then disappear without a trace other than the roughly circular depression beneath it."
Similar formations, called gullies, are formed by water and ice migrating down rocky slopes on Earth, but the terminuses are usually marked by debris deposits, not a depression, which suggests Martian gullies and furrows are indeed formed by CO2, not water.
The lab tests showed under certain conditions, frozen CO2 blocks can sublimate fast enough enough to burrow directly into the sand and become swallowed up in less than a minute, leaving only a slight depression behind.
"This process is really unlike anything seen to occur naturally on Earth -- the bed appears fluidized and sand is kicked up in every direction," Mc Keown said.
"When we first observed this particular effect, it was a really exciting moment."
The researchers described the effects of sublimating CO2 on sand in a new paper published this week in the journal Scientific Reports.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- An international team of researchers has identified six extra-galactic comets, or exocomets, outside the Milky Way.
The discovery was assisted by amateur astronomers.
The distant ice balls, roughly the size of Halley's Comet, were spotted orbiting a small star 800 light-years from Earth.
They were documented using transit photometry -- the first time the technique has been used to identify comets.
Transit photometry describes the measurement of light dimming as objects pass across the face of a luminous object, like a star.
The dimming can reveal the presence of planets and other orbital objects.
In recent years, the improved precision of astronomical instruments has allowed scientists to measure even the slightest dimming of distant stars.
The six comets -- detailed this week in the journal Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society -- were revealed by their tails, which blocked out just 1 percent of their host star's light.
"It's amazing that something several orders of magnitude smaller than the Earth can be detected just by the fact that it's emitting a lot of debris," Saul Rappaport, professor emeritus of physics at MIT's Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research, told MIT News.
"It's pretty impressive to be able to see something so small, so far away."
The data that revealed the light-dimming caused by the tails of distant exocomets was recorded by NASA's Kepler Space Telescope.
The unusual dimming was first identified by an amateur astronomer, Thomas Jacobs, who enjoys surveying Kepler data for irregularities in his spare time.
"Looking for objects of interest in the Kepler data requires patience, persistence, and perseverance," Jacobs told MIT.
"For me it is a form of treasure hunting, knowing that there is an interesting event waiting to be discovered.
It is all about exploration and being on the hunt where few have traveled before."
Scientists have designed computer algorithms to parse transit data and pick out patterns caused by passing planets, but Jacobs set out to find dimming signatures missed by the computers -- specifically, one-time, or single, transits, dimming that does not repeat with regularity.
Jacobs found three such transits and alerted scientists, including researchers at MIT.
When they looked closer, they found six, and the light signatures they discovered surprised them.
Instead of a U-shaped dimming pattern caused by a planet passing across the face of the star, scientists found sharp dips followed by a gradual rise.
The signatures suggested the presence of disintegrating planets with tails of debris.
But disintegrating planets would create a repeating dimming pattern.
Instead, they found isolated signatures.
"We thought, the only kind of body that could do the same thing and not repeat is one that probably gets destroyed in the end," Rappaport said.
"The only thing that fits the bill, and has a small enough mass to get destroyed, is a comet."
The discovery could offer new insights into ways solar systems evolve.
Scientists believe water and other ingredients essential to life were delivered by comets early in Earth's history.
The discovery of six comets passing close to their host star in the span of four years suggest bombardment eras may be common in young solar systems.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- How do bacteria sense and grab hold of surfaces, allowing biofilms to fester in hospitals and clog up sewer pipes?
A new study detailing microganisms' "sense of touch" has offered some answers.
Scientists first observed a bacterium cell's feelers, or pili, hair-like appendages that sense the cell's surroundings, using targeted fluorescent dye delivered by tiny maleimide molecules.
The dyes allowed researchers to watch the movement of pili under a high-powered microscope.
Researchers were able to make the pili appear larger and fluoresce by substituting the chain up amino acids that normally make up the cell's appendages with an amino acid called a cysteine.
The dyes bind easily with cysteine, enhancing the appendages visibility under the microscope.
"It's like switching on a light in a dark room," Courtney Ellison, a doctoral student at Indiana University, said in a news release.
"Pili are composed of thousands of protein subunits called pilins, with each protein in the chain composed of amino acids arranged like a tangled mess of burnt-out Christmas lights.
Swapping out a single light can illuminate the whole string."
To better understand how bacteria grab onto surfaces and create a biofilm, scientists tricked cells into thinking they were sensing a surface.
They did so by using a large maleimide molecule to block the movement of the cell's pili.
Pili can extend and retract through the cell wall to "feel" around for nearby objects.
The maleimide molecule effectively blocked the pili's ability to extend and move, tricking the cell into thinking it had bumped up against a surface.
"It's like trying to pull a rope with a knot in the middle through a hole -- the maleimide molecule can't pass through the hole the cell uses to extend and retract the pili," Ellison said.
The experiment -- detailed in a new paper published this week in the journal Science -- confirmed that a cell becomes aware of a surface when the pili's movement is restricted.
"These results told us the bacteria sense the surface like how a fisherman knows their line is stuck under water," said Yves Brun, professor of biology at IU.
"It's only when they reel in the line that they sense a tension, which tells them their line is caught.
The bacteria's pili are their fishing lines."
Biofilms can thwart valuable infrastructure and cause deadly infections, but researchers hope their new research will help scientists develop new ways to thwart their formation and growth.
"The more we understand about the mechanics of pili in biofilm formation and virulence, the more we can manipulate the process to prevent harm to people and property," Brun said.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Every autumn, many trek to New England to soak in the foliage as Green and White mountains of New Hampshire and Vermont turn a potpourri of yellows, oranges and reds.
A new image from NASA, however, suggests the best leaf-peeping perspective may be from space.
The image -- captured last week by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer on NASA's Terra satellite and shared online this week -- showcases the autumn colors spreading across the forests of North America.
"With temperatures falling and fewer hours of daylight in the northern hemisphere, autumn colors are sweeping across the eastern United States and Canada," NASA wrote in a blog update.
According to the Foliage Network, which tracks the color of the leaves across North America, fall colors are just passing their peak in Upstate New York, Northern Michigan and across much of New England.
While rates of leaf dropping are accelerating, much of the Northeast is still experiencing peak color.
Earlier this week, NASA's Earth Observatory shared images of the vivid foliage in Northern Maine, where the colorful autumnal leaves of deciduous trees contrast with the deep greens of conifer stands.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Until now, scientists thought city temperatures knew just one direction -- up.
Many studies have documented what's known as the heat island effect, but new research shows some cities, especially in India, benefit from an urban cooling phenomenon.
Usually suburban and rural land, with more vegetation, experience more cooling than cities, where concrete buildings and paved roads bake in the sun and encourage rising temperatures.
Scientists have worried that residents of cities -- the majority of the world's population -- will experience global warming more dramatically than their suburban and rural peers.
But new research shows 60 percent of cities in India experience a cooling effect during the daytime.
According to a new paper on the subject -- published this week in the journal Scientific Reports -- the cooling effect is explained by a lack of vegetation and moisture in the areas surrounding many of India's cities.
"When the areas around cities are running low on water and they aren't being irrigated, they turn into hot, dry, barren fields," Matthew Huber, a professor of earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences at Purdue University, said in a news release.
"When that happens, there's actually more water available to evaporate in the cities than the surrounding countryside.
It's like the cities are sweating."
Huber and his colleagues used daily temperature measurements in dozens of Indian cities, as well as temperature data from surrounding farmland, to build a model of urban heating and cooling.
They used climate models to determine the impact of irrigation on local temperature patterns.
Their simulations showed agricultural irrigation is the main driver of moisture availability on lands surrounding cities.
When irrigation is curtailed, less moisture is available on rural farmland than in the city.
As such, rural inhabitants are likely to experience the effects of heat waves more dramatically than those in the city.
The research showed that both cities and their unirrigated rural neighbors experience nighttime heating.
And Huber suggests the daytime cooling effect experienced in many Indian cities may not last.
"As conditions warm, it's more likely that this effect would go away rather than intensify," he said.
"On the other hand, this shows that green infrastructure could be really effective at cooling cities."
Watering plants in the city could further rob the countryside of water, leaving them baking in the sun.
Centuries of agricultural expansion has left many of India's water resources depleted and dried out much of the subcontinent, leading to significant desertification.
The latest research is a reminder of the balancing act policy makers will face as they work to protect different populations from the consequences of climate change.
"Are you going to impoverish the countryside and leave those areas barren, and the cities lush?"
Huber said.
"These are the kinds of questions we're asking: what are the tradeoffs?"
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Scientists in Switzerland have developed a scale capable of weighing a single living cell.
The device can even calculate changes in a cell's weight in real time -- with precision to milliseconds and trillionths of a gram.
The scale was designed by scientists at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, or ETH Zurich.
The device's arm features a transparent silicon cantilever.
The wafer-thin plate is coated with a film of collagen or fibronectin.
To weigh a cell, scientists lower the cantilever in a cell culture chamber where it presses against the cell and picks it up.
"The cell hangs on the underside of a tiny cantilever for the measurements," doctoral student Gotthold Flschner, who helped design the scale, said in a news release.
At the opposite end of the device's arm is a pulsing blue laser, which causes the nanoscale cantilever to oscillate.
A second infrared laser measures the oscillation before and after the cell is affixed to the plate.
"The cell's mass can be calculated from the difference between the two oscillations," said researcher David Martnez-Martn, who invented the device.
The technology feeds real-time measurements to a computer screen.
A cell's mass fluctuations can be tracked for several hours or even days.
The scale can be installed on the object plate of a high-performance fluorescence microscope, allowing scientists to observe biochemical process inside the cell while monitoring changes in the cell's weight.
Early tests using the scale has already begun to offer insights.
"We established that the weight of living cells fluctuates continuously by about one to four percent as they regulate their total weight," said Martnez-Martn.
The fluctuation in weight only ceases after the cell dies.
"We're seeing things that nobody else has yet observed," Flschner said.
Researchers described their new technology in a paper published this week in the journal Nature.
Scientists expect the new technology to be used to study a variety of cellular processes.
The device could be used to analyze a pathological mechanisms inside a diseased cell or observe the effects of a new drug.
"A cell's mass is a very good indicator of its physiology," said Martnez-Martn.
The patented scale -- which could also be used by material scientists to measure nanoparticles -- will soon by manufactured by Swiss company Nanosurf AG.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Researchers have found evidence of a new "megatheropod" dinosaur species from southern Africa.
The giant carnivore roamed the continent some 200 million years ago.
The dinosaur's presence was revealed by a set of three-toed footprints.
The dimensions of the prints suggest the species, named Kayentapus ambrokholohali, measured 30 feet from head to tail and rose 10 feet at the hip.
"The latest discovery is very exciting and sheds new light on the kind of carnivore that roamed what is now southern Africa," Fabien Knoll, senior research fellow at the University of Manchester, said in a news release.
"That's because it is the first evidence of an extremely large meat-eating animal roaming a landscape otherwise dominated by a variety of herbivorous, omnivorous and much smaller carnivorous dinosaurs.
It really would have been top of the food chain."
Ripples in the ancient rock where the prints were found suggest the site was once home to a watering hole or river bank.
Should the massive carnivore have showed up for a drink, he might have scared away most of the residents.
Other members of the "megatheropod" dinosaur group, like Tyrannosaurus rex, didn't appear on the scene for another 60 million years.
The diversity of large theropods didn't expand until the late Jurassic and early Cretaceous.
"This discovery marks the first occurrence of very large carnivorous dinosaurs in the early Jurassic of southern Gondwana -- the prehistoric continent which would later break up and become Africa and other landmasses," said Lara Sciscio, postdoctoral research fellow at the University of Cape Town.
"This makes it a significant find.
Globally, these large tracks are very rare."
Researchers described the novel theropod tracks this week in a new paper published in the journal PLOS ONE.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- New research suggests conservation investments aren't wasted.
Most of the time, investments translate to better protected species.
During the decade following the 1992 Rio Earth Summit, countries spent $14.4 billion on conservation.
According to the latest analysis, those investments reduced anticipated declines in global biodiversity by 29 percent.
A team of international researchers charted the impacts of conservation spending across dozens of countries between 1992 and 2003, comparing the size and scope of conservation efforts with shifts in trajectory of vulnerable species' conservation status.
Scientists relied on data from the International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List of Threatened Species to gauge the health of target species in various countries.
In tracking specific conservation projects, scientists made sure to allow time for impacts to materialize up in the conservation assessments of targeted species.
The research findings -- published this week in the journal Nature -- showed conservationists get the most bang for their buck in developing countries.
"This paper sends a clear, positive message: Conservation funding works," senior author John Gittleman, dean of the Odum School of Ecology at the University of Georgia, said in a news release.
Conservation funding works best in developing countries because many of the world's developing nations are home to the richest biodiversity hotspots on the planet.
The same countries are also the most vulnerable.
In fact, 60 percent of global biodiversity losses between 1992 and 2003 were attributable to seven countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, China, India, Australia and the United States -- mostly as a result of biodiversity loss in Hawaii.
Researchers also found that population growth and the expansion of farmland was linked with increased pressure on vulnerable species.
But the latest findings offer proof that negative trends can be reversed and pressure on vulnerable species can be relieved by investing in conservation.
"For 25 years, we have known that we need to spend more on nature conservation, or face a modern mass extinction as serious as that of the dinosaurs," said lead author Anthony Waldron of Oxford University.
"But governments and donors have been unwilling to come up with the necessary budgets, often because there was little hard evidence that the money spent on conservation does any good.
This finding should now encourage decision makers to re-engage with the Earth Summit's positive vision, and adequately bankroll the protection of Earth's biodiversity today."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- In order to survive, marine microbes living buried beneath seabed sediments must resort to cannibalism, according to a new study.
In an effort to better understand how microorganisms break down carbon trapped in the sediments at the bottom of the ocean, a team of researchers at the Ludwig-Maximilian University of Munich conducted a genetic analysis of the enzymes secreted by resident microbial communities.
Extracellular enzymes are secreted by microbes to accelerate the breakdown of surrounding organic detritus.
The byproducts of the breakdown process are reabsorbed as proteins that serve as fuel for the microbes.
Enzymes secreted into the surrounding sediment contain signature strings of amino acids that mark its extracellular destiny.
The microbe's secretory mechanism recognizes this signature and allows the enzyme access to the outside world.
These RNA fragments can be sequenced in the lab and used to study the microbes that released them.
"Using a novel bioinformatic method, we searched for evolutionarily conserved, and hence functionally important, amino-acid sequence motifs within these recognition sequences," William Orsi, professor of geomicrobiology at LMU, said in a news release.
"In this way, we were able, for the first time, not only to use genetic data to deduce enzyme functions, but also to specifically identify those enzymes that are secreted by cells that live in these sediments."
Researchers sequenced the genetic material found in sediments recovered from deep-sea drilling sites situated off the coast of Peru.
Some of the sediments were 2.8 million years old.
The researchers' analysis -- detailed this week in the journal Nature Microbiology -- showed different communities of bacteria, archaea and fungi buried in seabed sediments use an array of enzymes to breakdown carbohydrates, lipids and proteins into usable sources of energy.
The enzymes can also breakdown dead cells, allowing microbes to eat their own kind for additional sustenance.
"Many of the enzymes synthesized and secreted by fungal cells specifically attack the cell walls of archaea, while many of the extracellular enzymes released by bacteria can degrade the cell walls of fungi," Orsi said.
"In other words, different classes of microbes apparently cannibalize one another's 'carcasses.'"
Marine sediments are the planet's largest carbon reserve.
Scientists hope an improved understanding of the microbial communities living in the seabed will help them more accurately model how carbon and other organic molecules are recycled.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- Men and women are biologically programmed to be drawn to the arched back of a female, new research suggests.
Scientists at the University of Minho in Portugal used 3D models and eye-tracking technology to showcase how slight shifts in posture affect the perception of a woman's attractiveness.
Researchers used computers to generate six 3D models of female upper bodies.
Each model featured a slightly different posture, their backs tweaked subtly while still maintaining normal body angles.
The models images, pictured from the front, side and the back, were presented to 82 undergraduate students -- a mix of men and women.
The study participants were asked to rate the attractiveness of each model.
Both men and women rated the models with their backs more arched as more attractive.
"Increased curvature increases the perception of attractiveness," researcher Farid Pazhoohi said in a news release.
Eye-tracking technology showed both men and women focused their gaze on the rear-view of each model for longer periods of time than on other perspectives.
Men tended to focus on the hips, while women trained their eyes on the waist.
The link between arched backs and attractiveness was stronger for rear and side-views.
"The latter highlights the unique influence of an arched back on the perception of attractiveness," said Pazhoohi.
The curve in the spine that allows the lower back to bend inward toward the belly is called lordotic posture.
Previous studies have showcased the role the posture plays in signaling a female's readiness to mate among a variety of animals, including rats, guinea pigs, sheep, cats, ferrets and primates.
The latest research -- detailed this week in the journal Evolutionary Psychological Science -- suggests the evolutionary signal may also influence human behavior.
"The perception of attractiveness and visual attention to the hip region suggests that lordosis or the arching of the back might signal human females' proceptivity or willingness to be courted," Pazhoohi said.
"This also might explain why women wear high heel shoes and why wearing high heel shoes increases womens' attractiveness."
On September 25, 1835, during the HMS Beagles sojourn to the Galpagos archipelago, Charles Darwin first set foot on what was then known as Charles Island.
He found a colony of 200 to 300 inhabitants, nearly all political exiles sent there by Ecuador, aka the Republic of the Equator, after a failed coup attempt.
The lowlands did not much impress Darwin, with their leafless thickets, but after trudging four miles inland and upward to a small, impoverished settlement in the highlands, he found a green and thriving vegetation, cultivated with bananas and sweet potatoes, along with a group of islanders who, although complaining of poverty, obtain, without much trouble, the means of subsistence.
That was mainly because of the tens of thousands of giant tortoises that once prowled these islands.
In the woods, Darwin noted, almost as an afterthought, there are many wild pigs and goats.
On the morning of August 25, 2017, Karl Campbell bounded off a twin-engine motorboat and onto the dock of that same humble island.
Now known as Floreana, the island has 144 residents, half as many as in Darwins time, and Campbell seemed to know them all.
Dressed down in a baseball cap, blue jeans and gray T-shirt that read Island Conservation, he ambled up to Claudio Cruz, at the wheel of a local bus (a converted truck with benches in the back), and exchanged some banter.
He waved hello to Juanita and Joselito, who manned the Ecuadorian governments biosecurity checkpoint on the dock.
He shouted out another Hola to the postmaster, popped his head into the community center to greet Myra and Holger, a farmer, and paused to catch up with Carmen, the woman who monitors the public bathrooms near the landing.
His path up Floreanas one paved road was interrupted by salutations, chitchat, short jokes and the one-cheek kisses that are the custom in Ecuador.
Campbell, a 42-year-old Australian who has lived in the Galpagos Islands for 20 years, is a gregarious and outgoing fellow, with a tendency to begin conversations with All good, mate?
But the cheery demeanor and bonhomie he displayed that morning is an essential part of a massive scientific undertaking.
Campbell has a Ph.D. in vertebrate pest management from the University of Queensland in Australia, and in 2006 he began working as an animal removal specialist for Island Conservation, an organization based in Santa Cruz, Calif., that is devoted to preserving biodiversity and preventing extinctions by removing invasive species from islands throughout the world.
Campbell has been working on eradications in the Galpagos since 1997, including a 2006 campaign to remove all the feral goats and donkeys from Floreana.
A decade later hes a project manager with Island Conservation, and the most ambitious project on its agenda is once again on Floreana: to eradicate every single rat and mouse on the island.
There are hundreds of thousands of islands in the world.
You cant work on all of them, Campbell says.
Conservationists, according to Campbell, are currently able to do 10 to 20 islands a year to rid them of mice.
So which are the ones you should be working on most urgently?
We basically draw up a list of places where we should be working to prevent extinctions.
Topping that list, he says, is Floreana.
Floreana has one of the highest endemicity rates in the Galpagos, the highest rate of extinctions due to the invasive species here and the highest rateby farof critically endangered species, which makes it one of the highest-priority targets not just in the Galpagos but in the world, Campbell says, in a spiel that has the polish and urgency of countless recitations to funders, journalists and probably every one of Floreanas residents.
Floreana is at the limit of feasible projects using current eradication tools.
The island is large (17,253 hectares, or about 46,600 acres), and it is inhabited, which complicates the task enormously.
It means having to explain the logistics and consequences of the entire projectnot least of which is a plan to dump 400 tons of rodent poison all over the island.
That is why, since 2012, Campbell and his colleagues, such as Carolina Torres and Gloria Salvador, have been visiting Floreana almost once a month, enduring the bumpy two-hour boat ride from the main island of Santa Cruz to meet with residents, describe their proposed project, and figure out the massively complicated steps needed to protect adults, children, livestock, water and endangered species from the effects of the poison.
Such eradications require almost military-scale logistics and precision, which is why Campbell has been desperately seeking an alternative to the blunt-force tools of current techniques.
One of the most appealing, to his mind, is a controversial new form of genetic manipulation known as gene drive.
Compared with the frustrations he endures every day on the Floreana project, he likens the technology to a magic wand out of Harry Potter.
The basic strategy of using gene drive in the conservation setting would be to tinker with the DNA of mice, using either the new gene-editing tool CRISPR or other tools of genetic manipulation, in such a way as to tilt the odds of sex inheritance; one example would be to produce offspring that would be exclusively male, eventually producing a daughterless population of mice.
The elimination of females, of course, would create a reproductive dead end for that invasive species.
Gene drive is far from a practical technology at this point, but Island Conservation has been working with molecular biologists in the U.S. and Australia to create these genetically modified mice, and Campbell has made no secret of his enthusiasm for the approach at recent scientific meetings.
And that, in turn, may be why the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, in a 2016 analysis on the potential benefits and risks of gene drive, included the example of daughterless mice among a series of potential scenarios where the technology might be applied.
As the report noted, Perspectives on the place of human beings in eco-systems and their larger relationship to natureand their impact on and manipulation of ecosystemshave an important role in the emerging debate about gene drives.
That debate, in a sense, has already begun on Floreana, where residents have been weighing the benefits and risks of a massive, albeit nongenetic manipulation of their precious ecosystem for the past five years.
Brown rats (1) are a primary target of a massive invasive-species eradication effort planned for the island of Floreana, where donkeys (2), cattle (3) and many other nonnative species have been introduced over the centuries.
On neighboring Isabela Island, feral goats denuded the landscape of a giant Galpagos tortoise stronghold (4).
Credit: Krystyna Szulecka Alamy (1 and 3); Wolfgang Kaehler Getty Images (2); Tui de Roy (4) Campbell is the first to acknowledge that the Galpagos will not be the first or best place to test gene drive in the field.
But it may be the best place to think about the implications, good and bad, of gene drive in the context of species preservation.
If, as a global community, we value the preservation and protection of biodiversity in the Galpagos (a value ratified by its selection as among the first World Heritage sites by the United Nations agency UNESCO), we also have to come to terms with the complexities and paradoxes of invasive species eradication, which legitimizes the local elimination of certain animals for the benefit of other speciesnot least humans.
As Campbell likes to point out, No one comes to the Galpagos to see rats and goats and cats.
I.
Red in Tooth and Claw If the Galpagos Islands have become synonymous in the public imagination with ecological harmony and thrillingly pristine biodiversity, the reality is somewhat different.
Yes, the massive tortoises are stunning, but where thousands of them once bulldozed the highlands of Floreana, there are now about two dozenall imported from other islands because the local species went extinct.
Yes, the fearless finches are charming and beautiful, but the Floreana mockingbird disappeared from the island around 1880, one of 13 species that have gone locally extinct.
Yes, the sea turtles languorously swimming off La Lobera Beach are magnificent, but their eggs have been relentlessly poached by indifferent predators.
All those iconic Galpagos species have been ruthlessly threatened by invasive species.
There is a darkness to the Galpagos paradise, and it has been there a long time, perhaps since Toms de Berlanga, then the bishop of Panama, went off course and discovered the islands in 1535.
The first true invasive mammals on the islands were the pirates who frequented them in the 17th century, followed by sailors from whaling ships in the 18th century.
These mariners brought in tow a malign ark of mammalian deplor-ables they introduced to islands that had been largely unperturbed for millions of years.
If you want to be provocatively precise about it, the very first documented resident invasive species on Floreana was an Irish sailor named Patrick Watkins, marooned around 1805.
He reportedly grew vegetables, which he bartered to visiting ships in exchange for rum (he was the model for a story by Herman Melville).
Three years before Darwins arrival, a zoos worth of invasive species had become entrenched on Floreana.
It is no accident that in the scientific literature, the earliest date for many invasive species is 1832.
Thats when General Jos de Villamil, the first governor of the Galpagos Islands, arrived on Floreana to organize the penal colony.
As Cruzfarmer, amateur historian, sometime bus driver and the largest landowner on Floreanaputs it, He brought everythinggoats, donkeys, cows, mules, horses, dogs, pigs, rats, everything.
Similar animal importations occurred on other islands in the Galpagos during the 19th century, with devastating consequences on the local flora and fauna.
Villamil brought the mules and donkeys to haul tortoises down from the highlands.
At the time of his visit, Darwin reported that a previous ship visiting Floreana had loaded up on 200 tortoises in a single day (other ships reportedly collected as many as 700 apiece, according to Darwin).
Invasive mammals have wrought havoc on the ecosystem, in direct and indirect ways.
Donkeys destroy tortoise eggs when they roll on the ground to cleanse themselves.
Feral cats devour seabird chicks and snack on baby lava lizards, as do mice.
Feral goats, in buzz cut fashion, chew through the native vegetation, removing the food that sustained the tortoise population for centuries and clearing the way for invasive plants such as guava, which has spread throughout the highlands.
The Galpagos racer, once a common snake?
Gone.
More than 750 alien plant species and almost 500 alien insects have taken root in the Galpagos.
As much as the islands have been a global classroom on evolution, they are also a reminder that nature is not static and that conservation sometimes alters nature to preserve it.
Credit: Mapping Specialists It has been the same story throughout the archipelago, though with some very odd chapters.
In a 2012 compendium of alien vertebrates on the Galpagos, R. Brand Phillips, David A. Wiedenfeld and Howard L. Snell, all then affiliated with the Charles Darwin Research Station in Puerto Ayora on Santa Cruz, catalogued a rogues gallery of 44 uninvited guest species, nearly half of them establishing feral populations.
They ranged from obvious interlopers (goats, pigs, cattle, black rats) to an unwelcome menagerie of exotic animals.
The Nile tilapia, a freshwater fish, turned up on the island of San Cristbal in 2006; tree frogs have been spotted on two islands.
Over the years nonnative visitors have included the mourning gecko, domestic ducks, cattle egrets, parakeets, peafowls and grackles.
Three monkeys, of uncertain species, turned up on Floreana in the 1930s, and in 1937 one local entrepreneur tried to establish an ocelot colony on the island of Santiago.
Ocelots!
Humans dont get a waiver from these waves of invasion, and their impact is increasing, too.
In 1984 only 6,000 people total lived on five of the 129 islands and islets; more than 30,000 do today.
And tourists?
Three decades ago there were 20,000 a year; in 2016 there were 218,000.
Just as more people began to come to the Galpagos to marvel at the local biodiversity, that biodiversity became increasingly threatened by the invasive species.
The Galpagos National Park Service, which controls 97 percent of the land in the archipelago, first attempted to eradicate goats on Pinta Island in 1971an undermanned campaign that proved the adage in the eradication business that a 99 percent success is a 100 percent failure.
Only 10 goats remained on the island after the eradication program, recalls Victor Carrion, a former national park service official who participated in many eradication efforts.
Within 10 years the number had climbed back up to 2,000.
The problem, Carrion says with a shrug, was the final stage.
The Galpagos National Park Service began to develop more effective eradication plans in the late 1990s.
Around this time, Campbell, then 22 years old and trying to decide what to do with his life, turned up in the archipelago.
He had no particular affinity for the Galpagosexcept, perhaps, that as a teenager back in Brisbane, he kept hundreds of pet birds in aviaries he built himself.
In August 1997 he served as a volunteer on a goat-eradication project on the island of Isabela.
Within a decade he would play a leading role in some of the most ambitiousand controversialisland eradication projects in the world.
II.
The Devil we Know Eradication is an ugly, euphemistic business.
In 2004 the national park service and the Charles Darwin Foundation initiated a more systematic campaign to eradicate goats from the northern, uninhabited part of Isabela, the largest island in the archipelago.
Two helicopters were used for aerial hunting; two or three hunters in each helicopter shot goats from the air, using semiautomatic 12-gauge shotguns and semiautomatic .223-caliber AR15 rifles.
After the first aerial sweep, ground hunters with specialized dogs went into heavily vegetated parts of the island to flush out goats that had survived the initial onslaught.
In the final phase, beginning in March 2005, the eradication team deployed some 700 Mata Hari goats and Judas goats.
Campbells Ph.D. project was the development of the Mata Hari goata variation on the Judas goat, which was developed in the 1980s.
Judas goats are outfitted with radiotelemetric collars.
The animals are very gregarious, so hunters use goats wearing a wire, if you will, to find other goats.
Mata Hari goats take the gambit one step furtherthey are female goats outfitted with hormonal implants that induce a permanent state of estrus, so that they seek and attract male goats.
Mata Hari goats, needless to say, were not cooked up in the evolutionary hot pot of the Galpagos.
Indeed, Campbell trained local hunters to perform field surgery on female goatstying their fallopian tubes, terminating any pregnancies and inserting hormonal packs so that they were in constant heat, after which they were outfitted with radiotelemetry transmitters on collars so they could be traced.
Once released, the Judas and Mata Hari goats tracked down the last holdouts.
When all was said and done, Project Isabela killed 62,818 goats, at a cost of about $4.1 million.
To hear Carrion tell it, the main complaint of the locals was that they didnt get any of the meat.
They said, Were hungry, and we need the food!
he recalls.
Even 100 percent success, in this case, wasnt enoughon at least nine occasions, according to Carrion, disgruntled locals deliberately reintroduced eradicated species, in part to protest local fishing regulations.
Black rats (1), which came to the Galpagos on ships as early as the 17th century, devour eggs laid by native reptiles and birds.
To fight back, biologists have resorted to baiting the nesting areas of the Galpagos storm petrel (2) and other species with rat poison.
Credit: Tui de Roy (1); Pete Oxford Getty Images (2) But the magnitude of the eradication campaigns in the Galpagos is staggering: 79,579 goats removed from Santiago, 41,683 from Pinta, 7,726 in San Cristbalin all, 201,285 goats have been removed from 13 islands (and you know its a grisly business when euphemisms such as removed are used instead of killed).
Its a pretty good bet that the tourists who flock to the Galpagos to swim with the sea turtles and follow the graceful arc of its storied birds are unaware that the islands have been turned into killing fields over the past two decades to preserve their famous biodiversity.
Even a modest rodent-eradication campaign illustrates just how tricky the traditional approaches can be.
In 2012 the Galpagos National Park Service and collaborators began applying the rodent poison brodifacoum on the small, uninhabited island of Pinzn to eliminate rats, which had ravaged the eggs and hatchlings of giant tortoises for decades.
The eradication was successful, and substantial numbers of tortoise hatchlings were reported on the island for the first time in a century.
But the poison made its way into lava lizards, which in turn were eaten by endangered Galpagos hawks, resulting in at least 22 deaths because of brodifacoum poisoning (even though many of the hawks had been protected by captive holding for two weeks).
In one instance, researchers found extremely high levels of rat poison in an owl carcass more than two years after the baiting.
And that brings us to the most ambitious island eradication in the Galpagos and perhaps anywhere in the world, an endeavor that everyone on Floreana refers to simply as the Proyectothe Project.
III.
The Devil Is in the Details There is one store in Floreana and one main road.
As elsewhere in the Galpagos, the houses are simple cinder block constructions with corrugated metal roofs.
If you go to one of the few restaurants in the islands single town, you better tell them ahead of time that you are coming: otherwise, they wont have enough food for you.
The residents of Floreana are quiet-spoken, generous, subtly good-humored and deeply principled.
Several years ago, when an entrepreneur from another island stiffed local workers out of their pay, no one on the island would serve him food, no one would rent him a room to sleep in and no one would speak to him.
The entrepreneurs project collapsed.
The islands quirky politics and fierce independence make such an endeavor socially daunting.
As Campbell says, It gets complicated real fast.
A recurring mantra in the recent National Academies report on gene driveand, indeed, in almost every official white paper about genetic engineering in the past four decadesis the need for public engagement.
But that bloodless phrase does not begin to capture the passion and complexity of real projects in real circumstances.
If eradications in general are hard, eradications on inhabited islands are really hard.
That became clear to Campbell several years ago, during a small meeting with members of the Floreana community to discuss the Proyecto.
One resident, adamantly opposed to the idea of having to remove livestock from the island, looked straight at Campbell and said, in unprintable language, If you do this, Im going to kill you.
Campbell recalls the moment as very conflictive.
The intensity of emotion does not seem entirely inappropriate, given the magnitude of the disruption.
Since 2012 authorities in the Galpagos, with Island Conservation, have been formulating what they consider to be the most complex eradication plan of an inhabited island to date.
Its not just the contentious adults on Floreana who make it complicated.
Its children, pets and livestock, in addition to endangered birds and lava lizards.
Floreana giant tortoises were once thought extinct, but recent genetic research identified related species living on nearby Isabela.
Biologists are breeding the tortoises and reintroducing them to Floreana.
Credit: Tui de Roy Consider the staggering environmental risks of a traditional, nongenetic eradication.
To eliminate every rat and mouse from Floreana, the project calls for helicopters to drop some 360 million one-gram (0.035-ounce) pellets of brodifacoumin Campbells words, Basically, systematically paint the whole islandnot just once but two times in the lowlands and three in the highlands, over a period of two months.
To minimize potential health and environmental risks, the plan calls for extreme precautions.
Water resources must be protected.
Children may have to be removed from the island for up to six weeks.
Pets will either need to be removed or restricted to domiciles or cages.
Large agricultural livestock, such as cattle, pigs and horses, will have to be restricted in corrals (after the farmers of Floreana made clear that sending animals off the island for six months was not an acceptable option).
Chickens will have to be housed in new covered coops built specifically for the project.
Giant Galpagos tortoises in the Asilo de la Paz refuge will have to be temporarily restricted.
Endangered birds will be trapped and held in specially built aviaries during the aerial baiting.
In places off-limits to aerial baiting, such as buildings, homes or other structures, the eradication team will deploy traps and bait stations (the location of each bait station, in each home, has to be specified, and Carolina Torres, the lawyer for Island Conservation, is now drawing up a written agreement for each and every household).
A single pregnant female, or a single area missed, is a failure, Campbell says.
You need to get into every building, in every house, in every crawl space, in every closet, under every fridge to get every mouse.
The people from Island Conservation have taken the idea of public engagement to a new level.
On a recent trip, Torres brought chocolates for Ericka Wittmer, a matriarch of one of the islands oldest families, and paid house calls to several island farmers to explain a legal issue involving contracts with the tenants who worked on parcels of their land.
The organization recently provided paint for local homeowners to beautify their cinder block houses.
When one resident expressed interest in starting a restaurant, Campbell and Torres encouraged her and promised to be customers.
The organization has enlisted architects to design new chicken coops for the islands farmers; each unit will cost about $22,000.
Campbell has learned the hard way that one-on-one relationship building is the best way to involve people in the decision-making process on such a delicate project.
If you do a town hall type of thing, theyll absolutely butcher you, he says.
Two or three people dominate the conversation, you dont know what other people think, and then afterwards, you have to spend a lot time dealing with the misinformation.
Despite initial reservations, Campbell says, most residents on Floreana support the eradication plan.
In the highlands, Holger Vera, the farmer, stands amid a grove of orange trees, pineapple plants and other crops, lamenting the rapaciousness of the local rodents.
They eat fledgling corn plants, he says; they devour pineapples; they eat the tubers of yucca.
Now they are even eating the sugarcane, he complains.
They are eating everything.
But if we get rid of them, we can grow everything.
Vera was initially skeptical about the Proyecto, Torres says, but he now sounds enthusiastic.
Even if he has to board his seven dogs?
Yes, yes, he replies.
Similarly, Cruzwho owns 80 cows, 130 pigs, more than 200 chickens, 10 horses and two dogsagrees with the plan and the way it has been discussed with residents of Floreana.
We feel we are on the same page in terms of whats going on, he says.
Essentially we have verbal agreements from nearly all the residents, Campbell says.
The plan still awaits final approval from Galpagos authorities.
He believes the project could have been launched this year if funding had been secured in a timely fashion.
(Costs are expected to be $20 million overall, but funding hiccups have now delayed it until at least 2020; Campbell estimates that each year of delay costs $1 million.)
Despite funding uncertainty, the reality of the Proyecto recently sunk in when seven orange, 20-foot shipping containers arrived in Floreana in mid-July.
They are intended to store uncontaminated livestock feed, or silage, for use during the rodent eradication; some farmers have already begun to store animal feed in the containers.
Pulling off a project this complicated is like managing a bureaucratic ecosystembalancing the regulatory piece, the public engagement piece, the logistical piece, the funding piece, the poison mitigation piece.
Thats why Campbell thinks the Floreana project is maxing out the capability of traditional eradication tools.
And that is why, not infrequently, he will say, If we engaged the gene-drive technology, the conversations would be simpler, and the answers would be much more pragmatic.
IV.
The Devil We Dont Know Campbell first became intrigued by the possibilities of gene drive in 2011, when he sat in on a conference call between biologists at North Carolina State University and officials of the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service to discuss a possible genetic approach to control a runaway mouse problem on Southeast Farallon Island, about 20 miles west of the California coast, near San Francisco.
John Godwin, a North Carolina State neurobiologist who studies animal behavior, had learned of the Farallon issue while skimming the Internet in 2011.
He happened to be at a university with an established infrastructure dedicated to experimenting withand considering the ethical implications ofgenetic manipulation.
Two of his colleagues, Fred Gould and David Threadgill, were already discussing the possibility of tinkering with the mouse genome in an attempt to create mice incapable of producing female offspring.
Two other colleagues, Jennifer Kuzma and Jason Delborne, became deeply involved in how to engage the larger world of stakeholdersgovernment regulatory agencies, animal management officials, bioethicists and, of course, the general publicin considering the prospect of releasing genetically altered animals into the wild.
Kuzma and Gould serve as co-directors of the Genetic Engineering and Society Center at North Carolina State.
To make a long story short, Island Conservation joined forces in 2016 with other international groups to launch the GBIRdGenetic Biocontrol of Invasive Rodentsprogram.
GBIRd scientists are cautiously investigating genetic tools to preserve island ecosystems.
The advent of the gene-editing tool CRISPR boosted efforts to develop an alternative approach to eradication.
Those efforts gained traction in July, when the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency gave the North Carolina State group $3.2 million to pursue gene drives for mouse eradication on islands.
The basic idea of gene drive seems counterintuitive to anyone raised on the notion of Gregor Mendels pea plants and the random inheritance of genes from parents.
You usually have a 5050 chance of inheriting a gene from one parent or the other.
In rare instances, however, certain genes are favored, or selfishthey are inherited at much higher rates than random sorting would suggest.
One such gene (technically, a region of the genome) exists in mice on chromosome 17; it is called the T-complex, and it is inherited at a rate of 95 percent.
It might theoretically serve as a smugglers bible, allowing a second gene to be quickly introduced in a population.
In an eradication scenario, researchers could theoretically attach a second piggybacking gene to the T-complex and essentially drive that second trait into the majority of offspring.
One such mouse gene, known as SRY, determines male gender, so stitching it to a selfish gene would create more and more males (and fewer and fewer females) in each generation, until a mouse population would be daughterless.
One of the basic requirements of gene drive is that the time between generations in the target animal is short; mice certainly qualify because their time between birth and reproductive maturity is 10 weeks.
If the mice in the lab can be manipulated to pass along a desired gene, such as one to produce a single gender, and if those mice are reproductively successful in the wild, that gene could be rapidly driven into a population.
Thats a lot of ifs, but Threadgill, now at Texas A&M University, has been pursuing precisely that strategy in mice.
This so-called daughterless breed could eliminate a native mouse population without environmental poison, without offshore animal relocations, without all the logistical nightmares entailed by the Floreana project.
Paul Thomas, a biologist at the University of Adelaide in Australia, has been exploring the use of CRISPR to inactivate genes related to female fertility in mice, an approach that could be adopted to produce a population of entirely infertile females.
In addition, Godwin, the neurobiologist, is testing whether an engineered mouse will pass sexual muster with wild mice (he is currently working with a batch transplanted from Southeast Farallon).
Floreana lava lizards are easy prey for the feral cats that stalk the island.
Credit: Tui de Roy Species eradication is by no means the only application of gene drive.
Target Malaria is an attempt to engineer mosquitoes so that they are incapable of transmitting malaria; the group, with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, has already begun community outreach efforts in Africa in anticipation of a field test.
Kevin Esvelt, a biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is pursuing a project to engineer white-footed mice on Nantucket to make them immune to the bacteria that cause Lyme disease.
In the gene drive game, the rule of thumb is that islands are the best place for a field test; smaller islands are better than larger ones, and uninhabited islands are better than inhabited ones.
Campbell suspects the first field test of gene drive will involve mosquitoes and adds that the U.S., Australia or New Zealand would probably be the most appropriate venue because their regulatory infrastructures are sophisticated enough to assess new hot-button genetic technologies.
Eradications are controversial, genetic modification even more so.
There is no safe way to experiment with these technologies in the wild, says Dana Perls, senior food and technology campaigner at Friends of the Earth.
Jane Goodall, Fritjof Capra and other conservationists called for a moratorium on the research in an open letter published last September.
Firing a shot across the bow of Island Conservation, the signatories said they were alarmed that some conservation organizations have accepted funding for and are promoting the release of engineered gene-drive organisms into the wild.
The great fear is unintended consequencesthat something unexpected and bad will happen.
There is no question that gene drive, as the National Academies put it, may have harmful effects for other species or ecosystems, and that alone warrants cautious and prudent development.
But in previous public debates over genetic technologies, such as the battle over recombinant DNA in the 1970s, it was often difficult to separate legitimate concerns from exaggerated fears.
Back in the real world, during an excursion into the highlands of Floreana, Campbell and Torres led me to a freshwater springnot far from the cave where the islands first settler, the drunkard Watkins, allegedly slept off his hangovers.
As part of the project, the entire area surrounding the spring, which is already fenced off, will be covered with a tent, and special filters will be placed on the pipes to make sure no rodent bait gets into the systemeven though brodifacoum is not water-soluble.
Part of public engagement, Campbell said, is dealing with perceptions as well as legitimate fears.
Youre working with peoples perception of toxicants, he explained.
Its challenging to change peoples perceptions of this, because they dont.
One more reason, Campbell continued, that the genetic approach was more appealing.
Then suddenly he changed the subject.
Here we are, he said quickly, pointing to a rustle of vegetation inside the chain-link fence.
You see it?
A rat!
A pair of shiny, dark eyes briefly appeared amid the leaves.
Campbell identified it as Rattus rattusthe black rat, which is known to eat the eggs and hatchlings of Galpagos petrels and giant tortoises.
Like rats everywhere, it disappeared quicklya sentinel of an inevitably larger population and a larger covert threat to what Campbell calls species on the brink.
V. The Strangers Craft or Power Every stroll in the Galpagos is a nature walk, and each living creature tells a conservation storysome with happy endings, some not.
During our last day on Floreana, a number of these stories began when Campbells keen eye alighted on the animals that make this landscape so belovedand beleaguered.
During breakfast, a cactus finch stalked our table.
Its strong black and yellow beak had evolved to be larger and stronger, Campbell explained, to crack the unusually large and hard seeds of the local Opuntia cactus on Floreana; the cactus, in turn, is evolving even larger and tougher seeds to thwart this poachinga reminder that evolution is not a textbook concept but an ongoing process.
Moments later Campbell spotted a mouse darting behind a hunk of lava.
As we finished our meal, another invasive species made an appearancethe sleek, black, smooth-billed ani (pronounced Annie).
An example of old-school unintended consequences, farmers introduced the bird to the Galpagos in the 1960s in the belief that it could control ticks that afflicted cattle; it did not live up to its billing, so to speak, but it has exploded in numbers as an invasive species.
Later, on a walk to La Lobera Beach, Campbell pointed out fresh tracks of feral cats in the sand; they devour juvenile marine iguanas and lava lizards.
(The small ones have zero chance of getting away, he said.)
Near the head of the beach, he indicated the gnawed-off limb of one of the Opuntia cacti.
When rodents chew down the cacti, he explained, the plants fail to flower or bear fruiteliminating a crucial source of sustenance for tortoises and mockingbirds, especially in the dry season, and depriving finches of nesting sites.
And we paused to admire several magnificent sea turtles temporarily trapped in a lagoon during low tide.
Their eggs and hatchlings, too, provide tasty meals for rats and cats.
It was Darwins 20th-century bulldog, Richard Dawkins, who revived poet Alfred, Lord Tennysons phrase Nature, red in tooth and claw to describe the noir side of natural selectionnatures game is not always pretty, and the postcard-perfect ecology of a place like the Galpagos often conceals a darker, more unsentimental interaction of predator and preyan interaction whose delicate balance humans have repeatedly perturbed, whether by introducing invasive species or by attempting to atone for those ill-conceived introductions with literally toxic remedies.
And now, on the horizon, we may have to decide whether to use futuristic techniques of genetic modification to restore the islands to an earlier, more pristine state.
For what it is worth, a small sampling of opinion on Floreana did not betray much local concern about the potential applications of gene drive, although it is not clear how well understood these technologies (and their potential risks) are.
Vera shrugged off any worries and said he would have no problem with a genetic solution to the rodent problem.
Ingrid Wittmer, another descendant of one of the earliest families on Floreana, shook her head no when asked, instead expressing concern about the fate of the short-eared owl once its main food source, mice, was eliminated during the Proyecto.
Cruz, whose father emigrated to the island in 1939, when the population numbered 11, offered a farmers perspective to the idea of daughterless mice: Its like artificial insemination in cattle, he said.
If you want females, you use the semen for females.
Its the same thing.
For me, these are issues weve created, and to sit back and do nothing, theres going to be grave consequences, Campbell said.
We know where things are heading.
To actually not do something is ... is just irresponsible.
If you have the tool, and you dont use it, youre culpable.
We dont have the tool yet.
But if the craft of molecular biology eventually captures the power of gene drive, and it is used to manage invasive species in the Galpagos or any island, it is worth remembering that almost every ecological catastrophe visited on the planets living laboratory of evolution has come at the hands of humans.
The goats, the donkeys, the rats, the cats, the pigs, the mules, the mice and, yes, even those short-lived ocelots arrived with human help, on human boats, through human agency.
In a wry observation that resonates nearly two centuries later, Darwin remarked in his journal that while birds in England had developed a well-earned distrust of humans, the birds in the Galpagos have not learned [such] a salutary dread.
He went on to offer what might serve as cautionary words about 21st-century science and gene drives in particular.
We may infer from these facts, Darwin wrote, referring to the lack of fear in birds, what havoc the introduction of any new beast of prey must cause in a country, before the instincts of the indigenous inhabitants have become adapted to the strangers craft or power.
In some respects, making a solar system might seem childishly simple.
A cloud of gas and dust collapses under its own gravity, forming a whirling protoplanetary disk of debris that has a star at its center.
Despite its name, though, a protoplanetary disk is a challenging environment in which to form worldsat least, according to theorists who model the process.
Now, however, new observations are revealing surprising details of how planets emerge from disks: the first worlds to form can give rise to whirlpool-like vortices, which create subsequent generations of planets.
The findings were reported this month in The Astrophysical Journal Letters.
Stefan Kraus, an astronomer at the University of Exeter in England, led the team that observed a pair of vorticesas well as spiraling density wavesin a protoplanetary disk around a star more than a thousand light-years from Earth.
Both features are likely due to an unseen planet, and the teams models suggest they could boost further bouts of planet formation within the disk.
For a long time, theoretical astrophysicists have struggled to create models that accurately predict the outcomes of planet formation.
Planets are made in protoplanetary disks: turbulent environments filled with blobs and streams of gas and dust, which jostle against each other while spinning around a still-forming star.
The exact dynamics of planetary birth in such places are messy and not fully understood.
To make things even harder, planet-formation theorists are stuck in a field that is, right now, severely lacking observations.
Observation tells you what reality is, says Wladimir Lyra, a theorist at California State University, Northridge.
But you need theories to explain what's happening.
We feed the observations to our models in order to build theories and explain the observations.
It's this synergy that advances science.
The trouble is that observations of the innards of protoplanetary disks are hard to come by; the gas and dust in a disk block most of the light that would otherwise show the planet-forming action as it happens.
But millimeter and sub-millimeter radio waves emanating from cold dust in the disks outer regions can escape relatively unscathed, offering astronomers a way to look inside.
Arguably the best facility in the world to perform such observations is the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) observatory, a network of radio telescopes in Chiles Atacama Desert that came fully online in early 2013.
Before ALMA, Lyra explains, astronomers had an incomplete view.
The latest study from Kraus and his team used ALMA to peer deep into the protoplanetary disk of V1247 Orionis, a young star around 1,044 light-years away.
ALMAs radio eyes revealed curious vortices spinning among density waves that revolved around the star, a little like the spiral arms around the Milky Way.
The teams subsequent simulations suggest that these features arose from an unseen planetand that they could give rise to more worlds.
In this scenario the birth of just one planet in a disk could spawn new features, such as vortices, which would catalyze further planet formation.
A vortex is simply a swirling mass of fluid rotating around itself.
Jupiters Great Red Spot, a storm that is wider than Earth and has persisted for hundreds of years, is perhaps the most famous planetary example of a vortex.
Earthly examples include whirlpools in Earths oceans and tornados in the atmosphere.
Vortices can form spontaneously in any turbulent fluid, but in protoplanetary disks they can also arise as the direct consequence of a planets motion as it carves out a turbulent wake.
The spiral arms in the ALMA images of V1247 Orionis are probably a planets wake, spinning out vortices like small eddies in the wake of a speeding motorboat.
According to Anders Johansen, a theorist at Lund Observatory, the study is particularly notable because it is the first to use ALMA to match the observation of a vortex structure in a protoplanetary disk to a simulation [of planet formation].
That is, it offers a robust link between theory and observation that has, until now, eluded researchers.
The first theories of planet formation lacked detailed treatments of vortices and other complex features that modern approaches include.
Yet those early theories still managed to nicely replicate the observed architecture of our solar system, with its inner retinue of rocky worlds and outer realm of giant planets.
This layout mirrors basic understandings of protoplanetary disks, which are hotter near their centers and cooler at their edges.
Far enough from young stars, ices would contribute substantially to planet growth, leading to larger worlds.
Closer in those ices would evaporate, leaving limited amounts of rocky material that could only form modest-sized planets.
Problems with this overly simplistic model developed when astronomers began discovering an abundance of exoplanets like hot Jupitersmassive, close-in worlds that, according to prevailing theories, should not exist.
In the early theories, in the sixties and seventies, Kraus says, they thought it was a relatively straightforward process.
Now, he and other researchers realize that its much more complicated than we originally thought.
In order to build planets, a fledgling system first needs to make planetesimals: mountain-sized building blocks that smash together to form full planets.
We can see leftover planetesimals in our own backyardthey constitute the bulk of our solar systems supply of asteroids and comets.
To make planetesimals, dust must form and somehow stick together within the protoplanetary disk long enough to build these kilometer-scale objects.
However, to do this dust has to overcome a major obstacle called the radial drift problem.
This problem arises when dust grains experience a drag from gas in the disk.
This drag should cause the particles to lose momentum and rapidly spiral inward like water down a drain, eventually falling into the star and leaving nothing in the disk from which to make planets.
Because planets obviously exist, something must be missing from this picture.
Vortices, this latest work suggests, might be that missing something.
[Vortices] gather material, Lyra says.
Its like tea leaves in a teacup.
As you stir tea leaves in a teacup, the tea leaves will concentrate in the center of a cup.
Through this process dust can reach the critical densities required to gravitationally collapse to form a planetesimal.
Once planetesimals form, the rest of the process is straightforward: the planetesimals clump together to form protoplanets that are somewhere between the moon and Mars in size, and these in turn coalesce into full-sized planets.
Lyra describes this as a planet formation factory, a conveyor belt for making planets containing upwards of 10 Earth masses of material.
In this model, vortices not only manufacture planetesimals to be used to make planetsthey can also make fully fledged planets themselves.
Based on its age, he says, our own Mars may have formed in a vortex.
Once a planet forms and leaves a vortex, it frees [the vortex] to form another planet, Lyra explains.
We modeled this process, and we get hundreds of moon-sized and dozens of Mars-sized planets that later coalesce to form a couple of Earth-sized and super-Earth-sized planets.
To fully verify this model, the unseen planet needs to be found.
Kraus and his team are already pursuing follow-up observations to do just that.
The hope is that this future work will finally reveal the planet, completing their picture of the system and providing crucial evidence for a key step in planet formation.
Its like several pieces of a puzzle just fitting together really nicely [so] you can see the picture, Kraus says.
But the one puzzle piece where the planet should be is still missing.
Despite decades of effort, it has proven frustratingly difficult to predict who is most at risk of dying by suicide.
Relying on patients to reveal their intentions doesnt work.
Nearly 80 percent of those who die by suicide hide their suicidal thoughts from doctors and therapists during their last visits.
Yet suicide rates are increasing among middle-aged Americans and it is the second-leading cause of death for young people.
Thats why researchers have been urgently searching for a reliable biological predictor of suicidal thoughts and behavior.
A report published this week in Nature Human Behaviour suggests an intriguing new possibility.
The study combined neural imaging with machine learning to explore whether the brains of suicidal people respond differently to positive and negative words related to life and death.
It turns out they do, says co-author Matthew Nock, a clinical psychologist at Harvard University.
We can predict with a pretty surprising degree of accuracy whos had thoughts of suicide and who hasntand even among those with thoughts of suicide, who has made an attempt and who hasnt.
Although the study was small, the findings are remarkable, says Barry Horwitz, chief of the Brain Imaging and Modeling Section at the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, who wrote a commentary that accompanies the study.
Horwitz was particularly impressed by the techniques ability to correctly classify the nine out of 17 suicidal subjects who had made attempts at taking their own lives, a group experts say are as difficult to find as needles in a haystack.
Its hard to imagine any other method or risk factor allowing you to make that kind of distinction, Horwitz says.
Earlier this year, machine learning was reported to detect suicide risk based on health records with 80 to 90 percent accuracyconsidered an encouraging result.
But this new study stands out because it reveals a potential biological marker for suicidal thinking.
Its not just a reported behavior, says co-author Marcel Just, a cognitive neuroscientist at Carnegie Mellon University, we get the actual thoughts they have about suicide, and we see how theyre altered.
The study joined two separate lines of research.
Nock had previously used implicit association tests to determine suicide risk.
For example, he paired words related to death and life with like me and not like me.
Suicidal people were about three times more likely to respond more quickly than controls when death and me were paired.
That result has been replicated repeatedly, and has proven to be a relatively strong predictor of suicidal thoughts and behavior compared to other approaches such as medical assessments.
Meanwhile, Just has been using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to look inside the mind.
We can see the pattern that corresponds to thoughts, he says.
His technique, known as neuro-semantics, recognizes not words but concepts.
In response to the sentence the old man threw a stone into a lake, for example,brain activation patterns indicate that a person is involved, that movement occurs, and that theres an outdoor setting in the visualized scene.
In separate studies, Just asked subjects (they were method actors) to conjure up emotions such as anger and jealousy, and found recognizable patterns for each.
Emotions have neural signatures, Just says.
We have an archive of them on our computers.
When Just read about Nocks research, he wondered if he could see the thoughts of suicidal people in his scanner.
First, the researchers asked a machine learning classifier, which tries to find predictive measures for specific outcomes, if it could distinguish between 17 subjects who had thought about suicide and 17 who had not.
Inside the fMRI scanner, participants were asked to think about a series of words related to suicide and specific positive and negative thoughts and feelings.
(The most significant proved to be death, trouble, carefree, cruelty, praise, and good.)
After measuring the neural patterns of response, the researchers trained the machine on data for 33 out of 34 subjects.
They then asked the machine to determine whether the mystery subject was suicidal or not.
The classifier accomplished this task with 91 percent accuracy, correctly identifying 15 out of 17 suicidal subjects and 16 out of 17 controls.
In a second phase of the study, the researchers used Justs archive of emotional signatures to assess how much of each of four emotionsanger, shame, sadness and pridewas associated with each word.
The classifier could tell whether someone was in the suicidal or the control group by how much of each emotion was evoked, says Just.
Death evoked more sadness and shame among the suicidal ideators.
The classification based on these emotional neural signatures was 87 percent accurate in predicting suicidal thoughts.
In response to death-related words, suicidal people activated more areas of the brain associated with self-referential thinking.
That was consistent with previous findings, Nock says.
But the emotional response to words like carefree or trouble, was a surprise.
People who think about suicide have patterns that suggest less pride when the word carefree was shown, and more shame when the word death was shown, says Nock.
Theres this emotional component about how people are thinking about themselves that we hadnt identified before.
Other suicidologists say the idea of using neural signatures to predict suicide risk is promising, but stress how preliminary the study is.
These results leave open many questions about the mechanisms at work and the clinical implications given the intensive nature of the task and the expense of fMRI, says Alexis May, a clinical psychologist at the University of Utah, who was not involved with the research.
The studys authors agree.
They hope first to replicate the study and then to investigate the techniques clinical viability, perhaps through adopting another technique, electroencephalography or EEG, which monitors brain electrical activity.
While its clearly of scientific interest to better understand the brains of suicidal people, it remains to be seen if the method is realistically useful.
If you can get good prediction using a three-minute behavioral test, why spend a thousand dollars to put someone in a scanner?
Nock says.
What were doing is seeing if these approaches give us a different piece of the puzzle.
This past spring Pres.
Donald Trump ordered a review of more than two dozen national monuments, calling the protected status of these lands an egregious abuse of federal power.
The review included New Mexicos Rio Grande del Norte, Katahdin Woods and Waters in Maine and the controversial Bears Ears in Utah.
The usual environmental organizations and many Democrats excoriated Trump, of course.
But this time some of the fury is coming from a less-expected quarter: hunters and anglers.
Sportsmen and sportswomen dont tend to fit the tree-hugger stereotype that many conservatives ridicule; a plurality of them lean right in the voting booth.
Yet many strongly support preserving wilderness areas so they can use them to hunt and fish, and public lands such as national monuments often grant access to thriving wildlife.
Hunting and fishing groups have become increasingly politically active in recent yearsan important development, since many of their members make up a significant part of the Republican base.
Now that Republicans control Congress and the White House, hunting and fishing enthusiasts ideas about conservation may start to shape environmental policy more than in the past.
So what does their influence look like in the Trump era?
And could they sway issues like the national monuments review?
Hunters and anglers in the U.S. can trace their conservation ethic back more than a century.
Sport hunting was an elite activity, and the elite enforced hunting regulations to cut down on the game killed [commercially], and to set up preserves for themselves, explains Thomas Dunlap, a professor emeritus of environmental history at Texas A&M University.
Hunters were important, though not the only factor, in the development of conservation.
Their modern-day counterpartsincluding U.S.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkeoften evoke the memory of Theodore Roosevelt, a Republican whom many consider the conservation president.
A lifelong hunter, Roosevelt established protections for about 230 million acres of public land during his tenure in office from 1901 to 1909.
He also signed into law the Antiquities Act, which gives presidents power to create national monuments.
Today many of the more than 40 million hunters and fishers in the U.S. still believe in this ethicand many of them also identify with the political right.
Our ranks are traditionally conservative, says Land Tawney, leader of Backcountry Hunters & Anglers.
According to a national poll, 42 percent of hunters and fishers are Republicans, versus 32 percent as independents and 18 percent as Democrats.
In terms of ideology, 50 percent consider themselves conservative, 37 percent moderate, and 10 percent liberal.
The poll, conducted for the National Wildlife Federation, also found that most sportsmen and women see themselves as conservationists.
Even for the most hardcore duck hunters, I still think the conservation mission drives them, says Rogers Hoyt, president of Ducks Unlimited.
Hunters and fishermen are true environmentaliststhey enjoy using the resource, and believe in taking care of the resource.
Tawney says his organizations efforts are all aimed towards an end goal: having access to our public lands, and fish and wildlife habitat once you get there.
Hunting and fishing enthusiasts spend significant amounts of money and effort on conservation as well.
Hoyt points to initiatives such as the Federal Duck Stamp program, which have long brought in revenue to protect wildlife and habitats, as have revenues from other hunting and fishing licenses and taxes.
According to the U.S.
Fish & Wildlife Service, hunters pay for the majority of wildlife conservation efforts in most states through stamps, tags, and licenses.
Many sporting organizations devote substantial funds to promoting environmental issues as wellDucks Unlimited, for example, has spent millions of dollars conserving wetlands.
What's more conservative than stewarding our resources so we have them when we need them?
That's planning today for tomorrowthat's fundamentally conservative, says Steve Kline, a Republican and hunter who works for the non-profit Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership (TRCP).
We are in a place now where conservation issues have become incredibly partisan, and I think that's unnecessary.
Other conservative hunters and fishers echoed these views.
The best word is stewardship, says Andy Rasmussen, a lifelong Republican and fisherman, and a field coordinator for Trout Unlimited in Utah.
Its a conservation ethicyou need to be able to have these [public resources and public lands] managed sustainably, so that future generations can use them.
John Cornell, a Republican, hunter and New Mexico field representative for the TRCP, sees such an outlook as an inherent part of what he does.
Ive always been a sportsman, and have always been a conservationist by being a sportsman, he says.
After Trump announced his administrations review of national monuments, several major hunting and fishing and conservation groups sent a joint letter to the president, asking him not to repeal any of the monument designations.
And as Zinke worked through the review this summer, those same groups and others waged a public campaign against changes to the monument designations.
They sent letters, voiced their support for monuments on social media, ran ads critical of the review and met with Zinke about the issue.
National monuments matter deeply to many hunters and fishers.
A country-wide poll by TRCP and research firm Public Opinion Strategies found that 77 percent of Republicans and 80 percent of Democrats supported preserving the existing national monuments that allow hunting and fishing.
Nearly all of the monuments in Zinkes review currently offer access to both.
Sporting organizations say monument designations are important because they safeguard those lands from future mining, oil and gas drilling, and other forms of development.
Despite this rare but solid patch of common ground, conservative hunters and fishers still tend to see themselves as fundamentally different in their philosophy than the standard liberal environmentalistmany support natural resource development and view themselves as active managers of the land, rather than preservationists.
There are not a lot of sportsmen who want to preclude oil and gas development [in general], Rasmussen explains.
A lot of workers out in the oil fields are hunting and fishing in their time off.
Yet national monument lands and other conserved public lands are largely seen by sportsmen as off-limits to development.
Sportsmen want to make sure that within the monument, habitat is protected, says Cornell, who hunts in the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument in New Mexico (one of the monuments reviewed by Zinke).
We dont want to see those areas opened up to industry.
But of course, they say that any national monument designations must also guarantee access to hunting and fishing.
The hunting and fishing community is especially concerned that if the Trump administrations review rescinds or shrinks the boundaries of any national monuments, it will set a dangerous precedent.
Currently U.S. presidents use the 1906 Antiquities Act to designate national monuments; it remains unclear whether this act gives them the power to undo such protections ordered by past presidents.
Hunting and fishing organizations fear that if this administration does so it will open a door for future ones to do the same.
An attack on one monument is an attack on them all, Land Tawney says.
Even though hunters and anglers make up a large voting bloc, it has not always translated to the policy they want to see.
The problem is that our community hasnt been necessarily well represented by our elected leaders, says Whit Fosburgh, president and CEO of the TRCP.
Everybody likes to pay lip service to [us].
The reason, he explains, is that the hunting and fishing community has not typically held politicians accountable when they vote against its interests.
Our community is to blame for it, he says.
Id say [the community] has a lot of power, but it is [largely] untapped, Tawney says.
We could be getting more done if people were more aggressive.
But its a sensitive subject, how politically active you should be.
Cornell thinks this is changing.
We have to be more political than weve been, or well lose ground, he says.
It used to be enough to buy a license and find a place a place to hunt, but now weve had to up our game.
Rasmussen agrees.
For so long, these groups just didnt play in the policy arena, he says.
[Now] sportsmen have a growing political influence.
He notes that eight years ago, Trout Unlimited didn't have anybody in state legislaturesbut in 2017 the organization had dedicated representatives in every western legislature, working directly with them.
Thats [now] typical across the board for sportsmen's groups, he says.
TRCP says that people who hunt or fish also tend to turn out to vote more than the average American, making them a potentially more influential force in electionsfor Republicans in particular.
Just last February Rep. Jason Chaffetz (a Republican from Utah) withdrew legislation to transfer millions of acres of federal land to state ownership after facing immense opposition to the move, including from the hunting and fishing community.
In an Instagram post showing Chaffetz in the woods, dressed in camo and holding his dog, he wrote, I'm a proud gun owner, hunter and love our public lands, adding that groups I support and care about fear [the bill] sends the wrong message.
Chris Wood, president and CEO of Trout Unlimited, says his group has seen similar successes in states including Utah, Wyoming, and Nevada.
Our members were able to help convince legislators that [transferring public lands] was a bad idea, he says.
When it comes to the national monuments, though, not all hunting and fishing groups have decided to enter the political fray.
Ducks Unlimited has declined to take a stance.
And not all hunters and fishers support national monuments; some believe the land could be conserved in a better way, without government involvement.
Sportsmen arent a monolith, says John Freemuth, a professor of public policy at Boise State University, who specializes in public lands.
The number one thing that concerns sportsmen is access.
Many of them are environmentalists, but some of them aren't.
This August Zinke sent Trump a report of his national monuments review.
At first only a general summary of the report was made public, without Zinkes specific recommendations for the president.
But the report acknowledged that when the Interior Department invited public input on the review, the majority of the 2.8 million comments it received favored keeping existing monuments as they are.
Shortly afterward, a draft of Zinkes detailed report to the president was leaked to the media.
It revealed that the Interior Secretary had suggested cutting boundaries or reducing restrictions on seven of the land-based monuments and three of the marine monuments: Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante in Utah; Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks and Rio Grande Del Norte in New Mexico; Oregons Cascade-Siskiyou; Nevadas Gold Butte; Katahdin Woods and Waters in Maine; Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument; Pacific Remote Island Marine National Monument; and Rose Atoll Marine National Monument.
Various hunting and fishing organizations expressed deep disappointment in Zinkes recommendations.
But those recommendations are not finalthe president will ultimately decide what happens to these monuments.
Outdoor organizations do not know what to expect next, since Trump is notoriously unpredictable.
But, says Chris Wood of Trout Unlimited, it seems like so far they're not paying attention to what we care about.
Just last month, Rep.
Rob Bishop (a Republican from Utah) introduced a bill to overhaul the Antiquities Act, which would significantly limit the presidents power to designate national monuments.
And last Friday, Trump reportedly told Sen. Orrin Hatch (also a Utah Republican) that he would shrink the boundaries of Bears Ears National Monument.
Whether conservatives in Congress and the White House realize it or not, these may turn out to be risky moves.
Since many hunters and fishers count themselves as part of the Republican base and number in the tens of millions, [they are] a huge voting bloc, and something that politicians and the administration need to pay attention to, Tawney says.
Wood puts it more bluntly: We will ensure the voices of sportsmen and sportswomen are heard throughout, he says.
They ignore us at their political peril.
As opioid abuse tightens its grip on the U.S., a team of medical researchers is combing social media for clues to better understand this major public health problem.
Using artificially intelligent software they developed to analyze tweets and related geographic information, the researchers found Twitter to be a particularly reliable data source for pinpointing where the situation is at its worst.
With about 500 million messages posted to the microblogging site daily, such an approach could help alert local health officials so they can gather funding or other resources to tackle the issue.
Drug overdoses (most involving illegal heroin and prescription opioids) killed more than 64,000 people in the U.S. in 2016, up 21 percent from the previous year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (pdf).
Deaths attributed to the abuse of fentanyl (the painkiller blamed for pop star Princes overdose death last year) more than doubled from 2015 to 2016, and more sobering data is expected after health organizations have time to gather it.
That lag time in collecting information is one of the major factors that make opioid abuse particularly hard to address.
The researchers wanted to know whether analyzing tweet text could help them estimate the location and relative prevalence of prescription opioid misuse as accurately as established epidemiologic studiessuch as the National Survey on Drug Usage and Health (NSDUH)in a fraction of the time.
Traditional medical research like the NSDUH can take years to complete and publish.
But the team thought Twitter messages might provide an early warning system that could prompt more immediate action, such as localized public health campaigns.
We found that our estimates agreed with [NSDUH] data, suggesting that social media can be a reliable additional source of epidemiological data regarding substance use, says Michael Chary, a resident physician in emergency medicine at New YorkPresbyterian/Queens Hospital.
We can analyze social media to canvass larger segments of the general population and potentially yield timely insights.
Charys research team comprised medical professionals in New York City, New Jersey and Brigham Young University in Utah as well as a Brigham computer scientist.
Publicly searchable Twitter, in particular, offers several advantages for digital epidemiologythe incidence, distribution and possible control of health threatsaccording to the study (pdf), published recently in the Journal of Medical Toxicology.
Twitter users tend to write frequent, short messages on a wide variety of topics, and they often indicate their location and other demographic information.
Theres a confessional effect, Chary says.
People may discuss or reveal things on social media that, when directly asked, they may not.
There may be a level of candor there thats not present in the emergency room or internists office.
The researchers developed custom software to analyze tweets for possible references to drug use or abuse.
The software relied on AI to quickly search more than 3.6 million tweets, and to identify words and phrasesincluding dope, percs, white, TNT and Captain Codylikely referring to opioid consumption.
Further examination of the tweets revealed additional details: for example, that fentanyl can go by the term dummies.
Codeine translates into syrup or Tango and Cash.
Armed with this knowledge of the softwares algorithms, the team then identified word-use patterns that distinguished tweets referring specifically to drug misuse from those describing, say, breakfast (in the case of syrup).
The tweets most likely referring to a substance abuse problem were flagged.
The researchers validated the softwares ability to distinguish by comparing word use in those messages with a list of opioid-related keywords curated by a medical toxicologist and an emergency physician.
The studys findings were similar to NSDUH state-by-state estimates of prescription opioid misuse, especially among people 18 to 25 years old.
That is likely because, according to Pew Research Center, 36 percent of Twitter users are between the ages of 18 and 29.
Following established medical research protocols, the researchers kept the data they collected anonymousindividual tweeters could not be identified.
That worked well for the purposes of their study, although they acknowledge it would not be difficult to trace a tweet back to a particular Twitter user profile if a government or law enforcement agency wanted to conduct a similar study.
Twitter data is high-volume and the content is short-form, brief statements [that] are easier to classify than very long and complex statements, says Michael Gilbert, a Portland, Ore.based epidemiologist and social media researcher not involved in Charys research.
The combination of the volume of data and the format of the data makes Twitter suitable for machine-learning tools.
Are people talking about getting high, controlling pain or some other motivation that is underlying a common behavior?
People are more likely to share certain types of information with their peers than they will with their health care providers.
Chary and his team are not the only researchers studying opioid abuse who have used machine-learning techniques to study Twitter.
A group led by Tim Mackey, director of the University of California, San Diegos Global Health Policy Institute, examined the social media site for five months in 2015 to identify entities illegally selling prescription opioids online.
Their software detected 1,778 posts marketing the sale of controlled substances90 percent included hyperlinks to online sites for purchase.
The American Journal of Public Health published their findings earlier this month.
Still, despite the familiarity and openness that Twitter offersor perhaps because of itthe platform is not always a reliable source of data.
Conversations on Twitter cover so many topics that identifying messages relevant to a particular study can be challenging.
This kind of research is still nascent, says Nikki Adams, an assistant research scientist at the University of Maryland, College Parks Center for Advanced Study of Language.
Tweets are short, and this does impact the quality of machine learning.
Theres not much context.
If you are investigating one topic, you might have a lot of noise around your data.
Chary acknowledges Twitters shortcomings as a data source, including the large amount of irrelevant data that must be analyzed to get to anything meaningful as well as the demographic limitations of the platforms user base.
This work is most useful in capturing trends, he says.
We all agree there is a problem with opioid use.
Its very difficult to conduct these federal surveys at any scale with the frequency needed to say, Over the last three months drug use in this particular location is going up.
Whats going on here?
The clues are therewhats needed are the right tools to find them.
Hidden within the world we see are many others we cannot.
Every year scientists, photographers and hobbyists capture enchanting stories that secretly unfold among seemingly mundane objects in the microenvironment for the annual Nikon Small World photomicrography competition.
Out of this years 2,000-plus photo entries from 88 countries, Nikon recently announced the top 20 winners, along with 10 honorable mentions and 58 images of distinction.
Participants could submit photographs of anything from green algae to credit cards, as long as they were taken with some form of light microscope such as phase contrast, confocal or fluorescence.
The judges based their picks on originality, aesthetics, technical skill and informational content.
The first place winnerwhich netted a $3,000 prizeis a photo of a fluorescently glowing human skin cell.
Other winners give us an idea of what it might be like to shrink and perch atop a flower or capture what looks like an aerial view of roads: a neural network paved to support our racing thoughts.
The following slide show features a selection of images that either won prizes or was given honorable mention in the contest.
If anyone thought scientists were somehow different from ordinary peoplenobler, more ethical, more purethen events over the past two years have been a sharp wake-up call.
As with just about any area of human endeavor where men hold the lions share of power, the world of science and technology is plagued by sexual harassment.
Women in STEM fields have long known this, of course.
But just as in Hollywood, where the predatory behavior of producer Harvey Weinstein was long whispered about but never discussed openly, the phenomenon of professors and researchers hitting on undergrads, grad students, postdocs and colleagues has mostly been hushed upnot only by victims fearing retaliation but also by institutions determined to keep their good name untarnished and their superstars happy.
But thanks to a handful of (mostly) female scientists who have been brave enough to speak out and name names, the conspiracy of silence has become impossible to ignore in this publicity-driven age.
A sea change has swept through sciences highest ranks, forcing institutions across the country to take more visible and aggressive actions to crack down on unacceptable conduct, push for improvements in the classroom and the workplace, and encourage victims of harassment to come forward.
Ive asked myself, Why did it take until now for all of this to come out?
I find it totally appalling that it has taken this long for all of these women to feel comfortable coming forward, says geophysicist Marcia McNutt, the first woman president of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.
In one of the strongest statements to date on the seriousness of such behavior, the 60,000-member American Geophysical Union adopted an updated 33-page Scientific Integrity and Professional Ethics policy in September that for the first time defines harassment as scientific misconduct.
This puts it on equal footing with fabrication, falsification and plagiarism in a research environment, AGU President Eric Davidson, President-elect Robin Bell and past-President Margaret Leinen said in announcing the new policy.
We have broken new ground that takes this issue to a new level of importance.
It is already having a ripple effect in terms of broadening the discussion in the scientific community, Davidson added in an interview The AGU is also part of a new collaborative research project, funded by a $1.1-million, four-year grant from the National Science Foundation Foundation, that will update the teaching of research ethics by addressing sexual harassment as scientific misconduct.
Led by University of WisconsinMadison researcher Erika Marn-Spiotta, the project will produce more effective training materials in Earth, space and environmental sciences that may serve as a model for other STEM fields.
This includes development of tested bystander intervention workshops to help academic leaders respond to and prevent sexual harassment.
There is limited data on the effectiveness of existing training programs and a sense that many were designed primarily to meet legal liability concerns.
These efforts are among a host of recent efforts to combat sexual harassment in science, including major revisions of sexual harassment and ethics policies at universities and other scientific institutions; more research documenting the extent of the problem; and, hardest of all, the ongoing challenge to create a more welcoming culture for women in male-dominated research disciplines.
One of the most prominent efforts is a two-year study under way for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, which provides guidance to public and private institutions on issues of critical importance to science.
A 21-member committee is examining the impact of sexual harassment in academia on the career advancement of women in the scientific, technical and medical workforce.
It has commissioned research to conduct detailed interviews with women science faculty who have experienced sexual harassment and has also held a series of workshops around the country.
The committee expects to issue a comprehensive report by mid-2018 The cause clbre for sexual harassment in science was the revelation two years ago of shocking charges against world-renowned University of California, Berkeley, astronomer Geoffrey Marcy, whose pioneering exploration of exoplanets was considered Nobel Prizeworthy.
An October 9, 2015, investigative story in the online media outlet BuzzFeed News reported that a leaked report of a six-month university investigation revealed four female students alleged Marcy had repeatedly engaged in inappropriate physical behavior between 2001 and 2010, including unwanted massages, kisses and groping.
The controversy forced Marcy to step down from his university post (Marcy wrote an open letter apologizing for his actions).
It also led to disclosure of other sexual harassment cases at Berkeley, changes in leadership and pressure for more aggressive action at not only Berkeley but throughout the U.C.
system.
Weve made a lot of progress over the past two years, U.C.
Berkeley Chancellor Carol T. Christ, the first female to hold the post, said in an interview.
Were setting a tone at the top that there is zero tolerance for sexual harassment in the workplace, classroom, or in the laboratory.
Christ, a former president of the all-women Smith College, named a special faculty adviser, reporting directly to her, to lead campus efforts against sexual violence, sexual harassment and gender-based discrimination.
Earlier a 15-member university task force drew up recommendations that include a streamlined investigation process, more transparent monitoring and accountability, improved training and better care for survivors.
The Marcy revelations had a domino effect across the country, triggering widespread publicity about other alleged cases of sexual harassment by well-known male scientists in numerous fields including a California Institute of Technology astrophysicist, a University of Chicago molecular biologist, a University of Washington microbiologist and an American Museum of Natural History paleoanthropologist.
.
More recently, Boston University has been investigating formal complaints by two former graduate students that geologist David R. Marchant allegedly abused and belittled them, physically and verbally, on research expeditions at a remote Antarctic field research site starting two decades ago, according to Science Magazine, which broke the story in early October.
Major media outlets such as The Boston Globe, Washington Post, and the Atlantic have since covered the story.
One of the complainants, Geologist Jane K. Willenbring, now a Scripps Institution of Oceanography associate professor, reportedly waited to file her October, 2016 complaint until after she got tenure, fearing professional repercussions.
But she has now gone public, including tweets (@jkwillenbring) on media coverage of sexual harassment scandals in science and the entertainment industry.
When asked to comment for this story, Marchant replied by email: "As you know, Boston Universitys investigation into these allegations is ongoing.
I have cooperated fully in that investigation.
I do not wish to compromise the integrity of that investigation by making any comments before the investigation has been completed."
A prominent case at the University of Rochester in New York state, meanwhile, involves sexual harassment complaints filed in late August with the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) by eight current and former members of the universitys Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences.
They accused T. Florian Jaeger, a professor in the department, of a long pattern of sexually predatory behavior and also contended the university has retaliated against Jaegers accusers.
Two earlier university investigations concluded the allegations against him did not violate the law or university policy.
Mother Jones broke the story in September and local and national media outlets like The New York Times followed up.
Widespread publicity, reaction among alums and campus protests, including a students hunger strike, spurred the Universitys board of trustees to take action.
It appointed a committee to oversee an independent, comprehensive investigation into the EEOC complaints and the universitys sexual harassment procedures.
Jaeger is on administrative leave pending the outcome.
According to the Times, Jaeger told the Rochester faculty that his accepting the leave was in no way an admission of guilt with respect to the allegations publicized about me.
These big stories in science have served to increase public awareness of this problem.
Its not as if the problem didnt exist before, says BuzzFeeds prize-winning science reporter Azeen Ghorayshi, who broke the initial Marcy story and has tenaciously pursued numerous sexual harassment cases since then.
After the Marcy revelations, it snowballed and more people came forward, in part because they felt let down by their institutions, Ghorayshi says.
THE PREVALENCE OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT Vindicating the experiences of many women scientists, studies across a variety of settingsfrom campuses to companiesconfirm the prevalence of sexual harassment of all forms is high.
Research presented at a two-day workshop of the National Academies Committee on Women in Science, Engineering and Medicine found that somewhere in the range of 40 to 70 percent of women had experienced sexual harassment during their careers or as students.
This range of prevalence was strikingly consistent across different studies.
Self-reporting in anonymous surveys makes it difficult to quantify sexual harassment with any certitude; only a small percentage of victims report sexual harassment, largely because of embarrassment, fear of not being believed and concern about retaliation by superiors.
Sexual harassment is generally defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that tends to create a hostile or offensive work environment.
It is worse when it is the boss, a faculty supervisor or teacher because a quid pro quo arrangement may be offered or implied.
In the U.S. workplace discrimination, including sexual harassment, is prohibited under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which affects any federally funded education program or activity.
(The Trump administration announced it is pulling back from Obama-era sexual harassment guidelines.)
While not all individual complaints violate the law, many may violate workplace or academic codes of conduct.
Most victims are female and perpetrators male, but sexual harassment also affects LGBTQ individuals and men victimized by women or other men.
Cultural norms and individual perceptions also affect whether a given behavior is interpreted as unwelcome or hostile.
DANGER ZONES IN SCIENCE To my mind, there are still bad neighborhoods ripe for sexual harassment.
Dramatically tilted sex ratios in some fields signal a potential problem, says senior research social scientist Christopher Krebs of RTI International.
Potential sexual harassment danger zones include field research; remote science sites such as observatories; isolated or smaller laboratories; professional travel and meetings; medical training; and predominantly male fields, according to research and interviews with scientists, graduate students and science educators.
Double jeopardy.
A recently published, internet-based survey of 474 astronomers and planetary scientists found women of color in this sample faced the greatest risk of feeling unsafe in their workplace due to gender (40 percent) and race (28 percent).
Nearly 20 percent of women of color and 12 percent of white women scientists said they skipped professional events because they felt unsafe.
Anthropologist Kathryn Clancy of the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign and colleagues concluded: Never has awareness of hostile workplace behaviors in the sciences been so strong, and the possibility for change so great.
Field research.
Another internet-based Survey of Academic Field Experiences (SAFE) conducted by Clancy reported widespread sexual harassment of students or trainees working in anthropology, archaeology and life science field research sites.
Nearly two thirds of 666 field science respondents, mostly American women, said they had experienced sexual harassment, inappropriate or sexual remarks, or jokes about physical beauty and cognitive sex differences.
More than 20 percent reported they had been sexually assaulted.
Trainees were particularly vulnerable to harassment by senior managers or scientists.
Medical training and practice.
Nearly one in three women in medicine say they have experienced sexual harassment, compared with 4 percent of men, according to a 2016 study in JAMA The Journal of the American Medical Association.
A 2015 compilation of surveys in Australia, the U.K., Sweden, Canada and the U.S., published in the The Medical Journal of Australia, found that sexual harassment in training or practice ranged from one quarter to three quarters of respondents.
Fields with lower numbers of women.
A University of Washington study in the journal Psychological Bulletin concluded that large gender gaps in disciplines such as computer science, engineering and physics may be related in part to more masculine cultures that signal a lower sense of belonging to women than men.
Scientific travel and conferences.
The informal atmosphere at professional meetings, particularly larger conferences with an ample supply of alcohol-fueled social gatherings, is another danger zoneparticularly for students and younger researchers looking for jobs.
Scientific meetings have increasingly featured sexual harassment sessions for students, early-career scientists and senior professional leaders.
A recent AGU meeting featured prominent anti-harassment signs, Safe AGU buttons, and a #SafeAGU social media campaign.
If its unwanted, its harassment warn red-and-white signs posted at meetings of the American Astronomical Society (AAS), which recently strengthened its code of ethics and anti-harassment policies.
Novel efforts such as Astronomy Allies have also provided a volunteer network of scientists to mentor or advocate for individuals who encounter sexual harassment.
Whatever the setting or field of science, the modus operandi of sexual predators is often the same.
One former Harvard University science graduate student recalled being hit on at a social event by a distinguished male scientist.
After some initial research talk, the elder scientist began to say some inappropriate stuff, such as youre really smart and beautiful.
I want to know more about you and, at one point, he hugged me.
It was very uncomfortable, she recalled.
SOME QUESTIONS GOING FORWARD The challenge ahead is how to move beyond rhetoric and individual cases to implement more effective strategies to combat sexual harassment and hasten womens advancement and equality in science.
Success in doing so will be measured by how well the scientific community writ large responds to tough questions those on the front lines of anti-harassment efforts are asking.
They include: Will publicity and punishment in egregious cases have a deterrent effect?
Will stepped up efforts by professional science societies help shift the culture toward zero tolerance for sexual harassment?
Will mandatory sexual harassment reporting to federal science funding agencies be instituted?
Will federal funding agencies such as the National Science Foundation take more aggressive action by terminating funding to institutions that do not comply with Title IX nondiscrimination regulations?
Will there be more transparency about sexual harassment cases, to the degree possible under privacy laws, to discourage job-hopping by sexual harassers who do not disclose their history to future employers?
Will development and implementation of better training programs help prevention and reporting of sexual harassment?
Will colleges and universities greatly improve their formal and informal systems for reporting and acting on sexual harassment complaints?
Will more female scientists in leadership roles change the dynamics and add more clout in terms of preventing and handling sexual harassment in the workplace?
Will more family-friendly policies help women in science move up the career ladder in academia, research or business?
Will changes at the bottom create a female-friendly climate for science students in male-dominated fields that will help keep more women in science?
Frustrated at the pace of change, three generations of women scientists are pushing hard to speed up efforts to reduce sexual harassment and gender discrimination in science.
You get discouraged.
You know the hill you are climbing is going to be steeper, says one 20-something Yale University physics graduate student.
Says another, Its a cycle.
We need more women, but we need to create a better environment to do that.
Im inherently an optimist.
On the one hand, theres been tremendous progress.
But we clearly have not done enough, says Yale astrophysicist and former AAS president Meg Urry, a longtime champion of women in science.
People feel the momentum right now.
With more public attention to this issue, there are a huge number of radicalized people ready to move, ready to be loud, to change policies on sexual harassment, University of Illinioiss Clancy says.
Accelerating efforts to combat sexual harassment takes on more urgency, given the national need to recruit and retain a diverse STEM workforce in the 21st century.
To do so, the message to end gender discrimination and sexual harassment may indeed need to go viral to keep media attentionand public pressureon both individuals and institutions to create a more welcoming climate for women and minorities in the global science community of tomorrow.
Three quarters of the way into Food Evolution, a recent documentary about genetically engineered food, agricultural economist Charles Benbrook glances furtively around a crowded lobby.
Hes just participated in a public debate over GMO technology, and moviegoers know his angle: Benbrook is the author of several influential scientific papers that have been rallying points for pro-organic and anti-GMO folks, including one suggesting pesticide use skyrocketed after the introduction of GMOs, and another claiming organic milk is more nutritious than conventional milk.
In the scene, Benbrook leans close to Chris Arnold, the public relations director for Chipotlea company that has publicly shunned GMOs.
It looks like Benbrook is about to kiss him on the cheek.
Ive been hired as an expert witness by the Vermont defense statute, Benbrook says.
(Vermont had recently passed a law that would require companies to label GMO foods; lawsuits from pro-GMO industry groups followed.)
Benbrooks disclosure meant he was helping defend these labeling laws.
He adds: Im whispering in your ear because Im micd.
We might be funding your testimony, Arnold replies.
We made a contribution to that defense fund.
The two men laugh.
While watching this scene from a packed Manhattan auditorium at the films theatrical debut in June, the audience shifted and muttered in discomfortmaybe even in disgust.
In an earlier scene, Benbrook, who had presented himself as an independent scientist employed by the University of Washington, had looked straight into the camera and said: I am deeply troubled by the sort of erosion of the integrity of science and the whole debate about genetically engineered food.
Food Evolution also uses protest scenes from Hawaii to tell its story.
But here, the message is that GMO food is safe to eat and that naysayers are overreacting.
Credit: Black Valley Films Yet here he was, behaving flippantly about the same lack of transparency and conflicts of interest that are typically associated with big biotech players like Monsanto.
As Benbrook whispered in the ear of an industry representative, the audience saw another angle of the story: The organic industry is jockeying for its own capitalist interests, too, and sometimes using dubious strategies.
This narrative established, the filmmakers lay out more evidence, including excerpts from Benbrooks e-mails, released as part of a Freedom of Information Act request, showing requests to industry to fund his research.
The film reveals that because companies like Whole Foods and Organic Valley funded Benbrooks work for three yearsand because he received no public grants during that timeU.W.
ended Benbrooks contract.
Its a punchy scene, and one that was emblematic of Food Evolutions message, which is that GMOs are safe to eat and much of the ado surrounding them is overblown or deceitful.
The audience seemed convinced: After the credits rolled, the filmmakers repeated an informal poll they had taken before the movie played, asking how many people were afraid of GMOs with respect to human health.
Before the film, around 25 people raised their hands.
After, there was just one.
As a journalist who covers biotechnology, this raised a question: Just what is the purpose of documentary films that center around controversial science?
Are they for entertainment or education?
And if entertainment is prioritized over education, can a 90-minute film dutifully explore a topic as dense and politically fraught as genetically engineered food?
Its an increasingly important question as genetic science advances and the ethics surrounding it get ever more complex.
With CRISPRd humans and gene drives that may shape entire ecosystems on the horizon, the need for accurate and contextualized storytelling will only grow.
These technologies will provide compelling fodder for filmmakers.
But how will they cover human embryos that scientists have altered by CRISPR or the next generation of GMOs?
What will a documentary about the first publicly released gene drive organism look likeand whose voices will that documentary include?
Theres a lot to lose if the entertainment industry mangles this research or omits key perspectives in the name of a good story.
On one hand, an unfairly critical view can spark public backlash, which can strangle innovation and halt projects and products ranging from new ways to curb disease to crops that can better withstand climate change.
On the other, an overly rosy view cuts out legitimate concerns and critiques of that same technology.
Food Evolution is just one of the latest documentaries to delve into one facet of the GMO debate while presenting itself as a more comprehensive take on the issue.
Another recent release is Island Earth, which follows several Hawaiiansincluding a young scientist studying biotechnology and chemistryas they struggle to understand the impact of the technology on their islands.
The takeaway is that although GMOs may be safe in a narrow sense, there are broader implications for how the technology is wielded as a form of modern-day colonialism.
Its a perspective that is too often omitted in conversations about modern technology.
At an Island Earth screening in Brooklyn, just a few days after Food Evolutions theatrical release, an eager audience seemed just as convinced by this narrative.
Dennis Gonsalves developed a genetically modified variety of papaya to combat ringspot virus, which devastated papaya yields in the 1980s.
Credit: Cyrus Sutton Island Earth Both films were fun to watch.
They both also get a lot of the facts right.
But did either of the audiences leave the theaters with a more comprehensive take on GMOs?
Whether documentaries are primarily for education or entertainment is one of the central dilemmas in the industry, says Theo Lipfert, the director of the School of Film and Photography at Montana State University.
Documentaries have become really popular in the last few years and there is an absolute entertainment value to many that are being created right now.
Whereas documentarians draw from the real world, filmmakers are not necessarily journalists, he says.
Were not doing science communication.
Were not training [our students] to be science journalists, to always find the other side and to be fair and balanced.
Were really teaching them about artistic expression and about communicating visually, he adds.
Recognizing an opportunity to get more science in front of film audiences, the National Academy of Sciences started a program in 2008 called the Science and Entertainment Exchange, which provides free scientific advice to filmmakers.
Most of the nearly 2,000 consultations the exchange has done so farincluding working on Arrival, Ghostbusters, Star Trek, Frozen and various Marvel featureshave focused on fiction.
But according to Ann Merchant, the deputy executive director for communications at the National Academies, thats changing.
We have seen a rebirth of the documentary filmmaking medium, she says.
Theres a new audience for them.
The academy is actively reaching out to filmmakers, and in September 2016, the exchange brought 15 documentarians and 15 scientists for a weekend of presentations in Woods Hole, Mass., to learn about a range of scientific research, from plant breeding to cosmology to bioethics.
They have more workshops in the works.
Its an ongoing partnership that they hope will spark ideas for newand, perhaps, more nuancedprojects.
In order to express their art, filmmakers, like all storytellers, are often drawn to fraught topics.
A real-life drama such as the fights over climate change, GMOs and vaccines makes for compelling tales with high stakes.
These stories also come with a built-in audience, Lipfert says.
When hot-button issues collide with strong points of view, though, it can be difficult to present an accurate and compelling story at the same time.
When that documentary is about food, it gets even trickier, because how we eat is deeply personal and cultural.
I have yet to meet a single person who doesnt have a bias towards food and [agriculture]including myself, says Jessica Eise, a communications expert at Purdue University and co-author of The Communication Scarcity in Agriculture.
Most people arent aware that they have a bias, so they dont do the mental work to try and stretch around that bias.
This attitude can make it harder for subtleties to enter mainstream writing and film, she adds.
Audiences, Lipfert says, might assume a documentary is a piece of journalism, where the creator has made an explicit attempt to be objective and fair.
They may believe a documentary has a one-to-one relationship to the truth, and that watching it is enough to learn everything about a topic, rather than treating it as a starting point that requires more context.
In interviews with the filmmakers of Food Evolution and Island Earth, both say they actively checked their own biases during the production and editing.
Inevitably, some of those leanings still made it to the final cut.
This problem is perfectly illustrated by public protests on Kauai that occurred as lawmakers were debating whether to ban GMOs on the island.
Both films use similar footage from these events to evoke strikingly different feelings.
Food Evolution films from outside the action, putting the viewer as an observer, and uses music in a minor key, which gives a sense of foreboding.
Interview clips with protesters feature nonsensical statements that make them look cartoonish and uninformed.
(The audience in New York City laughed and snorted at these scenes).
Meanwhile the protest scene in Island Earth is a slow-motion montage scored with dramatic drums, giving the protesters an aura of underdogs rising up against an oppressor.
At times, the camera films from within the protest, giving the viewer the feeling that they part of itand rooting for it.
Other frames direct the viewers perspective, too.
The Food Evolution filmmakers say they interviewed 200 experts but the focus is almost entirely on whether or not GMO foods are safe to eatand how the misinformation about food safety is stifling potentially lifesaving technology in other parts of the world.
Because they were laser-focused on this narrow frame they left out valid arguments against the technology such as its role in exacerbating herbicide resistance in weeds as well as the politicized fights over whether glyphosate, the main herbicide connected to GMOs, causes cancer.
And during the documentarys takedown of Charles Benbrook, the filmmakers chose to flash a New York Times article on the screen, which laid out the scientists ties to the organic industry.
Although it is true Benbrook has had financial ties to the organic industry, painting him as a pure villain isnt quite right.
In reality, he uses real data in his work, unlike many other GMO critics, and his perspective on GMOs and herbicide use can be quite nuanced.
The film also failed to mention the biotech industry has also faced criticism for financial ties with university scientists, which is covered in that same Times article.
By isolating Benbrook, viewers might think the organic industrys actions are uniquely egregious when in fact questionable behavior has occurred on both sides.
Island Earth, meanwhile, lacks follow-through.
In one scene a tractor fitted with a row-crop sprayer applies pesticides on an open test field that belongs to Pioneer, which sells GMO seed.
A local resident named Malia Chun gestures toward the field and says, almost every resident on a street nearby has cancer, suggesting a link.
Chun also says she had her daughters hair tested for pesticides, which turned up evidence of 36 different chemicals, eight of which were restricted use.
It makes for a powerful narrative.
But the filmmaker, Cyrus Sutton, doesnt give the viewer any context as to how likely it is that these pesticides are linked to cancer or other health problems.
There are no interviews with toxicologists, epidemiologists or risk experts.
Its not clear whether the pesticides in Chuns daughters hair were present in harmful amounts.
These are all starting points for worthy investigation but the way they are treated raises more questions than it answers.
When asked about the claims his subjects make, Sutton says he tried to portray peoples sentiments as accurately as I could.
On the science side of things, I tried to understand and convey the nuances on the issue with the limited time and resources that I had.
The problem is, the very nature of documentary films demands a narrow storytelling lens, and both films left out key context that would have made for a fullerand more accuratedepiction of GMOs.
If only Island Earth could have applied some of the scientific rigor from Food Evolution, and Food Evolution could have considered the broader implications of the GMO industry.
Or, as Nathanael Johnson, a reporter at Grist who appears in both films, put it to me: Theres probably a world in which some master documentarian would find a way to fuse these two [films] into something that was really solid.
It may be an impossible task, but filmmakers eyeing the next generation of genetic technologies would do well to give audiences not only entertainment but also a story that captures more facets of their subject.
The U.S. coal power industry has been declining, thanks to the abundant availability of cheap natural gas, falling prices of solar and wind power, and the clear global imperative to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
The Trump administration has long promised to fight that so-called war on coal.
Several weeks ago the U.S. Department of Energy, led by Secretary Rick Perry, offered up an aggressive salvo: The nations power grid, the DoE said, would become vulnerable if more coal-fired power plants closed down.
Therefore, the government should prop up the market for power facilities that offer a theoretical boost to stabilitycoal, along with nuclear plants.
Action could begin soon, which could result in higher consumer prices for electricity and unhealthy pollution emissions from power plants.
And progress toward a more climate-friendly energy system would take a hit.
Perry started to exploit the largely nonexistent crisis of electric grid reliability with a controversial DoE study he commissioned in April.
Although it did not conclude the grid is in any danger due to decreasing coal power or increasing power from renewable energy sources, Perry seized on some fuzzy language about support[ing] reliable grid operations to push forward.
His notion was that coal and nuclear power have to be strengthened so the electricity transmission system can withstand and recover from shocks due to major weather events or other catastrophes.
Perry and the DoE issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (pdf), or NOPR, which, if enacted, would dramatically alter the power sector.
The NOPR requests that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)an independent agency that regulates electricity transmissionrequire utility companies to pay not just for the electricity they buy from power plant companies and supply to consumers, but also for the fixed costs associated with power plants that keep 90 days of fuel on site.
That sort of cost recovery, as it is called, would be largely unprecedented.
In reality those plants are coal and nuclear installations, because wind and solar power plants do not consume fuel.
Natural gas plants would not meet the 90-day requirement either, because they get their fuel via pipeline instead of storing it on site.
The stratagem is that by allowing full cost recovery for those plants, the government is helping to keep them economically viable whereas normal market forces might have led to their closure.
The 90-day number is apparently arbitrary.
Critics say such a move would upend energy markets, and that the electric grid is strong enough without what amounts to a massive subsidy for coal and nuclear power.
Yet they acknowledge the measure, or more likely some variation on it, could actually be enacted.
We do not expect FERC to reject this proposal outright, says Christine Tezak, managing director of research for ClearView Energy Partners, an energy research and analysis firm.
We expect the FERC to take it seriously, if not literally.
Although it might not follow the word-for-word policy proposal, it might still consider the message and take some sort of action.
The fundamental argument supporting the NOPR is that baseload power generationthe predictable type of generation provided by coal and nuclear plantsdoes not get the credit it deserves, in terms of its value and the profits it generates.
Because of that, the argument goes, coal plants are retiring at rates that might be dangerous to grid stability.
Allowing the coal plants to recover some of that expense from utilitieswhich could pass that cost on to the consumer in the form of rate increaseswould in theory restore something closer to the real value of those plants.
But some experts think such an allowance would come at too great a cost, ultimately paid by consumers.
Former FERC chairman John Wellinghoff says the rule would blow the markets up.
Former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz has also pointed out carbon emissions should be considered as a more central part of any such equation than resiliency.
Tezak largely agrees that the proposal is extreme, as written.
If adopted, she says, it would disrupt the entire system of how electricity is managed around the country.
That is not an overstatement of fact, she says.
Wind, solar and natural gas would suddenly face an uphill economic battle to compete.
There is little evidence such a radical change is needed for resiliency against bad weather events or other calamities.
Perrys proposal focused on the 2014 polar vortex in the Arctic, which sent extreme cold plunging down into the U.S. and produced high electricity demand; the DoE is arguing power plants with fuel on site would serve as a bulwark against such events.
Experts point out a flaw in this argument, however: Massive amounts of coal power itself were actually forced offline due to equipment problems, likely related to the extreme cold, an issue not solved by the on-site fuel requirements.
PJM Interconnection, a regional transmission organization that coordinates movement of electricity around a large chunk of the country, noted in their May 2014 report that wind power offered more than its expected share to the grid during the extreme cold event.
It had a positive impact on supply and contributed to PJMs ability to maintain reliability.
Even though this insight makes it difficult to see the proposal as anything other than a subsidy for particular industries, Tezak says there is at least a reasonable question behind it.
This resiliency thing that DoE wants compensated has never been defined before, by any metric, she says.
We dont have a yardstick for resiliency.
Asking electricity regulators to more carefully study this issue, then, and perhaps arrive at some measure of how much baseload generation really is required for resiliency, is not wholly unreasonable.
This is undermined by the NOPR, however, which calls for a decision on a remarkably complicated, previously unaddressed question within a 60-day public comment period that ends November 24.
FERCs decision is required by December 11.
Tezak says she expects FERC to seriously consider the proposal, but that it is very unlikely to actually implement the measure as written.
FERC is an independent federal agency; its rules on electricity and energy are not approved or reviewed by Congress or the executive branch but can be reviewed in federal courts.
Still, Tezak says, I do not think it is, or ever has been, completely immune to politics.
FERC could take the spirit of the NOPRthat baseload power deserves more creditand implement a rule with slightly different details.
In fact, she thinks the proposal was not necessarily intended to go through in its original form.
If DoE really wanted to break the markets, they could have been so much more prescriptive, she says.
They threw it over the transom.
They said, pay attention to this, and no putting it off.
They want action.
For the first time ever, an asteroid or comet from another star has been caught hurtling through our solar system, astronomers announced late Thursday.
Provisionally designated A/2017 U1, the object appears to be less than a half-kilometer in diameter and is traveling at just over 40 kilometers per secondfaster than humanitys speediest outbound space probes.
Because this is the first object of its type to be found, there are as yet no official rules for naming it, and its discoverers have balked at suggesting anything besides Interstellar.
Whatever one might call it, though, it is presently racing away from the sun and has sparked a stampede of astronomers rushing to observe it before it fades entirely from view in the darkness of interstellar space.
All we can say right now is this was something that was tossed out of another star system, says Karen Meech, an astronomer at the University of Hawaii.
Meech is helping coordinate a global observation campaign, which presently includes nights on large telescopes in Chile and Hawaii, as well as five orbits of the Hubble Space Telescope.
Everyone is trying to get time to look at this thing on big telescopes right now, urgently, within the next few days, she explains.
Exactly what those telescopes might see is anyones guess.
Astronomers will first and foremost attempt to pin down the objects exact size (based on its brightness), as well as its shape and spin rate (based on how its brightness fluctuates).
They will also seek to measure A/2017 U1s color, and perhaps even its spectrumthe subtler details of its emitted and absorbed light.
Taken together, all that information could show what exactly A/2017 U1 is made ofwhether it is mostly rock, or ice, for instanceand potentially reveal more about its history and origins, somewhere out there among the stars.
Most likely, Meech says, the object is an outcast from another star system: a space rock flung out during the stars tempestuous youth when it was surrounded by freshly-formed giant planets embedded in a disk of debris.
One of those planets hefted its weight, and tossed this thing and a lot of other stuff around, she says.
So now we have a piece of another planetary system flying by Earth, flying through our solar system, that we briefly have a chance to study.
The same process is thought to have unfolded billions of years ago around our own star, when Jupiter and Saturn formed.
Those giant worlds may have scattered debris all across our solar system, helping form the asteroid belt as well as the icy Kuiper belt, of which dwarf-planet Pluto is the largest known member.
Much of that scattered debris ended up even farther out, about a light-year from the sun in a spherical shell of comets called the Oort Cloud.
The farthest-flung debris probably escaped the solar system entirely and may be cruising through the void even now, bound for parts unknown.
Going Hyperbolic A/2017 U1 was first discovered on Oct. 19 by Rob Weryk, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Hawaii.
He found ita faint, pale dot streaking across the skywhile reviewing images from the universitys Pan-STARRS telescope, which searches for near-Earth objects (NEOs) from the mountain Haleakala.
When I first saw the object in question, I immediately thought it was an NEO that had not been seen before, being quite close to the Earth, Weryk says.
But then I started to look for additional detections from other nightsand when I found it [in images from] the night before, the data didnt make sense.
Follow-up observations taken at Weryks request by astronomer Marco Micheli, using a European Space Agency telescope in the Canary Islands, only deepened the mystery.
Based on its estimated speed and direction of travel, the object appeared to be on a hyperbolic trajectory, moving out from the sun fast enough to escape our stars gravitational pull entirely.
Barring the rare space probe launched from Earth, any massive object with enough speed to leave the solar system likely originated beyond its boundaries, too, because such speeds are difficult to build up solely through natural gravitational encounters with our sun and its planets.
A further batch of observations gathered by Weryks advisor, astronomer Richard Wainscoat, confirmed A/2017 U1s unprecedented motion.
From there, the Pan-STARRS team began coordinating further studies of the object with the wider astronomy communityincluding researchers at NASAs Center for Near-Earth Object Studies (CNEOS) at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.
This is the most extreme orbit I have ever seen, said CNEOS scientist Davide Farnocchia, who worked with others to trace A/2017 U1s path through the solar system.
We can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back.
Dark Objects, Bright Futures Based on these analyses, A/2017 U1 came from the direction of the constellation Lyra, swooping in from high above the ecliptic plane in which the suns planets orbit at a breathtaking 25 kilometers per second.
According to calculations by Micheli, that trajectory placed it 25 times farther out than Pluto in the year 1837, and it crossed the orbit of Neptune in November of 2012 on its sunward plunge.
Pulled by our stars gravity, on Sept. 9 A/2017 U1 approached within 40 million kilometers of the sunwell within the orbit of Mercurybefore being flung back up and out of the ecliptic plane in the direction of the constellation Pegasus at nearly 44 kilometers per second.
On Oct 14 it passed less than 25 million kilometers from Earthabout 60 times the Earth-moon distance.
Astronomers could not see it, then, however, because its trajectory took it too close to the sun as seen from our planet's skies.
As its distance from the sun increases and less sunlight strikes its surface, A/2017 U1s brightness will plummet.
Already, Meech says, its glow is diminishing to the equivalent of one of Plutos small moons as seen from Earth.
By the end of next month it will be at the limit of what the worlds largest ground-based telescopes would be able to discern in a 10-hour exposure.
Much beyond that, even keener-eyed space-based observatories such as Hubble will struggle to see it.
Maybe we had a window of a little over a week, maybe two, in which we couldve discovered this thing by its brightness alone, Meech says.
It was moving so fast, and registered so faintly in detectors, that Pan-STARRSs finding it at all seems to have been a matter of luckor at least whatever happens when preparation meets opportunity.
Imaging the entire firmament overhead night after night, the telescope is one of several all-sky surveys already or imminently watching the heavens.
These facilities, most notably the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) set to debut in 2020, promise to revolutionize the field of transient astronomythe study not of steady-shining stars and galaxies, but of the things that rapidly move and change: exploding stars, whirling asteroids and comets, and anything else that goes bump!
in the outer night.
No one really knows yet how often interstellar interlopers like A/2017 U1 soar through our solar systembut observatories like Pan-STARRS and the LSST could soon find out.
This, to Weryk, is perhaps the most vital thing to learn.
The most important response to the Okay, so what?
question is Well, where do these things come from, and are there more?
he says.
There is still a lot we don't know about the solar system, and finding objects like this could help improve our understanding of how the Earth and our solar system first came to be.
Summer and fall 2017 saw an unusual string of record-breaking hurricanes pummel the U.S. Gulf Coast, eastern seaboard, Puerto Rico and the Caribbean.
Hurricane Harvey brought unbelievable floods to Houston.
Irma, one of the two strongest hurricanes ever recorded in the northern Atlantic, wreaked havoc on Florida and many Caribbean islands.
Maria devastated Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
The destruction begs the question: Has climate change influenced these extreme events?
Hurricanes can be difficult to decipher, but experts are gaining a sense of what our warming world might mean for monster storms in the U.S. and worldwide.
Storm Intensity Many experts are confident that a warmer world will create stronger stormsand already is doing so.
Since 1981 the maximum wind speed of the most powerful hurricanes has risen, according to research (pdf) by Jim Elsner, a climatologist at The Florida State University.
Thats because higher ocean heat provides more energy for storms, fueling their intensity.
Hurricane Patricia, in 2015, set the record at the time for top wind speed215 miles per hourin the north Atlantic.
The next year Winston shattered records as the most intense cyclone in the Southern Hemisphere.
The dynamic between storms and warming oceans occurs in part because of the role hurricanes play in our climate system: they rebalance Earths heat.
The storms remove heat from tropical oceans in the form of moisture and pump the heat up into the atmosphere, where heat is redistributed and radiated out into space.
In some sense, hurricanes are a relief valve, explains Kevin Trenberth, a senior scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.
From the climate standpoint, you need to have some hurricanes to come along and cool the ocean, to keep them at reasonable temperatures.
No other phenomenon can play this role.
Frequency How climate change will influence the frequency of hurricanes is less well understood.
Some experts predict a potential drop in overall numbers.
In rebalancing Earths heat, Trenberth says, one big hurricane can play the role of four smaller hurricanes.
Tom Knutson, a climate scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, says nearly all models predict this effectthey show a decrease in the total number of hurricanes in a warmer climate.
Elsner notes, however, Theres still a lot of uncertainty on this point.
Both Trenberth and Knutson think the number of very intense storms may actually grow.
Some studies show that globally, we end up with more storms at the high endat category 4 and 5, Trenberth says.
The north Atlantic, in particular, may experience this trend.
Elsner is more hesitant; he says the frequency of the strongest hurricanes is also controlled by the occurrence of ideal conditionsno wind shear high in the atmosphere to tear storms apart from above, no land in their path to break them up from below and no dry air to absorb some of their moisture.
It is unknown how or if these conditions will change, he says.
Size and Duration Scientists are still unsure about how climate change will influence the physical breadth and duration of hurricanes.
In their modeling Knutson and his team have found that the number of category 4 and 5 storm days could potentially increase slightly by the late 21st century.
Trenberth thinks higher ocean temperatures may mean storms will become both bigger in size and last longer.
He does note, though, that these traits depend on how storm details are defined: For a storms breadth across the ocean, for example, where are the boundaries drawn?
Does duration apply to its time as a specific hurricane category (4, 5) or as an overall tropical storm?
Storm Surge Scientists do agree climate change means higher storm surges are hitting coastlines.
This would happen even if hurricanes do not become stronger.
Once you have a higher baseline sea level, Knutson says, that's going to add to the water level experienced during storm surges.
If sea level is a half-meter higher, for example, then a storm surge will be a half-meter higher than it would have been otherwise.
Rainfall Experts also expect that climate change may increase the intensity of hurricane rainfall.
The unprecedented, deep flooding in the Houston area certainly bears witness to that idea.
Warmer air holds more water vapor.
For hurricanes, that can lead to more efficiency; the rate at which rain falls out of the clouds increases, Elsner says.
Were seeing that in some of these storms.
Knutson gives a number for this phenomenon: Hurricane rainfall rate is projected to rise 7 percent for every degree Celsius rise in tropical sea surface temperatures.
Expanding Reach Regions of the world that have not experienced hurricanes may in the future.
As oceans heat up, the cyclonic storms territory could enlarge.
If a storm remains over warm water, it can maintain a high intensity, Elsner says.
If those warm waters are expanding, then you can find these strong storms in [new] places.
Trenberth agrees: Witness Ophelia, which surprised Ireland and the U.K. in October.
Even though scientists are investigating these potentially changing factors, they caution that uncertainty remains for many of them.
Hurricanes are particularly challenging because they are such complex and relatively rare events.
Not only is there large variability but the reliable record is shortsatellite [tracking] began about 1970, Trenberth says.
Plus, many other forces (pdf)such as weak wind shear and low pressure at the sea surfaceinfluence this type of storm.
Knutson is less certain than others that it is possible to already see global warmings influence on any of these factors in the record (except for higher storm surge due to sea level rise).
It is too early to say that we can detect this change already in the data, and its clearly distinct from natural variability, Knutson says.
That limits our confidence in future projections.
But Elsner says the growing intensity of hurricanes is already evident in the record.
It has already been shown that the strongest hurricanes are getting stronger worldwide, Elsner wrote in an e-mail to Scientific American.
Trenberth goes further.
The environment in which all such storms occur is warmer and moister, and we know that this has effects, he notes.
The evidence is that climate change is already with us.
A long time ago in a galaxy far awayNGC 4993, to be exacttwo neutron stars collided and created a spectacular light show.
After billions of years spent slowly circling each other, in their last moments the two degenerate stars spiraled around each other thousands of times before finally smashing together at a significant fraction of light-speed, likely creating a black hole.
The merger was so violent it shook the universe, emitting some 200 million suns worth of energy as perturbations in the fabric of spacetime called gravitational waves.
Those waves propagated out from the merger like ripples on a pond, eventually washing over Earthand into our planets premiere gravitational-wave detectors, the U.S.-built LIGO and European-built Virgo observatories.
Yet gravitational waves were not the mergers only products.
The event also emitted electromagnetic radiationthat is, lightmarking the first time astronomers have managed to capture both gravitational waves and light from a single source.
The first light from the merger was a brief, brilliant burst of gamma rays, a probable birth cry of the black hole picked up by NASAs Fermi Gamma-Ray Space Telescope.
Hours later astronomers using ground-based telescopes detected more light from the mergera so-called kilonovaproduced as debris from the merger expanded and cooled.
For weeks much of the worlds astronomical community watched the kilonova as it slowly faded from view.
As astronomers studied the mergers aftermath in various wavelengths of light, they saw signs of countless heavy elements forming instantly.
Astronomers had long predicted merging neutron stars may be responsible for forming elements such as gold and titanium, neutron-rich metals that are not known to form in stars.
Most everything they saw in the changing light of the mergers kilonova matched those predictions, although no one definitively, directly saw the merger spewing out gold nuggets by any stretch.
Even seen across its estimated 130 million light-year separation from us, the event was big, bright and glorious.
Based on the rarity of neutron starslet alone ones that happen to mergeit is unlikely we will ever see such a display significantly closer to us.
But lets imagine if we couldif it happened in the Milky Way or one of its several satellite galaxies.
Or, heaven forbid, in our immediate stellar neighborhood.
What would we see?
What effects would it have on our home world?
Would the environment, civilization, even humanity, emerge intact?
Instant Action Although LIGO, by design, can hear the mergers of massive objects such as neutron stars and black holes, astronomers were still lucky to detect this particular event.
According to Gabriela Gonzlez, a LIGO team member and astrophysicist at Louisiana State University, if the merger had been three to four times farther away, we would not have heard it at all.
Ironically, LIGOs exquisite tuning for detecting distant black hole mergers could make it miss big ones occurring around the solar systems nearest neighboring stars.
The immense and intense gravitational waves from such a nearby event would probably be [greater] than the dynamic range of our instrument, Gonzalez says.
Despite being strong enough to shake the universe, the gravitational waves from even a nearby merger of two large black holes would still be scarcely noticeable, because the shaking manifests on microscopic scales.
(If gas, dust or any other matter was very close the merging black holes, however, astronomers might see light emitted from that infalling material as it plunges in.)
The amazing thing to me is that you could be so close to black holes colliding, even as close as just outside the solar system, and you wouldnt even notice the stretching of spacetime with your eyes, Gonzlez says.
You would still need an instrument to see or measure it.
In contrast, a kilonova from a neutron star merger in our galaxy would probably be quite noticeable.
Gonzalez says it could suddenly appear as a bright star in the sky, and would be clearly detectable by LIGO, too.
Rather than lasting for a matter of seconds, the gravitational waves heard by LIGO would be drawn out over minutes, even hours, as the neutron stars spiraled ever-closer together before their ultimate coalescence.
It would be a bit like tuning into a live Grateful Dead jam instead of a studio version.
(And yes, lets say the song is Dark Star for our purposes.)
Even if LIGO tuned in, however, there are ways we might miss seeing much of the light from a nearby neutron star merger and its subsequent kilonova.
Kari Frank, an astronomer at Northwestern University, says such a large, luminous event could end up obscured by dust and other starsat least at visible and infrared wavelengths.
In other words, LIGO and telescopes looking in wavelengths such as radio or x-ray might glimpse a nearby kilonova that optical astronomers would miss.
There have been supernovaeat least ones that we know of in our galaxy in the last 100 years or sofor which we didnt see the explosion at all, we only saw what was left afterward, Frank says.
And a kilonova, for all the punch it packs, is only a fraction of the luminosity of a typical supernova.
Still, astronomers responses to any stellar cataclysm in or around the Milky Way would likely be swift.
After all, theres the example of supernova 1987A to consider.
The Big Boom As its name suggests, supernova 1987A occurred in 1987, unfolding in a dwarf galaxy that orbits the Milky Way called the Large Magellanic Cloud.
A star about eight times the suns mass collapsed in on itself and sent its outer envelope of gas out into interstellar space, forming a nebula of heavy elements and other debris before collapsing into either a neutron star or a black hole.
It remains the only nearby supernova astronomers have seen in modern times.
Frank has studied the subsequent global campaign to observe supernova 1987A, focusing on how astronomers organized and executed their observations at a time when the internet was embryonic at best.Somebody sees something, and they send out notices to everybody, she says.
The people who first discovered it had to phone whomever they could to tell them that this thing was happening, that they saw this supernova in the sky that was really close by, Frank says.
They sent these circularsletters and things to peopleand then everyone who could would go to their telescope and point to it.
For months, astronomers worldwide scrutinized the event, utilizing almost every available telescope.
Everybody wanted to make sure that as many [telescopes] looked at it as possible, Frank says.
Eventually, things settled down, but several researchersincluding Frankare still studying the supernovas remnants 30 years later.For some people, it was life-changing, or at least career-changing, Frank says.
This was the thing in astronomy that year.
Like LIGO, the observation campaign for supernova 1987A involved thousands of collaborators.
But not all of them shared in the glory of co-authoring any of the many resulting studies published in the scientific literature.
Consequently, theres no real head count of how many people participated.
Counting collaborators working on the recent neutron star merger is much easiersome 3,000 authors across 67 papers, or an estimated 15 percent of the entire field of astrophysics.
The question of how many astrophysicists would receive credit for another event like supernova 1987A depends, in no small part, on just how close the event would be.
If supernova 1987A had occurred much, much closer to Eartharound a nearby star, for instancethe key uncertainty could become not how many scientists observed the event, but how many survived it.
Death from Above According to a 2016 study, supernovae occurring as close as 50 light-years from Earth could pose an imminent danger to Earths biospherehumans included.
The event would likely shower us in so much high-energy cosmic radiation that it could spark a planetary mass extinction.
Researchers have tentatively linked past instances of spiking extinction rates and plummeting biodiversity to postulated astrophysical events, and in at least one case have even found definitive evidence for a nearby supernova as the culprit.
Twenty million years ago, a star 325 light-years from Earth exploded, showering the planet in radioactive iron particles that eventually settled in deep-sea sediments on the ocean floor.
That event, researchers speculate, may have triggered ice ages and altered the course of evolution and human history.
The exact details of past (and future) astrophysical cataclysms impact on Earths biosphere depend not only on their distance, but also their orientation.
A supernova, for instance, can sometimes expel its energy in all directionsmeaning it is not always a very targeted phenomenon.
Merging black holes are expected to emit scarcely any radiation at all, making them surprisingly benign for any nearby biosphere.
A kilonova, however, has different physics at play.
Neutron stars are a few dozen kilometers in radius rather than a few million like a typical stars.
When these dense objects merge, they tend to produce jets that blast out gamma rays from their poles.
[W]hat it looks like to us, and the effect it has on us, would depend a lot on whether or not one of the jets was pointed directly at us, Frank says.
Based on its distance and orientation to Earth, a kilonovas jets would walk the fine line between a spectacular light show and a catastrophic stripping away of the planets upper atmosphere.
If a jet is pointed directly at us, drastic changes could be in store.
And we probably wouldnt see them coming.
A kilonova begins with a burst of gamma raysincredibly energetic photons that, by definition, move at light-speed, the fastest anything can travel through the universe.
Because nothing else can move faster, those photons would strike first, and without warning.
What [the gamma rays] would do, probably more than anything else, is dissolve the ozone layer, says Andrew Fruchter, a staff astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute.
Next, the sky would go blindingly white as the visible light from the kilonova encountered our planet.
Trailing far behind the light would be slower-moving material ejected from the kilonovaradioactive particles of heavy elements that, sandblasting the Earth in sufficient numbers, could still pack a lethal punch.
Thats if the kilonova is close, thoughwithin 50 light-years, give or take.
At a safer distance, the gamma rays would still singe the ozone layer on the facing hemisphere, but the other side would be shielded by the planets bulk.
Most radiation happens very quickly, so half the Earth would be hidden, Fruchter says.
There would still be a momentarily blinding light.
For a few weeks, a new star would burn bright in the sky before gradually fading back into obscurity.
Improbabilities Dont let all this keep you up at night.
Kilonovae are relatively rare cosmic phenomena, estimated to occur just once every 10,000 years in a galaxy like the Milky Way.
Thats because neutron stars, which are produced by supernovae, hardly ever form as pairs.
Usually, a neutron star will receive a hefty kick from its formative supernova; sometimes these kicks are strong enough to eject a neutron star entirely from its galaxy to hurtle at high speeds indefinitely through the cosmos.
When neutron stars are born, theyre often high-velocity.
For them to survive in a binary is nontrivial, Fruchter says.
And the chances of two finding each other and merging after forming independently are, for lack of a better term, astronomically low.
The binary neutron stars we know of in our galaxy are millions or billions of years away from merging.
Any local merger of neutron stars at all would take LIGO by surprise, given that the events are so rare, and astronomers might not even see the resulting kilonova at all.
But if one did occursay, in one of the Milky Ways satellite galaxiesit would be a great reason to run to a telescope to witness the flash and fade of a brief, brilliant new star.
The dangers would be nearly nonexistent, but not the payoff: Our generation of astronomers would have their own supernova 1987A to dissect.
This is a once-in-many-lifetimes kind of event, Frank says.
Thus, she says, we would need to follow something like it with all the worlds astronomical resources.
We have to remember to think beyond the initial explosion, she adds.
Stuff might still happen and we have to keep a watch out for that.
For now astronomers attentions are still fixated on the kilonova in NGC 4993.
The Earths orbital motion has placed the sun between us and the distant galaxy, however, hiding the kilonovas fading afterglow.
When our view clears, in December, many of the worlds telescopic eyes will again turn to the small patch of sky containing the merger.
In the meantime papers will be penned and published, careers minted, reputations secured.
Science will march on, and waitwait for the next possible glimpse of a kilonova, the whispers of a neutron star merger or, if were lucky, something new altogether.
There are more than 50,000 known human genetic maladies that have, in most cases, few good treatments and no cure.
Now researchers at the Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT have developed a new tool that would theoretically make it possible to correct the genetic errors behind about 15,000 of these illnessesincluding sickle-cell disease, cystic fibrosis and several forms of congenital deafness and blindness.
Standard gene-editing tools, such as the well-known CRISPRCas9 system, function like scissors; they can cut an offending gene from a strand of DNA.
This could be useful against diseases such as Huntingtons, which is caused by duplications of genetic material.
The new tool, called ABE (adenine base editors), is more like an editing pencil, according to lead researcher David Liu.
It lets scientists precisely change individual pairs of basesthe letters that form the sentences of the vast human genomeand thus might help address diseases like sickle cell that can be treated with a single letter change.
Liu emphasizes that one tool is not better than the other; rather they can be used to address different types of problems.
But before ABE can be tried in human patients, Liu says, doctors would need to determine when to intervene in the course of a genetic disease.
They would also have to figure out how to best deliver the gene editor to the relevant cellsand to prove the approach is safe and effective enough to make a difference for the patient.
Genes are made up of DNAtwo long, parallel strands of molecules called nucleotides that are linked by pairs of chemical bases.
The base A (adenine) always pairs with T (thymine); and G (guanine) joins with C (cytosine).
But when the genetic machinery makes mistakes and puts a pair in the wrong place, it sometimes leads to disease.
The new tool targets genetic errors in which an AT base pair should be a GC.
Liu is a professor of chemistry at Harvard University and a vice chair of the faculty at the Broad Institute.
Along with his students and postdoctoral researchers he had previously developed base editors that convert CG base pairs into TA pairs.
(The order is important, so a GC mistake is not the same as a CG one.)
Liu, who is also an investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, said Tuesday in a news conference that he and others have been working on additional tools, which could correct other types of spelling mistakes in DNA.
This led them to ABE.
The new ABE technique uses an enzyme Liu and his colleagues developed.
It rearranges the atoms in A so they form a base that resembles G in a DNA strand.
The ABE system also nicks the mated DNA strand that contains the T. The cells repair mechanisms then turn on to fix the tear.
In doing so, the cell replaces the T with a C, correcting the other half of the base pair.
The net result is the troublesome AT base pair is converted into a beneficial GC pair.
Using ABE in a lab dish, Liu and his colleagues were able to precisely edit genes that cause a hereditary form of hemochromatosisa disease that leads the body to store too much iron, causing pain, fatigue, weakness and, if untreated, liver and heart failure.
They also used ABE to install a different genetic mutation that compensates for the DNA defect that causes sickle-cell disease.
The ABE gene-editing process is efficient, effectively editing the relevant spot in the genome an average of 53 percent of the time across 17 tested sites, Liu said.
It caused undesired effects less than 0.1 percent of the time, he added.
That success rate is comparable with what CRISPR can do when it is cutting genes.
Dirk Hockemeyer, an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who was not involved in the Broad research, said he is impressed in the work and the tool the team developed.
But it is still a long way from helping patients.
In clinical applications the key question is always delivery, delivery, delivery: How do I get the editing agent to the position in the cell that I want to repair?
he says.
But if it cures a single disease, we should all be happy.
Physicists sometimes say that a beam of light traveling through space is like a great smoky dragon.
One can know much about where the light comes from (the dragons tail) and where it is seen (the dragons head), yet still know precious little about the journey in between (the dragons mysterious, nebulous body).
As light travels from source to detection, it can behave as either a particle or a waveor, paradoxically, both states or neither state.
Now an experiment using laser beams shot at satellites in low-Earth orbit has confirmed that this bizarre detail about the nature of light holds true across record-breaking distances.
Quantum physics, the best description yet of how all known particles behaves, suggests that reality is fuzzy and uncertain at its most basic levels.
For instance, the surreal quantum effect known as superposition essentially allows electrons, atoms and other building blocks of the universe to each exist in two or more places simultaneously.
Another strange quantum phenomenon is particle-wave duality.
Whereas Isaac Newton thought light was made up of particles, his contemporary the Dutch scientist Christiaan Huygens argued that it consisted of waves.
Eventually, researchers performing the so-called double-slit experiment demonstrated that Newton and Huygens were both rightphotons of light could behave as both particles and waves.
The double-slit experiment involves shining a single light source through two adjacent slits in an opaque plate, and onto a detecting screen.
If an experimenter closes one slit, the light passing through the other forms a bar on the screenas if the light were behaving like a stream of particles.
But if the experimenter leaves both slits open the light will not form two such bars.
Instead it generates a series of bright and dark bands on the screen, as if waves of light scattered through the slits and interfered with each other.
The bright bands indicate where light waves reinforced each other, and dark bands where they canceled each other out.
Remarkably, this interference pattern will materialize even if photons are projected at the slits one at a time.
The way quantum physics explains these confounding results is that the instruments used to detect light determine its state as a particle or a wave.
Describing this situation, in 1983 the American physicist Jonathan Wheeler coined the now-famous great smoky dragon comparison.
To examine how light chooses to become either a particle or wave upon its detection, Wheeler conceived of the delayed-choice experiment.
In it, an optical device called a beam-splitter offers a single photon two paths to take.
At the end of each path is a detector.
If the photon behaves like a particle, it has an equal chance of taking either path and being seen by either detector.
If the photon instead behaves like a wave, it will take both paths simultaneously and register in both detectors.
When the experiment only incorporates one beam-splitter, a single photon will take either path and just one detector will see it.
This suggests the photon made the choice at the beam-splitter to behave like a particle.
However, a beam-splitter can also act in reverse to merge two photons into one; if the experiment has the paths converge at a second beam-splitter before channeling them to a detector the result will be the interference pattern from the photons acting as waves and reacting to each other.
This holds true even when the second beam-splitter is introduced in the split second after light passes through the first onebut has yet to reach the detectors.
Scientists have successfully carried out both versions of this experiment in the decades since Wheeler proposed it.
Its results make sense if the photon delays making the choice to become a particle or a wave until it actually gets detected.
The alternative would suggest that the photon could somehow decide to become a particle if it encountered one beam-splitter but then change its decision and become a wave if it ran across a second beam-splitter.
Historically, all delayed-choice experiments have been performed on Earth.
But now scientists are increasingly conducting quantum experiments involving lasers shot across the vastness of outer space.
Quantum physicist Paolo Villoresi at the University of Padua in Italy and his colleagues wanted to verify if the dual nature of light still held true even across the distances between the ground and satellites in low-Earth orbit.
As Galileowho did most of his work at the University of Paduasaid, we have to prove the laws we know in new contexts, Villoresi quips.
Using the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory in Italy, Villoresi and his colleagues performed Wheelers delayed-choice experiment by firing green laser pulses at the Beacon-C and Starlette satellites, which reflected the photons back at the observatory.
At their farthest, the satellites were 1,771 kilometers (1,100 miles) away from the observatory.
Distance matters, explains astrophysicist Brian Koberlein at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York, who did not take part in this research.
In a single lab, you could argue that maybe in some way the experimenters are affecting the outcome.
But over larger distances, there isnt a clear way to affect outcomes.
Instead of having the photons travel down one of two separate paths of equal lengths, the scientists measured two different aspects of each photonhow each one oscillated in space, and whether it took a shorter or longer path to the detectors.
Their results confirmed lights curious quantum behavior over distances tens to hundreds of times greater than previously shown, Villoresi says.
The teams findings appeared Oct. 25 in the journal Science Advances.
This work further confirms that quantum mechanics really is the description of the great smoky dragon, Koberlein says.
It may be strange, but it is logically and mathematically consistent.
Aside from testing the quantum qualities of light across unprecedented distances, Villoresi notes that quantum physics experiments conducted across space could help lead to satellite-based telecommunications networks protected by nigh-unhackable quantum cryptography.
By clarifying the fundamental properties of photons during such experiments as was done in this study, there may be direct applications for larger bandwidths in quantum communications, Villoresi says.
Indeed, great smoky dragons may someday carry secrets in their jaws.
Medical historians have recently published accounts that show neurologists were indeed complicit with the Nazisand became victims if they were classified as non-Aryan.
Heiner Fangerau, who teaches the history and ethics of medicine at University Hospital Dsseldorfalong with colleagues Michael Martin at the Heinrich Heine University of Dsseldorf and Axel Karenberg from the University of Cologneundertook extensive research on neurologists during the Third Reich for the German Society of Neurology.
Fangerau discussed new findings with Corinna Hartmann and Andreas Jahn of Gehirn&Geist, the psychology and neuroscience specialty publication of Spektrum der Wissenschaft, and the German sister publication of Scientific American.
An edited transcript of the interview follows.
Professor Fangerau, your research project examines the role played by neurologists during the Nazi period.
Why is this only happening 70 years after the fact?
There were several different phases in which people dealt with National Socialism after World War II.
Immediately after 1945 the Allies pursued a policy of denazification.
After that German society as a whole attempted to suppress its dark past.
Many members of the next generation, however, found it impossible to close their eyes: Students in the 1968 movement were angry that their parents were unwilling to deal openly with the Third Reich.
The medical specialties took even longer to begin working through the past.
As a result, their reappraisal of the crimes committed began only in the 1980s.
Part of the reason why historical research into neurology has only been conducted systematically over the past several years is that neurology and psychiatry were forced into the same disciplinary framework in 1935.
Before then neurology had begun to separate from psychiatry.
The basic idea was to leave psychological phenomena that are difficult to understand to the psychiatrists and to concentrate on disorders that are anatomically demonstrable.
The National Socialists nullified this effort.
They believed that they could control these medical specialties more effectively if they brought them together in the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, which was dominated by psychiatrists committed to the ideology of racial hygiene.
The chairman of the society was Ernst Rdin, a psychiatrist.
As a result, neurology has come to be viewed as less implicated.
Historical research conducted since the late 1980s, however, paints a very different picture.
What are the most important findings of your research?
Neurology as a discipline was indeed complicit in the crimes of the Nazis.
The ideology of racial hygiene combined with opportunistic arguments about compassion and cost reductions served to justify the systematic killing of more than 70,000 disabled and sick people.
The Nazis euphemistically called this policy euthanasia.
Both neurologists and psychiatrists were involved, and it is often difficult to distinguish who was a neurologist and who was a psychiatrist.
The doctors assessed patients, and whomever they found to be either problematic or incapable of working was transferred to a killing facility and murdered.
Neuroscientists then used the brains of these murdered patients in their research.
What did you find especially shocking?
I found especially frightening the matter-of-factness with which many physicians used the bodies of those that had been killed, and their indifference in carrying out or approving experiments on their patients.
After the war these crimes in the name of science were covered up as the acts of individuals.
But in fact, these were by no means the acts of sadistic individuals; rather, a large proportion of academic neurologists collaborated with the Nazi system to their mutual benefit.
The scientists were the recipients of research projects and state funding, and in return the National Socialists received scientific legitimation for their racial policies.
Under the Nazis physicians were to play a major role in the state.
And unfortunately, on the whole physicians were prepared to work with the regime.
What sorts of research did neurologists conduct back then?
For one thing, they studied diseases like epilepsy.
Their main concern here was to distinguish between hereditary and nonhereditary forms so that patients with a genetic predisposition could be forcibly sterilized in accordance with Nazi eugenic principles.
The second research focus was brain anatomy.
Using samples from those who had been euthanized, neurologists studied the structure, function and pathology of the brain.
What happened to the samples and the knowledge derived from them after 1945?
The findings of these inhumane studies were simply merged into further research during the postwar era.
The brains and preserved tissue such as the brain sections of euthanasia victims largely remained at the institutes where they continued to be used as material for studies.
For example, the German Research Institute for Psychiatry, now the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich, housed a large anatomical collection.
Researchers in the history of medicine are currently doing research on these specimens.
Apparently, for many years scientists were unable to resist the lure of working with these ghastly remains.
It took persistent pressure from journalists and historians, especially from Israel, before German anatomical collections were systematically examined for incriminated material.
In the 1990s many of these samples were removed from the archives and buried.
It should be noted, however, that such mass burials are not unproblematic from todays perspective, because it has made it even more difficult to identify the people who were murdered.
It is one of the goals of research into this history to return to victims who were given numbers their true identities.
Which neurologists were especially complicit in the crimes of the National Socialists?
The most prominent were the neuropathologist Hugo Spatz and the brain researcher Julius Hallervorden.
Both worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
Under Spatzs leadership the institute became a hotbed of eugenics.
As head of the histopathology department, Hallervorden conducted secondary research for the euthanasia program on the diseases suffered by the patients who were killed.
Among other things, he and his co-workers studied which neurological and psychiatric diseases are hereditary.
These determinations formed the basis for the selection of patients to be killed.
The Kaiser Wilhelm Institute received large numbers of brains of euthanasia victims for its research.
And as we now know, those who took part in that research were well aware of their origin.
After the fact, how do you determine who was a true believer in the Nazi cause and who was merely a follower?
In point of fact, it is not always as clear as in the case of Hugo Spatz and Julius Hallervorden.
For example, Heinrich Pette, who headed the Neurology Department of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, has never been linked to the euthanasia program.
If we want to know whether a particular person was complicit with the Nazi system, we could of course ask: Was he or she a member of a National Socialist organization?
But that would be an oversimplification because many people became members of the Nazi Party without acting on its behalf.
That is why we also look at the date on which they joined.
For example, did the person join the party before 1933 or after the seizure of power?
Or was he or she someone who applied for membership after it stopped accepting members?
Other important considerations include personal contacts with Nazi functionaries, appearances at political events, publication in Nazi periodicals and the denunciation of co-workers.
Pette took the stage at important Nazi-sponsored events and frequently expressed the racial policies of the day.
But it is not yet clear whether he betrayed colleaguesor perhaps may even have protected them.
Prizes awarded by the German Society of Neurology, which was rededicated in 1950, have actually been named in honor of Spatz and Pette.
How could this have happened?
After the war the German colleges of physicians concocted a self-protective interpretation.
They convinced themselves that only a few doctors had participated in the crimes, and that these few had either been brought to justice during the Nuremberg Trials or been captured during the war.
At the time, Spatz and Hallervorden were renowned neurologists whose colleagues and students found difficult to attack for their involvement in the Nazi regime.
Questions were raised almost exclusively abroad.
In 1953, when Hallervorden was to present a paper at the International Congress of Neurology Lisbon, the Dutch participants protested so vehemently that his presentation was canceled.
The Hugo Spatz Prize was renamed only in 1999 after one of its awardees made an issue of it.
In contrast to Spatz, Heinrich Pette was a more ambiguous character whose role has yet to be clarified.
After the end of the war were any neurologists forced to answer for their crimes?
Only about 20 physicians were charged at the Nuremberg Doctors Trial, among them the only woman, Herta Oberheuser, who participated in human experiments in a concentration camp.
None of the other physicians involved, even those who had worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, were prosecuted.
There was another wave of trials during the 1960s, but it mainly involved psychiatrists.
Important neurologists like Hallervorden and Spatz continued in their careers in Germany as if nothing had happened.
Do you know of any neurologists who resisted?
A few neurologists remained in the country but were unwilling to associate themselves with the Nazi cause.
However, there were many who were exiled, deported, driven to suicide or murdered after being classified as non-Aryan.
Medical historians have shown that contemporary documents also reveal differences between neurologists in private practice and those working in university clinics in terms of recommending forced sterilization.
In rural areas, where physicians had a personal relationship with their patients and their families, they were less likely to recommend sterilization.
Such recommendations were more frequent in urban hospitals in which there was no real physicianpatient relationship.
But we have heard of no neurologists who opposed the regime more resolutely.
That is something that we intend to examine in a future research project.
How are young physicians responding to your findings?
Happily, young physicians are very interested in the history of their field.
Many had previously known nothing of the involvement of German neurologists in the crimes of National Socialists, and they now find it all the more important to make this history known.
Of course, there are some who disagree, but we want to ensure that we do not forget.
That is why we intend to reconstruct histories of persecuted physicians and to shine a light on these physicians, some of whom made important contributions to scienceespecially since many of their names were expunged from the professional literature.
History has shown unambiguously that human beings are prepared to inflict suffering on others in the name of modern medical research.
This is a propensity that we must bear in mind at all times.
Although knowledge of what happened in the past cannot prevent future horrors, it may at least serve as a warning.
A LIST OF CONTROVERSIAL NAZI-ERA NEUROLOGISTS Julius Hallervorden (18821965) led the Histopathology Department at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
He joined the SS in 1933, and Adolf Hitler named him a professor five years later.
In addition, he was head of the External Department of the Academy for Military Medicine.
In collaboration with Hugo Spatz he described a rare neurodegenerative disease called the HallervordenSpatz disease.
Heinrich Pette (18871964) joined the National Socialist party and other Nazi organizations in 1933.
He was one of the signatories of the Oath of Allegiance of the Professors of the German Universities and High-Schools to Adolf Hitler and the National Socialist State.
In 1950 he founded the German Society of Neurology and remained its chairman until 1952.
To this day the society awards the Heinrich Pette Prize.
Ernst Rdin (18741952) was a Swiss-German psychiatrist and chairman of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists.
In 1933 he chaired the Expert Committee for Population and Race Politics.
In 1939 Adolf Hitler awarded him the Goethe Medal for Arts and Sciences.
During the denazification era after World War II he was considered a follower.
Hugo Spatz (18881969) was a neuropathologist and from 1937 director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, where about 700 brains of euthanasia victims were studied.
In 1943 he was named a medical staff officer.
After the end of the war he directed the Max Planck Institute for Brain Research in Giessen (now in Frankfurt).
A prize awarded by the German Society of Neurology was named after him until 1999.
Further reading: How Nazi's Defense of "Just Following Orders" Plays Out in the Mind The Nazi and the Psychiatrist Unearthing the Atrocities of Nazi Death Camps Scientific Spyycraft: The Quest to Sabotage Nazi Germany's Atomic Bomb
Shrews might seem rather unassuming.
Smaller than mice, they can go largely unnoticedscurrying through the grasslands of Britain, northern Europe and many parts of the U.S. in search of insects or dodging the hovering threat of owls and eagles.
Yet new research reveals these little molelike mammals are biological marvels when it comes to enduring the hardships of winter.
A new study published Monday in Current Biology reports the skulls of Sorex araneus, the most common shrew species, shrink by up to 20 percent as the cold season approaches.
Come spring, their heads return to roughly normal size.
Working in the 1940s, Polish zoologist August Dehnel first recognized shrews bodies shrink during winter, a finding that came to be known as the Dehnel phenomenon.
But the new research is the first to nail down more specifics, and to measure the extent of the creatures head shrinkage by following individual animals through the seasons.
The work suggests declining temperatures trigger shrews to literally break down their cranial bones and warm weather cues them to rebuild.
To conduct the new study, lead author Javier Lazaro, a PhD candidate at Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, and his colleagues trapped 12 shrews in the nearby town of Mggingen, Germany.
The animals were anesthetized, x-rayed and implanted with microchips for later identification.
They were then scanned at regular intervals for over a year.
All 12 showed the same pattern of peak head size in summer, a reduction throughout the winter and regrowth in the spring.
It is not just the skulls that shrink with winter, however.
Shrews brains appear to get smaller, tooby as much as 30 percent, according to prior dissection research.
Moreover, the animals other organs also lose mass; even their spines get shorter.
Overall, the latest study suggests shrew body mass drops by 18 percent from July to February.
Then, in spring, the creatures start to grow until they reach their peak size83 percent larger than their winter low.
Shrews are not the only creatures to undergo bodily changes in response to environmental cues, scientists note.
It's not unusual for animals to lose soft tissue mass during lean periods, says John Grady, a postdoctoral researcher in ecology at Michigan State University who was not involved in the study.
In addition to fat, some animals will lose organ mass when food is scarce.
He points to the fact some snakes break down their digestive tracts between feedings and build them back up after nabbing prey.
But, like the authors of the new research, he was surprised by the degree of shrews shrinking bones and brains.
A shrinking skull may indicate bone is being reabsorbed by the body in the winter and regenerated in spring, according to Lazaro and his co-authors.
They think gaining a better understanding of the proximate causes of that breakdown may help advance studies of degenerative bone diseases including osteoporosis.
For now, however, they see the animals diminished bone, brain and body mass as an alternative to hibernation or migration.
When food is scarce during winter, weight reduction likely saves the animals energy, the researchers say.
Shrews are fascinating, Lazaro adds.
They are among the smallest mammals on the planet and have by far the highest relative metabolic rate among mammals.
Their hypothesis that brains shrink to reduce energy is very reasonable, Grady says of the new study.
But one thing I wish theyd done is try to tease apart whether the shrews brains shrunk simply because they were too big for the newly shrunken body or if shrews are actually [able] to compromise brain function to save energy.
Further research by Lazaro may soon help answer that question.
He and his colleagues hope to build a large outdoor enclosure to better study how a shrinking brain influences shrews mental skills like learning, flexibility and memory.
The goal, he says, is to help illuminate the relationship between their mammalian brains, body metabolism and environment.
As Grady puts it, Maybe the shrews get a little dimmer during the winterand thats the price of not starving to death.
Do you want to hear the most epic story ever?
So begins The Zoomable Universe (October 2017, Scientific American/FSG), a new book from astrophysicist Caleb Scharf and artist Ron Miller that is a tour of, well, almost everything.
The epic story is the tale of how atoms made in the immediate aftermath of the big bang 13.8 billion years ago came together from the hearts of distant, long-dead suns scattered across our galaxy to coalesce into our familiar Earthinto toadstools, trilobites, trees and, of course, dear reader, into you.
Just as our planet itself is but one of hundreds of billions likely to exist in the Milky Way, this opening story is just one small part of Scharf and Millers greater, grander aim: condensing the sum total of our knowledge about the natural world into one illustrated 200-page volume.
Of course, this doesnt mean copying the entirety of Wikipedia onto glossy paper in microscopic print; they take a more elegant path, crafting a cosmic travelogue that jumps through all of existences known scales in order-of-magnitude leaps, ranging from the outer limits of the observable universe to the quantum worlds of fundamental particles.
Its a timeworn formula, tracing at least as far back as Charles and Ray Eamess seminal 1977 film Powers of Tenbut updated for the 21st century with new findings from the far frontiers of science at all scales.
Scientific American spoke to Scharf about his book, his research process and what it really means to appreciate the universes vast scales.
[An edited transcript of the interview follows.]
What is this book about, fundamentally?
Its not just about scales, for starters.
Its about all that weve learned about the cosmos in the last hundred years or soand not just things like planets, stars and galaxies, but also the fundamental physical underpinnings of reality.
Its a highly visual and accessible presentation that is meant to bring a reader right up to date: all that we know, in a nutshell, about everything.
But in a more ambitious sense, I feel this book is a jumping-off point for stories yet to be told, a starter for codifying what we do not know.
Its not a tidy wrap-up by any stretch of the imagination.
The story of physical reality could be written differently, and it can and will be rewritten in the future.
I hope that this book will help prompt those next sets of questions in readers somewhere, and lead to this tale being revised and retold.
What most interested you about this project?
There were lots of things.
Theres the minutia and the mechanics of the project itself: How do you choose where this tour of the entire universe takes you, across 63 orders of magnitude, from the very large to the very small?
Then, on what is really a meta-level, there is something intriguing about the idea of gathering together a summation of our knowledge of the physical world into a few words and pictures on some pages.
These days I think most people have heard about how amazingly big a galaxy is or the incredibly small sizes of the quantum realm.
But to have it all laid out in one placemaybe that isnt so usual.
Theres something special about that.
And I like the idea of laying the right bread crumbs, cluesfor talking about all the things we dont know.
Given the breadth of the material covered, some of it must have fallen outside your expertise in physics and astronomy.
Were you ever surprised by anything you learned while writing this?
There definitely were those moments.
Heres a rather extended example: One of the big decision points for The Zoomable Universe was to choose where to set the zooms midpoint, where we show things that we as humans are most familiar with.
So, the original Powers of Ten presentation from Charles and Ray Eames zoomed in and out from a couple lying on a picnic blanket in a park in Chicago.
And thats great, but I wanted to get away from a Western-centric view and pick somewhere else on Earth, and I didnt want to focus so strictly on humans.
So I ended up making the midpoint a family of elephants walking in the Great Rift Valley in Africa, zooming in on a bird on one elephants back eating a louse out of the elephants skin, and then to the cells in a grain of pollen on a whisker near the louses compound eye, and so on.
But we dont just talk about multilayered biosystems herethis is also a place to talk about minds and consciousness, because elephants are incredibly intelligent creatures.
So one of the breakout graphics we decided to do was a two-page spread on Brains of the World, showing different species brains to scale with each other and some information about how many neurons each contains and how we associate all this with cognitive abilities.
It was surprising to me how difficult it was to assemble that information.
We dont really know exactly how many neurons there are even in a human brain.
When I started putting together the data, I took the number that appears nearly everywhere: A hundred billion neurons.
It turns out that isnt trueits more like 86 billion neuronsbut even that number is constantly being revised, and thats not even addressing the brains of other species!
At heart, I am a physicist, and physicists want to quantify and count fundamental things: Okay, weve got a brain.
How many neurons are in it?
How many cells?
And it became apparent to me that, to some extent, many biologists dont find that approach useful.
I ended up being obsessed with this for a week or two, trying to find the right numbers to have data for the graphic; and then wondering whether the numbers, exact or not, actually tell us anything usefulhow meaningful is it to compare the number of neurons in a bee to the number in a mouse or in a human?
Right, so when youre trying to sum up all our knowledge, you end up better appreciating the gapsnot only in what we know, but in how different scientific disciplines see and study the world.
Its interesting that these tensions came up for you, in this book about scale.
Many people might think a book like this would just be about space and physics.
But youve just described how it encompasses more than that.
Well, as I was developing the narrative of the book, I was very aware I had to link a huge diversity of topics together, and I knew that a way to do this might be to appeal to the different physical forces operating at each scale, and also to appeal to a readers preexisting knowledge.
So at the big-picture scale of the universe, gravity is the thing to talk aboutits what pulls mass together, and people are familiar with its effects and, of course, it operates at every scale, although other forces become more important further down.
But gravity probably isnt the best or only way to talk about planets or about life, right?
So, for example, maybe talking about how energy moves and dissipates in the universe is better there.
The Earth formed more than four and a half billion years ago, and its been trying its hardest to cool down ever since.
Except its being blasted by solar radiation all the time, and by talking about that I could discuss how life exists as part of that global thermodynamic process.
A book like this allows you to explore all these little side streets and alleyways that branch off from the main streets and highways of our knowledge.
Do all those branches reflect enough of reality?
I dont know, but they definitely reflect how weve constructed our pictures of it.
Speaking of side streets, heres one to go down: Sometimes an apparent gap in our knowledge is actually just showing us the true, fundamental absence of something rather than our ignorance.
For example, in the section of the book where you zoom into an atom, it seems like there is an awful lot of empty space down there between an atoms electrons and its nucleus.
And so one might wonderdoes this void reflect something we dont know?
Or is there really just nothing there to see?
I noticed this as I was writing the book and planning the illustrations with my collaborator Ron Miller, thinking about the linear progression of scales.
The first chapter we handled was about planets, because we wanted to begin the collaborative process with a visually rich topic.
That part came naturally to us.
But later, as we went further down and got to the scale of the interior of atoms, we reached this place where, as you say, youre in an atom.
And now youre scaling down, down, down through this void toward the atomic nucleus, the protons and neutrons, and theres just nothing much to say.
And nothing much to illustrate, either!
This highlights a counterintuitive statement you might have heard before, which is that in a very real physical sense we are mostly emptiness.
And that is definitely driven home when youre sitting there looking at what are essentially blank pages for the illustrations, saying, Okay, well, can we put a little dot in the middle just to give readers the idea that something is coming next?
You asked whether this is just a gap in our knowledge, or is this instead just how things are.
It does seem sad in an aesthetic sense if thats all there is, but the atomic emptiness also mirrors other voids that seem to exist at even smaller scales.
In the book, as we zoom down through the quantum realm, we eventually reach a page that marks 10-18 meters, which is the scale where we find ourselves well within a proton, deep down into even more fundamental particlesquarks and gluons.
Then you turn the page, and we have suddenly jumped further down by 17 orders of magnitude, to 10-35 meters, to what we call the Planck scale.
Based on our understanding of the laws of physics, this is where uncertainty causes the concepts of location and duration to lose all meaning, where spacetime itself may break down into a probabilistic quantum foam of virtual particles and fields popping in and out of existence.
But we really cant say much more about itor all those orders of magnitude we skippedbecause we simply dont know.
We thought about including those additional orders of magnitude at one per pageso 17 additional pages.
But we didnt know what to fill those pages with except for abstract, speculative visualizations.
Then we considered just including 17 blank pages.
You know, just turn, turn, turn, turn, to kind of pound home the emptiness.
In the end, we just skipped these scales.
Theres a big chart toward the end that shows all the scales the book covered.
Those last scales are there, but theyre blank.
We dont make a big deal out of it in the book.
But its there.
And maybe some readers will see that and react to it, which is precisely what Id like to have happen.
Maybe an astute 12-year-old somewhere will read it and think, Hang on, these idiots left the most important parts out!
The book does leave some clues lying around about what we might be missing.
Thinking about that big chart that shows all of the books scales, from the quantum foam to the outer limits of the observable universe, its already impressive that we can plot out 63 orders of magnitude like that in a unified diagram.
But can anyone actually grasp it all?
Can you hold all those scales together simultaneously as a construct in your mind and get an idea of what they all add up to in any meaningful sense?
I have to admit I cant grasp it allno.
Its a struggle to even comprehend small parts of it.
There are moments in life when you might discern a superposition of more than one order of magnitude scale, but those experiences are few and far betweenstanding under the Eiffel Tower, hiking through the Grand Canyon, looking up at a total solar eclipse and seeing the stars come out.
But, yeah, most of the time I dont feel it in a visceral senseI just see numbers on the page or on the screen.
In a very selfish way, I guess the whole book was kind of an experiment to see if I could collect all this information to somehow get that feeling of awe, of perspective, and hopefully to create a way for other people to have that feeling, too.
Other than awe, how do you think contemplation of these scales should make us feel, as human beings, as little sparks of consciousness and quasi-emptiness adrift in a cosmos steadily sliding deeper into entropy?
Are we meant to feel apathetic and insignificant in a vast and meaningless universe?
Can you just think about quantum foam and multiverses, and suddenly it doesnt matter that you stepped in a big wad of chewing gum on your way into the office in the morning?
Wow!
Well, I can see our insignificance in terms of scale, and I can see my own insignificance there, too.
But I guess Id rather be a microscopic speck in a vast and fascinating universe than to be some bloated, central lump around which everything else revolves.
[ That kind of puts you in a box, right?
Being so smallbeing surrounded by things that are so much bigger, and other things that are so much smallerit just means theres so much more to explore.
For me its actually affirming to think that in all this unfathomable vastness we have somehow managed to be here at all.
So what if our existence is just due to some quantum fluctuation?
Why should that change how we feel?
Sure, on a truly grand scale were not even really herewe have borrowed something from somewhere else, and someday that something will be gone and we will be gone with it.
But, you know, we are still here, now.
We can write books like this.
We can construct stories, and that as a cosmic phenomena may be quite unique.
I mean, life might exist all over the place in the cosmos.
We dont know yet.
But this capacity to not just communicate but to imagine and to dream, maybe that is a bit special, even for intelligent life.
Bees and ants communicate with each other in a language of sorts.
In some ways they are collectively very intelligent.
But I dont think they tell each other epic fantasies or debate their interpretations of reality the way humans do.
It could be, in that sense, we fall in a pretty special category.
Which, I guess, can be a comforting thought.
BERLINSocietys embrace of cannabis to treat nausea, pain and other conditions proceeds apace with the drive to legalize the plant for recreational use.
Pots seemingly innocuous side effects have helped clear a path toward making it a legal cash crop, with all of the marketing glitz brought to other consumer products.
But that clean bill of health only goes so far.
Marijuanas potentially detrimental impact on the developing brains of adolescents remains a key focus of researchparticularly because of the possibility teenage users could go on to face a higher risk of psychosis.
New findings may fuel those worries.
At the World Psychiatric Associations World Congress in Berlin on October 9, Hannelore Ehrenreich of the Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine presented results of a study of 1,200 people with schizophrenia.
The investigation analyzed a wide range of genetic and environmental risk factors for developing the debilitating mental illness.
The resultsbeing submitted for publicationshow people who had consumed cannabis before age 18 developed schizophrenia approximately 10 years earlier than others.
The higher the frequency of use, the data indicated, the earlier the age of schizophrenia onset.
In her study neither alcohol use nor genetics predicted an earlier time of inception, but pot did.
Cannabis use during puberty is a major risk factor for schizophrenia, Ehrenreich says.
Other studies, although not all, support the thrust of Ehrenreichs findings.
There is no doubt, concludes Robin Murray, a professor of psychiatry at Kings College London, that cannabis use in young people increases the risk of developing schizophrenia as an adult.
Speaking at the Berlin conference, Murrayone of the first scientists to research pots link to the disordercited 10 studies that found a significant risk of young cannabis users developing psychosis.
He also mentioned three other studies that identified a clear trend but had a sample size that was too small to reach statistical significance.
The more [cannabis] you takeand the higher the potencythe greater the risk, he contends, warning this makes the increasingly potent new strains of marijuana especially concerning.
In an interview Murray said his research with users in London has shown that high-potency cannabisapproximately 16 percent THC (tetrahydrocannabinol)was involved in 24 percent of all cases of a first episode of psychosis.
(New laws permitting recreational pot use do not make it legal for teens to consume cannabis, but that has not impeded access.)
Interpretations of these new findings are hardly likely to receive universal acceptance.
Questions about the cannabispsychosis link have persisted for years.
The available data on this subject is far from definitiveparticularly with regard to any potential cause-and-effect relationship, notes Paul Armentano, deputy director of NORML, a U.S. organization that advocates marijuana legalization for adults.
For instance, increased cannabis use by the public has not been followed by a proportional rise in diagnoses of schizophrenia or psychosis.
In 2015 the Toronto-based International Center for Science in Drug Policy issued a reportState of the Evidence: Cannabis Use and Regulationthat detailed this discrepancy.
It cited a British study that estimated the significant rise in pot use should have produced, between 1990 and 2010, a 29 percent increase in schizophrenia cases among men and 12 percent among women.
But according to other data, during the time when usage was thought to have grown most (1996 to 2005), the number of new schizophrenia cases remained stable or declined.
These findings strongly suggest that cannabis use does not cause schizophrenia, the centers report notes.
Another speaker at the Berlin conferenceBeat Lutz, a neurochemist at the University of Mainzdescribed the mechanisms by which the drug might produce deleterious effects in a young persons brain.
The main psychoactive compound in marijuana, THC, disrupts the normal flow of signals among brain cellsa process normally regulated by chemicals called endocannabinoids.
These compounds occur naturally in the body and activate a type of cellular docking site (called the cannabinoid type 1, or CB1, receptor) to act like a circuit breaker, Lutz says, keeping the brains level of signaling activity or excitation within a normal range.
Too little endocannabinoid signaling results in excessive excitation of the nervous system, and this can promote anxiety disorders, impulsivity and epilepsy.
Too much activity has the opposite effect and can promote depression, for example.
Upsetting the information flows regulated by the endocannabinoid system has also been linked to psychosis.
THC acts differently from endocannabinoids.
It does not break down rapidly in the body the way natural endocannabinoids do, Lutz says, noting this sustained activation causes serious wide-ranging disturbances in the brain.
Low doses of THC may reduce anxiety but high doses can heighten it, and chronic overstimulation of CB1 receptors by THC shuts down the bodys natural endocannabinoid signaling system by eliminating the CB1 receptors from neurons, Lutz adds.
In addition, new research reveals mitochondriathe organelles within cells that generate energy for cellular metabolismalso have CB1 receptors.
THC inhibits mitochondrial activity, reducing the cells vital energy supply, he says, citing a 2016 paper published in Nature.
Perhaps most critically, he believes THCs disruption of endocannabinoid signaling in the early teen brain can hinder key neurodevelopmental processes that involve the CB1 receptors, thereby impairing brain communication permanently.
Recent research on marijuana is starting to address the type of questions that might ordinarily be revealed via lengthy clinical trials during the development of a pharmaceutical.
This process is occurring as the legalization bandwagon picks up speed.
Marijuana is increasingly taking a place alongside Johnny Walker and Yellow Tail on the credenzano longer stashed away in a drawer within.
In the U.S. marijuana use among high school seniors is more common than smoking cigarettes.
The researchers at the Berlin conference discussed the need to alert the public about worrying new findings.
As physicians, we need to say clearly what is happening and what is not, says Peter Falkai, a psychiatrist at the Munich Center for Neurosciences at Ludwig Maximilian University.
Looking into the data, clearly yes, the data show increasing risk of psychosis.
Evolution is one of natures greatest shows.
From humble beginnings, it gave rise to fish, reptiles, amphibians, birds and mammals; it took the ancestors of apes and sculpted them into humans.
These grand spectacles play out across millions of years, dazzling us with their before-and-after shots.
But if we look closely, we can sometimes glimpse evolution unfolding in real time.
And often we are surprised to find ourselves directing the show.
A new study finds that great tits, a type of songbird, in the U.K. have evolved longer beaks over the past couple of decades, possibly because of a British pastime that has become massively popular since the 19th centurybird feeding.
The findings, reported Thursday in Science, represent a possible empirical example of an organism evolving directly in response to human activities.
The great tit, a black-and-yellow bird with a call like a squeaky seesaw, is common across Europe and is a frequent visitor to bird feeders.
Biologists have long known U.K. great tits had longer beaks than those in continental Europe, but the reason for this difference was unclear.
Now a group of Dutch and British researchers tracked the variation down to the birds genes and found natural selection at work.
They first embarked on an ambitious investigation into the genomesthe complete sets of genesof 2,322 great tits from across the U.K. and the Netherlands.
They flagged spots in the genomes between the two populations that were most different, which turned out to be the same spots that were the least different among the genomes of individual U.K. birds.
Favored genes had nudged their way into these areas and, with time, pushed out most other genes that might have been found therea clear indication natural selection was at work, according to the researchers.
They then labeled around 30 of the genes that seemed to oust all the others and scanned the scientific literature to figure out what role these genes played in other organisms.
It turns out many of them are involved in human skull development and bill length in Darwins finchesGalpagos Islands birds that served as the famed biologists most famous subjects.
The scientists suspected these genes could be linked to beak length, so they measured this anatomical feature in U.K. great tits.
They found birds with that handful of favored genes, as expected, tended to have longer beaks than their continental counterparts in the Netherlands.
The researchers further backed their findings using historical data.
Ecologists at the University of Oxford, which co-authored the study, had been measuring beak lengths for 26 years, or around 13 generations for the songbird.
Even just in the last 30 years weve seen the beak lengths getting longer in the U.K. population, says senior author Jon Slate, an evolutionary geneticist at the University of Sheffield.
And he thinks the evolutionary time frame is even longer than that.
The researchers then scoured museum collections and looked at specimens of the birds collected since the 1920s to confirm their findings.
Something about the U.K. environment was giving longer beaks an edge.
It was a fishing expedition, says David Reznick, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Riverside, who did not take part in the study.
They have done a good job of identifying the groups of genes that are associated with variation in [beak length].
The signature of natural selection in their data, he adds, is quite strong.
Leif Andersson, a geneticist at Uppsala University in Sweden, also not part of the work but who has conducted research on the genes that drove natural selection in Darwins finches, was impressed by the amount of data the team generated.
We have only used hundreds of birds and identified this association [of evolving bill length], he says.
They have used thousands.
Human Touch What makes a bird with a long beak better than a bird with a short beak?
Slate asks.
There are documented instancessuch as studies on Darwins finchesthat show evolution of beak length results from differences in food availability.
Peter and Rosemary Grant, a famous pair of evolutionary biologists and emeritus professors at Princeton University, for example, spent 40 years observing Darwins finches in the Galpagos.
They found that finch beak size evolved based on competition for dwindling food sources in extreme climatic conditions such as drought.
But the U.K. great tits are not known to have different diets than those in the rest of Europe, according to the researchers.
After consulting with some ecologists, the team decided to test whether this natural selection had something to do with bird feeders.
After all, according to a 2015 study, around half of U.K. homes feed birds in their gardens.
And the U.K. spends twice as much on birdseed than the whole of continental Europe, according to a study cited by the researchers.
Ecologists in the new study gauged the fitness of great tits by counting the number of chicks the birds reared to maturity in artificial nests.
They found that in the U.K. the great tits with the genes for shorter beaks had fewer surviving chicks per year than those with longer ones.
According to Slate, although the difference is small this probably means the latter were better able to bring seeds back to their young.
The researchers also tagged the birds to count the amount of times they visited the feeders, finding longer-beaked ones showed up at the feeders more often than their more stubby-beaked cousins.
So they seem to be better at exploiting that resource, says Slate, a bird feeder himself.
If that part of the story is true, it tells us that humans have actually been the selective agents, which [have] caused this evolutionary change in great tits.
But thats just an if.
Slate cautions this is just a hypothesis and needs much more data to be confirmed.
It is also unclear what it is about bird feeders that give longer-beaked great tits an advantage.
Reznick agrees that more data is needed, but he is optimistic this idea is testable.
There may be other explanations for what theyre saying but theyve done a good job of making a case for [the bird feeders] as one possible explanationand it really is a testable hypothesis, he says.
Yet the idea humans may be influencing evolution is not new.
One well-known example involves moths that evolved a darker coloration as camouflage in the soot-covered backdrop of the industrial revolution.
A human influence on beak-size evolution is not new, we have seen signs of this in finches on an inhabited island (Santa Cruz) of the Galpagos, but an association with bird feeders is new as far as I know, Princetons Grant wrote in an e-mail.
Speaking of the human touch on evolution, I would point to current global warming, partly caused by human activities, and the likelihood that animal and plant populations are undergoing evolutionary change by natural selection in response, he added.
Slate hopes to pursue more studies that may help answer the mysterious influence of the bird feeders but he does note the difficulty of drawing major conclusions because of the lack of literature on how widespread the practice is.
He also hopes to extend the range of study to the rest of Europe to understand how one species has adapted so well to very different environments.
All the scientists agree long-term studies like this are valuable in seeingin real timea process that continuously alters history and the ecosystem.
In the public perception, when we say evolution they expect that youre going to go outside and see a different world, Reznick says.
But even these beak lengths only differed by a fraction of a millimeter.
He adds: The noticeable things are sort of the large-scale version of the smaller things that are going on all the time, and that evolution is probably happening in organisms all around us all the timebut you need to know how to look for it.
Ohio holds a singular place in America's opioid scourge.
In 2014 it suffered more overdose deaths than any other state.
Since then such fatalities have only swelled, with 4,050 in 2016a 32.8 percent increase from the previous year, according to health officials.
Fueled by prescription painkillers as well as heroin and fentanyl, the epidemic has overrun city morgues, forced thousands of children into foster care and turned Montgomery County, which encompasses Dayton, into the overdose capital of the U.S. Last year Ohio poured nearly $1 billion into fighting the crisis through prevention, treatment and law enforcement.
But the state keeps surpassing its own grim statistics.
Exasperated, local authorities have begun confronting the disaster from another angletechnology.
In May the state signed off on Gov.
John Kasich's request to invest $20 million in accelerating high-tech scientific measures to address the situation.
Universities, hospitals and medical device manufacturers are now vying for grant money with proposals that include implantable therapeutic meshes and systems that deliver electric nerve jolts.
Matthew Becker, an associate dean at the University of Akron's Department of Polymer Science, says personal outrage drove him to apply for grant money.
When his wife underwent minor laparoscopic surgery earlier this year, she was prescribed roughly 60 doses of the opioid painkiller oxycodone for postoperative pain, at a cost of $6.
The quantity of pills she was prescribed, at such a low cost, dismayed Becker.
After they threw away the unused drugs, Becker began to wonder about nonopioid alternatives for pain management.
So in May his research teamwhich has developed degradable polymers already used in procedures such as hernia repairsbegan examining whether it could use this material as an implantable and more effective platform for existing pain medication.
To Beckers knowledge, the technology has never been used this way before.
The teams challenge has been to load and stabilize a sufficient dose of nonopioid pain reliever in a polymer film, and to control the medications delivery using an implantable mesh.
After successful in vitro testing, Beckers team is seeking grant funding from the state to test the technology on animals.
He hopes to have proof of concept on a small rodent model by December, and to deliver a functional submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration by next summer.
Meanwhile SPR Therapeuticsa company that makes an electric peripheral nerve stimulation system for pain reliefhas already received FDA clearance for its product.
A wire from the device pierces the skin near a nerve that is sending pain feedback to the brain, according to Maria Bennett, CEO and founder of SPR Therapeutics.
The wire, she says, is connected to a wearable generator that stimulates the nerve, calming its overactivity.
Bennett says clinical studies of the device have shown other benefits.
Once the stimulation is turned off we see a carryover or sustained pain relief effect, she says.
Its not 100 percent.
I would say about 75 percent of the patients we see have the carryover effect.
SPR is preparing to sell the product commercially, and has submitted a proposal for Ohio grant money to fund more of its work.
The grant would help enroll patients with lower back pain into those studies.
High-tech approaches to treating chronic painespecially nerve painhave bloomed in recent years, according to Einar Ottestad, an assistant professor at Stanford University Medical Centers Systems Neuroscience and Pain Laboratory.
In terms of the chronic pain population, were certainly getting better at managing them without opioids, Ottestad says.
And certainly theres been a change in our practice.
At Stanford, I would say we prescribe much less opioids now than we did even a few years ago.
But Ottestadwho is not involved in the SPR project or Beckers researchcautions the opioid crisis is primarily a behavioral and mental health issue.
He notes that chronic pain technology, no matter how advanced, will struggle to eliminate opioid use among people already addicted to the drug, largely due to overprescription.
Becker and Bennett readily agree.
Overprescribing has been widely blamed for the opioid epidemic in Ohio.
After the state sued five pharmaceutical companies in May for deceptive claims about the addictiveness of its products, it was revealed that physicians prescribed 3.8 billion opioid pills between 2011 and 2015 in Ohio, a state with about 11.6 million people.
In Ross County, one of the hardest-hit areas in the U.S., physicians prescribed over 1.6 million opioid pillsor 20.7 pills per residentin 2015 alone.
Nationally, prescription opioid sales nearly quadrupled from 1999 to 2014, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Protection.
For those already gripped by addiction, science may hold promise in the form of medication-assisted treatment, or MAT.
For example, physicians generally laud the semisynthetic opioid buprenorphine for helping addicts confront opioid withdrawal.
An optimal dose works as a partial agonist for opioid receptors in the brain, meaning it helps control cravings and withdrawal symptoms without producing the euphoric high that drives addiction.
But for it to work effectively, patients using it need to stick to a strict prescription schedule.
To help patients stay on the medication, the FDA last year approved Probuphinea long-acting implant that consists of buprenorphine attached to a polymer and delivers low doses over a six-month period.
Some physicians, however, caution against labeling buprenorphine a magic pill.
Much depends on how patients use it, says Gabriel Schonwald, a substance disorder specialist and professor at Stanford, who is not involved in the Ohio research.
Schonwald says buprenorphine is often sold on the streetand can deliver a potent high in some doses.
As for the Probuphine implant, Schonwald worries that addicts will rely too heavily on it and dismiss checkups, counseling and psychotherapy.
To me the biggest issue is the spiritual evolution, he says.
It involves bio, psycho, social and not just treating one aspect of it.
Its the same drug, but its just sitting in your body somewhereand youve checked out.
For the 35 million American adults who are battling obesity, the age-old advice to improve diet and exercise often falls short.
And surgical interventions that reduce stomach sizealthough effectivecan prove risky.
But there may be another alternative: flooding the body with a protein that makes an individual prefer low-fat food and feel full longer, and that activates neurons responsible for regulating the bodys energy intake.
Such a simple fix may sound too good to be true, but the approach has shown promise in experiments with mice, rats and monkeys.
If the therapy can be improved and shown to work well in humans, it could be an entirely new way to help battle obesity, diabetes and related conditions.
Currently there are a few federally approved weight loss and insulin control agents on the market, but they appear to work along different pathways than the new therapy does.
They can also cause serious side effects, and are still not as effective as surgical weight-loss interventions.
In new work spearheaded by pharmaceutical company Amgen, researchers took advantage of a protein linked with multiple metabolic disorders to try to make thinner, healthier animals.
In multiple species, lean creatures appear to have naturally higher concentrations of the protein GDF15 than their stouter counterparts, the Amgen team noted.
So they tried to boost levels of the compound in obese animals via gene therapygiving rodents injections of a form of the gene that would cause their bodies to produce more of the protein than they would have otherwise.
In the short-term that seemed to help make the animals healthier, but their bodies cleared the substance too quickly for it to produce a lasting effect.
So the researchers decided to bypass the gene therapy approach and engineer two stable, longer-lasting forms of GDF15 that they injected directly into the animals.
Weekly injections of either of these engineered molecules slimmed down rodents and monkeys without causing any apparent serious side effects, the scientists report Wednesday in Science Translational Medicine.
After about a month of weekly treatments with one of the two engineered forms of GDF15, treated rodents sometimes lost as much as 17 or 24 percent of their body weight, depending on what molecule they received, says senior author Murielle Vniant, who studies metabolic disorders as a lead researcher at Amgen.
The treatment also helped monkeys shave pounds.
In the most extreme cases, the treated monkeys lost 5 or 10 percent of their body weight during that same time period, she says.
Meanwhile, untreated animals continued to gain weight.
We were very surprised to see improvements in body weight, glucose and insulin levels as well as triglycerides, she adds.
Exactly how these weekly GDF15 treatments work remains murky.
As a whole, the findings suggest the proteins act on the gutbrain axisthe collection of two-way nerve and chemical pathways that communicate between the digestive tract and the brainand that GDF15 might be a clinical target for metabolic disorders.
The specifics have yet to be ironed out, but the Amgen team has uncovered a few clues in their rodent studies: They found treated animals had increased activation of certain neurons in the brain that detect blood sugar, and this may have helped them sense when it was time to stop eating.
The treated rodents stomachs also took longer to empty outsuggesting they may have felt full longer and that GDF15 may block the transmission of signals from the vagus nerve, which connects the brain and digestive tract.
Finally they found animals receiving the therapy seemed to prefer a lower-fat diet than those that did notalthough the researchers cannot yet explain why taste preferences changed.
Some experts were cautiously optimistic about the findings.
This group really seemed to go a long way toward identifying what may be an interesting new approach to treatment, and thats fantastic, says Paul Kenny, chair of the Department of Neuroscience at Mount Sinai Health System, who was not involved with the Amgen work.
This is exciting, he adds, but the key will be [determining] if its safe in humans.
If this work makes it into human trials, he notes, two areas to watch will be whether there is any significant muscle mass loss with treatmentbecause treated animals lost some lean mass alongside their fatand if the therapy causes any serious side effects such as depression or mood changes, which have been concerns with some other proposed weight-loss products.
Vniant declined to comment on Amgens next steps or potential timeline for clinical trials in humans but says the company plans to continue its work in this area.
Clearly, she says, GDF15 is a very interesting protein.
Earlier this year the AlphaGo artificial intelligence program ended humanitys 2,500 years of supremacy at the board game go.
Not content with its 30 victory over the worlds top player, AlphaGo creator DeepMind Technologies on Wednesday unveiled an enhanced versionAlphaGo Zerowhich the company says soundly thumped its predecessor program in an AI face-off, winning all 100 games played.
But perhaps even more significant than these victories is how AlphaGo Zero became so dominant.
Unlike the original AlphaGo, which DeepMind trained over time using large quantities of human knowledge and supervision, the new systems algorithm taught itself to master the game.
AI lets computers recognize faces, make online purchasing recommendations and even parallel park cars.
Computers gain these abilities from learning algorithms, written by humans who feed massive amounts of training data into an artificial neural network (named for its ability to process information in a way that is loosely based on the brains nerve cell structure).
This process is called machine learning.
In AlphaGos case this involved analyzing millions of moves made by human go experts and playing many, many games against itself to reinforce what it learned.
AlphaGo defeated Ke Jiethe worlds top human go playerin May.
In March 2016 it beat another top master, Lee Sedol, with the aid of multiple neural networks whose computers required 48 tensor processing units (TPUs)specialized microchips designed specifically for neural network training.
AlphaGo Zeros training involved four TPUs and a single neural network that initially knew nothing about go.
The AI learned without supervisionit simply played against itself, and soon was able to anticipate its own moves and how they would affect a games outcome.
This technique is more powerful than previous versions of AlphaGo because it is no longer constrained by the limits of human knowledge, according to a blog post authored by DeepMind co-founder Demis Hassabis and David Silver, who leads the companys reinforcement learning research group.
(DeepMind is a division of Alphabet, Inc., Googles parent company.)
One problem with AI that always relies on human knowledge is that such information may be too expensive, too unreliable or simply nonexistent in certain situations.
If similar techniques can be applied to other structured problems such as protein folding, reducing energy consumption or searching for revolutionary new materials, the resulting breakthroughs have the potential to positively impact society, the blog post says.
AlphaGo Zero even devised its own unconventional strategies.
The game go is typically played using stones colored either black or white on a board with a 19 by 19 grid.
Each player places stones with the objective of surrounding an opponents.
In training, AlphaGo Zero discovered, played and ultimately learned to prefer a series of new joseki [corner sequence] variants that were previously unknown, says DeepMind spokesperson Jon Fildes.
Go games typically start with plays in the grids corners, allowing one player to gain a better overall position on the board.
Like move 37 in the second game against Lee Sedol, these moments of algorithmic inspiration give us a glimpse of the creativity of AlphaGo and the potential of AI, the spokesperson adds.
An Young-gil, a South Korean professional go player of 8-dan rank (9-dan is the highest), singled out move 37 as rare and intriguing play shortly after the March 2016 match.
DeepMinds study describes a very impressive technical result; and both their ability to do itand their ability to train the system in 40 days, on four TPUsis remarkable, says Oren Etzioni, chief executive officer of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence (AI2), an organization that Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen formed in 2014 to focus on AIs potential benefits.
While many have used [reinforcement learning] before, the technical aspects of the work are novel.
AlphaGo Zeros success bodes well for AIs mastery of games, Etzioni says.
Still, I think it would be a mistake to believe that weve learned something general about thinking and about learning for general intelligence, he adds.
This approach wont work in more ill-structured problems like natural-language understanding or robotics, where the state space is more complex and there isnt a clear objective function.
Unsupervised training is the key to ultimately creating AI that can think for itself, Etzioni says, but more research is needed outside of the confines of board games and predefined objective functions before computers can really begin to think outside the box.
Virtual realitys goal is to fully immerse a person in a digital landscape, triggering the same kinds of physical and psychological reactions they would experience in the real world.
In virtual reality (VR) parlance, this is called presencea mental state in which people recall VR experiences as if they had actually occurred.
Computer graphics have improved dramatically in recent years, and advances in haptic, or touch, VR technology are beginning to allow users to feel sensations such as temperature, pressure and vibrations.
For VR to really take hold of a person, however, a dynamic soundscape is essential.
One of the most significant developments in VR sound is spatial audio, which is designed to mimic the pitch, volume, reverberation level and other audio cues the brain would expect during a real-world experience.
With our hearing we can sense what happens in those directions around us where we cannot see, [such as] car tires screeching behind us, and reactjump out of the waywithout the need for visual input, says Kai Havukainen, senior product manager for audio at Nokia Technologies, which is developing spatial audio technology for some of the companys devices.
Spatial audio allows VR programmers to create content whose sounds can come from any direction, says Tom Smurdon, audio design manager for Oculus VR, which is owned by Facebook.
Theres wind in the trees above your head, theres the sound of water coming from a river at your feet and now theres sound from somebody sitting right next to you, whispering in your ear, he says.
Everybody is still learning how powerful spatial audio can be.
Shifting Soundscapes Spatial audio, in its most basic form, emulates how we perceive sound in the real world, says Brian Yessian, chief creative officer and partner of sound design company Yessian Music.
If we are in a room and someone in front of me is speaking and I turn my head to the left, then my right ear is going to pick up more of the voice and my left ear will [hear] less, he explains.
Or if something falls behind me, I know to look back because our audio senses pick up on the fact that it was actually behind me.
Spatial audio achieves that effect in VR using software algorithms that manipulate a programs sound wave frequencies, creating audio levels that become louder or softer depending on the users distance from a virtual object.
The sound also shifts from one headphone speaker to the other as the person moves their head from side to side or as the virtual objects move on their own.
Makers of VR headsets have begun to embrace immersive soundscapes as a way to improve the quality of the virtual experience.
The new Nokia 8 smartphone, for example, includes OZO Audio software that uses the devices multiple microphones to record video that has surround-sound qualities when heard through headphones.
Spatial sound is also a major feature of the Microsofts new Windows Mixed Reality head-mounted displays, which go on sale later this month.
Mixed reality is essentially a hybrid of VR and augmented reality that relies on cameras and other sensors to integrate digital objects into the real world or real objects to be embedded in a virtual world.
Microsoft already makes a mixed-reality headset with spatial audio called the HoloLens, but that device is targeted at software developers and corporate users.
The HoloLens price also starts at $3,000, several times the cost of the consumer-targeted Mixed Reality headset.
Microsoft has also made spatial audio part of Windows 10, which means any device running that version of the operating system will be able to play dynamic sound when headphones are used.
The new Windows Mixed Reality and HoloLens headsets offer very different user experiences.
The HoloLens has a transparent display that projects vivid holograms on top of real-world environments and is a fully self-contained computer that allows the user to move around without being restricted by cables.
The new Mixed Reality headset plugs into a PC and has an opaque display similar to that of the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive.
Microsoft developed its spatial audio algorithms after studying different ear shapes and the way in which a persons brain via the inner and outer ears locates the source of a sound in three dimensions.
The goal was to better understand how they affect a persons sound perception.
Weve also done a lot of work in modeling how audio bounces and reverberates off the environment, says Noel Cross, Microsoft principal software engineering lead, who has worked on both the HoloLens and the new Mixed Reality devices.
Different size rooms give you different levels of comfort as a human, and if things dont match your expectations in terms of [what] they should sound like, you instinctively feel quite uncomfortable.
Cross and his team took those lessons into account when designing the interface for Microsofts new consumer headset.
Instead of presenting users with a start menu or screen when they don the device, they begin their experience in a virtual house located on a cliff by the sea, where they are then free to wander its three different floors.
Users interact with that setting much the same way they would stare at pictures or TV screens in the rooms of a real houseand for that to make sense, Cross says the developers had to get the sound element just right.
Oculus likewise has its users begin in the same locationsort of like a VR home pageeach time they use the device.
The Sweet Spot Earlier efforts at 3-D audioa precursor to spatial audiowere very limited in that they were designed for PCs in the 1990s, Cross says.
The speakers were typically located on either side of the computer monitor, and the sound was immersive if the users sat in a sweet-spot zone in the middle and did not move, he says.
Even with headphones in earlier experiences, as you moved your head, the sounds wouldnt stay locked in the context of the world but would stay fixed relative to your head, Cross adds.
Given that humans are hardwired to pay attention to sound and instinctively use it to map their surroundings, find points of interest and assess potential danger, it is hard to overstate the usefulness of spatial audio for VR.
As virtual environments move to the mainstream in education, training and health careincluding the treatment of phobias and trauma via virtual reality exposure therapyusers will want to fully engage their senses.
The critically endangered Cuban crocodile (Crocodylus rhombifer) has many peculiar qualities, but perhaps the most intriguing one is its curiosity.
For biologists conducting fieldwork in Zapata Swamp, Cubas largest wetland and the only place in the world where the species is found, this is a notable trait.
The crocs will investigate a campsite if nothing prevents them.
Protective netting is deployed to keep them out, although not always successfully.
The animal comes inside the camp looking for a warm place to sleep beneathreferring to human bodies in hammocks, says Etiam Prez, a Cuban crocodile researcher and manager of the Zapata Swamp Captive Breeding Farm.
Prez is speaking to Scientific American at the farm, beside an open-air pen that holds hundreds of young, brilliant, black-and-yellow Cuban crocodiles under the fierce Caribbean sun.
The tropical facility claims more than 4,000 specimens of what Prez calls the most beautiful crocodile in the world.
Like most Cuban operations it is government-owned, and was founded 57 years ago by Fidel Castro himself.
A large black-and-white photograph of Castro hangs on a wall of the facility, complete with a lengthy quotation from the late autocrat praising Cuban crocodile conservation.
The animal, Prez says, holds a kind of political and symbolic weight in Cuba, especially in in the south-central Matanzas Province, where Zapata Swamp is located.
But the crocodiles vaunted status has not prevented its decline.
Overhunting in the 19th and 20th centuries coupled with deforestation from increased development in modern times has reduced its population to historic lows.
Scientists estimate only around 3,000 wild crocs are left, although even that number comes largely from guesswork.
Now scientists are scratching their heads over another potential threat to these reptiles: interbreeding with American crocodiles (Crocodylus acutus).
Is Hybridization to Blame?
The most widely distributed crocodilian species in the Americas, C. acutus, is native to Cuba (as well as the U.S.) and, unlike C. rhombifer, flourishing across the country.
Scientists say the two species are morphologically, ecologically and behaviorally distinct from each other.
Increased hybridization of the two poses an existential risk to the much less common Cuban species via a gradual erosion of its genetic identity.
For conservation-minded scientists, this is worrying indeed.
The concern is that widespread hybridization might eliminate the unique Cuban crocodile through [such] genetic swamping, says George Amato, a conservation genomics biologist at the American Museum of Natural History.
Yoamel Milin-Garca, a biologist at the University of Havana, first published data on the hybridization epidemic in 2015.
He analyzed scale clippings of 227 wild crocodiles and 137 farm-raised ones, finding that 49.1 percent of the wild specimens were hybrids and 16.1 percent of captive ones possessed mixed genes.
The degree of hybridization that were seeing seems much higher than we would have predicted or imagined, Amato says.
Some people think its the biggest threat to these animals, he adds.
But nobody knows for sure.
Hybridization could be a frightening species eraser.
It could also be a normal historical process, says Amato, who has collaborated with Cuban biologists, including Milin-Garca and Prez, on crocodile research there since the 1990s.
Scientists simply do not have enough evolutionary or biological data yet to decide which interpretation is the right one.
Conservation Challenges The reason for this is partly logistical: The 300-square-kilometer area of Zapata where Cuban crocodiles reside is famously difficult to access and there has not been sufficient survey work to gain a complete picture of what is happening there; for Cuban crocodile research, foreign assistance is critical.
Local scientists, in part due to the U.S. embargo against Cuba, possess scant resources.
Milin-Garca is only able to conduct his work on hybridization because he uses advanced technologies available in Canadian and U.S. labs.
Even the Zapata breeding farm must supplement its meager government income with other means.
Ticket sales from tourists are a major funding source.
Visitors, mostly Cubans, tour the facility and for a few Cuban pesos (about 50 cents) they can feed the reptiles raw meat with a stick.
The farm also slaughters a small number of its crocodiles for their meat, which is sold to designated restaurants; it is the only organization in the country legally permitted to do so.
Although perhaps strange-sounding to U.S. environmentalists, Prez stresses that such business brings in good money for the breeding farm.
Alongside breeding-and-release, there is also an ongoing public outreach program that aims to reduce poaching and crocodile consumption through informational posters hung in schools and restaurants.
The farm also employs six former poachers as an alternative employment to illegal hunting.
The facility, which takes pains to produce only non-hybridized crocodiles, acts as a stopgap in the fight against extinctionbut genetic mixing complicates conservation planning.
Should genetic purity be the ultimate goal?
Or should hybridization be allowed to run its course, possibly resulting in a species better adapted to a changing environment?
Complicating things further is recent evidence suggesting American crocodiles in Cuba are related more closely to the Cuban croc than to their own counterparts in the continental U.S., a genetic connection Milin-Garca calls a sister relationship.
Meanwhile American crocodiles, which abound across Cuba, are not threatened by hybridization, Amato says.
Where hybridization is increased, its not that were seeing Cuban genes going to American crocsits mostly that its American genes going into [animals in] the one small area in Zapata where the Cuban crocodiles live, he says.
The Future of Cuban Crocs There is a plan, however, to maintain a genetically pure population of Cuban crocodiles by breeding the species and then releasing them into the wild.
The first release of 100 crocs happened last year.
The latest one, conducted in June in conjunction with the New York Citybased Wildlife Conservation Society, involved 10 animals.
All the genetically pure Cuban crocodiles were let go in areas of the Zapata Swamp that are free of American crocodilesthe latter mostly stick to brackish waters whereas Cubans need freshwater.
Another such release is currently in the works, Prez says.
Amato and Milin-Garca have also begun a survey of Cuba as a whole that involves sequencing the genomes of various crocodile species, hoping to get a better understanding of the genetic relationships among them.
This, in turn, will inform future conservation planning.
Well get a better sense of, with animals that were calling hybrids: Does that hybridization look like a phenomenon that happened thousands of years ago or something thats very recent?
Amato says.
In conjunction with these efforts he and his colleagues will also be analyzing ancient crocodile remains.
As Prez puts it back at the farm, surrounded by sagging palms and sunbathing crocs, If you understand the past, you can predict the future.
Ushering in the beginning of a new era in astronomy and physics, scientists on Monday announced they have for the first time detected the spacetime ripples known as gravitational waves from the collision of two neutron stars.
Streaming in from the sky over the Indian Ocean on August 17, the waves registered at the twin detecting stations of the U.S.-based Advanced Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) as well as a European detector called Virgo located in Italy.
This is the fifth time in the last two years that scientists have confirmed spotting such waves, a phenomenon that Einstein first predicted more than a century agoand that led to this years Nobel Prize in Physics for three of LIGOs leaders.
All of the previously detected gravitational waves, however, came from merging pairs of black holes.
These objects are so dense that light cannot escape their grasp, making such mergers essentially invisible to normal telescopes despite the prodigious gravitational waves they generate in the final moments of their incredibly violent death spirals.
Without a much-larger network of gravitational wave observatories, astronomers cannot pin down the precise locations of merging black holes, let alone deeply investigate them.
But neutron-star mergers begin with objects that in comparison with black holes can be featherweights.
A neutron star is the highly compressed core of an expired massive star, and is formed in the aftermath of a supernova explosion.
Its gravitational field is strong enough to squeeze and break down an entire suns worth of matter into a city-size orb of neutrons, making it less a true star and more an atomic nucleus as big as Manhattan.
But a neutron stars gravity is still too weak to trap light.
So the flash from two of them slamming together can escape into the cosmos, producing not just gravitational waves but also one of the universes most brilliant fireworks displays for anyone who cares to look.
In this case, after the initial chirp of gravitational waves signaling the onset of the merger, the fireworks consisted of a two-second-long gamma-ray burst (GRB) followed by a weeks-long, multi-wavelength afterglowand anyone proved to be nearly every astronomer and physicist on Earth who had found out about the event.
Julie McEnery, project scientist for the Fermi Gamma-Ray Space Telescope, which spotted the GRB, called August 17 the most exciting morning of the nine-year Fermi mission.
The astronomers working with the LIGO and Virgo physicists had been sworn to secrecy.
But the sheer volume of follow-up observations around the world unavoidably spawned public rumors, now confirmed, about a global campaign to track the collision and its aftermath.
The resulting frenzy of new observations and theories is the most potent example yet of multi-messenger astronomy, an emerging field in which light, gravitational waves and subatomic particles emitted from astrophysical cataclysms are collected and studied in unison.
In an overwhelmingly mammoth series of papers published simultaneously across several journals, researchers are linking the latest event to a vast range of phenomena and providing fresh insights on everything from fundamental nuclear physics to the large-scale evolution of the universe.
Among other things, the merger gave observers a front-row seat at the birth of a black hole, which the colliding neutron stars likely produced.
The discovery that most glitters, though, is smoking-gun evidence that neutron star mergersrather than run-of-the-mill supernovaeare the cosmic crucibles that forge the universes heavy elements: substances including uranium, platinum and gold.
So it looks as if the radioactive pile in a nuclear reactor, the catalytic converter in your car and, yes, the precious metal in your wedding band may all come from the smashed-up innards of the universes smallest, densest and most exotic starsor at least whatever fraction can escape without falling into a mergers resulting black hole.
The result could solve an ongoing debate over the cosmic origins of heavy elements that has possessed theorists for more than half a century.
The bulk of the universes hydrogen and helium was produced in the first moments after the big bang, and most of the lighter elementsoxygen, carbon, nitrogen and so onwere formed from nuclear fusion in stars.
But the origin of the heaviest elements had been a lingering question until now.
We have hit the mother lode!
says Laura Cadonati, an astrophysicist at Georgia Institute of Technology and LIGOs deputy spokesperson.
This is really the first time we have multi-messenger detection of a single astrophysical event, where gravitational waves are telling us the story of what happened before the cataclysm and the electromagnetic emissions are telling us what happened after.
Although presently inconclusive, Cadonati says, analyses of the events gravitational waves could eventually reveal details of how matter sloshes around within neutron stars as they merge, giving researchers a new way to study these bizarre objects and learn just how big they can get before collapsing into a black hole.
Relatedly, Cadonati notes, there was a mysterious gap of about two seconds between the end of the gravitational-wave chirp and the onset of the GRBan interval, perhaps, in which the structural integrity of the combined neutron stars briefly resisted the inevitable collapse.
For many researchers the breakthrough has been a long time coming.
My dream has come true, says Szabolcs Marka, an astrophysicist and LIGO team member at Columbia University who was an early proponent of multi-messenger astronomy in the late 1990s.
Back then, he recalls, he was seen as that crazy guy trying to prepare for follow-up observations on gravitational wavesa phenomenon that was then still decades away from direct detection.
Now, I and others feel vindicated, Marka says.
We have studied this system of colliding neutron stars in a very diverse set of messengers.
We have seen it in gravitational waves, in gamma rays, in ultraviolet, visible and infrared light, and in x-rays and radio waves.
This is the revolutionthe evolutionof astronomy that I first hoped for 20 years ago.
France Crdova, director of the National Science Foundation, or NSF (the U.S. federal agency that supplied the bulk of LIGOs funding), calls the observatorys latest achievement a historic moment in science that could not have come without decades of sustained governmental support for a variety of astrophysical observatories.
The detection of gravitational waves, from the first short chirp heard round the world to this latest, longer chirp, not only validates the kind of high-risk, high-reward investments that the NSF makes but also spurs us to want to do more, Crdova says.
My hope is that the NSF will continue to support innovators and innovations that will transform knowledge, and inspire many generations to come.
The Golden Opportunity After the initial detections of the mergers gravitational waves and its subsequent GRB (the latter of which was immediately observed by the Fermi and Integral space telescopes), the race was on to find the collisions sourceand hopefully its afterglowin the sky.
Within hours multiple teams had marshaled available telescopes to stare at the region where LIGOs and Virgos scientists had calculated the source must be: a swath of the heavens spanning 31 square degrees and containing hundreds of galaxies.
(Using LIGO alone, Cadonati says, the search would have been like looking for the glimmer of a gold ring in the Pacific.
With the addition of a third data point from Virgo, she says, the researchers could properly triangulate the sources position, reducing the search to something more like seeking a gold ring somewhere in the Mediterranean.)
The bulk of the observations took place at observatories in Chile as soon as the sun had set and the crucial region of sky drifted up over the horizon, with different teams adopting an assortment of search strategies.
Some simply tiled the region with observations, moving methodically from one side to the other; others targeted subsets of galaxies that theories suggested would be most likely to host a neutron star merger.
In short order, the targeting strategy won out.
First to actually see the optical afterglow was Charles Kilpatrick, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
He was sitting at his desk and sorting through images of selected galaxies at the behest of one of his coworkers at Santa Cruz, the astronomer Ryan Foley, who had helped organized the campaign.
In the ninth image he examined, hastily taken and transmitted by colleagues half a world away using the meter-wide Swope Telescope at Las Campanas Observatory in Chile, he saw it: a bright blue dot embedded in a giant elliptical galaxy, a 10-billion-year-old swarm of old, red stars about 120 million light-years away, nameless save for catalogue designations.
Such galaxies are thought to be the main cosmic homes for neutron star mergers due to their advanced age, stellar density and relative lack of recent star formation.
A side-by-side comparison with earlier images of that same galaxy showed no such dot; it was something new and recent.
It very slowly dawned on me what a momentous occasion this was, Kilpatrick recalls, but I had tunnel vision at the time, just trying to work as quickly as possible.
Kilpatrick notified other team members including Josh Simon, a Carnegie Observatories astronomer who rapidly obtained a confirmation image with one of the larger 6.5-meter twin Magellan telescopes in Chile.
The blue dot was there, too.
Over the course of an hour, Simon followed-up by measuring the dots spectrumthe various colors of light it emittedin a pair of five-minute exposures.
Those spectra could prove useful for further study, he reasonedor if nothing else they could serve to ensure the blip was not an ordinary supernova or some other cosmic imposter.
Meanwhile other teams had spotted the dot and were embroiled in follow-ups of their own.
The rapid confirmation and spectra from Foleys team, however, clinched provenance for them.
We had the first image of this, and we have the first identification of the source in this image, Simon says.
Because we obtained both of those so early, we were also able to get the first spectrum for this mergerwhich no one else in Chile was able to do that first nightand then we issued the first announcement to the rest of the community.
Those early spectral observations proved vital for subsequent analysis and solving several mysteries.
They showed the mergers leftovers rapidly cooling, fading from a brilliant sapphire blue to a dim ruby in the sky.
These readings were verified over the next few weeks of observation as the visible dot faded, its afterglow shifting and peaking in cooler, longer-wavelength infrared light.
The general pattern of colors, cooling and expansion hews close to what was predicted years earlier by a number of theorists working independently of each other, most notably Brian Metzger of Columbia University and Dan Kasen of the University of California, Berkeley.
In short, Metzger explains, what astronomers have seen from the mergers aftermath is something called a kilonova: an intense outburst of luminosity created by the ejection and radioactive decay of white-hot, neutron-rich material from the neutron stars.
As the material expands and cools, most of its neutrons are captured by the nuclei of iron and other heavy elements left over as ashes from the neutron stars formative supernova explosion, creating even heavier elements.
Over the course of about one second, as the ejecta are capturing these neutrons and expanding through space, one of these mergers will form the lower half of the periodic tablegold, platinum, uranium and so on, Metzger says.
Near its conclusion, the kilonovas light dramatically shifts to infrared as the neutrons cascading through the ejecta forge the heaviest elements, which efficiently absorb visible light.
Measuring the kilonovas spectral evolution, in turn, allows astronomers to estimate the amount of different elements it has produced.
Edo Berger, who studies kilonovae at the HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics and oversaw many of the most ambitious follow-up observations of the merger, the event produced roughly 16,000 Earth masses worth of heavy elements.
Thats everythinggold and platinum and uranium as well as all the weird ones you see just as letters on the periodic table and dont know their names, he says.
As for the breakdown?
For that, I dont think we have exact answers yet.
Some theorists have suggested only a few tens of Earth masses of gold were made in the merger.
Metzger, for his part, pegs the mergers gold output at roughly 100 Earth masses, with about three times more platinum and 10 times less uranium.
In any case, when paired with updated statistical estimates of how often these mergers must occur, based in part on the latest detection, you get a high enough rate per galaxy per year to build up the elements that form our own solar system and the abundances we see in other stars, Metzger says.
All that stuff we see, you can explain through these mergers.
There may be other ways to make heavy elements, but you dont seem to need them.
On average, he says, probably only one neutron star merger occurs in the Milky Way every 10,000 years.
The Far Frontier Whats more, studying exactly how a mergers kilonova evolves can convey crucial information about how the collision unfolded.
For instance, the light from this mergers initial emission was bluer than expected, suggesting to Metzger and others the kilonova was being viewed at an angle rather than face-on.
In this scenario the early blue emission would come from a spherical shell or equatorial band of relatively neutron-poor material blown out from the neutron stars at perhaps 10 percent light-speed.
The later, redder emission would emerge from very neutron-rich material ejected at two to three times higher speeds from the neutron stars poles as they collided, like toothpaste squirted from a tube.
Paired with detailed x-ray and radio observations, this scenario helps explain the curious nature of the gamma-ray burst associated with the mergerthe closest GRB ever seen, but also one of the faintest.
Short GRBs are thought to be bipolar jets of intense radiation spun up and ejected at nearly light-speed by churning magnetic fields within colliding neutron stars as they coalesce and collapse into a black hole.
Viewed face-ondown the barrel of the GRB gun, so to speakthey are extremely bright.
This is the case with the majority of such bursts that astronomers witness in the distant universe.
But if they are tilted or inclined from our perspective they would appear rather dim and would only be detectable if they were relatively close, within several hundred million light-years.
Using the wealth of data available from multi-messenger astronomy, then, astronomers could eventually determine the viewing angles of many kilonovae throughout the observable universe, making each one a more potent marker for measuring large-scale cosmic structure and evolution.
This could allow scientists to better confront a mystery arguably deeper than the origin of the heavy elements: the baffling fact that the universe is not merely expanding, but accelerating at an ever-increasing rate under the influence of a kind of cosmos-spanning anti-gravity known as dark energy.
Cosmologists hope to better understand dark energy by precisely measuring its effect on the universe, tracking objects in ever-more-distant regions of the universe to see how far away they are, and how fast they are moving, caught up in dark energys accelerating flow.
But to do this they need reliable standard candles, objects with known brightness that can be used to calibrate this vast, sweeping view of spacetime.
Daniel Holz, an astrophysicist and LIGO collaborator at the University of Chicago, has demonstrated how merging neutron stars could contribute to this effort.
His work shows the strength of this latest mergers gravitational waves and the emissions of its kilonova can be used to calculate the local universes expansion rate.
Limited to just one merger, the technique yields a value with significant uncertainties, albeit still in the ballpark of the expansion rate obtained from other methods.
But in coming yearsas gravitational wave observatories and a new generation of large telescopes on the ground and in space work together to identify hundreds or even thousands of neutron star collisions per yearthose estimates will markedly improve.
What all this means is that the gravitational waves from these mergers measured by LIGO and Virgo are complementary with modeling of kilonovae that suggests their inclination, their viewing angle, by their spectral evolution from blue to red, says Richard OShaughnessy, an astrophysicist and LIGO team member at Rochester Institute of Technology.
That is a powerful synergy.
If we know the inclination, we can know the distance, and that helps us with cosmology.
What has been done here is a prototype for what we will be doing regularly in the future.
If you think about it, the universe is sort of a cosmic particle collider, with neutron stars as the particles, OShaughnessy says.
It throws them together, and we now have the opportunity to see what comes out.
We are going to see so many of these in the coming yearshow many, I cant tell you, but people already describe it as a rain.
This event is a Rosetta stone, giving us real data to connect disparate threads of astrophysics that previously only existed in the mind of theorists or as bits in a supercomputer simulation.
It allows us to understand the cosmic abundance of heavy elements.
It allows us to probe the squishiness of nuclear matter at extreme densities.
It allows us to measure the expansion of the universe.
These synergies set the agenda for all of high-energy astrophysics for decades to come, and are built on decades of investment.
We are now reaping the reward, a mountain of gold 10 or a hundred times the mass of the Earth, that the universe just gave us.
A monster was coming to central Oklahoma.
Early in the evening of May 30, 2013, Cathy Finley and her partner, Bruce Lee, were driving along a back road near the small town of Guthrie, Oklahoma, 30 miles north of the states capital, when they spotted Tim Samaras and two members of his crew leaning against a white sedan and looking out over the low hills.
Samaras, an old friend of the couples and one of the most famous storm chasers in the country, was in the area for the same reason as Finley and Leethey were all severe-weather researchers, and a tornado was on its way.
The three friends had known each other for almost a decade, and in 2007 they helped found Twistex, a group dedicated to gathering atmospheric data to better understand tornadoes.
Whenever a storm threatened to spin up a twister, the Twistex team would gas up the chase vehicles and assume familiar roles: Samaras would try to get as close as possible to the funnel to deploy his measurement probes, and Finley and Lee would slice through the storm in sedans outfitted with roof-mounted weather stations, gathering data that radar and weather balloons miss.
A reputation for fearlessness landed the Twistex team a spot on a reality show called Storm Chasers , which featured their exploits for three seasons until Discovery Channel canceled the show in 2011 due to low ratings.
Funding for Twistex dried up, and the members went their separate ways, meeting up whenever serious wind threatened to blow through the plains.
When they reunited on the back road near Guthrie, all three wanted nothing more than to take on the coming tornado together the way they used to.
But with no source of cash to field an entire chasing team, this season was a no-go.
Besides, the most recent forecasts indicated that the next days storm would reach peak intensity once it entered the Oklahoma City metro area during rush hour, and Finley and Lee had long since sworn off pursuing twisters down crowded streetstoo dangerous, too hard to collect good data.
They decided to pack up their gear and head home to Minnesota, leaving Samaras and crew to chase the storm.
Related Stories What if America Had a Detective Agency for Disasters?
Climate Change and the Terrible, No-Good Odds of Bad Weather Deep Thunder Can Forecast the WeatherDown to a City Block During the long drive back the following day, Finley followed the storm on her laptop through radar tracking and live footage from spotters and news helicopters.
Forecasters had been wrong about one key detailthe tornado let loose in wide-open farm country, about 25 miles west of the city.
It measured about 2 12 miles across, easily the widest anyone had ever seen.
Its peak wind velocities registered at least 290 mph and possibly much higher, about the fastest on record.
And its main funnel rode the southern rim of its parent storm for nearly 40 minutes, moving back and forth along a wide, wobbling arc like a menacing grin.
Knowing Samaras as well as she did, Finley guessed he was having the time of his life right in the thick of it.
Back at home in Minnesota, as Saturday turned to Sunday, the phone rang around 1 am, rousing Finley and Lee from a deep sleep.
Lee, rangy and well-muscled, slipped out of bed and padded across the house toward the kitchen.
The phone went quiet, then rang again, and he answered it.
It was a former student from the University of Northern Colorado, where he and Finley used to run the small meteorology department.
His voice shaking, the man said he had it on good authority that three bodies found on a desolate Oklahoma back road belonged to Samaras, his 24-year-old son (and videographer) Paul, and meteorologist Carl Young.
Finley heard a curious tenor in Lees voice from the bedroom and came to his side.
Shes a tall woman from western Minnesota farm country with almond eyes, and she and Lee were unsure whether they should grieve or wait for confirmation.
Night gave way to day, and as the windows began to pale with the approach of dawn, they got a call from another former Twistex colleague confirming the worst.
Bruce Lee, along with Cathy Finley, drove through storms collecting data on tornadoes.
Narayan Mahon In the days that followed, Finley retreated to her neglected garden, where she took her anger and grief out on the weeds.
Meanwhile, Lee pieced together what happened: Samaras had been driving his Chevy Cobalt hundreds of yards north of the tornadoand at times much, much closerlikely thinking he was tracking parallel to the twister at a safe distance.
But something caused the funnel to swing fast toward the vehicle, engulfing it.
Samaras might have thought he had studied enough tornadoes to guess this ones movements, but whatever signs or signals he typically relied on to anticipate a twisters path (its heading, the stage of its development, the direction of the wind) had failed him.
He may have thought he had the right information, but he didnt.
Based on radar measurements, the tornado had EF-5-level wind speeds.
The Enhanced Fujita scale assigns every tornado a number from 0 to 5 based on how much destruction the wind speeds inflict.
The damage from an EF-0 could just as easily be accomplished with a strong wind gust.
An EF-5, on the other hand, in which winds exceed 200 mph, leaves behind scenes of devastation reminiscent of razed Japanese cities.
Asphalt gets scoured off roads.
Vehicles get tossed the length of a football field.
The EF levels in between account for varying degrees of destruction, and despite decades of research, scientists still dont understand exactly how the air we breathe can suddenly strip a home down to its concrete slab.
Weve put a man on the moon and unlocked the secrets of the atom, but the inside of a tornado is, in many respects, still a mystery.
What scientists do know is that extreme storms like the one that killed Samarasand the hurricanes that ripped through Texas, Florida, and the Caribbean this summerare likely to develop with greater frequency and intensity.
According to a recent study in the American Journal of Climate Change that analyzed 42 years worth of tornadic atmospheric indicators, the supertornado that killed Samaras should occur in a stable climate, on average, once every 900 years.
But when the researchers accounted for factors such as atmospheric instability and warming oceans (both associated with climate change), they confirmed what the rest of us already know from watching the news: Once-in-a-millennium storms no longer require 1,000 years to recur.
No scientist can say for certain whether climate change is to blame for the severity of any single storm.
They only know that they have to figure out what creates and sustains these storms, fast.
Better, richer data and more powerful computers would help forecasters build ever more predictive storm models.
They could tell those in a tornados path not only that a monster is coming, but what kind.
Warnings would be longer, more precise, more urgent.
Lives would be saved, families left intact.
For decades, Finley and Lee had lost themselves in the vastness of the plains, immersed in the puzzle of mesoscale weather patterns, part of something far larger than themselves.
Samaras and the other chasers were a second family to thema storm family, Finley says.
And storm chasing, she adds, is about watching each others backs.
Samaras and his crew died, Lee says, because there was nobody watching their backs.
Because there was nobody, and nothing, to tell them where the great storm was headed next.
Cathy Finley, a storm chaser and a founding member of Twistex.
Narayan Mahon At the edge of emerald fields of corn and soybeans sits the National Petascale Computing Facility, the crown jewel of the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign.
The 88,000-square-foot glass-covered facility looks like a fancy convention center, and its surrounded by a black steel fence strong enough to stop a speeding Mack truck.
Past a retina scanner and through a heavy-gauge steel door resides a computer named Blue Waters.
Its bigspanning 10,000 square feetand its made up of 288 matte-black rack towers that house the 27,000 nodes that are the key to its power.
Each node holds two microprocessors, not unlike a stripped-down PC but faster than anything youll find at Best Buy.
Since powering up in 2013, Blue Waters has been one of the few computers in the world capable of processing the biggest of big data sets, encompassing everything from the evolution of the universe to the global spread of flu pandemics.
Its also one of the only machines in the world that can model the staggering complexities of a supertornado, which is exactly what an atmospheric scientist named Leigh Orf spent the better part of 2013 failing to do.
At the time Orf was chair of the Earth science department at Central Michigan University, a school in the small town of Mt.
Pleasant.
Weather has always been on my radar, so to speak, Orf says today.
The fascination began in the early 70s, just after bath time in his boyhood home in Ludlow, Massachusetts, when a concussion ripped through the house with the ferocity of a pipe bomb.
The wall in his sisters bedroom was blown outpaneling everywhere, insulation smoking, wires red-hot and glowing.
It scared the living shit out of me, he says.
Orf wouldnt enter the room for months.
He was 5, and he has been obsessed with weather ever since.
A dozen or so years later, when he arrived at the University of WisconsinMadison and fell in love with coding, he learned about the community of scientists who had been using computers to simulate storms since the 1970s.
In the earliest renderings, most computers couldnt re-create any features of a tornado that were less than a kilometer wide or tall, meaning they could re-create the broad contours of a storm but none of its important details.
Over time, driven in part by advances in microprocessing power, scientists gradually sharpened the resolution from 1 kilometer to 500 meters and eventually to 100 meters, the storm and the tornado steadily coming into focus.
Not focused enough for Orf, though.
After spending the early 2000s studying what he considers low-resolution simulations (with features rendered within 250 to 500 meters), Orf came to believe that the only way to understand how and why a supertornado forms was to re-create one in superfine resolution30 meters, meaning it could render any detail of a storm so long as it measured at least 100 feet long or wide.
Compared to the 1-kilometer resolution of early simulations, thats the difference between the blocky pixelation of Atari and the eerie verisimilitude of Xbox One.
To achieve that level of detail, it would take Orfs personal computer a decade to simulate a single stormand thats only if it could handle the data and memory load, which it couldnt.
He would need a computer that could process hundreds of terabytes of data, over and over and over again.
A supercomputer, really, only one that hadnt yet been invented.
So he waited.
Superstorm soundings are very rare: Its hard to take measurements when all hell is breaking loose.
He spent the next decade forging connections with scientists at research facilities around the world.
And when the $360 million Blue Waters system came online after two years of construction, one of those connections, Bob Wilhelmson, a pioneer of storm modeling who taught at the U of I, reached out to Orf.
With Wilhelmsons help, Orf got nine months of access to Blue Waters to create what no researcher ever had: a simulated EF-5 tornado that could be studied, and maybe even reverse-engineered, revolutionizing our understanding of storms that have otherwise defied comprehension.
On his first day of access in December 2012, he logged on from his office in Michigan, keyed in a PIN to access the encrypted network, and prepared to upload a trove of data known as a sounding.
Every day, National Weather Service stations all over the country release weather balloons to gather yard-by-yard accounts of how pressure, temperature, relative humidity, and wind speed change from the surface to altitudes as high as 20 miles in the sky.
This collection of data, to the untrained eye, looks like an Excel spreadsheet filled with numbers.
To translate these raw numbers into a digital storm, Orf would use CM1, a program that uses the meteorological data in any given sounding to simulate a near-infinite combination of weather conditions.
An environment that produces a tornado in the real world should spark a similar result in a CM1 simulation, at least in theory.
And Orf would then be able to manipulate certain parametersincreasing and decreasing the amount of friction from the ground, tweaking the way the model handles turbulenceto determine which factors are most critical in building, sustaining, and driving a supertornado.
Processing all the data in a sounding and creating a simulation could take Blue Waters anywhere from a few hours to a few days, depending on the amount of data being crunched, and Orf didnt want to waste any time with unnecessarily complicated soundings.
The first sounding he uploaded was synthetic, a simple composite built by scientists that contained all the atmospheric ingredients believed to cause tornadoes.
As Orf began to play with the synthetic atmosphere, though, Blue Waters would only produce what he calls wussy-ass tornadoes.
He spent days adjusting different variablesdecreasing the evaporation rate of rain, for examplebut nothing worked.
Whatever it is that creates a supertornado isnt found in synthetic soundings, and after months of trial and error Orf knew he needed to do something different.
Screw this, he remembers telling his wife.
Im going to Mother Nature.
Leigh Orf had nine months with a supercomputer to simulate an EF-5 tornado.
Narayan Mahon A friend from the University of North Dakota offered Orf a sounding from a real-life EF-3.
Yet even the real thing, when uploaded into the model, spawned nothing more than what Orf calls spin-ups, transient tornadoes he has little interest in.
Orf would alternate between genuine and synthetic soundings over the following months, never spinning up anything close to a supertornado.
With each day bringing him closer to his Blue Waters deadline, he realized that if he intended to simulate a beast, he needed to find an EF-5 sounding.
But superstorm soundings are exceedingly rare, since measurements must be taken near the twister as it forms, and thats a little tricky when all hell is breaking loose.
There is also no centralized database stocked with ready-made superstorm soundings, even at the National Weather Service.
Then, at the end of August 2013, with just a few weeks left before his time with Blue Waters ran out, Orf got an email from Lou Wicker, a scientist at the National Severe Storms Laboratory and a former student of his mentor, Wilhelmson.
Wicker heard about Orfs project and wanted to help, and his email included a file, a warning, and a winking emoji: Be careful with this sounding, Wicker wrote.
It could damage the machine.
He needed a massive supercomputer, one that hadnt been invented yet.
So he waited.
The storm happened on May 24, 2011.
Like the one that would kill Samaras two years later, its winds ripped through the plains at more than 200 mph.
Along its 63-mile path it killed nine people, injured nearly 200, and rolled a 1.9 millionpound drilling rig three times.
It was an EF-5.
Orf loaded the sounding into CM1, and even before it formed a tornado the simulation went haywire, depicting wind speeds in the storms updraft that had never been documented in nature.
Orf suspected the problem wasnt with the data in the sounding but with CM1 (or at least the way he was using CM1).
For the clouds and rain and wind to swirl in the virtual world as they do in nature, Blue Waters had to communicate the movement of air between its 27,000 nodes, which acted like an interconnected grid.
These nodes had to talk to each other and process the data in single, coordinated units of time, called time steps, that Orf could increase and decrease in CM1 as needed.
The lower the time step, the faster the wind speeds possible in the programs simulation.
A lower time step also meant longer processing times, meaning Orf would have fewer opportunities to run simulations during his precious remaining days with Blue Waters.
Orf took the risk.
He first shortened the time step to 0.3 second, uploaded the sounding, and let Blue Waters run.
Two hours passed and the system failed.
He then shortened the time step to 0.25 second.
Thirteen hours went by, and it failed again.
Then, shortly before 10 am on September 16, 2013, he initialized the last simulation he would be allowed to run on Blue Waters.
He set a time step of 0.2 second, and since Blue Waters would require the better part of the day to process the data, Orf logged off and tried to think about anything other than tornadoes.
When he logged back on at 6 pm, he expected to find that the simulation had blown up again.
It hadnt.
The model appeared stable, and he saw something big and exceptionally violent on his screena tornado.
As CM1 translated the EF-5 sounding, the tornado kept getting wider .
The intensity, path length, durationit all matched the characteristics of the real storm.
Orf had just simulated the first high-resolution EF-5 tornado along with its parent supercell thunderstorm, and anything researchers had ever wanted to learn about how a supertornado is born, and how it maintains its size and strength, was inside it.
All he needed was someone to help him make sense of it all.
Five months later, on February 1, 2014, Orf flew to Atlanta for the annual meeting of the American Meteorological Society.
With an iPad full of vivid video clips of his simulated supertornado, he paraded through the halls of the Omni Hotel.
After years of toiling underground, he was at last ready to show his storm to the public and enlist other scientists to help him analyze it.
Thats when he ran into two familiar faces: Finley and Lee.
The world of severe-weather science is small; everyone knows everyone.
Orf hadnt seen Lee or Finley since the death of their friends in Oklahoma the previous year, and he told them how relieved he was that they hadnt chased that day.
He then pulled them aside, turned on his iPad, and showed them what he had.
Their jaws hung slack.
The way the rain curtains slid around the tornado, the way the funnel rode the edge of the storm like a column made of cloud and dust: Lee and Finley had seen all this in nature but never in a simulation.
Twistex had spent years gathering snippets of data from storms, but their work was like shining a penlight into the pitch black of a cavern.
The pieces didnt form the big picturethe grand schematic of a supertornados internal and largely inscrutable machinery.
This was the big picture, and they asked Orf to replay the video half a dozen times.
They knew they were seeing a simulated storm as no scientists had ever done before, and when Orf asked for their help analyzing the simulation, they jumped at the chance.
On a chilly afternoon this past winter, Finley peered into the guts of the supertornado Orf had first shown her three years earlier, her face washed in the glow of the monitor.
School had let out for the holidays, and the halls of Saint Louis University were mostly empty.
Since that day in Atlanta, Finley and the others had reoriented their lives around the simulation.
Orf is now at the University of Wisconsin, and the folks at Blue Waters have granted him an additional two years of accessas close as one gets to carte blanche.
In her office, Finley let her eyes roam over all the currents she could never see out on the plains.
It makes for hypnotic viewing, as though Orf had peeled away the skin of the supertornado to reveal its viscera and sinew.
She and Lee can now release digital trackers into the simulated tornado, a little like injecting contrast dye to image blood vessels on a CT scan.
They could zoom in on where most of the activity takes place throughout a tornados evolution.
And their discoveries will help guide storm chasers on the ground as they try to measure and track storms from a safe distance.
Were going to be able to target our observations to see if we can see in the real world what Leighs team is seeing in their simulations, says Jeff Snyder, a research scientist at the Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies who knows Finley and Lee from storm conferences.
No scientist had ever seen a simulated storm like that before.
One of their discoveries calls into question a central assumption of many storm researchers.
For years Finley and Lee studied a downdraft at the rear flank of tornadoes, and like most of their colleagues they believed it played a crucial role in perpetuating the twisters life cycle.
Their simulations, however, suggest that most of the action during the genesis of a tornado happens near the front of the storm, with a spinning riot of air, or what theyve christened a streamwise vorticity current, that pushes air upward more forcefully.
Its a theory they still need to prove, but if it holds up to further testing and observation, Finley says, weve been focusing on the wrong thing all this time.
It will take Finley, Lee, and Orf years to fully understand this particular EF-5, and they plan to simulate an ensemble of different supertornadoes, hoping to draw out their common features.
Theyll soon benefit from even greater computer power.
The coming age of exascale computingand the transition from silicon toward carbon nanotubes and chips made from gallium nitride or graphenewill offer processing times magnitudes faster than the petascale computing at Blue Waters.
That means resolutions impossible just a few years ago.
Five meters, maybe even less.
On October 1, Stephen Paddock killed 58 people and wounded 546 more, firing multiple rifles from a hotel room in Las Vegas overlooking an outdoor concert.
Then he killed himself.
No one knows why he did it.
As part of the attempt to figure that out, The New York Times and others report , the Clark County Coroners office is sending Paddocks brain to the Stanford University lab of Hannes Vogel, a neuropathologist.
Vogel (who, at the request of Stanfords communications office, is not speaking to the press) will perform both visual and microscopic examinations of Paddocks brain, looking for abnormalities, tumors, degenerative illnesses, or anything else that might suggest why an otherwise unassuming video poker player would turn his extensive gun collection on innocent people.
Nobody thinks its going to work.
Sure, this is due diligence, part of a complete investigation.
Vogel is a pathologist, so maybe hell find something pathologicalmaybe a tumor in the ventral medial or dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, parts of the brain that have to do with impulse control and willpower.
Damage there, or maybe to the inferior posterior ventral cortex can also make people more violent .
Under a microscope, stained with various dyes, a brain can reveal degenerative disorders that can contribute to depression or poor emotional control.
But people get tumors and degenerative diseases all the time.
Most of them dont become vicious killers.
If you have a mass murderer and you looked at his brain, it would completely amaze me if you could see anything relevant or useful, says Christof Koch , chief scientist and president of the Allen Institute for Brain Science.
The brain probably looks relatively normal.
That, in short, is the mind-body problem that scientists and philosophers have struggled with for as long as there have been scientists and philosophers.
You have the meat (billions of neurons and other gunk performing electrochemically networked computation) and you have the ghostthe perception of sensory inputs, their reconstruction inside the brain, the processing of those reconstructions into something comprehensible, and maybe even an awareness of some of that processing.
In other words: consciousness.
Neuroscientists actually know quite a lot about the human brain and the mind it generates.
At the Allen Institute and elsewhere, theyre building maps of all those neural connections.
They can build interfaces into it, wires that go through the skull and into the cortex so that people can control wheelchairs or play piano.
By applying machine learning algorithms to brain activity as volunteers watch images for hours inside an fMRI tube, computers can learn to infer from changes in that activity what the person is seeingto, in essence, read peoples minds .
And it works on more than visual input; you could put the same algorithms to work figuring out how someone felt .
Is that flower pretty?
Is that car cool?
Which dress looks better?
I see no a priori reason that couldnt be done today," Koch says.
"Maybe someone is doing it."
Its not phrenological poppycock to say that brains change physically with new experiences.
Its called plasticity.
London cab drivers, for example, famously have to acquire a detailed spatial map of the city as part of their training, and they also acquire an enlarged hippocampus .
Stimuli and experiences perceived by the mind change the connections in the meat.
As a presumably skilled user of guns (and player of poker and frequent guest in Las Vegas hotels), maybe Stephen Paddocks brain has some physiological variance from someone who wasnt any of those things.
But none of that is likely to explain why he kept pulling that trigger.
Sure, you can point to locations in a brain and say, yeah, this general part of it is processing this kind of information, says Michael Graziano , a neuroscientist at Princeton University.
You can point to structures deep in the brain and say, these have a crucial role to play in emotion, and when this spot revs up its associated with anger and rage.
But in terms of understandingat the detail level, the circuitry levelhow it works and why one person is different from another?
Wow, thats really unknown.
Investigators and others looking for answers about Las Vegas would like to find that one mechanistic synapse, the one electrical moment that went zing instead of zap and led to the deaths of 58 people, to trauma and injury felt by so many more, rippling outward from that concert.
It would give it all some kind of meaning.
But it isnt there.
Even if it was, it wouldnt change what happened.
It might, perhaps, keep it from happening again.
Maybe you could imagine a bigger research project.
Take the brains of 100 mass murderers, or 1,000, and put them through an analytical gauntlet.
Do the same for brains of non-murdererswith the researchers blinded to which brains are which.
Maybe youd find a difference, as one researcher did with the brain scans of violent psychopaths.
But then what?
Could you imagine, say, pre-emptive surgery or psychopharmacological intervention on people who hadnt done anything wrong because their brains looked murderous?
The researcher working on psychopathy found the tendency in his own brain, tooand he wasnt a murderer.
If it is true there are systematic differences in the criminal brain, which I sort of doubt, itll be good to understand why those brain structures might give rise to criminal behavior, Koch says.
Then maybe thatll teach you more how to help people.
Of course, Koch adds, society already knows some ways to keep children from tending to grow up to become criminals: Give them a good education, proper nutrition, and limited exposure to violence and other stressors.
That knowledge makes the mysteries of Stephen Paddocks brain even more chilling.
People will look at his brainat the meat, the machine, the matterin the hope of finding something to blame for his rampage.
Theyre looking for a physical instantiation of the mind.
Because without one, the fault has to fall somewhere elseon some shadowy cause that pushed an otherwise sane mind to commit an insane act, or on the ease with which a quietly insane mind could acquire so many dangerous weapons.
If Veber doesnt find a tumor or other disease in that brain, the problem with Stephen Paddock wont have been pathological.
Itll be psychologicalor societal.
And thatll mean that society will have to try to fix it.
This story originally appeared on Slate and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
When Superstorm Sandy ripped through New York City in October 2012, it did not discriminate.
At the construction site of the new Whitney Museum of American Art, chief operating officer John Stanley recalls mechanical equipment bobbing like corks in the floodwaters.
And at the Rubin Museum of Art, a few blocks uptown, and upland, the museum lost powera necessity for preserving the artifacts from environmental damageand the backup generators werent enough to keep the facility running.
We thought if we do lose power, in the history of New York City, it would be for a day or two, executive director Patrick Sears says.
No one really anticipated we could go without power for a week.
But as once-rare storms like these become more common and more consequential (Sandy caused an estimated $70 billion in damage, behind only Hurricane Katrina), coastal communities are reorienting to a world where they might be underwater at a moments notice.
And museums are leading the charge when it comes to bolstering up in the face of extreme weatherafter all, financially speaking, they might have the most to lose.
Along the Eastern Seaboard, from Miami to Manhattan, curators are going to extremes to safeguard their art.
And in doing so, theyre testing out ideas and processes that might later be adopted by everyone else who lives on the coast.
Looking back, Stanley says the timing of Superstorm Sandy was actually fortuitous for his museum, the Whitney.
Because it was early enough in construction, the team was able to revise its plans with water in mind.
We searched the world for flood experts and engineers, he says.
With the help of WTM Engineers in Hamburg, Germany, the Whitney design team re-evaluated the entire site and, as the Atlantic reported in 2015, built one of the most flood-resilient structures in town .
All along the Eastern Seaboard, from Miami to Manhattan, curators are going to extremes to safeguard their art.
As a result of lessons learned in Sandy, the museum is waterproof up to 16 feet thanks to its raised elevation and carefully selected materials.
Its also got walls galore: A 500-foot-long mobile wall can be constructed in less than seven hours to protect the museum from a storm surges impact, and a 14-by-27-foot flood door can withstand the force of a semitruck floating (or flung) across the West Side Highway.
Stanley says it cost just $10 million more to disaster-proof what was, in total, a $220 million project.
And though the safeguards havent been tested the hard way, hes confident theyll rise to the occasion ifor rather, whenanother disaster unfolds.
Some museums farther south on the Atlantic seaboard have already lived to see their hurricane-resistant designs tested by storms.
Employees at the Salvador Dal Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, recently weathered Hurricane Irma with little damage.
Back in July, a videographer for the Washington Post filmed inside the surreal shelter from the storm .
To protect the precious collection, the Dal relies on 18-inch-thick walls, which are built to withstand the winds of a Category 5 storm, and fortified glass, which can hold up under the pressure of Category 3 winds.
As with so many other museums, the Dals decision to gird its infrastructure seems financially sound: If its walls were breached, the largest collection of Salvador Dal paintings in the world, priceless and carefully preserved over the past century, could be lost in an instant.
The architectural features that make the Whitney, Dal, and similar spaces so safe have recently begun to proliferate far and wide , thanks in part to consumer demand and new municipal standards.
Perhaps the purest emblem of this surge-priced survival model is the new residential American Copper Buildings.
Like the Whitney, these structures sit in Evacuation Zone 1, but on Manhattans eastern shore.
While it seems damage from another hurricane is all but guaranteed, the waiting list for a unit in one of the American Copper towers is long.
Thats due primarily to the fact that the $650 million buildings, which were started before Sandy hit, reportedly go beyond even the citys newest resilient design codesand look great doing it.
Connected by a three-story skybridge, the two towers have an elevated lobby that makes them virtually waterproof.
The building is also served by rooftop backup generators that promise enough energy to run the elevators plus one fridge and one electrical outlet in each apartment indefinitely.
In January, the New York Times wrote this glowing report : There is a breathtaking view of the mid-Manhattan skyline, pierced by the Empire State Building, from the 48th floor of the taller of two new copper-clad apartment towers along the East River, just south of the United Nations.
No plutocrat will enjoy it, however.
This impressive penthouse aerie is hogged by five emergency generators.
The window is already blocked by a bank of electrical switchgear.
For the developers, giving up premium space to machinery is insurance against an ominous future: They want tenants in the towers 760 apartments to be able to live in their apartments for at least a week, no matter how high floodwaters may reach nor how long the power is out.
Sure, in the face of an impending storm, residents will still have to get the hell out just like any other New Yorker adhering to evacuation mandates.
But American Copper promises them a return to a clean, safe, and electrified home.
Only 39 percent of Americans have a disaster preparedness plan.
Though JDS Development Group, which owns American Copper Buildings, may have been leading the charge on resilient design, the rest of New York Citys new construction is quickly catching up.
After Sandy, the Mayors Office of Recovery and Resiliency set about studying the metro areas weather and climate vulnerabilities and crafting solutions.
Recently, the city began implementing new building codes, and all new construction is now held to these updated resiliency standards.
Were not just doing one-off resilience projects.
Were baking resilience into the entire capital program, the citys chief resilience officer Daniel Zarrilli says.
Even with the support of the city, resilient design can be hard to scale.
Retrofitting old buildings is harder than raising more capital to bolster new designs, according to many architects.
Raising an existing single-family home on stilts, as many thousands of East Coasters have done since Sandy, can cost more than $100,000 on a house thats maybe only worth $400,000.
That means that while the Whitneys resilience costs were less than one-twentieth of the new project cost, the owner of an existing home is looking at resilience costs as high as one-fourth of their total property value.
While some local and federal support has been made available to storm victims, the costs of these programs have quickly ballooned even after many withdrew their applications due to overwhelming bureaucracy and out-of-date flood maps.
Its clear that equitable resilience will take not just effort and money, but time.
There will just be a slow changeover of the entire housing stock in New York City that slowly meets these codes, Simon Koster of JDS Development Group says.
Given that 66 percent of New York Citys buildings were built before 1960 and arent likely to change over in the near future , this doesnt seem particularly hopeful.
But other less intensive measures are being taken to ensure New Yorkers weather the next stormand museums can serve as a model here, too.
The Rubin, which showcases art from the Himalayan region, didnt have the budget to undertake big post-Sandy capital improvement projects.
While the board paid for a few big-ticket items like a stronger, waterproof roof, its poured most of its efforts into better training and communication.
Were thinking about manual ways, simple ways, things you can buy on Amazon, Sears says.
One of his favorite investments is a windup cellphone charger that doesnt require an electricity source.
Unlike 18-inch concrete walls, disaster plans like these can be constructed by anyone.
But a 2015 Federal Emergency Management Agency survey showed only 39 percent of Americans have their own plan in place.
The Rubin, which has a disaster plan 153 pages long, believes this has to change.
Other museum strategists agree: You can call it paranoia, or you can call it strategy, says Kathy Greif of the Dal Museum.
I prefer to call it strategy.
If museums are so prepared, could they help the rest of usliterally?
Not really.
Unsurprisingly, you wont be weathering the next hurricane from inside the Met.
Though all of the museum leaders I spoke with agree that human lives matter more than paintings, serving as a shelter still seemed to compromise their central mission, which is protecting their collections.
Even if it could theoretically provide reprieve, the Whitney sits on the leading edge of Evacuation Zone 1, which means people should be headed out of the neighborhood, not into even the most disaster-proof buildings.
The Rubin, meanwhile, wouldnt physically have the space to serve as a shelter during a flood, as art typically hung in lower-level galleries would be moved into many of the hallways and upper galleries.
In the end, its strategies like these that will save the precious artwork.
But its clear theyll limit room for, well, people.
People at DigitalGlobe are fond of saying they've built a "time machine of the planet."
And, if we're being metaphorical, that's true: The satellite imaging company has used orbiters to take and store super sharp images of Earth for 17 years.
Their eyes have gazed down as trees have disappeared and appeared, floodwaters have flowed in and out, and cities have boomed and busted.
But that time-lapse is only useful if someone can make sense of its meaning .
Today, that's where companies like Orbital Insight come in, with artificial intelligence that parses the pictures and auto-says things like, "That looks like deforestation ," or "There are lots more cars in those parking lots than there were last year.
Business be booming."
In the world of satellite imagery, there are a few kinds of players : the picture-takers, the sense-makers, and those who are trying to do both.
DigitalGlobe, with its ever-increasing cache of high-def history, is the planet's lead picture-taker; Orbital Insight is one of the frontrunning sense-makers.
And today, the two companies announced a new multiyear, multipetabyte partnership.
Orbital Insight, in other words, has the keys to the time machine.
We want to let them race, says Shay Har-Noy, DigitalGlobe's vice president and general manager of platform.
With more imagesincluding more new images more oftenOrbital Insight's artificial intelligence will become more insightful.
In teaming up, these two companies have ensured that neither of them has to be all things to all people; instead, they can each do what they do best.
The insights they produce together can affect economies, militaries, the planet's health, the state of its infrastructure, the way we deal with disasterand so, in turn, you.
DigitalGlobe The "why now" of this partnership has a simple answer: The Cloud.
For a long time, if someone wanted DigitalGlobe's satellite imagery, the company had to send the huge snapshots over a relatively slow connection, or in the actual mail.
The image archive was largely on old-school magnetic tape, spun through cartridges and stored in a library.
That made it hard for anyone to get the big picture.
If nobody can access the time machine, it isn't worth very much, says Har-Noy.
That's how it was when Orbital Insight, then a new company, started requesting pics.
In those early dayslo, these three years agoit could only get so much imagery at once.
And its algorithmswhich learn as they're exposed to more examples, and which can only give deep context if they have access to deep timecould only learn so much.
That changed in May, when DigitalGlobe put its entire archive, all 100 petabytes of it, onto an unmarked semi-truck and sent it to the cloud-based Amazon Web Services.
Now, Orbital Insight can access and analyze the images where they areon the webrather than waiting for them to arrive.
Then things really start to happen.
Pictures are cool (fact).
People like to take them and have them and post them and share them.
But when your phone is so full of snaps that you never swipe through all of them, or you can't even remember what that first album was, your collection becomes less useful.
Similarly, DigitalGlobe's customers don't necessarily want 25 shots of Beijing taken over five months.
They don't want to see anyone's work; they just want the answer to their question.
DigitalGlobe Orbital Insight is now better primed to give them, using DigitalGlobe's Geospatial Big Data Platform, or GBDX (also a good name for a culty workout system).
Analysts can log on, grab images, and write an algorithm to, say, identify and count cars.
You train that algorithm with pictures of a bunch of cars in a bunch of conditions, run the algorithm on new images, and sell the result: plain-language statements about a place's busy-ness and what it means for business.
It's the same basic process artificial intelligence researchers follow for self-driving car or facial recognition software.
I want to get people to stop working on cat videos and start working on something that matters, says Har-Noy.
There are, he adds, a lot of artificial intelligence experts working on cat videos.
Orbital Insight CEO James Crawford has no such low-key, feline goals.
Our mission is to understand what we're doing on and to the Earth, he says.
Which would have sounded less convincing before this "expanded partnership" with DigitalGlobe.
Neither company will talk about just how expanded the partnership is.
But Har-Noy will talk qualitatively.
It's not a little bit of content," he says.
"It's all you can eat.
Then he pauses.
It's not quite all you can eat, he clarifies.
But it's effectively meant to be on that order of magnitude.
DigitalGlobe has even agreed to spy on Orbital Insight's spots of most interest more frequently.
On Orbital Insight's menu are more stores, for car-counting; more oil tanks , to estimate crude supply; more mapping of poverty , so organizations like the World Bank know where to focus; and more tracking of deforestation, so algorithms can tell NGOs where to say, "Stop!"
As Orbital Insight sells the product of its analysis, DigitalGlobe, in return, gets a cut of the companys revenue.
Plus, this bonus: As the Orbital Insights of the world show the world about the world using pictures of the world, people will want more of those pictures.
And for that, they will often come to DigitalGlobe, which still has the biggest volume of the highest-quality imagery in the industry.
Still, the partnership demonstrates the strange dynamics between the image-makers and the sense-makers.
They can't function without each other, but neither are they exclusive.
Orbital Insight isnt beholden to DigitalGlobe.
It will get images from whatever satellite constellations it pleasesfrom Planet , e-GEOS, Sentinel.
I believe that the industry is best served by avoiding walled gardens, says Crawford.
Our leaning is to have open competition on both sides.
And there is.
We're your partners," Har-Noy says he has told Orbital Insight.
"But we absolutely want there to be 100 Orbital Insights.
That's fine, in Crawford's opinion.
"We're happy to have the satellite companies sell their imagery to multiple companies," he says.
"We happen to think we're better than anybody else, so that doesn't worry us."
This story originally appeared on Mother Jones and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
When hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria recently pounded Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico, the severity of the storms was often attributed to climate change.
Four Underappreciated Ways That Climate Change Could Make Hurricanes Even Worse, was the headline in the Washington Post ; Hurricane Harveys Size and Impact Points to Climate Change, noted NPR.
But five years ago, when Superstorm Sandy took its famous left turn to barrel into the East Coast, there was no such certainty.
Instead, a debate played out in the media and on Twitter about whether it was fair to blame climate change for the storms intensity.
One reason why the conversation has changed is that the science has become much more advanced, especially in the field of attribution sciencea relatively new discipline within climate science that looks at how climate change factors into individual weather events.
During Hurricane Katrina in 2005, attribution science was in its infancy, one scientist told the Post , and even when Sandy hit, the dominant narrative was that climate change doesnt necessarily affect individual extreme weather events.
But today, both the computer models and how scientists have learned to communicate the lessons of climate science have become more sophisticated, and there is a growing body of peer-reviewed published literature on the subject, though not without some controversy.
No one suggests that climate change caused a single weather event, but scientists have grown a lot more comfortable talking about the ways rising temperatures affect extreme weather, creating the right conditions to fuel wetter storms and bigger, more dangerous storm surges.
One issue thats received more attention is that, in the past, attribution studies started with the assumption that a given event is natural, and the burden of proof is on the claim that the event was caused, exacerbated, or made more likely by human causes, social scientists Lisa Lloyd and Naomi Oreskes and climate scientist Michael Mann wrote in an article for Climatic Change that was published in 2017.
The null hypothesis is that there is no human contribution.
But then came Superstorm Sandy.
Researchers used data from the storm to try to get a handle on the effects of climate change on extreme weather.
One of the major papers was from the National Center for Atmospheric Researchs Kevin Trenberth and two colleagues in 2015.
They argued that it was necessary to come up with a new way of approaching attribution.
Even though computer models werent yet sophisticated enough to account for all the atmospheric dynamics in climate change, it was still possible to account for other dynamics.
The oceans are warmer and higher, and the atmosphere holds more moisture than it used to, which is linked to heavier rainfall.
Using Sandys weather models, which were very accurate, the researchers could alter the heat and the moisture levels of those models to account for climate change.
The conclusion?
We find that indeed Superstorm Sandy is more intense, it is bigger, the rainfall is heavier, and so theres a climate change component to the strength of that storm, Trenberth tells Mother Jones .
The environment in which all these storms, including Superstorm Sandy, is occurring is fundamentally different than it used to be.
That was not the only challenge to conventional thinking.
Starting in 2011, a year before Sandy, the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society began publishing an annual state-of-the-science report titled Attribution of Extreme Weather Events in the Context of Climate Change.
Last year, Heidi Cullen, a chief scientist with Climate Central studying weather variability, wrote that the annual work had the potential to have the same impact on the conversation around weather and global warming as the surgeon generals 1964 report on smoking and lung cancer.
Scientists are now able to assess, in some cases within days, whether and how much the risk of such an extreme weather event has changed compared to the pastthat is, before heat-trapping greenhouse gases altered our climate, she wrote in the New York Times .
Even if the science has become more precise in understanding the nuances and connections between climate change and extreme weather, many politicians arent listening.
EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has said that to have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm, versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced.
When someone takes their own life, they leave behind an inheritance of unanswered questions.
Why did they do it?
Why didnt we see this coming?
Why didnt I help them sooner?
If suicide were easy to diagnose from the outside, it wouldnt be the public health curse it is today.
In 2014 suicide rates surged to a 30-year high in the US, making it now the second leading cause of death among young adults.
But what if you could get inside someones head, to see when dark thoughts might turn to action?
Thats what scientists are now attempting to do with the help of brain scans and artificial intelligence.
In a study published today in Nature Human Behavior , researchers at Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh analyzed how suicidal individuals think and feel differently about life and death, by looking at patterns of how their brains light up in an fMRI machine.
Then they trained a machine learning algorithm to isolate those signalsa frontal lobe flare at the mention of the word death, for example.
The computational classifier was able to pick out the suicidal ideators with more than 90 percent accuracy.
Furthermore, it was able to distinguish people who had actually attempted self-harm from those who had only thought about it.
Thing is, fMRI studies like this suffer from some well-known shortcomings .
The study had a small sample size34 subjectsso while the algorithm might excel at spotting particular blobs in this set of brains, its not obvious it would work as well in a broader population.
Another dilemma that bedevils fMRI studies: Just because two things occur at the same time doesnt prove one causes the other.
And then theres the whole taint of tautology to worry about; scientists decide certain parts of the brain do certain things, then when they observe a hand-picked set of triggers lighting them up, boom, confirmation.
In todays study, the researchers started with 17 young adults between the ages of 18 and 30 who had recently reported suicidal ideation to their therapists.
Then they recruited 17 neurotypical control participants and put them each inside an fMRI scanner.
While inside the tube, subjects saw a random series of 30 words.
Ten were generally positive, 10 were generally negative, and 10 were specifically associated with death and suicide.
Then researchers asked the subjects to think about each word for three seconds as it showed up on a screen in front of them.
What does trouble mean for you?
What about carefree, whats the key concept there?
For each word, the researchers recorded the subjects' cerebral blood flow to find out which parts of their brains seemed to be at work.
fMRI scans of two groups of people thinking about the word "death."
On the left are those who have previously attempted suicide.
On the right is a neurotypical control group.
Carnegie Mellon University Then they took those brain scans and fed them to a machine learning classifier.
For each word, they told the algorithm which scans belonged to the suicidal ideators and which belonged to the control group, leaving one person at random out of the training set.
Once it got good at telling the two apart, they gave it the left-out person.
They did this for all 30 words, each time excluding one test subject.
At the end, the classifier could reliably look at a scan and say whether or not that person had thought about killing themselves 91 percent of the time.
To see how well it could more generally parse people, they then turned it on 21 additional suicidal ideators, who had been excluded from the main analyses because their brain scans had been too messy.
Using the six most discriminating conceptsdeath, cruelty, trouble, carefree, good, and praisethe classifier spotted the ones whod thought about suicide 87 percent of the time.
The fact that it still performed well with noisier data tells us that the model is more broadly generalizable, says Marcel Just, a psychologist at Carnegie Mellon and lead author on the paper.
But he says the approach needs more testing to determine if it could successfully monitor or predict future suicide attempts.
Comparing groups of individuals with and without suicide risk isnt the same thing as holding up a brain scan and assigning its owner a likelihood of going through with it.
But thats where this is all headed.
Right now, the only way doctors can know if a patient is thinking of harming themselves is if they report it to a therapist, and many dont.
In a study of people who committed suicide either in the hospital or immediately following discharge, nearly 80 percent denied thinking about it to the last mental healthcare professional they saw.
So there is a real need for better predictive tools.
And a real opportunity for AI to fill that void.
But probably not with fMRI data.
Its just not practical.
The scans can cost a few thousand dollars, and insurers only cover them if there is a valid clinical reason to do so.
That is, if a doctor thinks the only way to diagnose whats wrong with you is to stick you in a giant magnet.
While plenty of neuroscience papers make use of fMRI, in the clinic, the imaging procedure is reserved for very rare cases.
Most hospitals arent equipped with the machinery, for that very reason.
Which is why Just is planning to replicate the studybut with patients wearing electronic sensors on their head while they're in the tube.
Electroencephalograms, or EEGs, are one hundredth the price of fMRI equipment.
The idea is to tie predictive brain scan signals to corresponding EEG readouts, so that doctors can use the much cheaper test to identify high-risk patients.
Other scientists are already mining more accessible kinds of data to find telltale signatures of impending suicide.
Researchers at Florida State and Vanderbilt recently trained a machine learning algorithm on 3,250 electronic medical records for people who had attempted suicide sometime in the last 20 years.
It identifies people not by their brain activity patterns, but by things like age, sex, prescriptions, and medical history.
And it correctly predicts future suicide attempts about 85 percent of the time .
As a practicing doctor, none of those things on their own might pop out to me, but the computer can spot which combinations of features are predictive of suicide risk, says Colin Walsh, an internist and clinical informatician at Vanderbilt whos working to turn the algorithm he helped develop into a monitoring tool doctors and other healthcare professionals in Nashville can use to keep tabs on patients.
To actually get used its got to revolve around data thats already routinely collected.
No new tests.
No new imaging studies.
Were looking at medical records because thats where so much medical care is already delivered.
And others are mining data even further upstream.
Public health researchers are poring over Google searches for evidence of upticks in suicidal ideation.
Facebook is scanning users wall posts and live videos for combinations of words that suggest a risk of self-harm.
The VA is currently piloting an app that passively picks up vocal cues that can signal depression and mood swings.
Verily is looking for similar biomarkers in smart watches and blood draws .
The goal for all these efforts is to reach people where they areon the internet and social mediainstead of waiting for them to walk through a hospital door or hop in an fMRI tube.
No two screams sound alike.
They can swing in pitch, like the The Wilhelm ; blare cacophonous, like The Donald Sutherland ; or fire off spasmodically, like (my favorite) The Shelley Duvall .
Few vocalizations are as nuanced as the fearful shriek.
And yet, no matter the cry in question, you always know a scream when you hear one.
So, then.
Whence does the scream derive its unmistakeability?
"If you ask someone on the street, they'll tell you a scream is loud and high-pitched," says David Poeppel, a neuroscientist at New York University and the Max Planck Institute in Frankfurt.
"Turns out it's neither."
Poeppel would know.
In 2015, he and his colleagues set out to distinguish cries of fear from other noises.
They began by compiling a database of screams.
"We spent many joyful hours scanning the interwebs for weird material from YouTube and movies," Poeppel says, "but then we also brought people into the lab and had them scream."
Then came time to dissect their samples.
At first, Poeppel, too, suspected that volume and pitch were what made a scream a scream.
But when he and his researchers analyzed the auditory properties of the sounds in their database, they found what they actually shared was an acoustic quality called roughness , a measure of the rate at which a sound fluctuates in volume.
Normal human speech, for instance (which the researchers also analyzed), varies in loudness four to five times per second; screams, however, waver between 30 and 150 times per second.
That means they occupy a unique place in the soundscape of human vocalizations, which may be why they're so attention-grabbing.
That information in hand, Poeppel had test subjects rank a series of sounds according to how alarming they found themand the rougher a sound was, the more jarring people regarded it.
They found the same to be true of car-, house-, and ambulance-alarms, which share screams' rough acoustic quality.
"There's something shared by these sounds that hijacks your brain and says: Hey, something's up," Poeppel says.
To investigate how that hijacking works, the researchers tracked subjects brain activity while they listened to rough and neutral noises inside a functional magnetic resonance imaging scanner.
To no one's surprise, all the sounds caused blood to flow to the auditory cortex.
But rough sounds also sent blood rushing to the amygdalae, two small, almond-shaped lumps of grey matter associated with processing emotional reactions like fear.
Intriguing, Poeppel says, but it got weirder: "The amygdala's response wasn't an on-or-off thing.
It was a graded response."
In other words: The rougher the sound, the more activity it produced.
The amygdalae, themselves, behaved like little, scream-sensitive sound meters.
The next step is to analyze other types of screamsfrom irate shouts to cries of ecstasyand how they affect perception and brain activity.
"I'm comparing three positive valences and three negative," says Planck Institute researcher Natalie Holz, head of this new investigation.
"For the negative we of course included fear again, but we're also comparing it with cries of anger and pain.
For the positive, we are looking at screams of achievement, pleasant surprise, and sexual pleasure."
I asked Holz and Poeppel to keep me posted on their findings.
I'll holler when I hear back.
It's Halloween time.
For many, this time of the year means there are lots of cool costumes.
For others, it's all about the candy.
Now, I'm not a big fan of candybut I am a big fan of analyzing stuff.
So here we go: I'm going to look at the energy density for candy.
Sure, I could just look this upbut it's much more fun to determine it for myself.
Let's get started by going to the store.
I am going to look at a bunch of different candy options and get some data.
Fortunately, food has to contain some basic information on the package: mass, calories, sugars, fats, carbs.
I can also get the price.
But what do you do with a lot of data?
You start making graphs.
I will start off with a plot of calories vs. mass.
But wait!
I don't want to use calories as a unit of energy because it's a pretty dumb unit.
The silliest thing about a calorie is that there are actually two different calories.
In chemistry, there is a calorie where 1 calorie is the energy needed to raise gram of water by one degree Celsius.
Then there is the food calorie which is equivalent to 1000 chemistry calories.
Of course, in both cases people just call them "calories".
For me, I will stick with the joule as a unit of energy.
For the conversion, 1 food calorie is equal to 4,184 joules.
Now for a quick run down to the convenience store to gather candy ... ahem, data.
I'm assuming here that you all trick or treat in only the best neighborhoodsyou know, the ones that hand out full-sized candy bars.
With a look at individual candy bars (and other stuff), I grabbed the mass and energy in 20 different sweet treats, from M&Ms and KitKats and Twix to Sweet Tarts and Skittles and Sour Patch Kids.
Here is a plot of energy in joules vs. mass in kilograms.
(You can see the full list of candy the "data" tab if you click on the plot.)
It's not a perfect linear relationship between mass and energy, but it's closeand that relationship gives you a candy's energy density.
The energy density is just the energy in the bar divided by the mass of the bar.
Technically this energy per mass would be called the "specific energy"since it is per mass instead of per volume.
But it's still the same idea, and I like the term energy density better.
There are some outliers, like that data point far up to the right with almost 4 MJ of energy in 144 grams of candya super-high energy density.
Can you guess what it is?
A Lindor truffle!
The one that lies below the line of best fit, just over 1.5 MJ, has a lower than average energy densitythat's gummy bears .
Oh, one more outlier: Hershey's Cookies & Cream.
That has a pretty low energy density too.
All candies are not equal; some might have more stuff in them that does not add to the total calorie value.
But overall, there seems to be fairly nice correlation between candy mass and candy energy.
From the graph, candy has an energy density around 22 megajoules per kilogram.
But how does this energy density compare with other things ?
Gasoline has 46.4 megajoules per kilogram and a lithium-ion battery is somewhere under 1 MJ/kg.
Where should candy be on this spectrum?
The closest thing I could find is glucose with an a specific energy of 15.5 MJ/kg.
That's pretty close to my value of 22 MJ/kg from the data above.
Just for fun, here is one more plot.
What about a plot of energy in the candy vs. the price?
Again, there is a fairly linear relationship between energy and cost.
From the graph, I get about 7.5 megajoules per dollar.
(If you think Lindor truffles are too expensive, this actually argues in their favor; their cost-to-energy ratio is in line with other "cheaper" candies.)
But no matter what you get, it's clear that there is a bunch of energy in candy bars.
What are you going to do with all the energy you collect on Halloween?
By any measure, the fires that tore through Northern California were a major disaster .
Forty-two people are dead, and 100,000 are displaced.
More than 8,400 homes and other buildings were destroyed, more than 160,000 acres burnedand the fires arent all out yet.
That devastation leaves behind another potential disaster: ash.
No one knows how much.
Itll be full of heavy metals and toxinsno one knows exactly how much, and it depends on what burned and at what temperature.
The ash will infiltrate soils, but no ones really sure how or whether thatll be a problem.
And eventually some of itmaybe a lotwill flow into the regional aquatic ecosystem and ultimately the San Francisco Bay.
Thats the bomb.
Heres the timer: An old, grim joke about California says that the state has only three seasons: summer, fire, and mudslides.
Those mudslides happen because of rain; the Santa Ana (or Diablo, if youd prefer) wind-driven wildfires of autumn give way to a monsoon season that lasts through winter and into spring.
The rains of 20162017 ended a longstanding drought and broke all kinds of records .
Scientists and environmental health agencies know, mostly, what to expect from ash that comes from burned vegetation.
But these fires included something a little new.
They burned through the wildland-urban interface and into cities.
For how many structures that were burned in fairly small areas in these fires, I think that's a first-of-its-kind event, says Geoffrey Plumlee , associate director of environmental health for the US Geological Survey.
The concern is, can they get it cleaned up before the heavy rains come?
Chemically, ash is fascinating .
If the fire that made it burned at lower than about 840 degrees Fahrenheit, itll be darker-colored, maybe even black, and mostly organic carbon.
At higher temperatures the carbon burns away, leaving inorganic compounds of stuff like calcium, magnesium, and sodium, and itll be whiter and fluffier.
Even hotter fires, like above 1,100 degrees, leave nothing but oxides.
Inside a single fire, combustion happens at different temperatures in different places, and because ash is so light, wind can transport it, so the composition of ash from the same fire can vary.
So depending on how combusted the ash is, itll have different chemical compositions.
And thatll mean the ash will mix either better or worse with underlying soil.
Water wont stick to more hydrophobic ash, so rainfall might run off faster, carrying away the surrounding soil as sediment.
More hydrophilic ash might mix into the water and wash into nearby streams.
Now, carbon is the backbone element of organic systems.
Having some flow off of burned hillsides and into aquatic ecosystems isnt necessarily bad.
Itll increase whats called primary productivity, allowing algae to reproduce, which means more food for fish.
Naturally occurring, lower-severity fires can have positive impacts, says Kevin Bladon , a forest ecohydrologist at Oregon State University.
The fires free up organic carbon and put nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorous into play.
But the really large, high-severity megafires that weve started to observe push the systems in a lot of cases too far.
That means dangerously large algal blooms, so-called eutrophication that can eat all the dissolved oxygen out of a waterway, making it unlivable for everything else.
Sediments freed up by the hydrophobic ash end up making water more turbidbad for people if that waters supposed to end up coming out of someones tap, and bad for fish because sediment can gum up feeding and breeding grounds.
The problems getting more familiar as an after-effect of fires ranging from Australia to Canada to the US.
Climate change makes fires and storms more severe.
As one of Bladens papers notes, the 2002 Hayman Fire in the Colorado Rockies sent 765,000 cubic meters of sediment, ash, and other stuff into Denvers drinking water reservoirs, and the problems were still there four years later .
Were anywhere from five years to 100 years in terms of the longevity of effects, Bladon says.
That really depends on the severity of the fire and our ability to get some vegetation re-established on site.
It gets even weirder.
At high enough combustion temperatures, compounds like potassium carbonate and calcium carbonate turn to oxides.
Given the right amount of light rain, calcium oxidequicklimeslurps carbon dioxide out of the air and forms a crust of essentially cement, limestone.
Basically, the ash can pave a forest.
If you had the perfect situation, you can really change a watershed with increased runoff, says Victoria Balfour, a post-fire hydrologist.
There's more.
Combustion byproducts called polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and cancer-causing dioxins can all be part of ash.
In older forested land that hasnt burned in decades, pollution may have deposited heavy metals like copper, lead, aluminum, arsenic, and even mercury onto the plants.
When the plants burn, the metals stay behind, or run into waterways.
The 2009 Station Fire northeast of Los Angeles increased levels of iron, manganese, and mercury in nearby streams and the storms that followed soon after brought elevated levels of copper, lead, nickel, and selenium.
What makes these latest Northern California fires unique, though, is that they burned not just forest wildland but also cities.
And the built environment burns differently.
It gets hotter, and it leaves behind different remains.
All of a sudden youve got a lot of impervious surfaces, Bladon says.
Water hits it and flows over.
If there are burned materials sitting on the roads, thats going to move very rapidly into waterways.
We have no handle on that at all.
Ash science isnt much more than a decade old; understanding urban ash science has never really been a necessitybut now megafires are coming to cities.
Whats in that ash depends on how old the buildings are.
Pre-1980, the paint will be full of lead.
Even more recently, pressure-treated lumber used in landscaping was full of chromate copper arsenate, which leaches arsenic and hexavalent chromiumbad for fish and other living things.
On the good side, there are probably fewer lead phosphor TV screens.
Theres a lot more flat screens, Plumlee says.
"There are more LED light bulbs and hopefully fewer fluorescent and compact-fluorescent, which have a concern with mercury.
Copper and zinc are also commonly used in building materials.
All of which means the real trick in Northern California will be debris cleanup.
The US Environmental Protection Agency, Californias EPA, the Army Corps of Engineers, and other agencies and NGOs are all onsitespinning up as a Watershed Protection Taskforce.
Theyre evaluating the debris and getting it ready for collectiona job done most safely wearing gloves, a Tyvek bodysuit, and an N95 respirator.
Drinking water for the region hasnt been compromisedit comes from farther north than the firesbut the Napa and Sonoma Rivers (and the associated stream systems) empty straight into San Francisco Bay.
We cherish our creeks and streams, and theres uncertainty in regards to what may be in all this ash, says Bennett Horenstein, director of Santa Rosa Water.
So theres a lot of activity to do everything we can in a thoughtful and safe way to protect the ecosystem.
Stormwater typically doesnt get treated, so the inlets in Santa Rosa have gotten barrier protection installed.
Were all recognizing that this disaster was of such magnitude, the organization is unfolding, Horenstein says.
But it does seem to be unfolding in a thoughtful, structured way.
The Regional Monitoring Program for Water Quality already watches whats in the San Francisco Bay besides water.
Some of its scientists now have a proposal to monitor the Napa River for what water watchdogs call contaminants of emerging concern.
The field is new enough that theyre not even sure what theyre looking for yettheyre going to use non-targeted analysis to look for anything unexpected.
The San Francisco Estuary Institute already monitors dioxins, PAHs, metals, and other stuff in the bay, but only annually or semiannually.
Thats probably not fast enough.
The ash is on the ground.
Getting through the entire area will take some time, Horenstein says, and were approaching the wet-weather season.
Theres a small storm forecast for next week.
Tis, after all, the season.
Its hard to measure water from a fire hose while its hitting you in the face.
In a sense, thats the challenge of analyzing streaming data, which comes at us in a torrent and never lets up.
If youre on Twitter watching tweets go by, you might like to declare a brief pause, so you can figure out whats trending.
Thats not feasible, though, so instead you need to find a way to tally hashtags on the fly.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Computer programs that perform these kinds of on-the-go calculations are called streaming algorithms.
Because data comes at them continuously, and in such volume, they try to record the essence of what theyve seen while strategically forgetting the rest.
For more than 30 years computer scientists have worked to build a better streaming algorithm.
Last fall a team of researchers invented one that is just about perfect.
We developed a new algorithm that is simultaneously the best on every performance dimension, said Jelani Nelson , a computer scientist at Harvard University and a co-author of the work with Kasper Green Larsen of Aarhus University in Denmark, Huy Nguyen of Northeastern University and Mikkel Thorup of the University of Copenhagen.
This best-in-class streaming algorithm works by remembering just enough of what its seen to tell you what its seen most frequently.
It suggests that compromises that seemed intrinsic to the analysis of streaming data are not actually necessary.
It also points the way forward to a new era of strategic forgetting.
Trend Spotting Streaming algorithms are helpful in any situation where youre monitoring a database thats being updated continuously.
This could be AT&T keeping tabs on data packets or Google charting the never-ending flow of search queries.
In these situations its useful, even necessary, to have a method for answering real-time questions about the data without re-examining or even remembering every piece of data youve ever seen.
Heres a simple example.
Imagine you have a continuous stream of numbers and you want to know the sum of all the numbers youve seen so far.
In this case its obvious that instead of remembering every number, you can get by with remembering just one: the running sum.
The challenge gets harder, though, when the questions you want to ask about your data get more complicated.
Imagine that instead of calculating the sum, you want to be able to answer the following question: Which numbers have appeared most frequently?
Its less obvious what kind of shortcut you could use to keep an answer at the ready.
This particular puzzle is known as the frequent items or heavy hitters problem.
The first algorithm to solve it was developed in the early 1980s by David Gries of Cornell University and Jayadev Misra of the University of Texas, Austin.
Their program was effective in a number of ways, but it couldnt handle whats called change detection.
It could tell you the most frequently searched terms, but not which terms are trending.
In Googles case, it could identify Wikipedia as an ever-popular search term, but it couldnt find the spike in searches that accompany a major event such as Hurricane Irma.
Jelani Nelson, a theoretical computer scientist at Harvard University, co-developed the new algorithm.
Yaphet Teklu Its a coding problemyoure encoding information down to compact summary and trying to extract information that lets you recover what was put in initially, said Graham Cormode, a computer scientist at the University of Warwick.
Over the next 30-plus years, Cormode and other computer scientists improved Gries and Misras algorithm.
Some of the new algorithms were able to detect trending terms, for example, while others were able to work with a more fine-grained definition of what it means for a term to be frequent.
All those algorithms made trade-offs, like sacrificing speed for accuracy or memory consumption for reliability.
Most of these efforts relied on an index.
Imagine, for example, you are trying to identify frequent search terms.
One way to do it would be to assign a number to every word in the English language and then pair that number with a second number that keeps track of how many times that word has been searched.
Maybe aardvark gets indexed as word number 17 and appears in your database as (17, 9), meaning word number 17 has been searched nine times.
This approach comes closer to putting the most frequent items at your fingertips, since at any given moment, you know exactly how many times each word has been searched.
Still, it has drawbacksnamely that it takes a lot of time for an algorithm to comb through the hundreds of thousands of words in the English language.
But what if there were only 100 words in the dictionary?
Then looping over every word in the dictionary wouldnt take that long, Nelson said.
Alas, the number of words in the dictionary is what it is.
Unless, as the authors of the new algorithm discovered, you can break the big dictionary into smaller dictionaries and find a clever way to put it back together.
Small Data Small numbers are easier to keep track of than big numbers.
Imagine, for example, that youre monitoring a stream of numbers between zero and 50,000,000 (a task similar to logging internet users by their IP addresses).
You could keep track of the numbers using a 50,000,000-term index, but its hard to work with an index that size.
A better way is to think of each eight-digit number as four two-digit numbers linked together.
Say you see the number 12,345,678.
One memory-efficient way to remember it is to break it into four two-digit blocks: 12, 34, 56, 78.
Then you can send each block to a sub-algorithm that calculates item frequencies: 12 goes to copy one of the algorithm, 34 goes to copy two, 56 goes to copy three, and 78 goes to copy four.
Each sub-algorithm maintains its own index of what its seen, but since each version never sees anything bigger than a two-digit number, each index only runs from 0 to 99.
An important feature of this splitting is that if the big number12,345,678appears frequently in your overall data stream, so will its two-digit components.
When you ask each sub-algorithm to identify the numbers it has seen the most, copy one will spit out 12, copy two will spit out 34, and so on.
Youll be able to find the most frequent members of a huge list just by looking for the frequent items in four much shorter lists.
Lucy Reading-Ikkanda/Quanta Magazine Instead of spending 50 million units of time looping over the entire universe, you only have four algorithms spending 100 units of time, Nelson said.
The main problem with this divide-and-conquer strategy is that while its easy to split a big number into small numbers, the reverse is trickierits hard to fish out the right small numbers to recombine to give you the right big number.
Imagine, for example, that your data stream frequently includes two numbers that have some digits in common: 12,345,678 and 12,999,999.
Both start with 12.
Your algorithm splits each number into four smaller numbers, then sends each to a sub-algorithm.
Later, you ask each sub-algorithm, Which numbers have you seen most frequently?
Copy one is going to say, Ive seen a lot of the number 12.
An algorithm thats trying to identify which eight-digit numbers its seen most frequently cant tell if all these 12s belong to one eight-digit number or, as in this case, to two different numbers.
The challenge is to figure out which two-digit blocks to concatenate with which other two-digit blocks, Nelson said.
The authors of the new work solve this dilemma by packaging each two-digit block with a little tag that doesnt take up much memory but still allows the algorithm to put the two-digit pieces back together in the right way.
To see one simple approach to how the tagging might work, start with 12,345,678 and split it into two-digit blocks.
But this time, before you send each block to its respective sub-algorithm, package the block with a pair of unique identifying numbers that can be used to put the blocks back together.
The first of these tags serves as the blocks name, the second as a link.
In this way, 12,345,678 becomes: 12, 0, 1 / 34, 1, 2 / 56, 2, 3 / 78, 3, 4 Here the number 12 has the name 0 and gets linked to the number named 1.
The number 34 has the name 1 and gets linked to the number named 2.
And so on.
Now when the sub-algorithms return the two-digit blocks theyve seen most frequently, 12 goes looking for a number tagged with 1 and finds 34, then 34 goes looking for a number tagged with 2 and finds 56, and 56 goes looking for a number tagged with 3 and finds 78.
In this way, you can think of the two-digit blocks as links in a chain, with the links held together by these extra tagging numbers.
The problem with chains, of course, is that theyre only as strong as their weakest link.
And these chains are almost guaranteed to break.
Building Blocks No algorithm works perfectly every time you run iteven the best ones misfire some small percentage of the time.
In the example weve been using, a misfire could mean that the second two-digit block, 34, gets assigned an incorrect tag, and as a result, when it goes looking for the block its supposed to be joined to, it doesnt have the information it needs to find 56.
And once one link in the chain fails, the entire effort falls apart.
Mikkel Thorup, a computer scientist at the University of Copenhagen, helped develop an error-resistant way of remembering data.
uniavisen.dk To avoid this problem, the researchers use whats called an expander graph.
In an expander graph, each two-digit block forms a point.
Points get connected by lines (according to the tagging process described above) to form a cluster.
The important feature of an expander graph is that instead of merely connecting each point with its adjoining blocks, you connect each two-digit block with multiple other blocks.
For example, with 12,345,678, you connect 12 with 34 but also with 56, so that you can still tell that 12 and 56 belong in the same number even if the link between 12 and 34 fails.
An expander graph doesnt always come out perfectly.
Sometimes itll fail to link two blocks that should be linked.
Or itll link two blocks that dont belong together.
To counteract this tendency, the researchers developed the final step of their algorithm: a cluster-preserving sub-algorithm that can survey an expander graph and accurately determine which points are meant to be clustered together and which arent, even when some lines are missing and false ones have been added.
This guarantees I can recover something that looks like the original clusters, Thorup said.
And while Twitter isnt going to plug in the expander sketch tomorrow, the techniques underlying it are applicable to a far wider range of computer science problems than tallying tweets.
The algorithm also proves that certain sacrifices that previously seemed necessary to answer the frequent-items problem dont need to be made.
Previous algorithms always gave up something they were accurate but memory-intensive, or fast but unable to determine which frequent items were trending.
This new work shows that given the right way of encoding a lot of information, you can end up with the best of all possible worlds: You can store your frequent items and recall them, too.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
In 1985, when Carl Sagan was writing the novel Contact , he needed to quickly transport his protagonist Dr. Ellie Arroway from Earth to the star Vega.
He had her enter a black hole and exit light-years away, but he didnt know if this made any sense.
The Cornell University astrophysicist and television star consulted his friend Kip Thorne, a black hole expert at the California Institute of Technology (who won a Nobel Prize earlier this month).
Thorne knew that Arroway couldnt get to Vega via a black hole, which is thought to trap and destroy anything that falls in .
But it occurred to him that she might make use of another kind of hole consistent with Albert Einsteins general theory of relativity: a tunnel or wormhole connecting distant locations in space-time.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
While the simplest theoretical wormholes immediately collapse and disappear before anything can get through, Thorne wondered whether it might be possible for an infinitely advanced sci-fi civilization to stabilize a wormhole long enough for something or someone to traverse it.
He figured out that such a civilization could in fact line the throat of a wormhole with exotic material that counteracts its tendency to collapse.
The material would possess negative energy, which would deflect radiation and repulse space-time apart from itself.
Sagan used the trick in Contact , attributing the invention of the exotic material to an earlier, lost civilization to avoid getting into particulars.
Meanwhile, those particulars enthralled Thorne, his students and many other physicists, who spent years exploring traversable wormholes and their theoretical implications.
They discovered that these wormholes can serve as time machines, invoking time-travel paradoxesevidence that exotic material is forbidden in nature.
Now, decades later, a new species of traversable wormhole has emerged, free of exotic material and full of potential for helping physicists resolve a baffling paradox about black holes.
This paradox is the very problem that plagued the early draft of Contact and led Thorne to contemplate traversable wormholes in the first place; namely, that things that fall into black holes seem to vanish without a trace.
This total erasure of information breaks the rules of quantum mechanics, and it so puzzles experts that in recent years, some have argued that black hole interiors dont really existthat space and time strangely end at their horizons.
The flurry of findings started last year with a paper that reported the first traversable wormhole that doesnt require the insertion of exotic material to stay open.
Instead, according to Ping Gao and Daniel Jafferis of Harvard University and Aron Wall of Stanford University, the repulsive negative energy in the wormholes throat can be generated from the outside by a special quantum connection between the pair of black holes that form the wormholes two mouths.
When the black holes are connected in the right way, something tossed into one will shimmy along the wormhole and, following certain events in the outside universe, exit the second.
Remarkably, Gao, Jafferis and Wall noticed that their scenario is mathematically equivalent to a process called quantum teleportation, which is key to quantum cryptography and can be demonstrated in laboratory experiments.
John Preskill , a black hole and quantum gravity expert at Caltech, says the new traversable wormhole comes as a surprise, with implications for the black hole information paradox and black hole interiors.
What I really like, he said, is that an observer can enter the black hole and then escape to tell about what she saw.
This suggests that black hole interiors really exist, he explained, and that what goes in must come out.
Lucy Reading-Ikkanda/Quanta Magazine A Cryptic Equation The new wormhole work began in 2013, when Jafferis attended an intriguing talk at the Strings conference in South Korea.
The speaker, Juan Maldacena , a professor of physics at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, had recently concluded, based on various hints and arguments, that ER = EPR .
That is, wormholes between distant points in space-time, the simplest of which are called Einstein-Rosen or ER bridges, are equivalent (albeit in some ill-defined way) to entangled quantum particles, also known as Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen or EPR pairs.
The ER = EPR conjecture, posed by Maldacena and Leonard Susskind of Stanford, was an attempt to solve the modern incarnation of the infamous black hole information paradox by tying space-time geometry, governed by general relativity, to the instantaneous quantum connections between far-apart particles that Einstein called spooky action at a distance.
The paradox has loomed since 1974, when the British physicist Stephen Hawking determined that black holes evaporateslowly giving off heat in the form of particles now known as Hawking radiation.
Hawking calculated that this heat is completely random; it contains no information about the black holes contents.
As the black hole blinks out of existence, so does the universes record of everything that went inside.
This violates a principle called unitarity, the backbone of quantum theory, which holds that as particles interact, information about them is never lost, only scrambled, so that if you reversed the arrow of time in the universes quantum evolution, youd see things unscramble into an exact re-creation of the past.
Daniel Jafferis, an associate professor of physics at Harvard University.
Paul Horowitz Almost everyone believes in unitarity, which means information must escape black holesbut how?
In the last five years, some theorists, most notably Joseph Polchinski of the University of California, Santa Barbara, have argued that black holes are empty shells with no interiors at allthat Ellie Arroway, upon hitting a black holes event horizon, would fizzle on a firewall and radiate out again.
Many theorists believe in black hole interiors (and gentler transitions across their horizons), but in order to understand them, they must discover the fate of information that falls inside.
This is critical to building a working quantum theory of gravity , the long-sought union of the quantum and space-time descriptions of nature that comes into sharpest relief in black hole interiors, where extreme gravity acts on a quantum scale.
The quantum gravity connection is what drew Maldacena, and later Jafferis, to the ER = EPR idea, and to wormholes.
The implied relationship between tunnels in space-time and quantum entanglement posed by ER = EPR resonated with a popular recent belief that space is essentially stitched into existence by quantum entanglement .
It seemed that wormholes had a role to play in stitching together space-time and in letting black hole information worm its way out of black holesbut how might this work?
When Jafferis heard Maldacena talk about his cryptic equation and the evidence for it, he was aware that a standard ER wormhole is unstable and non-traversable.
But he wondered what Maldacenas duality would mean for a traversable wormhole like the ones Thorne and others played around with decades ago.
Three years after the South Korea talk, Jafferis and his collaborators Gao and Wall presented their answer.
The work extends the ER = EPR idea by equating, not a standard wormhole and a pair of entangled particles, but a traversable wormhole and quantum teleportation: a protocol discovered in 1993 that allows a quantum system to disappear and reappear unscathed somewhere else.
When Maldacena read Gao, Jafferis and Walls paper, I viewed it as a really nice idea, one of these ideas that after someone tells you, its obvious, he said.
Maldacena and two collaborators, Douglas Stanford and Zhenbin Yang , immediately began exploring the new wormholes ramifications for the black hole information paradox; their paper appeared in April.
Susskind and Ying Zhao of Stanford followed this with a paper about wormhole teleportation in July.
The wormhole gives an interesting geometric picture for how teleportation happens, Maldacena said.
The message actually goes through the wormhole.
Diving Into Wormholes In their paper, Diving Into Traversable Wormholes, published in Fortschritte der Physik , Maldacena, Stanford and Yang consider a wormhole of the new kind that connects two black holes: a parent black hole and a daughter one formed from half of the Hawking radiation given off by the parent as it evaporates.
The two systems are as entangled as they can be.
Here, the fate of the older black holes information is clear: It worms its way out of the daughter black hole.
During an interview this month in his tranquil office at the IAS, Maldacena, a reserved Argentinian-American with a track record of influential insights, described his radical musings.
On the right side of a chalk-dusty blackboard, Maldacena drew a faint picture of two black holes connected by the new traversable wormhole.
On the left, he sketched a quantum teleportation experiment, performed by the famous fictional experimenters Alice and Bob, who are in possession of entangled quantum particles a and b , respectively.
Say Alice wants to teleport a qubit q to Bob.
She prepares a combined state of q and a , measures that combined state (reducing it to a pair of classical bits, 1 or 0), and sends the result of this measurement to Bob.
He can then use this as a key for operating on b in a way that re-creates the state q .
Voila, a unit of quantum information has teleported from one place to the other.
Maldacena turned to the right side of the blackboard.
You can do operations with a pair of black holes that are morally equivalent to what I discussed [about quantum teleportation].
And in that picture, this message really goes through the wormhole.
Juan Maldacena, a professor of physics at the Institute for Advanced Study.
Sasha Maslov for Quanta Magazine Say Alice throws qubit q into black hole A.
She then measures a particle of its Hawking radiation, a , and transmits the result of the measurement through the external universe to Bob, who can use this knowledge to operate on b , a Hawking particle coming out of black hole B. Bobs operation reconstructs q , which appears to pop out of B, a perfect match for the particle that fell into A.
This is why some physicists are excited: Gao, Jafferis and Walls wormhole allows information to be recovered from black holes.
In their paper, they set up their wormhole in a negatively curved space-time geometry that often serves as a useful, if unrealistic, playground for quantum gravity theorists.
However, their wormhole idea seems to extend to the real world as long as two black holes are coupled in the right way: They have to be causally connected and then the nature of the interaction that we took is the simplest thing you can imagine, Jafferis explained.
If you allow the Hawking radiation from one of the black holes to fall into the other, the two black holes become entangled, and the quantum information that falls into one can exit the other.
The quantum-teleportation format precludes using these traversable wormholes as time machines.
Anything that goes through the wormhole has to wait for Alices message to travel to Bob in the outside universe before it can exit Bobs black hole, so the wormhole doesnt offer any superluminal boost that could be exploited for time travel.
It seems traversable wormholes might be permitted in nature as long as they offer no speed advantage.
Traversable wormholes are like getting a bank loan, Gao, Jafferis and Wall wrote in their paper: You can only get one if you are rich enough not to need it.
A Naive Octopus While traversable wormholes wont revolutionize space travel, according to Preskill the new wormhole discovery provides a promising resolution to the black hole firewall question by suggesting that there is no firewall at black hole horizons.
Preskill said the discovery rescues what we call black hole complementarity, which means that the interior and exterior of the black hole are not really two different systems but rather two very different, complementary ways of looking at the same system.
If complementarity holds, as is widely assumed, then in passing across a black hole horizon from one realm to the other, Contacts Ellie Arroway wouldnt notice anything strange.
This seems more likely if, under certain conditions, she could even slide all the way through a Gao-Jafferis-Wall wormhole.
The wormhole also safeguards unitaritythe principle that information is never lostat least for the entangled black holes being studied.
Whatever falls into one black hole eventually exits the other as Hawking radiation, Preskill said, which can be thought of as in some sense a very scrambled copy of the black hole interior.
Taking the findings to their logical conclusion, Preskill thinks it ought to be possible (at least for an infinitely advanced civilization) to influence the interior of one of these black holes by manipulating its radiation.
This sounds crazy, he wrote in an email, but it might make sense if we can think of the radiation, which is entangled with the black holeEPRas being connected to the black hole interior by wormholes ER.
Then tickling the radiation can send a message which can be read from inside the black hole!
He added, We still have a ways to go, though, before we can flesh out this picture in more detail.
Indeed, obstacles remain in the quest to generalize the new wormhole findings to a statement about the fate of all quantum information, or the meaning of ER = EPR.
A sketch known as the octopus that expresses the ER = EPR idea.
ARXIV:1306.0533V2 [HEP-TH] In Maldacena and Susskinds paper proposing ER = EPR, they included a sketch thats become known as the octopus: a black hole with tentacle-like wormholes leading to distant Hawking particles that have evaporated out of it.
The authors explained that the sketch illustrates the entanglement pattern between the black hole and the Hawking radiation.
We expect that this entanglement leads to the interior geometry of the black hole.
But according to Matt Visser , a mathematician and general-relativity expert at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand who has studied wormholes since the 1990s, the most literal reading of the octopus picture doesnt work.
The throats of wormholes formed from single Hawking particles would be so thin that qubits could never fit through.
A traversable wormhole throat is transparent only to wave packets with size smaller than the throat radius, Visser explained.
Big wave packets will simply bounce off any small wormhole throat without crossing to the other side.
Stanford, who co-wrote the recent paper with Maldacena and Yang, acknowledged that this is a problem with the simplest interpretation of the ER = EPR idea, in which each particle of Hawking radiation has its own tentacle-like wormhole.
However, a more speculative interpretation of ER = EPR that he and others have in mind does not suffer from this failing.
The idea is that in order to recover the information from the Hawking radiation using this traversable wormhole, Stanford said, one has to gather the Hawking radiation together and act on it in a complicated way.
This complicated collective measurement reveals information about the particles that fell in; it has the effect, he said, of creating a large, traversable wormhole out of the small and unhelpful octopus tentacles.
The information would then propagate through this large wormhole.
Maldacena added that, simply put, the theory of quantum gravity might have a new, generalized notion of geometry for which ER equals EPR.
We think quantum gravity should obey this principle, he said.
We view it more as a guide to the theory.
In his 1994 popular science book, Black Holes and Time Warps, Kip Thorne celebrated the style of reasoning involved in wormhole research.
No type of thought experiment pushes the laws of physics harder than the type triggered by Carl Sagans phone call to me, he wrote; thought experiments that ask, What things do the laws of physics permit an infinitely advanced civilization to do, and what things do the laws forbid?
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
This humbling image, taken by the European Southern Observatorys VLT Survey Telescope in Chile, shows off one of the largest galaxy clusters we know of.
The Fornax Cluster is a group of countless galaxies, some with large bubbles of material that seem to curve out from their galactic centers.
This rich cluster is still one of the main ways scientists study galaxy mergers.
One galaxy, dubbed NGC 1316, is especially noticeable here with large wispy loops jutting out from its glowing center.
This elongated shadow was cast by one of Jupiters lesser known moons, Amalthea--and captured by the Juno spacecraft, currently orbiting the banded planet.
The tiny satellite orbits just outside of Jupiters gossamer rings, and is the third closest moon to the planet.
Just when you thought Mars couldnt get any weirder, a photo like this gets sent back from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
These strange squiggles live in a basin called Hellas Planitia.
The fainter lines at the top of the image are simply sand ridges shaped by dust devils.
But the more pronounced scratches at the bottom, called linear gullies, have a stranger origin story.
Scientists think they form when carbon dioxide, frozen in the winter, thaws during the summer months and breaks off into blocks that carve these strange shapes.
This colorful chromosphere flash spectrum image of the sun was taken during the solar eclipse on August 20.
The suns chromosphere is the second layer of the suns atmosphere.
Only some areas of the sun are observable with visible light, and others can only be seen during a total solar eclipse.
Scientists took this rare opportunity to capture this red second layer of atmosphere as well as its spectrum of chemicals in the few seconds they had during totality.
Last month, the Cassini orbiter sped through the cloud-tops of Saturn, where it ended its 13-year mission to study the planet and its moons in a dramatic suicide plunge.
This black and white raw photo was one of its final snapshots, showing off the elegance of the gas giant from a distance of 581,000 miles.
And see that tiny speck to the upper right, just outside the rings?
Thats Pandora, one of Saturns innermost moons, sneaking into the image in a single pixel.
Talk about an epic photobomb!
The moon is seen here transiting (thats crossing in front of) the sun in this video released by NASAs Solar Dynamic Observatory.
This transit, captured on October 19, took around 45 minutes.
Hello moon, we know youre there.
This story originally appeared on Citylab and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
Last winter, teams of researchers in three US cities donned goggles, gloves, and respirators, tore into bags of other peoples household garbage, and then pawed though the contents .
Separating slimy banana peels from clumps of coffee grounds was dirty work, but it had a laudable goal: trying to get a handle on how much food waste could have been consumed or diverted before winding its way into the waste stream with a one-way ticket to the dump.
The problems associated with urban food waste are no mystery.
Proof of the problem is everywhere, in overflowing garbage bins and grime-slicked compost caddies.
Food scraps contribute to the already sizable piles of refuse that cities must haul to landfills; shuttling edible castoffs to people in need requires labyrinthine routes and mind-boggling logistics ; and gases released by decomposing leftovers detract from cities work toward reining in emissions .
But theres surprisingly little hard data about whos wasting what, and where, which makes it harder for cities to address the issue.
To sniff out specifics, the engineering company Tetra Tech (in collaboration with the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Rockefeller Foundation) recruited more than 1,151 residents in Denver, New York, and Nashville.
Of these, 631 supplied qualitative info in the form of kitchen diaries noting what they tossed and why.
Researchers also inspected the contents of 277 residential trash bins, and 145 containers of commercial or industrial garbage.
Now, the team has digested the data in a pair of reports , released Wednesday, that take stock of how food waste shakes out in these cities, and what they can do to clean up their act.
Proportion of wasted food by sector.
NRDC The researchers divided trashed food into three categories: stuff that is typically edible, questionably edible (including peels and cores), and inedible (such as pits, bones, and egg shells).
They then tallied up findings from the bin digs and kitchen diaries to gauge how much is going to waste in each city.
In Denver and New York, residents trashed the majority of the wasted food; in Nashville, the residential and restaurant sectors were neck and neck.
Denverites trashed the most edible foodabout 7.5 pounds per household each weekfollowed by New York (5.4 pounds) and then Nashville (4.6 pounds).
Overall, these sums are lower than previous estimates from ReFED , a consortium of food-centric organizations, which placed the weekly figure around 11.6 pounds per household.
Across all three cities, coffee and grounds were the goods most often pitched in the trash, trailed by bananas (in Nashville and New York) and chicken (in Denver).
Apples, bread, oranges, and potatoes also topped the list, as did discarded dairy products.
Types of food wasted by city.
NRDC In the accompanying kitchen diaries, respondents described why they opted to jettison these scraps.
Forty-four percent of participants said they were getting rid of inedible portions; 20 percent reported moldy or spoiled food, and 11 percent indicated they werent interested in the leftovers.
Only 4 percent of residents noted that theyd discarded food because it was past the date printed on the label, though perceived confusion over inscrutable labeling practices has spurred legislation to standardize and streamline best by and use by language.
The reports also qualified attitudes toward waste.
Most respondents preferred fruit without blemishes; still, more than half of the respondents said they always or mostly excised bruised portions and salvaged the rest of the fruit or vegetable.
And though some indicated that squandering food felt morally icky, 58 percent of the respondents indicated less guilt about wasting food if they knew it was going to be composted.
Judging by the kitchen diaries, though, most of the trashed food didnt end up in the compost bin53 percent went straight to the trash.
In New York, which has a comparatively robust organics scheme, 37 percent of the self-reported discards ended up in the green bin.
In Denver and Nashville, this figure was 24 percent and 28 percent, respectively, though respondents in Denver reported the highest rate of compost participation.
The researchers flag that discrepancy, among other sticking points: At least in New York City, they found that participating in a compost program led to more overall waste, compared with families whose garbage all goes into a single stream.
In other words: Compost-happy residents were disposing of more total scraps than residents who just threw the whole lot in the trash.
To counter that trend, the reports authors recommend reminding consumers that preventing food waste is preferable to composting it.
All this surplus food could be put to better use.
An outrageous amount of food is wasted in our cities, yet at the same time many residents are in need, said Dana Gunders, a senior scientist at NRDC, in a statement.
The other new report documents the ways that cities can push back against hunger and food insecurity, which continue to nag cities, suburbs, and rural regions despite the excess of edible food.
Some 13.4 percent of Tennessee residents are food insecure, according to a 2016 report from the USDA .
Across New York State, that figure is 12.5 percent; in Colorado, 10.3 percent of citizens struggle to reliably access nutritious food.
The NRDC researchers compared current food rescue rates in the three cities to the maximum volume that could be intercepted, and found that its feasible to recoup tens of thousands of tons of packaged, raw, or prepared items across the board, from grocery stores, restaurants, caterers, coffee shops, schools, and more.
In Denver, where 2,539 tons of food is currently rescued along the food chain, the researchers pinpoint an additional untapped potential of 4,232 tonsenough for about 7.1 million meals.
These could go a long way in a city where nearly about 13 percent of residents lack reliable access to nutritious food.
But that goal is a lofty one: It assumes that all of the local businesses and institutions will buy in.
The researchers also spooled up a less ambitious projection, in which participation rates are more modestly scaled up from their current numbers.
That model would still translate to 901 tons of food, or 1.5 million mealsbut it could require an infusion of $2 million to cover the cost of vehicles and storage space to accommodate the haul.
More than a prescription, the research is a starting point.
As more research in this vein is conducted, it will be easier to identify trends and potentially aggregate data for better extrapolation, better intervention designand eventually, less wasted food, the authors note.
Urban areas can carry this charge, Gunders told me last year.
Cities can be setting targets in their community, and elevating the profile of the issue and raising awareness, she said.
Thats a nice foundation.
They can take a look at their waste policies.
Cities can also redesign trash management from the ground up.
As I wrote last week , a band of architects in New York, backed by the Center for Architecture and the Rockefeller Foundation, laid out a series of design guidelines that approach trash as a design issue, and turn to clever planning and ingenious interiors to help alleviate the burden while getting the city closer to Mayor Bill de Blasios goal of schlepping zero waste to landfills by 2030 .
That call for better engineering is echoed in some of the qualitative feedback in the NRDC reports.
When asked what sorts of steps they hope their cities will take, most respondents gestured toward expanded compost programs or beefed-up public service campaigns.
Others asked for more options, arrayed in a smarter and more durable way.
Make it easier to compost and recycle, one participant wrote.
Like many NYCers, I live in a small place and mice and cockroaches come up often.
That means we keep our trash on a specific counter.
Since we have to already split up our paper recycling, and have trash, there is no room for four bins!!!
When we lived in San Francisco and we could throw all recycling in one bin, we composted a lot more often.
Far from being a luxury, design thinking is something people should demand from cities, architects, and supers, said Benjamin Prosky, executive director of the Center for Architecture, at an event announcing the waste-reduction blueprint.
Collecting, digesting, and acting upon ever-more-precise data can only sharpen its focus and impact.
Late at night, I tend to flip through the channels just to see what's up.
If there's a good movie on, I might watch part of itand recently, I stumbled on Iron Man 3 .
I know what you're gonna saythat's a terrible superhero movie.
But I disagree .
Fantastic Four , now that's a terrible superhero movie.
Iron Man 3 wasn't so bad.
Especially not that part where Tony Stark has to go to the store and MacGyver his way into a temporary suit.
However, I did notice something annoying in a scene near the end.
Iron Man needs to recharge his suit, and he improvises by connecting two cables (one red and one black) from a car battery to his suit.
When he is mostly charged up, he pulls off the cablesone at a time.
First he pulls the red cable off and it creates a slight sparking effect.
Right after that he pulls off the black cable and it also makes a spark.
See the mistake?
One of the cables could easily make a spark, but not both.
But why?
Of course that is the question.
And now for the answer.
What Causes a Spark?
You can get a spark when air changes from an electrical insulator into an electrical conductor.
This happens not at a certain electric potential difference (voltage) but at a certain electric field strength.
Let me explain the difference with an example.
Suppose you have two wires connected to a 9 volt battery with the free ends of the wires held just 1 centimeter apart.
The electric potential difference between these two ends is 9 volts.
That's probably not a huge surprise.
If I move the wires closer together, they still make a 9 volt potential.
However, the electric field depends on both the potential and the distance.
As I move the wires closer together, the electric field gets stronger between the two wires.
The electric field is the gradient of the electric potential and measured in units of volts/meter.
I know you didn't like that example, so how about an analogy?
Instead of electric stuff, I have a hill.
The height of the hill is like the change in electric potential.
The slope of the hill at some point would be the electric field.
So now I have a 9 meter tall hill (instead of 9 volts).
As the bottom and top of the hill move closer together (horizontally) the slope gets steeper.
That's just like the difference between electric potential difference and the electric field.
Bonus: Note the importance of calling the electric potential a "difference" or "change in"just like a hill, the change in height is the key, not just the top of the hill.
Now back to sparks.
A spark is created by a high electric field, not a high voltage.
At about 3 x 106 Volts/meter, you get a spark in air.
With a 9 volt battery (and assuming a constant electric field for simplicity), you would need two wires to get 3 micrometers apart to cause a spark.
That's one super tiny spark.
A Simple Electric Circuit But there are many cases where a spark is created even with low voltage.
In order to understand this, let's first look at a simple circuitthe simplest circuit you could ever imagine.
It consists of a battery and a wire.
That's it.
Here is what that might actually look like.
Yes, that is just a battery and a wire.
OK, technically there are two rare earth magnets in there toothey just are an easy way to connect the wire to the battery.
And although this is a simple circuit, it's not very useful.
In fact, it would be considered a short circuit since there isn't really anything in the path.
Without a resistor or anything, the current will get higher than it normally would.
This would make the wire get hotnot too crazy hot with just a D-cell battery, but still hot.
What happens when I disconnect one of the wires?
Let me show you.
That wasn't very exciting.
A More Complicated Electric Circuit Here is another circuit.
Watch closely as I connect the final cable to the battery.
It's dark so you can see better, but notice that there is a spark both when I connect the battery and when it is disconnected.
Here is a picture of the whole circuit.
There are two significant differences with this second circuit.
First, I am using two 9 volt batteries instead of one D-cell battery (at just 1.5 volts).
Second, I have another device in this circuita coil of wire (on the left).
We call this an inductor.
There is a pretty cool relationship between electric and magnetic fields and that's the basis of the inductor.
Let me start with a simpler example.
Suppose I have a coil of wire and a magnet.
As I move the magnet in and out of this coil, it will produce an electric current.
Here is an example of that.
The device on the right is essentially a sensitive meter to detect electric currents (called a galvanometer).
If you look carefully, you might be able to notice that a current is produced when the magnet is movingnot just when there is a magnetic field.
There must be a changing magnetic field to produce a current.
But what if I replaced this moving magnet with a coil of wire with a changing current running through it?
It could produce the exact same effect as the moving magnet.
Even betterI don't need two separate coils.
With just one coil and a changing electric current, part of the coil will make a changing magnetic field that will induce an electric current in the other part of the coil.
This is the essence of an inductor.
Really, the best way to think of an inductor is as a device that produces a change in electric potential that is proportional to the rate of change of the electric current.
When the current is constant, there is not electric potential difference across the inductor is zero volts.
When the electric current is changing very rapidly (like going from some current to zero when you open a switch), the electric potential difference across the inductor can be huge.
And here is the answer to sparking wires: If the circuit contains an inductor then opening or closing a switch (or pulling off a wire) will create a very large change in current (since it goes to zero).
This huge current change makes a giant change in electric potential across the inductor.
The giant electric potential difference means that you can get super high electric fields around the contact points.
The electric field can be large enough to be at the 3 x 106 V/m level that would produce a spark.
But wait!
What if your circuit doesn't have an inductor in it?
Here's a surprise for you: Every circuit is an inductor.
Since every circuit makes a loop, it at least has some inductance in itso every circuit can spark when you open or close a switch.
Only One Spark Back to the Iron Man scene.
Why would there only be a spark on the first cable that is removed from suit?
Let's step through this in parts.
First, I assume that there is a large current running from the battery to the suit and then back to the battery.
This is a complete circuiteverything is good.
Second, Tony pulls off one of the cables.
If there is an inductance in the suit (highly likely) then this rapid decrease in electric current would induce a large voltage to create a spark.
Finally, Tony pulls off the other cable.
But there's a big differencehe's already broken the circuit.
No complete circuit means no electric current and no change in current.
There shouldn't be a second spark.
But in the end, it's just a movie and not real physics.
Technically, this would be a scientific errorbut it doesn't really have any impact on the plot.
And even if it was a plot-related error, that's OK (as I have said many times before).
I still like Iron Man.
You know that feeling.
TFW you're in the market for a new phone, and you can't decide which one to buy.
For the past month, if you're an Apple fan, chances are you've been feeling that feel a bit more than usual.
This year, like every year, Apple released new phonesthe iPhones 8 and 8 Plus.
But they also released a newer phone.
A "say hello to the future" phone.
The iPhone X .
It's got an edge-to-edge display , more and better cameras, and a certain je ne sais pas that justwait, no.
Lol, no, you totally sais .
It's the fanciest phone Apple's ever made.
It goes on sale tonight.
And lord help you, you want it.
You want it so bad.
But heavens, that price: $999, to start.
Can you afford it?
No.
But financing.
No!
You're not falling for that again.
You'll go with the iPhone 8 Plus.
It's boring , but shut up, you will love it.
But then wait, you forgot: The iPhone X also has that sick OLED screen, and emoji you control with your face !
Totally worth the extra few hundred dollars.
What price can you really put on a talking pile of poop?
The answer is no price.
Talking poop is priceless.
Sounds like you have a tough decision to make.
Turns out psychologists have names for this kind of decision, and the hemming and hawing that goes into it.
"It's a classic example of what we call a multi-attribute decision task," says Ben Newell , a cognitive psychologist at the University of New South Wales Sydney and co-author of Straight Choices: The Psychology of Decision Making .
It's a fancy term for situations in which you consider multiple options, each with attributes you use to inform your decision.
If you've ever shopped for a laptop, a TV, a blenderanything that lends itself to a spec-sheet comparison or a 20,000-word Wirecutter reviewyou've grappled with a multi-attribute decision.
And the cell phone purchase is a particularly perfect example.
"When we run experiments that examine the kinds of choices people make and why they make them, we often have them decide between phones," Newell says.
(Cars show up a lot, too. )
They're easy to deconstruct into their constituent specifications, like the number and quality of their cameras, their screen sizes, the relative superiority of their displaysand, of course, their prices.
The persnickety among you may even identify with what Newell calls a weighted additive strategy to decision making, whereby you assign each spec a number corresponding to its relative importance.
(Which do you value more: a phone that fits in your back pocket, or a battery that doesn't die on the train home from work?
If it's the latter, battery life gets a higher number than form factor.)
When you're through, identifying your true desire is as simple as tallying the weighted values for each device.
Simple in theory, anyway.
In practice, almost no one bothers to run literal numbers on choices like these.
Gadget lust has a way of undermining rational decisions.
But even those, Newell says, are informed to some degree by intuitive atribute-weighing, which can quickly lead to waffling.
And the timing of the iPhone X's release only complicates things further.
A large body of research suggests that adding a third choice to a field of two options can affect people's appraisal of the original two alternatives.
In other words: Humans base their purchasing decisions not just on the attributes of the product they're buying, but on the attributes of those they don't buy.
Psychologists call these context effects, and one of the best studied is a phenomenon known as the compromise effect.
Say you have two options (A and B) that differ on two dimensions (quality and affordability).
Option A is nicer, but option B is cheaper.
Adding a third option, C, that is super sweet but super pricey, produces the compromise effect: In the presence of option C, option A becomes a compromise option, and its attractiveness increases.
It turns out Apple's 2017 iPhone lineup mimics the experimental conditions behind the compromise effect pretty closely.
Here it is in chart form: In a choice between the iPhone 8 and the iPhone 8 Plus, the latter is less affordable, but higher quality.
When Apple adds the iPhone X to the lineup, the 8 Plus becomes a compromise between the X and the 8.
Previous studies of human choice behavior reveal a phenomenon known as the compromise effect, by which adding a premium option to the decision field can increase the frequency with which the compromise is chosen.
HOTLITTLEPOTATO In the case of the 8 and 8 Plus, the 8 is more affordable, but the Plus has more desireablecall them "high quality"features.
Two cameras instead of one, more photography modes, bigger display, and so on.
When Apple adds the iPhone X to the lineup, the 8 Plus becomes a compromise between the entry level 8 and the premium X.
"So this kind of perverse thing could happenif you believe the compromise effect will holdwhere the introduction of the X could cause sales of the 8 Plus to go up," Newell says.
A couple big caveats apply here.
One: This model ignores the influence of factors besides quality and affordability.
It's easy to imagine a third vector that corresponds to the iPhone X's limited supply.
Or a fourth linked to security concerns over FaceID .
And two, this model assumes that the only phones in existence, as far as the consumer is concerned, are the iPhones 8, 8 Plus, and X. Hardcore fans may only have eyes for the company's newest products, but Apple itself sells eight versions of the iPhone, not counting color or storage configurations.
Considerations like these may also help explain why demand for the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus has been so weak this past month.
(According to Reuters , more customers in the US have sprung for the iPhone 7 in recent weeks than its successor.)
Will those numbers change after Friday, when Apple's iPhone X supply inevitably runs dry?
Time will tell.
In the meantime, keep an eye on those iPhone 8 Plus sales.
It's no iPhone X, but I hear it's a solid choice.
Not too basic.
Not too pricey.
Just right.
No one knew exactly when the girl would die, but everyone knew it would be soon.
A 12-year-old with end stage cancer, the child's parents had recently moved her from the hospital to her home in the suburbs of Los Angeles.
Some days later the girl's breath quickened, and her father phoned the family's hospice nurse.
Please come, he said.
He was worried about her breathing.
The nurse knew the visit would require more than four hours of her time: a two-hour drive in each direction, plus her time with the girl.
Why don't we connect over FaceTime, she asked.
The father agreed, and they connected.
The nurse asked the father to move his daughter gently to her side.
Then to her back.
To lift the child's shirt.
To show her the expansion and contraction of the girl's rib cage.
The nurse would ask: What do you see, what concerns you, and the father would explain.
Then the nurse would do the same.
In this fashion the pair examined the girlthe nurse on her computer, the father his iPad.
Together they decided that the nurse's presence was not necessary, that the child had more time.
Later, the father reported feeling comforted by the nurse.
He appreciated her availability, the fact that she could see what he saw, and their ability to discuss it in real time.
"It's so unique, the visual image, and knowing that everyone is seeing and talking about the same phenomenon," says pediatrician David Steinhorn , director of palliative care at Children's National Medical Centerand the head of the telemedicine pilot the girl's family had been part of.
An expert in the burgeoning field of telemedicine, Steinhorn believes in the power of digital tools to connect clinicians with their patients.
But more important than the technology, he says, is what clinicians in the field have taken to calling "webside" manner.
It's a modern twist on bedside mannera physician's ability to relate with a patient and convey their desire to help.
"My experience is that, once you get past some initial hurdles, you can maintain an intimate, immediate connection with patients that in some cases may be more therapeutically useful than even in-person interactions," Steinhorn says.
But getting there isnt always easy.
As anyone who's spent time on a video call knows, communicating via telepresence is very different from communicating in person.
It's all the little things, says experimental psychologist Elizabeth Krupinski , associate director of evaluation for the telemedicine program at the University of Arizona.
I mean, there's the technology bit, obviously.
Webcam resolution, internet connection, and so on.
And you have to think about your backdrop, your lighting, what you're wearing as well.
But what you've really got to monitor is your behavior.
Krupinski should know: U of A is one of the first schools in the country to incorporate telemedicine instruction into its medical school curricula.
"It sounds strange, but when you're on camera all your actions are magnified," Krupinski says.
Sitting six feet away from your doctor, in person, you might not mind or notice her slouching, fidgeting, or gesticulating.
But a webcam's intimate vantage point augments these actions in ways that patients can find distracting or off-putting.
"You take a sip of coffee and your mug takes up the whole screen, and all they hear is the sound of you slurping," she says.
"Or you turn away to make a note, and now all your patient sees is your shoulder.
Maybe you disappear from the frame entirely."
If these all sound like awfully little things for physicians to concern themselves with, well, you're right.
But that's kind of the point.
The considerations are so small and numerous that they can wind up overwhelming otherwise competent clinicians, interfering with their ability to connect with patients.
"There are some people who are great in person and you put them on camera they're a dead fish," Krupinski says.
Some physicians are camera shy.
(For others, the physical isolation can actually help them be more empatheticKrupinski says she's seen it both ways.)
Telemedicine students are often instructed to disable their video chat's picture-in-picture feature.
"Turn it off and look at the patient," Krupinski says.
That's also kind of tricky: To appear as though they're making eye contact, clinicians are taught to look not at the patient on their screen, but directly into their device's webcam.
Some hospitals have gone so far as to design telemedicine clinics, purpose-built to address the peculiarities of virtual examinations.
"We try our best to control as much of the environment as we can, so the doctors can be doctors," says Jim Marcin , director of the pediatric telemedicine program at UC Davis.
The room is staged like an office but with better lighting.
There's a nice desk for the clinician to sit behind, a computer situated stage left, and books in the background.
A physician taking a video call from home, or somewhere in the ICU, might wear a gaming headseta pair of brawny headphones, equipped with a micto ensure whatever the patient says isn't broadcast to anyone off-camera (a clear violation of patient privacy, Marcin says).
But in the secluded confines of the telemedicine clinic, the whole room is mic-ed.
The clinician can forego the gaming rig and focus on projecting a natural, empathetic presence.
UC Davis' clinic is in many ways the polar opposite of what patients see when they use online services like Teladoc and HealthTap , which rely on networks of tens of thousands of doctors to deliver health care directly to users, often without ever having met.
(Neither Teladoc nor HealthTap responded to request for comment.)
Marcin, Krupinski, and Steinhorn all say their institutions use telemedicine primarily to follow up with patients they've already worked with in personsomething no longer required in the United States.
(Texas was the holdout; earlier this year, it became the last state to allow physicians to connect with new patients virtually rather than first meeting in person.)
Ad hoc, virtual visits can work great when a patient needs a quick diagnosis for a sore throat or weird rash.
But many experts are skeptical of clinicians' ability to deliver compassionate, high-quality care to virtual strangers.
"Look, there's variation whether you see a clinician in person or whether you see them online, so I'm not saying in any way that telemedicine is less helpful than in-person visits, or that webside manner is worse than bedside manner," says UCSF pulmonologist Adams Dudley.
"But webside manner definitely requires more cooperation, and a different kind of cooperation, than bedside manner."
That cooperation was often missing from doctor-patient interactions in a studyled by Dudley and published in JAMA Internal Medicine last yearthat investigated the quality of virtual urgent care.
The researchers conducted their investigation secret-shopper style, sending dozens of trained patients to direct-to-consumer telemedicine companies.
Their scripted symptoms reflected acute illnesses such as ankle pain, low back pain, and recurrent urinary tract infectionsand the researchers observed a huge range in quality of care and webside manner.
But more concerning to Dudley was the infrequency with which clinicians referred their first-time patients to specialists in their area.
"Our ankle protocol was a situation where the clinician should have ordered X-rays.
And in an ER, 90 percent of our test patients would have gotten it.
But over telemedicine, fewer than 20 percent of patients were referred to radiologists."
The reason for the disparity isn't totally clear, but Dudley has a hypothesis: If you're a doctor in Philadelphia diagnosing a patient in Albuquerque, you're not familiar with which local provider to refer them.
It's the kind of problem that could be solved with some back and forth or an ongoing patient-doctor relationship.
But absent both, a surprising number of clinicians wound up not connecting the dots.
"So yeah, it's terrible webside manner, and terrible care" says Dudley.
Regardless of the current state of virtual care, conscientious providers are always looking to improve.
That's why Steinhorn set up his pilot palliative care program in the first place.
When he thinks back to the young cancer patient in LA, Steinhorn believes that telemedicine was able to provide the girl and her family support and reassurance.
And it can help physicians, too.
"In my own interactions, Ive used telemedicine to see how a family 100 miles away is coping, that the scene I see in the home appears orderly, and that the family seems together, even in times of tension and distress," he says.
"And that's been reassuring.
A little bit of booze, the conventional wisdom goes, can be good for you.
But the evidence for that claimbeyond anecdotal accounts that a nip of whiskey can nip a cold in the budis surprisingly thin.
Alcohol studies usually look backwards, comparing participants historical drinking habits with their health problems.
But its hard to prove that alcohol caused those problems.
The best alcohol study would randomly require people to either drink or abstainbut for many public health researchers, thats always seemed like a bridge too far.
Today, though, the National Institutes of Health is planning just such an experiment.
The Moderate Alcohol and Cardiovascular Health study, now in progress on four continents, is poised to be a breakthrough in public health: the first time that researchers have followed a group of people randomized to receive a daily drink or nothing at all.
But its also the first time the NIH has offered the $1 trillion-plus alcoholic beverage industry a chance to sponsor a project.
That exchange of money, along with the study leaders failure to guard against outside influence, are jeopardizing the studys credibility before it has even enrolled its first participant.
The study has its origin, strangely enough, in tea.
Back in 2006, researchers thought tea drinkers might have fewer heart attacks.
So Kenneth Mukamal, an epidemiologist at the Harvard-affiliated Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, recruited at-risk adults and told them to drink either three cups of black tea a day or three cups of water.
Getting participants to stick to the program is notoriously difficult, so to make sure they were drinking their tea, Mukumal tested urine samples from a subgroup of participants for gallic acid, a tea breakdown product.
After six months, they ran the numbers: Tea had virtually no effect on a persons cardiovascular risk.
The results from the tea study may have been moot, but that gallic acid-measuring test was the proof of concept Mukamal needed for a different study.
In 2008, Mukamal began giving participants an alcoholic drinka mix of ethanol with Crystal Light or a Kraft lemonade mixcomparing their health markers to a control group that got lemonade without the booze.
But people wouldnt drink the ethanol.
Like in the tea study, Mukamal was tracking whether his participants stuck to the program, and a blood test that rises with alcohol intake was actually higher in the non-alcoholic group than the alcohol group.
A randomized trial to test alcohols benefits, Mukamal concluded, would have to let the participants choose a drink they actually liked.
Enter the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
In 2014, the institute solicited Mukamal to plan a six-year study of 7,000 subjects at risk of heart disease, pitting a daily alcoholic drink against total abstinence.
Theyd track heart attacks, strokes, heart-related chest pain, and deaththe most comprehensive study of the heart impacts of daily drinking ever done, focusing on adults 50 and over.
Instead of giving subjects a mix prepared by research pharmacists, though, the study would reimburse them for the drink of their choice.
Paying for more than 3,500 daily drinks for six years, it turns out, is expensive.
The NIH would need more fundingand soon, a team stepped up to the plate.
The Foundation of the NIH, a little-known 20-year-old non-profit that calls on donors to support NIH science, was talking to alcohol corporations.
By the fall of 2014, the study was relying on the industry for separate contributions to the Foundation of the NIH beyond what the NIAAA could afford, as Mukamal put it in an e-mail to a prospective collaborator.
Later that year, Congress encouraged the NIH to sponsor the study, but lawmakers didnt provide any money.
Five corporationsAnheuser-Busch InBev, Diageo, Pernod Ricard, Heineken, and Carlsberghave since provided a total of $67 million.
The foundation is seeking another $23 million, according to its director of development, Julie Wolf-Rodda.
The NIH has run into similar ethical problems before.
In 2012, the National Football League made a $30 million donation to support research on sports-related medical problems.
Later, when the NIH funded an expert on football-related brain injury whom the League disapproved of, NFL representatives contacted senior NIH officers about it.
A 2016 Congressional investigation faulted the NFL for attempting to use its donation as leverage to steer [research] funding away from one of its critics.
But the investigation also concluded that the Foundation didnt do enough to protect the NIH from its NFL funders.
To protect the alcohol study from the influence of its funders, the Foundation uses detailed letters of agreement: Companies are obliged to accept NIH control of the projects scientific and administrative aspects and barred from attempting to influence its design or conduct, and from trying to access non-public project results.
Those agreements were in place during the NFL deal, and Wolf-Rodda says the organization has since tightened the language in its agreements, making the rules now a little bit clearer and harder for people to overlook.
Both Mukamal and Peggy Murray, a senior leader at NIAAA and the NIH staff scientist on the trial, say they havent spoken to anyone from the alcohol industry about the project, another important wall to prevent any influence, intentional or not, from the companies.
But for some scholars, there is no right way to involve the industry in investigating alcohols benefits.
Its a clear conflict of interest if the industry thats going to profit from the findings of the research is funding it, says David Jernigan, head of the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore.
Richard Saitz of Boston Universitys School of Public Health compares the situation to the tobacco industrys support of research that raised doubts about the risks of smoking.
In some circumstances, he says, a firewall is just not quite enough.
And although the study has not yet begun recruiting subjects, the medical community has already found reason to validate those concerns.
Stay on target.
Thats the mantra you hear in labs and biotech companies around the world as they snip away at DNA.
All the techniques for gene editingfrom the famous Crispr-Cas9 to the older TALENs and zinc-finger nucleases share a problem: Sometimes they dont work.
Which is to say, they have off-target effects , changing a gene you dont want changed or failing to change a gene that you do.
And DNA is not something you want poorly rewired.
That goes double if youre trying to make money; companies working on genome-editing based products are valued in the billions of dollars .
Thats why two scientific articles published today in the journals Nature and Science are so importantthey tune genome editing up.
The Nature paper chases precision at a literally basic levelthe bases, the As, Gs, Cs, and Ts that are the individual units in the genetic code.
Crispr-Cas9 works by slicing through the two strands of bases that spiral to create DNAs famous double-helix.
But another approach, single base editing, actually converts one base into anothersince the bases pair in predictable ways, A to T and G to C, that modification flips a single genetic bit.
Until now, scientists have only been able to change a G-C base pair into an A-T base pair.
The new paper takes the other angle, describing an editor that changes adeninethe Ainto a base called inosine, which the cells protein-building machinery reads as guanine, the G. When that molecular machine puts a little nick in the complementary strand of DNA across the gap where the T is, the cells DNA repair machinery fixes it by slotting in a C. In other words, its an A-T to G-C base edit.
How cool is that?
This class of mutation, changing a G-C to an A-T, accounts for about half of the 32,000 known pathogenic point mutations in humans, says David Liu , the Harvard chemist whose lab did the work.
Lius lab has already used this editor to fixin cell culturesthe mutation that causes hereditary hemochromatosis, which causes a person to retain too much iron, and to treat sickle-cell anemia.
Getting there wasnt easy.
In biology, changing one molecule into another is usually the job of a natural nanotechnological marvel called an enzyme.
Enzymes that turn adenine into inosine are called adenine deaminases, but none exists thatll transmogrify adenine embedded in a strand of DNA.
So Lius team built one, putting engineered bacteria under evolutionary pressure until it built an enzyme that would target As in DNA.
And it goes to the right A, too.
One of Crisprs components is a molecule of guide RNA, a length of genetic stuff that points to a target like the scrap of clothing you hand a bloodhound before a hunt.
Lius editor uses that part.
Normally Crispr-Cas9 makes a double-stranded cut in the DNA, Liu says.
We used a form of Crispr-Cas9 thats crippled.
It cannot cut the DNA.
But it still stays on target.
The research in the Science paper takes a different tack on A-to-G conversion.
This one, from the lab of Broad Institute researcher Feng Zhang, incorporates an adenosine deaminase (a molecular cousin of the adenine deaminase in the Liu paper) into Crispr-Cas13, a variant genome editor that works on RNAthe copy of DNA that cellular machinery reads to build proteins.
Zhangs team calls it RNA Editing for Programmable A to I Replacement, or Repair, proving that if the fights over Crisprs genesis and patent have taught researchers anything, its to come up with better names.
Because it acts on RNA, Repair makes a transient change, which could be good for treating problems like acute inflammation or woundspotentially dangerous, but you wouldnt want to turn off someones inflammatory response permanently.
There are 12 possible base changes you can do, says Omar Abudayyeh , a researcher at the Broad Institute and one of the papers authors.
Now were thinking about the ways to do the other 11.
But both approaches attempt to sharpen Crisprs scalpel.
With typical Crispr-Cas9 in DNA, the problem isnt the cut; its the repair, which can cause a kind of genetic scarring, so-called stochastic insertions or deletions, or indelsadditional bases tossed in, or a few removed.
When you make a double-stranded break in the genome, the cell tries to get the ends back together, and most of the time its successful, Liu says.
But every now and then, the cell just can't quite put Humptys DNA together again.
If your goal is to seriously bork a gene, indels can be great.
But if youre trying to splice in a new stretch of DNA, they're a problem.
By operating on RNA, Crispr-Cas13 avoids all that.
RNA repair doesnt involve indels, for one thing.
And: Theres always a concern for off-target effects with these types of systems, Abudayyeh says.
But with RNA you have to think about off-targets a little differently.
A miswired stretch of DNA means all the RNA transcribed from it and all the protein translated from the RNA will be busted.
If some of the RNA in a cell gets edited correctly and some doesnt, that means the cell will have at least some amount of the right protein.
If things go really wrong, the edit is reversible.
You can always remove the system, and the RNA will eventually degrade and recycle and revert back to normal, Abudayyeh says.
Likewise, editing of DNA that relies on base-pair modification instead of double-stranded cuts gets around some of those other limitations.
Davids work follows on his earlier innovative efforts to do genome editing without a double-strand break, says Fyodor Urnov, associate director of the Altius Institute for Biomedical Sciences.
And Zhangs work adds to the toolbox by giving us an enzyme that can edit RNA in a precise fashion.
Those kind of tools are much in demand.
In June 2017, a letter from researchers published in Nature Methods asserted that in addition to the indel problem Crispr messed up the genome in a whole lot of weird ways.
Crispr researchers quickly rallied to dismantle the papers methods and analysis, but they all acknowledge that some applications of Crispr-Cas9 yield better results than others.
Why bother?
Because theres more than just new drugs, new drought-resistant crops, and new materials on the line.
A half-dozen or more companies have gotten venture capital to work on Crispr-powered products.
Liu, Zhang, and Joung, along with the researcher George Church, are all co-founders of one of the big ones, Editas Medicine .
Crispr-Cas9 co-inventor Jennifer Doudna was once on that team as well.
Editas and the like-minded companies Intellia and Crispr Therapeutics briefly lost tens of millions in valuation on the publication of that Nature Methods paper.
A fight over who actually invented Crispr-Cas9 is ongoing with UC Berkeley, Doudna, and her co-author Emanuelle Charpentier on one side and Church, Zhang, and the Broad Institute on the other.
So its critical that Crispr-Cas9 and its follow-on technologies work.
Lius single-base editors are a long way from becoming a therapeutic, but multiple modified organisms and treatments made with Crispr-Cas9 are in the approval pipeline.
Genome editing is still working on finding the bullseye in the depths of cells, but its also aiming at financial ones, and at changing the world.
Its going to need one hell of a good targeting system.
Like with jetpacks and flying cars, the Power Loader from Aliens is a robot weve been promised for a long time.
Thatd be the exoskeleton that Sigourney Weaver donned to beat the tar out of the movies eponymous alien Queen , of course.
Jetpacks are kinda here , flying cars almost , and now a real-life Power Loader has finally arrived, and its orders of magnitude more impressive than the suit of fiction.
Behold the Guardian GT from Sarcos Robotics, which in all honesty is full-tilt bonkers.
Bonkers in the sense that unlike the clunky Power Loader, these 7-foot-long arms replicate human motions with incredible smoothness and accuracy, each limb lifting 500 pounds, then turning around and manipulating the most delicate of objects.
Watching it in action is both hypnotic and highly unsettling.
A big problem in robotics right now is manipulation .
You take for granted how easy it is for you to, say, pick up a piece of paper off a table.
But imagine a robot trying that with clutzy metal fingers.
No matter how strong a robot may be, its still miles away from human dexterity.
Sarcos Robotics But with the Guardian GT has a couple of advantages that make it remarkably dexterous.
For one, it's kinematically equivalent, meaning it's arranged like a human, so the operator is controlling what is essentially a sized-up version of their own body.
The distance between those stereo cameras and the shoulder is the same ratio as you have in your own human body, says Ben Wolff, CEO of Sarcos.
Same goes for the distance between the shoulder and the elbow and the elbow and the wrist.
So it's very intuitive.
That kinematic equivalent concept enables a brand new operator with no training at all to be able to get into the machine.
On top of that, the robot uses force feedback, so the operator can feel the environment through the machine's hand (which consists of three fingers instead of five).
Imagine trying to lift a mug if you could see it but not feel it.
With force feedback, the pilot can feel when the robot's hand makes contact with even small objects like switches and buttons.
The robot can even pop open an electrical box with the tippy-tip of one of its fingers.
The Guardian GT also has a dexterity advantage over other humanoid robots because it's all custom-built.
Sarcos didn't buy hands (known more formally as end effectors) from a hand company and slap them on arms from somewhere else.
Everything is customized to work in harmony.
While it all may look effortless, its not as if the operator isn't feeling a thing when they lift a 1,000-pound pipe.
That's a little disorienting, so we give a little bit of load into the arm, Wolff says.
Meaning, the robot pushes back a tiny bit.
So instead of lifting a thousand pounds you feel like you're lifting five.
(How its able to do this without the herky-jerkiness of other robots comes down to special actuators, the bits that move and bend the arms.
What exactly is special about them, Wolff declines to say, because hes a good businessman.)
Just imagine this thing on a construction site.
Doing something like lifting and joining two pipes would require a crane and maybe five or six workers, who would be freed up to do other jobs that require a more human touch (fine manipulation, for instance).
With the Guardian GT, all it takes is one supercharged human.
It still requires a lot of coordination, sure, but the robot takes the strain out of the equation.
Whats interesting about this workplace robot is that its collaborativea human is always in control.
And thats what the future of work looks like, especially heavy industry.
Fields like construction and agriculture are already facing severe labor shortages, and the machines are poised to pick up the slack.
Think automated construction tractors and robots that help humans harvest crops without all the stooping.
In the very near future well be working alongside robots, as opposed to robots outright replacing us.
Sarcos Robotics So the death of human labor, it seems, has been greatly exaggerated.
While I think that we will see increasing amounts of autonomy and AI, says Wolff, I think the real role in work generally is for us to find as humans how to maximize the utility of robots.
Allow them to do what they're really good at while still relying on what humans are best at, which is wisdom and judgment.
Then there are the jobs that humans simply cant do.
Because the Guardian GT rolls on either tracks or wheels, the operator can drive it into danger.
Think exploring toxic environments and decommissioning nuclear power plants.
With the inherent dexterity of the machine, it could easily manipulate things made for humans hands, like valves and buttons.
And, if the time comes, it might save us all from aliens.
But lets hope it doesnt come to that.
For patients with epilepsy , or cancerous brain lesions, sometimes the only way to forward is down.
Down past the scalp and into the skull, down through healthy grey matter to get at a tumor or the overactive network causing seizures.
At the end of the surgery, all that extra white and grey matter gets tossed in the trash or an incinerator.
Well, not all of it.
At least, not in Seattle.
For the last few years, doctors at a number of hospitals in the Emerald City have been saving those little bits and blobs of brain, sticking them on ice, and rushing them off in a white van across town to the Allen Institute for Brain Science.
Scientists there have been keeping the tissue on life support long enough to tease out how individual neurons look, act, and communicate.
And today theyre sharing the first peek at these cells in a freely available public database .
It provides a more intimate, intricate look into the circuitry of the human brain than ever before.
And its just the beginning of a much larger effort to build a complete catalog of human brain cells.
This first release includes electrical readings from a few hundred living neuronsall recently removed from 36 neurosurgery patients in Seattle area hospitals.
For 100 of those cells, Allen Institute researchers built 3-D models of their branching structures, which they can use to simulate patterns of pulses and zaps.
Scientists can see where in the brain neurons start and stop, and how current flows and spreads a signal throughout a neuronal networksignals that might move a muscle, or make a memory.
Allen Institute for Brain Science Thirty minutes ago that was part of someones brain, maybe even the part that holds the memory of their first kiss, says Christof Koch, chief scientist and president of the Allen Institute for Brain Science.
No one has had access like this before, to healthy brain tissue at the level of individual neurons.
Because of the particular peskiness of studying the human brain , most brain maps are built from mice or post-mortem human tissue.
Dead brain cells can tell you a lot about shape; you can stain em and characterize their morphology.
But they cant tell you anything about the function of circuitsbecause they dont fire.
So to keep the post-op cells alive and kicking, doctors pack the pea-sized tissue on ice.
They need to keep the brain bit as close to freezing as possibleabout 4 degrees centigradeto slow down metabolism and prevent the tissue from deteriorating.
Once it arrives at the Allen Institute, researchers slice the sample into many dozens of sections no thinner than a silicon wafer .
Each slice is loaded into special containers Allen scientists developed to keep the tissue on life support.
They look kind of like little baskets, floating around a tiny pump that bubbles in a life-sustaining stream of oxygen.
Thats enough time for people like Jonathan Ting, an assistant investigator at the Allen, to isolate individual neurons and push and prod them with glass electrodes.
By forming a super-tight connection with the cellwhats called a giga-ohm sealhe can measure how it spikes in response to little shocks of energy.
Each pattern of spikes acts as a signature that helps identify the function of a neuronmaybe this one forms a thought, while that one feels a feeling.
For 150 years neuroscientists have classified cells by the way they looked, says Ting.
But, he says, like describing a person, how much can you really know about someone just by looking at them?
What about how they talk?
How they act?
What about their social network?
All these different things paint a clearer picture of who a person is.
Its the same in neuroscience, says Ting.
Were just starting to align morphology with electrical behavior with genetic expression.
In addition to the recordings and 3-D renderings released today, the Allen Institutes database now also contains gene expression profiles for nearly 16,000 individual neurons.
This emerging field, known as single cell transcriptomics, lets scientists see all the genes that turn on in different kinds of brain cells.
And on Monday, the National Institutes of Health awarded the Allen Institute and its collaborators $100 million to continue classifying human brain cells based on their shape, physiology, connective properties, and gene expression.
The largest bit of the grants, though, will go toward creating a comprehensive atlas of cell types in the mouse brain, which would be a first for mammals.
That effort is part of the federal governments 2013 Brain Initiative, which aims to understand brain circuits well enough to devise new therapies for diseases like epilepsy, Alzheimers, and muscular dystrophy.
John Ngai, a cell biologist at UC Berkeley, is partnering with the Allen and four other institutions to document all the cells in the rodent brain over the next five years, which at just about the shape of a sugar cube, is roughly the size of just one of the Allens human brain bits.
Unlike those tissue samples though, a mouse brain is completeits got all the parts, from the frontal lobe to the medulla oblongata.
And while it may not be as complex as the human brain, simplicity is a plus when youre attempting the first complete cranial catalogue for a warm-blooded creature.
Just how much is left to discover?
Almost everything, says Ngai.
We could double our knowledge base in the next five years and still have over 99.9 percent left to learn.
These atlasing projects are really about trying to understand the hardware inside the human head.
And to hope like crazy that it provides some insight into the uniquely human aspects of brain function.
The moment surgeons retrieved 639 massive nails from a man's intestines using a magnet was captured on video.
The 48-year-old had apparently gobbled down the two-inch spikes, which miraculously didn't pierce his digestive system on the way down.
Doctors found them inside his intestines with an endoscopy and cut him open to find hundreds of nails.
TEARS AS CONJOINED TWINS DIE DAY AFTER BIRTH The video shows doctors at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital fishing out the 1.06kg of nails out with a magnet.
"The nails had displaced the intestine," Dr. Siddhartha Biswas, associated professor of surgery, said.
"The nails are mostly bigger than two inches and quite sharp but luckily there was no major perforation in the GI tract."
"We made a 10-cm incision in the abdomen and removed the nails using a magnet," Biswas said.
"We also extracted soil."
The surgery took place earlier this week lasted one hour and 45 minutes.
Indivior Plc's experimental drug to treat opioid addiction is effective and should be approved, an advisory panel to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration concluded on Tuesday.
The panel voted 18-1 that the injectable drug, known as RBP-6000, could benefit addicts and the lower of two doses studied has an acceptable safety profile.
The FDA typically follows the recommendations of its advisory panels.
"I think this is a really promising alternative to what's out there and will be attractive to a lot of patients," said Laurel Habel, a panelist and researcher at Kaiser Permanente in Oakland, California.
The recommendation comes less than a week after FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb announced the agency's plans to encourage widespread use among opioid addicts of less harmful opioids such as methadone and buprenorphine, the active ingredient in RBP-6000.
The United States is battling an opioid abuse epidemic that in 2015 claimed 33,000 people.
President Donald Trump recently declared the problem a national public health emergency.
FDA MOVES TO REVOKE CLAIM THAT SOY PROTEIN PROTECTS THE HEART Indivior studied two dosing regimens.
In one, 300 milligrams were given once a month for six months.
In the other, two doses of 300 milligrams were followed by four doses of 100 milligrams.
There was little difference in effectiveness between the two doses and the higher dose caused more side effects.
Panelists said they would like to see more data about which patients should be given the higher dose, though some said they would like to have it available despite the lack of data supporting any additional benefit.
If approved the product would be the first monthly injectable buprenorphine treatment.
Indivior already sells Suboxone Film, a product which combines buprenorphine and nalexone and is placed under the tongue or inside the cheek.
The health regulator is due to make its decision on RBP-6000 by Nov. 30.
The drug could capture about 30 percent of the broader buprenorphine market, Stifel's analyst Max Herrmann said.
The analyst expects the drug to generate peak sales of $707 million by the end of 2021.
Lund, Sweden-based Camurus AB and privately held Braeburn Pharmaceuticals are also awaiting the health regulator's decision on their weekly and monthly injectable buprenorphine drug, CAM2038.
Herrmann forecast these once-monthly formulations, RBP-6000 and CAM2038, to garner around 50 percent of the buprenorphine market, just short of the 56 percent Suboxone currently enjoys.
Humans love dogs more than their fellow man.
Two major studies showed that mankind has more empathy for pooches in dire circumstances than suffering people, according to a report in the Times of London.
A UK medical research charity staged two phony donation campaigns one with a dog and the other featuring a man.
Of course, the pooch drew more contributions.
Would you give pounds 5 to save Harrison from a slow, painful death?
the separate ads said, featuring a canine and human Harrison.
TEARS AS CONJOINED TWINS DIE DAY AFTER BIRTH Then a Northeastern University study showed that only a baby human could compete with mans best friend.
Students were showed fake newspaper clippings about a baseball-bat attack on a puppy, an adult dog, a year-old infant and 30-year-old adult.
They were asked questions to gauge their empathy and the adult finished last in sympathy.
Respondents were significantly less distressed when adult humans were victimized, in comparison with human babies, puppies and adult dogs, according to Northeastern researchers.
Only relative to the infant victim did the adult dog receive lower scores of empathy.
Click for more from The New York Post.
next prev A family in India is mourning the loss of conjoined twins who were born crying on Sunday, but died just 24 hours later.
The boys, who were born with two heads and shared a torso, two arms and two legs, had been given a zero percent chance of survival past birth.
Doctors who delivered the boys via caesarean section at Swami Ramanand Tirth hospital in Maharashtra, western India, reportedly said it would have been impossible to separate the pair had they survived.
Their condition was not detected until 32 weeks gestation, The Independent reported.
The babies were a case of dicephalic parapagus or two-headed twins, which are often stillborn, Dr. Sanjay Bansode, head of the hospitals gynecology unit, told the news outlet.
It is extremely rare and happens just one in a lakh (100,000) and chances of dicephalic parapagus twins are of around 10 percent of such births.
SORORITY SISTER DIES 3 WEEKS AFTER GETTING HIT IN HEAD BY SOCCER BALL The boys, who were born to a 32-year-old mother who has asked to remain anonymous to prevent potential backlash, weighed 8 pounds and were placed on a ventilator immediately after birth.
The family has three daughters and one son, and were said to be devastated upon learning of the twins diagnosis.
The mother did not know she was carrying conjoined twins until the 32nd week of pregnancy, Bansode said, according to The Independent.
They asked us to do anything to save the babies but such kids do not survive.
There is no possibility of surgery either as they share most of their body parts and in this case had just one pair of limbs.
Bansode said the hospital dealt with a similar case in 2014 involving a woman who was seven months pregnant with conjoined twins.
In that case, the babies died immediately after birth, SWNS reported.
Recent studies suggest that men have a particularly high prevalence of high-risk oral human papillomaviruses (HPV), which can lead to cancer.
There are more than 150 types of HPV, and while certain strains can cause benign growths like warts, a limited number can cause cancer at different anatomical sites, including the mouth, throat, anus, cervis and penis.
Oral HPV is a sexually transmitted virus and can be contracted through oral sex with an infected person.
Whos at risk?
Amongst men, those who have had many lifetime oral sexual partners have the greatest risk of carrying such high risk HPV strains.
While the number of tobacco-related head and neck cancers have declined in the U. S. thanks to a growing awareness of smoking-related risks, the incidence of oral cancer in men is still growing as a result of HPV.
This rise was most notable in men aged 50-59, and these trends are anticipated to increase over the next 40 years, making oropharyngeal cancer a significant health concern.
HPV and Cancer While most high-risk HPV infections go away within 1-to-2 years, and do not cause cancer, certain HPV infections can persist for many years.
Persistent infections with high-risk HPV types can lead to cancer.
HPV is so common that nearly all men and women get it at some point in their lives and are asymptomatic and never know.
In most individuals, their immune system clears the infection.
However, in some people the virus lingers in certain tissues like the oropharynx.
Screening and Prevention While it is possible to identify the virus by analyzing saliva, this test is not yet part of routine screening practice and is being predominantly used in research settings.
7 THINGS THAT MIGHT BE CAUSING YOUR INFERTILITY HPV vaccination can reduce the risk of infection by the HPV types targeted by the vaccine.
These vaccines provide strong protection against new HPV infections, but they are not effective at treating established HPV infections or disease caused by HPV.
For them to be effective, individuals need to be vaccinated prior to being exposed to such viruses.
Currently the Gardasil vaccine is approved for use in in males and females ages 9 through 26.
Given this age range, the vaccinations and discussions regarding the vaccine are largely being performed by pediatricians, primary care physicians and obstetricians and gynecologists.
Additionally, correct and consistent condom use may reduce HPV transmission between sexual partners.
However, because areas not covered by a condom can be infected by the virus, condoms are unlikely to provide complete protection against the infection.
In regards to cancer, there are oral cancer screening programs available and while there are no current treatments for the HPV virus itself, there are a number of excellent curative treatment options for HPV-related oral cancer such as surgery and/or radiation-based treatments depending on the site, stage and health of the patient.
Chemotherapy may added to radiation treatment in more advanced cases.
HPV related oral cancers have a very favorable prognosis with modern treatments.
Richard Bakst, MD, is an Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
Dr. Bakst is a board-certified radiation oncologist whose clinical practice is focused on the treatment of patients with head and neck cancer, lymphoma and breast cancer.
Babies spending their first Halloween in a Missouri neonatal intensive care unit celebrated the holiday dressed as superheroes and butterflies.
The newborns at Saint Lukes Hospital in Kansas City donned some of the tiniest and cutest outfits for March of Dimes annual Halloween costume party last week.
Some were dressed as Batman, Wonder Woman and Superman while others had a colorful butterfly or pumpkin costumes.
MICHIGAN WOMAN MAKES HALLOWEEN COSTUMES FOR NICU BABIES Every day a child is in the NICU can be frightening and uncertain, but holidays are especially tough, as families miss the normal joys of celebrations at home.
Rebecca Keunen, March of Dimes/NICU Family Support Coordinator, said in a news release.
Babys first Halloween is a day theyll want to remember and celebrate and March of Dimes is here with them at Saint Lukes to help, she added.
Volunteers helped create the costumes and professional photographers took pictures of the tiny trick or treaters.
The photos were given to the families as a keepsake afterward.
Babies are placed in the NICU after they are born too early, small, or have a medical condition that require intensive care.
If youve made the monumental decision to get pregnant and its taking longer than anticipated, youve likely found yourself in the midst of an emotional stormwithout an umbrella.
The unsettling mix of anger, frustration, defeat and disappointment comes from feeling vulnerable and out of control, said Jessica Zucker, Ph.D., a Los Angeles-based psychologist specializing in womens health.
Were used to thinking that if we try hard enough for something, we can attain it, she explained.
But thats not always the case with pregnancy."
You can get as straight-A about it as you want, Zucker added.
"But theres no knowing when and if it will happen.
The truth is, every woman is different and every situation, unique.
PAIN DRUGS IN PREGNANCY TIED TO ADHD There are a multitude of reasons someone might not be able to get pregnant, said Alexis Melnick, ob-gyn at New York-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center.
Some are medical, others environmental.
The good news is that many such conditions are treatable.
If youre in your 30s and have been trying for a year or more without success, or you're in your 40s and have passed the six-month point, here are some common culprits that may be standing between you and mamahood: Endometriosis Menstrual cramps in themselves wont impede your chances of conceiving.
But severe cramps are a symptom of endometriosis, which can lead to infertility.
The most common symptom of the condition, which occurs when the uterine lining grows outside the uterus, is painful periods, said Melnick.
Others include chronic pelvic pain and discomfort during intercourse.
Around 10 percent of women suffer from endometriosis, and up to 50 percent of those women have difficulty getting pregnant.
However, diagnosing it can be tough, since a blood test or ultrasound wont do the trick.
If youre diagnosed with the condition after receiving diagnostic laparoscopic surgery, a reproductive endocrinologist may recommend surgery or another treatment.
In mild cases, basic assisted reproductive techniques such as IVF can help, said Melnick.
Anovulation Anovulation, or the absence of ovulation, can also hamper your chances of conceiving.
There are multiple anovulation triggers, including polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a condition that wreaks havoc with estrogen and progesterone levels; obesity; primary ovarian insufficiency (POI), typically caused by chromosomal defects or genetic mutations; thyroid dysfunction; hyperprolactinemia, a hormonal condition; and excessive exercise.
Understanding the cause of anovulation is key to treatment, said Melnick.
In some cases, as with thyroid dysfunction or hyperprolactinemia, the problem can be reversed with medication.
In others, patients may require fertility treatment.
Uterine Fibroids Uterine fibroids (a.k.a.
benign tumors) can cause infertility.
Submucosal fibroids, those within the uterine cavity, are the ones that we worry about from a fertility standpoint because they can hinder implantation, said Melnick.
Two tests, a saline sonogram or hysterosalpingogram (HSG), are used to evaluate the uterine cavity.
Fibroids within the cavity can be removed in a minimally-invasive surgical procedure called a hysteroscopy.
(Larger fibroids sometimes require a second surgery.)
Fallopian Tube Damage Your fallopian tubes may also be at fault.
Tubal damage, a complete or partial blocking and/or scarring of the tubes, can result from a variety of causes, Melnick said.
One that may surprise you: STIs, particularly chlamydia.
Approximately one-quarter of all diagnosed infertility cases in the U.S. stem from a tubal factor, according to Columbia University Medical Center.
An HSG can determine whether your tubes are open or closed.
Tubal reconstructive surgery can repair minimally-damaged fallopian tubes.
In more severe cases, IVF can actually bypass the tube and help you conceive.
Your Partner Another issue not to be overlooked: your partner.
Melnick said male fertility is the sole cause in 20 percent of couples, and contributes to infertility in another 30 to 40 percent.
Before you seek any type of fertility treatment, she recommends that your partner get a semen analysis to see if his little swimmers are capable of backstroking their way to the cervix, uterus, and fallopian tubes.
If not, artificial insemination and IVF are both viable options.
Tobacco Smoke Aside from medical conditions, there are many environmental factors that could lower your chances of conceiving.
Mark Payson, M.D., the practice director of the Colorado Center for Reproductive Medicine Northern Virginia, calls tobacco smoke environmental enemy #1 when youre trying to get pregnant.
FDA MOVES TO REVOKE CLAIM THAT SOY PROTEIN PROTECTS THE HEART It not only causes a significant decrease in fertility, it also causes complications in pregnancy, he said.
Stress Another major environmental factor?
Stress.
While Payson acknowledges that a little angst and agitas allows you to perform well in daily life, chronic stress can trigger hormonal changes that affect almost all organ systems.
In some cases, stress will lead a woman to stop ovulating so that her menstrual period changes or stops altogether, he said.
Removing yourself from a stressful work environment by scheduling a pre-babymoon works wonders for some, while others benefit from moderate exercise, meditation, yoga or acupuncture.
Above all, its crucial to engage in any activities that kept you feeling grounded, positive, and productive before you started trying to conceive.
Its tempting to get so focused on getting pregnant that other things go mute, Zucker explained.
But that only adds to the pain.
This article first appeared on Women's Health.
The death of a 16-year-old football player has been attributed to blunt force trauma, and ruled accidental after he collapsed during a blocking play in an Oct. 20 game.
Carlos Sanchez, who played for Moon Valley High School in Arizona, reportedly fell to the ground during the play and hit his head.
Sanchez was rushed to John C. Lincoln North Mountain Hospital in critical condition, and later pronounced dead, AZCentral.com reported.
Fellow parents on the team set up a GoFundMe page to help support the family, which had raised more than $34,000 in seven days.
Carlos as described by his teammates, was a very good young man, very caring, very responsible and had so much respect from peers and others who may have met him, the fundraising page said.
All of the above, came from being part of a loving family.
Carlos was the oldest child of Carlos and Rosario Sanchez and was a big brother to 2 siblings.
SORORITY SISTER DIES 3 WEEKS AFTER GETTING HIT IN HEAD BY SOCCER BALL While Sanchezs coach said he was unable to comment on the play, teammates have spoken out about the injury.
I was on the field and I turned around and (saw) him standing and then the next thing you know he was laying on the ground not moving at all, teammate Bobby Carlon told AZCentral.com.
They carried him off the field and took him to the hospital.
A school district spokeswoman told AZCentral.com that their focus continues to be to support the Sanchez family.
Sanchez was a junior at the high school, and played both linebacker and running back for the team.
The medical examiner said it would take months to complete a full report.
The New Jersey attorney general's office has warned parents to check for marijuana-laced Halloween candy.
The office posted a public awareness document about possibly tainted treats in a Oct. 24 tweet.
"There is a significant presence of marijuana candy and other edible forms in New Jersey and nearby states," the leaflet said.
"The presence of these edible forms of marijuana pose great risk to users, especially to children, who may accidentally receive marijuana candy during Halloween."
The state's attorney general's office also recommended that people use latex or vinyl gloves when they handle candy that could be infused with the drug.
The warning said adults should be looking out "for unusual candy packaging (e.g.
homemade packages, such as plastic bags)."
"In addition to the packaging, marijuana candy can have an odor similar to that of the marijuana plant making it easier to identify," it said.
UNIVERSITIES ISSUE GUIDES, THREATS AND COUNSELING FOR 'OFFENSIVE' HALLOWEEN COSTUMES The extra precaution comes after, according to the attorney general's office, a 10-year-old boy "was sent to the emergency room after ingesting a marijuana infused gummy candy."
Advocates say marijuana candy has seemingly become the new "razor blades in the apples" Halloween urban myth, with police around the country sharing the message despite the lack of any known cases.
Sharon Lauchaire, a spokeswoman for the state attorney general, said there have been "several instances" in the state and elsewhere of children becoming ill after eating edible marijuana.
She declined to respond to follow-up questions to cite specific cases and evidence of anyone doing this on Halloween.
"Our job is to try to prevent accidents whenever possible, and given the striking similarities between these edible drugs and legitimate candy products, a warning was necessary and appropriate.
We want our children to have a safe and happy Halloween," she said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
A Michigan woman is giving the babies in Beaumont Hospital- Royal Oaks Neonatal Intensive Care Unit a special treat this Halloween.
Ingrid Peeples and her friend, Sarah Roberts, have created dozens of Halloween costumes to lay over the tiny babies who are in Royal Oaks NICU during their first Halloween.
My daughter was here at Royal Oak NICU when she was born prematurely, Peeples told FOX 2.
She is 4 and 1/2 years now, so its a near and dear place to my heart.
One baby is dressed as a taco, while another is dressed as a jar of peanut butter.
Others are dressed as a Hersey kiss, a donut, or a superhero.
NEW JERSEY AUTHORITIES WARN OF MARIJUANA-LACED HALLOWEEN CANDY Baby Jensen, who was born 11 weeks early, is dressed as a latte.
"I was so excited because we were hoping he would be home for Halloween," Kaitlyn Barber, Jensen's mother, told FOX 2.
"But since he is not we still get to dress him up."
Tiffany Nwabudes daughter, Paris, is also in the NICU this Halloween.
Peeples made Paris a fitting costume -- a princess.
"I think it is so beautiful," Nwabude said.
"It was so nice for the lady to make these for them.
She made it special for them because we wanted her to be a princess so she went back and made this special for her.
Peeples said that she wanted to create the costumes to cheer up everyone who cant be home to celebrate the candy-filled holiday.
My friend and I know, we how hard it is to be in the NICU and bring a little something fun," Peeples said.
"Some smiles to parents' faces and to have some sort of memory for the baby, is why we did it."
The study was published on Tuesday in the journal Obesity.
The lead author, Kevin Hall, chief of the Integrative Physiology Section at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, and his colleagues also presented their work at the Obesity Societys annual meeting.
Although the study is very small and must be replicated, Dr. Hall said, it is the first to assess obese people years after they lost weight with state-of-the-art methods to measure the calories they had consumed and the amount of exercise they had done.
The researchers did their measurements when the contestants were chosen, and again at six weeks, 30 weeks and six years after the contest began.
After The Biggest Loser, Their Bodies Fought to Regain Weight The findings here are important, said Rena Wing, a psychiatry professor at Brown University and a founder of the National Weight Control Registry, which includes more than 10,000 people.
The food eaten is the key determinant of initial weight loss.
And physical activity is the key to maintenance, she said.
The study also helps explain why that might be.
One consequence of weight loss among the Biggest Loser participants was a greatly slowed metabolism.
The subjects were burning an average of 500 fewer calories a day than would be expected, Dr. Hall and his colleagues found.
In essence, their bodies were fighting against weight loss.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Those who kept the weight off are countering the drop in metabolism with physical activity, Dr. Hall said.
During the initial weight loss, the equation was different.
Then, the difference between how much weight Biggest Loser contestants lost could be explained by the number of calories they cut from their diets.
The amount of exercise did not distinguish those who lost more from those who lost less.
The contestants competed for six months to see who could lose the most weight.
Participants followed a grueling diet and an exhausting exercise program.
Contestants average weight at the start of the show was 329 pounds.
At the end, it was 200 pounds, a 129-pound loss.
But six years after the study ended, their average weight rebounded to 290 pounds, just 38 pounds less than when they started.
That average, though, hid wide variations.
To learn more, Dr. Hall and his colleagues divided the group of 14 into two.
There were the regainers, the seven participants who ended up after six years weighing five pounds more on average than they had at the start.
Photo And there were the maintainers, the seven who maintained an average weight loss of 81 pounds.
To measure the number of calories the contestants burned, the researchers asked the subjects to drink doubly labeled water, in which hydrogen and oxygen atoms are at least partially replaced by stable isotopes, which have a different atomic mass.
The oxygen isotopes appear in carbon dioxide exhaled by subjects, which allowed the researchers to estimate the average amount exhaled each day.
The more calories burned, the more carbon dioxide exhaled.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Some Biggest Loser contestants including the first author, Dr. Jennifer Kerns, now an obesity specialist at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Washington said the conclusions of the new study confirmed their own experiences.
Dr. Kerns, a contestant in Season 3 of the show, says she has managed to keep off 100 pounds only by tracking everything she eats and by exercising on an elliptical cross-trainer for 35 to 40 minutes a day.
In addition, her job requires her to walk around the hospital seeing patients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She has learned that she cannot relax this regimen if she wants to maintain her weight.
My natural tendency is to regain, she said.
Erinn Egbert was a candidate for Season 8 of the Biggest Loser but ultimately did not make the cut.
So she went home to figure it out on my own.
She hired two trainers and followed a diet and exercise program while she finished her senior year at Ohio State University.
She weighed 237 pounds when the show began and lost about 120 pounds.
She has maintained a weight that is just eight pounds more.
She does it with rigid portion control and regular, intense exercise 45 minutes to an hour a day, Monday through Saturday, doing the Beachbody programs, a challenging combination of strength training and cardiovascular exercise.
Ms. Egbert, who is 30 and lives in Lexington, Ky., says she learned the importance of working consistently to stay thin, even with a slowed metabolism.
Photo You have got to keep at it every single day, she said.
Its a difficult task for virtually anyone, Dr. Kerns said: The amount of time and dedication it takes to manage ones food intake and prioritize exercise every day can be an untenable burden for many people.
Its totally unfair to judge those who cant do it, she added.
Dr. Hall agreed.
The idea that people who regain lost weight are necessarily slothful and gluttonous is an unfortunate stigmatization that is not based in fact, he said.
Danny Cahill, who is 47 and lives in Tulsa, Okla., is among those who found it increasingly difficult to keep up the sort of regimen he needed to avoid gaining weight.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He won the Biggest Loser competition in Season 8.
He weighed 430 pounds when the show began, and lost 239 of them.
For the four years after the show, he exercised more than two and half hours a day and gained back just 40 pounds.
Then the injuries began, forcing him to cut back his workouts to one and half hours a day.
His weight crept up to 235 pounds.
The next year, my body just started breaking down, he said.
I had a foot injury, a wrist injury.
I couldnt keep it up.
And he was exhausted.
His weight went up to 300 pounds.
For the last two years, his weight has remained stable at about 340 to 350 pounds, but only because I am eating as very little as I can, he said.
Thats the disheartening part, Mr. Cahill said.
Losing the pounds is one thing.
Keeping them off?
I am still struggling with it, he said.
Faced with these largely disappointing experimental results, researchers at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden and other universities began to wonder recently about heat.
Might warming muscles after hard exercise help them to regain strength and power?
To find out, they invited five fit, young men and women to a human performance lab and sat them in front of arm-pedaling machines.
Then they asked each volunteer to spin the pedals through a series of brief but grueling intervals, followed by 20 minutes of easier but almost nonstop exercise, while the researchers tracked their heart rates and power output.
This routine was designed to exhaust the volunteers arm muscles.
Many processes are involved in muscular exhaustion, but the one that is best understood is the depletion of the muscles glycogen, which is the name for their stored carbohydrates.
Once the muscles burn through most of this fuel source, they become weak, tired and cranky, like toddlers in need of a snack.
The Swedish scientists suspected that finding ways to rapidly replenish these stores might help the muscles to recover relatively rapidly from their fatigue.
So they asked their volunteers to consume large amounts of carbohydrates in the two hours after their session of hard pedaling but not to otherwise coddle their muscles.
Then on subsequent visits to the lab, they had the young people repeat the pedaling workout twice more, and immediately afterward, slip long cuffs over their arms that could be heated or chilled with water coils.
The cuffs were warmed during one session to about 100 degrees Fahrenheit and chilled during another to about 5 degrees.
The volunteers wore the cuffs for two hours while also downing carbohydrates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Finally, at the end of each session, the men and women repeated the interval portion of their original pedaling, since it was the most tiring.
And each of them could pedal hardest at that point if their arm muscles had been warmed beforehand.
Their power output then was markedly better than after the other two sessions, the scientists write in their paper, suggesting that their muscles had better regained strength.
Their power was worst after their muscles had been cooled.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But these results, while interesting, could not explain why heat might be goosing recovery, so the inquisitive scientists next turned to individual leg-muscle fibers obtained from mice.
They attached the fibers to a mechanism that could record the strength of contractions and then zapped the fibers with electricity so that they contracted, over and over.
The researchers noted when these contractions slowed, indicating the fibers had grown pooped.
They then tired other fibers before dousing some of them with glycogen and subsequently warming or cooling all of the fibers and restimulating them a final time.
They also examined whether warming or cooling had affected how much glycogen the muscle tissue absorbed.
As with the young mens and womens arms, the muscle fibers turned out to have recovered best after being heated but only if they also had been exposed to glycogen.
When the fibers had not received any refueling after their exercise, they did not regain their original power, even after pleasant warming.
The lesson of these findings, published in the Journal of Physiology, seems to be that warming muscles probably aids in recovery by augmenting the muscles uptake of carbohydrates, says Arthur Cheng, a researcher at the Karolinska Institute, who led the study.
This study looked only at one aspect of recovery after exercise, however, concentrating on how tired muscles might best regain their ability to generate power.
It cannot tell us whether warm baths might lessen muscle pain after long, hard exercise.
(Unfortunately, most recent studies suggest that nothing substantially reduces this soreness, except time.)
But the study does provide a rationale for filling your bathtub with warm water after a marathon or other hard exertion, grabbing a sports bar or chocolate milk to replace lost carbohydrates, and settling in for a long, revivifying soak.
The most pronounced similarities have little to do with the traditional demographic categories, like race, class and marital status.
Rather, other kinds of patterns have emerged: these men begin early, studies find.
They may associate with others who also commit sexual violence.
They usually deny that they have raped women even as they admit to nonconsensual sex.
Clarifying these and other patterns, many researchers say, is the most realistic path toward curtailing behaviors that cause so much pain.
If you dont really understand perpetrators, youre never going to understand sexual violence, said Sherry Hamby, editor of the journal Psychology of Violence.
That may seem obvious, but she said she receives 10 papers on victims for every one on perpetrators.
This may be partly connected to a tendency to consider sexual assault a womens issue even though men usually commit the crime.
But finding the right subjects also has complicated the research.
Early studies relied heavily on convicted rapists.
This skewed the data, said Neil Malamuth, a psychologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has been studying sexual aggression for decades.
Men in prison are often generalists, he said: They would steal your television, your watch, your car.
And sometimes they steal sex.
But men who commit sexual assault, and are not imprisoned because they got away with it, are often specialists.
There is a strong chance that this is their primary criminal transgression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story More recent studies tend to rely on anonymous surveys of college students and other communities, which come with legal language assuring subjects their answers cannot be used against them.
The studies avoid using terms such as rape and sexual assault.
Instead, they ask subjects highly specific questions about their actions and tactics.
The focus of most sexual aggression research is acknowledged nonconsensual sexual behavior.
In questionnaires and in follow-up interviews, subjects are surprisingly open about ignoring consent.
Men who rape tend to start young, in high school or the first couple of years of college, likely crossing a line with someone they know, the research suggests.
Some of these men commit one or two sexual assaults and then stop.
Others no one can yet say what portion maintain this behavior or even pick up the pace.
Antonia Abbey, a social psychologist at Wayne State University, has found that young men who expressed remorse were less likely to offend the following year, while those who blamed their victim were more likely to do it again.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
One repeat offender put it this way: I felt I was repaying her for sexually arousing me.
There is a heated debate among experts about whether there is a point at which sexual assault becomes an entrenched behavior and what percentage of assaults are committed by serial predators.
Most researchers agree that the line between the occasional and frequent offender is not so clear.
The recent work of Kevin Swartout, a professor of psychology and public health at Georgia State University, suggests that low-frequency offenders are more common on college campuses than previously thought.
Its a matter of degree, more like dosage, said Mary P. Koss, a professor of public health at the University of Arizona, who is credited with coining the term date rape.
Dosage of what?
Certain factors researchers call them risk factors while acknowledging that these men are nonetheless responsible for their actions have an outsize presence among those who commit sexual assaults.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Heavy drinking, perceived pressure to have sex, a belief in rape myths such as the idea that no means yes are all risk factors among men who have committed sexual assault.
A peer group that uses hostile language to describe women is another one.
Yet there also seem to be personal attributes that have a mediating effect on these factors.
Men who are highly aroused by rape porn another risk factor are less likely to attempt sexual assault if they score highly on measures of empathy, Dr. Malamuth has found.
Narcissism seems to work in the other direction, magnifying odds that men will commit sexual assault and rape.
What about the idea that rape is about power over women?
Some experts feel that research into hostile attitudes toward women supports this idea.
In general, however, researchers say motives are varied and difficult to quantify.
Dr. Malamuth has noticed that repeat offenders often tell similar stories of rejection in high school and of looking on as jocks and the football players got all the attractive women.
As these once-unpopular, often narcissistic men become more successful, he suspects that getting back at these women, having power over them, seems to have become a source of arousal.
Most subjects in these studies freely acknowledge nonconsensual sex but that does not mean they consider it real rape.
Researchers encounter this contradiction again and again.
Asked if they had penetrated against their consent, said Dr. Koss, the subject will say yes.
Asked if he did something like rape, the answer is almost always no.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Studies of incarcerated rapists even men who admit to keeping sex slaves in conflict zones find a similar disconnect.
Its not that they deny sexual assault happens; its just that the crime is committed by the monster over there.
And this is not a sign that the respondents are psychopaths, said Dr. Hamby, the journal editor.
Its a sign that they are human.
No one thinks they are a bad guy, she said.
Indeed, experts note one last trait shared by men who have raped: they do not believe they are the problem.
She called me this afternoon and told me I have lung cancer, and I have to schedule a biopsy.
I only vaguely processed the other cars on the road and the clouds breezing past the gray sky, the rest of the world moving on as mine suddenly stood still.
O.K., I said, buying time to find some of the words I had heard family members of my own patients use for reassurance.
There are still a lot of things a mass in the lungs could be, like an infection, or scar tissue.
Its not cancer yet, until a biopsy shows that its cancer.
So the saying in oncology goes: Tumor is a rumor, tissue is the issue.
I continued.
You havent gotten a biopsy, right?
Well, no.
But my doctor seemed pretty sure this was cancer.
Its not cancer yet, I said, more son than doctor, trying to convince myself as much as her.
Over the next few days, I played an unfamiliar role.
Rather than doctor providing information, I became the family member trying to obtain it, and also attempting to help schedule a procedure in an unfamiliar hospital many states away.
My mothers doctor faxed me the report from the CT scan, which described a lobulated mass over three centimeters long, typical of cancer.
Scheduling the biopsy proved more challenging, though, and after several phone calls the best the interventional radiology department could provide was a tentative date, 10 days in the future.
We entered the purgatory of waiting for a diagnosis.
As those days passed, my mother formulated a number of If this is cancer questions: If this is cancer, what are the next tests I will need?
Will I need surgery?
Chemotherapy?
Can I keep working?
When will we know?
Until the diagnosis was made, I could answer only in generalities, and speculate.
Three days after the biopsy of the mass in her lung, the one that looked ominous as a cumulonimbus cloud on her CT scan, my phone buzzed with her message: The test was positive.
Call me, Im home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I never imagined that the diagnosis would arrive by text.
Then again, perhaps texting allowed her, and me, some distance from the new truth that had just dawned.
I ducked away from my own clinic full of cancer patients to reach her.
I just talked to my doctor.
The biopsy showed cancer.
It was the first time she had used the word, and I noted again how she distanced herself from it, as if the biopsy had the cancer, not her.
Did your doctor mention what kind of cancer?
I asked.
She read the unfamiliar words from the paper on which she had taken notes.
Adenocarcinoma.
Consistent with pulmonary origin.
There was silence on the phone line as we both processed the information.
What is the next step?
she asked.
The next step was to determine how far the cancer had spread its stage.
In this respect, lung cancer is quite different from the cancer I treat, leukemia.
Leukemia doesnt have a stage, as it appears throughout the blood and bone marrow at diagnosis.
If we did try to tag a stage to leukemia, it would be stage 4 or stage 0: Either youve got it, or you dont.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The staging for lung cancer is predicated on the tumors size, whether it has spread to lymph nodes, the location of those lymph nodes, or whether it has metastasized to another organ or to the bones.
This is assessed by additional scans, and often more biopsies.
I explained this to her and asked whether she wanted the tests performed closer to her home in Rhode Island, or where I live and practice, in Cleveland.
What do you want?
she asked.
It was hard to answer.
I just wanted her better.
She decided to have her staging and consultations at my hospital, and flew west the following week to begin her appointments, starting with an M.R.I.
of the brain to check if the cancer had spread there, some lab tests and a PET/CT scan.
Positron emission tomography or PET scans involve injection into the veins of a radionuclide tracer attached to glucose.
Cells in the body that are active (and thus consuming glucose), such as cancer cells, accumulate the tracer and light up on the scan.
The test can thus show both the main tumor and areas where the tumor has spread.
Other cells that are active, which can occur with infection or inflammation, can also light up, though, leading to false positive results, meaning the scan shows cancer erroneously.
The next day we met first with the surgeon, who showed her the M.R.I.
scans on the computer screen in his clinic room.
He told her that her brain was free of cancer, and that it was young appearing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She was thrilled with both details and visibly relaxed.
That was my biggest fear, that it had spread to my brain.
Next, he showed the PET scans.
Heres the tumor we saw on the CT scan, he said, pointing at a fiery, globular mass.
And here are a couple of lymph nodes in your mediastinum, in the middle of the chest, pointing at two smaller flames where the cancer had spread.
Instead of stage 1 lung cancer, meaning cancer that was confined to the initial mass and could be removed surgically, she had stage 3 and would need to receive chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Then, only if the cancer regressed, would she be eligible for surgery.
It also meant the chance she would be cured had just plummeted manifold.
I want to be sure that those lymph nodes really have cancer in them, the surgeon said as much to her as to himself as he considered the PET scan.
Ill arrange for you to have a biopsy by a pulmonologist.
She met next with a medical oncologist, a lung cancer specialist and close friend who also coached my sons baseball team.
In the cruelest of ironies, he had recently lost his own mother to stage 4 lung cancer, and he regarded me and my mother with that special kind of empathy reserved for those who are equally embattled cancer soldiers and their caregivers.
He walked us through his treatment plan and also paused as he reviewed the PET scan.
Well biopsy those lymph nodes before starting any of this, he said, reinforcing what the surgeon had said.
Two days later, my mother underwent the additional biopsy, and an hour after that, the pulmonologist called me.
The lymph nodes were totally clear, he said over the phone.
No cancer.
The PET scan was a false positive.
I repeated the words back to him to make sure I had heard them correctly, and then choked up as a wave of relief washed over me.
She was back to stage 1, and would just need surgery.
I told her the good news in the recovery area, following the biopsy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Walking from the procedure, my mother and I ran into the medical oncologist and told him the biopsy results.
This man, whose own mother was denied any chance of cure for her lung cancer, was selflessly overjoyed at our good fortune.
He hugged us in congratulations.
I have to wonder, my mother asked him, would I have been treated with chemotherapy and radiation elsewhere, based only on the PET scan results?
He nodded, grimacing.
Unfortunately, that happens a lot.
My mother underwent surgery, and has now returned to work.
She had a great outcome, but she also had a strong, connected advocate, in me, and the means to travel to a specialty cancer center.
I was happy for her, but the experience was discomfiting.
It left me wondering how commonly cancer patients are treated inappropriately because they dont have that same access, based on tests that arent always accurate.
In her book, she recounts the experience of Courtney King, who first experienced crippling back spasms in her late 20s.
Ms. King was taking several dance classes a week and practicing yoga, and she thought the stress of these activities might be causing the pain in her tight, inflexible back.
But after a number of Feldenkrais sessions, she told Ms. Ramin, I realized that the pain had more to do with the way I carried myself every day.
Even after just one session, I understood what she meant.
When I make a point of walking upright and fluid, sitting straight, even cooking relaxed and unhurried, I have no pain.
The slow, gentle, repetitive movements I practiced in a Feldenkrais group class helped foster an awareness of how I use my body in relation to my environment, and awareness is the first step to changing ones behavior.
One common problem of which Im often guilty is using small muscles to accomplish tasks meant for large, heavy-duty ones, resulting in undue fatigue and pain.
The group class, called Awareness Through Movement, was followed by an individual session called Functional Integration with a therapist that helped to free tight muscles and joints that were limiting my motion and increasing my discomfort.
Using gentle manipulation and passive movements, the therapist individualized his approach to my particular needs.
The ultimate goal of both sessions is, in effect, to retrain the brain to establish new neural pathways that result in easy, simple movements that are physiologically effective and comfortable.
Although the Feldenkrais method was developed in the mid-20th century, neurophysiologists have since demonstrated the plasticity of the brain, its ability to form new cells, reorganize itself and, in effect, learn new ways to do things.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The beauty of Feldenkrais lessons is that they are both relatively low-cost (group classes average $15 to $25, individual sessions $100 to $200) and potentially accessible to nearly everyone.
There are more than 7,000 teachers and practitioners working in 18 countries, including large numbers in the United States.
You can be any age, strength, fitness level and state of well-being to participate.
The exercises are slow, gentle and adjustable to whatever might ail you.
Their calming effect counters the stress that results in contracted muscles, tightness and pain.
Many Feldenkrais practitioners, like Marek Wyszynski, director of the New York center, start professional life as physical therapists, although many other practitioners begin with no medical background.
They then undergo three and a half years of training to become certified in the Feldenkrais method.
Mr. Wyszynski explained that he starts by observing how patients are using their skeletons how they sit, stand and walk in ways that may cause or contribute to their pathology, be it spinal disc disease, arthritis, shoulder pain or damaged knee joints.
In accordance with Dr. Feldenkraiss astute observation, If you dont know what you are doing, you cant do what you want, patients are then given a clear sensory experience of how their posture and behavior contribute to their pain and physical limitations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For example, some people may use excessive force, clench their teeth, hold their breath or rush, causing undue muscle tension and skeletal stress.
Years ago, I realized that my frequent headaches resulted from an unconscious habit of clenching my jaw when I concentrated intently on a task like sewing or cooking.
Feldenkrais teachers do not give formulas for a proper way of behaving; rather, they rely on their patients ability to self-discover and self-correct.
Once aware of their counterproductive habits, students are given the opportunity to experience alternative movements, postures and behaviors and, through practice, create new habits that are less likely to cause pain.
Mr. Wyszynski told me that there are more than 1,000 distinct Feldenkrais lessons currently available, most of which involve everyday actions like reaching, getting up from a chair, turning, bending and walking.
As a mechanical engineer and physicist, Dr. Feldenkrais understood that the job of the human skeleton was to accommodate the effects of gravity in order to remain upright.
And he wanted people to achieve this in the most efficient way possible.
Using two tall foam cylinders, one perched on top of the other, Mr. Wyszynski demonstrated a guiding principle of the Feldenkrais method.
When the top cylinder was centered on the bottom one, it stood in place without assistance.
But when it was off center, perched near the edge of the bottom cylinder, it tipped over.
If instead of cylinders these were someones skeletal parts that were askew, tightened muscles would have to keep the patient from falling over.
As Mr. Wyszynski explained, Good posture allows the skeleton to hold up and support the body without expending unnecessary energy despite the pull of gravity.
However, with poor posture, the muscles are doing part of the job of the bones, and with poor skeletal support, the muscles have to remain contracted to prevent the body from falling.
Kari Medeiros, 40, of Eastport, a tiny town in the states poorest county, earns less than $5,000 a year cleaning houses and pet sitting, and has back pain that has worsened to the point where she can barely mop and sweep.
With MaineCare I believe Id be able to find a provider who would see me, she said, referring to the states Medicaid program.
But a lot of people here dont vote.
So many families here are having addiction problems with their loved ones, and theyre not focused on going to vote even though those are the people that need it the most.
Under the Affordable Care Act, the federal government picked up the entire cost of new enrollees under Medicaid expansion for the first three years and will continue to pay at least 90 percent.
(States cover a significantly larger portion of the expenses of the regular Medicaid program.)
The law allows any citizen with income up to 138 percent of the poverty level $16,642 for an individual, $24,600 for a family of four to qualify.
The main arguments for expanding the program here are that it would help financially fragile rural hospitals, create jobs and provide care for vulnerable people who have long gone without it.
Photo But Mr. LePage and other opponents say that Maine should know better.
The state undertook a more modest expansion of Medicaid in 2002, under former Gov.
Angus King, an independent.
Afterward, Maine struggled with budget shortfalls and fell behind on Medicaid payments to hospitals.
People dont want to acknowledge the unintended consequences that Maine has already experienced, said Brent Littlefield, a political adviser to Mr. LePage who is serving as the spokesman for Welfare to Work, the committee leading the opposition.
He said that even with the federal government paying most of the cost a situation that could change if Congress eventually succeeds in repealing Obamacare the state could owe close to $100 million a year, according to estimates from the LePage administration.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Office of Program and Fiscal Review has estimated a lower state cost, about $54 million a year once the federal share drops to 90 percent in 2021.
Maine would not receive the full 90 percent match for parents of young children because many already qualify for the program.
Maines legislature, which is controlled by Democrats in the House and Republicans, by one vote, in the Senate, could move to block the referendum if it were to pass, but since it voted for Medicaid expansion five times already, supporters and opponents alike believe it is unlikely to meddle.
And the governor would have no authority to veto the outcome.
The only other threat would be if Congress succeeded in repealing the Affordable Care Act and ended the Medicaid expansion program.
Along with other frailty measures, that meant that surgery is not going to go very well, Dr. Robinson said.
In a frank half-hour conversation, he explained to his patient that he faced a 30 to 40 percent risk of dying from the surgery.
If he survived, he probably would endure a long, difficult recovery and might not regain the functional abilities he had now.
Dilemmas like these will grow more common as the population ages.
Already, more than a third of inpatient surgical procedures are performed on patients over age 65.
But about 15 percent of the older population, excluding nursing home residents, meets the criteria for frailty, rising to more than a third of those over age 85.
Theres a much higher prevalence in the Deep South and among African Americans, said Dr. Jeremy Walston, principal investigator at the Older Americans Independence Center at Johns Hopkins Medicine.
Geriatricians like Dr. Walston have been publishing research on frailty for nearly 20 years, as measured by tools developed at Johns Hopkins or by a Canadian group, and variants thereof.
The Hopkins approach uses tests like grip strength and walking speed; the Canadian index relies on health deficits, including chronic illnesses and dementia.
Both assessments do a good job of identifying patients vulnerable to health problems, regardless of chronological age.
A British group has used meta-analyses, for instance, to show that frail older adults are more prone to falls, fractures, hospitalizations, dementia and nursing home placement.
In the United States, though, its the surgeons who have picked up the banner, Dr. Walston said.
Theyre starting to use frailty to help make decisions about which procedures make sense for which older patients.
You can see why: Frailty involves decreased physiological reserve, which helps determine how patients respond to physical stress.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Surgery brings plenty of that, said Dr. Carolyn Seib, a general and endocrine surgeon at the University of California, San Francisco.
The effects of anesthesia and inflammation, the risk of blood clots or infection, muscle weakness caused by days in bed all can take a toll.
The more frail a patient is, the higher the risk of complications, Dr. Seib said.
Researchers have shown that after major operations including cardiac and colon cancer surgery and kidney transplants frail older patients are more prone than others to longer hospital stays, being readmitted within a month of a procedure and winding up in nursing homes after theyre discharged.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Theyre also more likely to die.
But a study that Dr. Seib and her colleagues published in JAMA Surgery this month shows that frail seniors face higher complications even after ambulatory surgery, outpatient procedures often considered routine.
Hernia repairs, thyroid or parathyroid surgery, operations for breast cancer patients and providers often dont think twice about these, Dr. Seib said.
Yet when the researchers looked at 141,000 patients over age 40 in a national surgical database, they found that serious complications were two to four times higher in patients with moderate to high frailty, although complication rates overall were low (1.7 percent, with .7 percent experiencing serious complications).
We have to take frailty into account for any operation, big or small, Dr. Seib said.
Although surgeons increasingly screen for frailty, I wouldnt say its routine yet, she added.
So she and other researchers recommend that before an operation, patients and families ask: Is my mother showing signs of frailty?
Should we do an assessment that indicates how frail she might be?
Unlike some conditions, frailty is something patients and doctors can actually do something about.
There are interventions that can improve or even resolve it, said Dr. Linda Fried, dean of the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and a pioneer in frailty research.
First, many surgical centers offer a prehabilitation program, shown to improve patients results through exercise, better nutrition and smoking cessation.
Undertaken even for a few weeks before an operation, it improves your bounce-back capability, Dr. Fried said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Physical activity, in particular, seems to be the key to preventing frailty and its progression, Dr. Fried added even for those not contemplating surgery.
Second, surgical decision-making is not a binary choice between patients agreeing to the standard operation or doing nothing.
Alerted to frailty, a surgeon might opt for a less aggressive approach or a different kind of anesthesia.
A patient, understanding that she may be looking at an altered future even if the surgery fixes the physical problem, will have her own priorities to weigh.
With frailty, Im going to counsel the patient differently, Dr. Robinson said.
Maybe change the surgery I do.
Maybe find an alternative.
Theres a spectrum of possibilities.
Take his patient with gallstone disease.
After their discussion, the man decided that instead of undergoing what would be, for him, a high-risk operation, he would go home and try to avoid foods that triggered his symptoms.
If the pain flared again, Dr. Robinson would insert a tube through his skin to drain the gallbladder, a much safer procedure.
Because the tube, and the bag into which it drained, would be permanent, it might not represent a welcome alternative for a healthier patient.
But for a physiologically vulnerable older adult, Dr. Robinson said, its a whole different equation.
This was an idea that I had, where if we can teach young people not to take drugs, Mr. Trump said, its really, really easy not to take them.
He shared the story of his brother Fred, who he said had struggled with alcohol addiction throughout his life and implored Mr. Trump never to take a drink advice the president said he had heeded.
We are going to overcome addiction in America, the president said.
The designation of a public health crisis, formally made by Eric D. Hargan, the acting health secretary, would allow for some grant money to be used to combat opioid abuse, permit the hiring of specialists to tackle the crisis, and expand the use of telemedicine services to treat people in rural areas ravaged by opioid use, where doctors are often in short supply.
Mr. Trump said his plan would include a requirement that federally employed prescribers be trained in safe practices for opioid prescriptions, and a new federal initiative to develop nonaddictive painkillers, as well as intensified efforts to block shipments of fentanyl, a cheap and extremely potent synthetic opioid manufactured in China, into the United States.
Photo He also said he would act to suspend a rule that currently prevents Medicaid from funding many drug rehabilitation facilities.
We cannot allow this to continue, Mr. Trump said.
It is time to liberate our communities from this scourge of drug addiction.
Congressional Republicans as well as law enforcement and physicians groups said the presidents announcement was a crucial first step in building awareness about the opioid crisis and confronting its causes and devastating effects.
In a statement, Patrice A. Harris, the chairwoman of the American Medical Associations opioid task force, described it as a move that will offer needed flexibility and help direct attention to opioid-ravaged communities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There is plenty of work ahead, Dr. Harris added, and the emergency declaration adds further urgency to this epidemic.
But Democrats criticized Mr. Trump for what they characterized as a tepid response to an urgent calamity, arguing that his failure to request funding for the effort revealed a lack of seriousness about addressing the issue.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
America is hemorrhaging lives by the day because of the opioid epidemic, but President Trump offered the country a Band-Aid when we need a tourniquet, said Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Instead of a commitment to emergency funding for our states and communities, President Trump offered empty words and half-measures.
Andrew Kolodny, the co-director of opioid policy research at the Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis University, said that no emergency declaration would do much to alleviate the impact of opioids without a substantial commitment of federal money and a clear strategy for overhauling the way the country treats addiction.
What we need is for the president to seek an appropriation from Congress, I believe in the billions, so that we can rapidly expand access for effective outpatient opioid addiction treatments, Dr. Kolodny said in an interview.
Until those treatments are easier to access than heroin or fentanyl, overdose deaths will remain at record-high levels.
Mr. Trumps campaign promise to focus on the opioid crisis helped propel him to a crucial victory in New Hampshires primary last year.
As president, he appointed an opioid commission in March, installing Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, a rival for the Republican nomination who had championed the issue during the 2016 race, as chairman.
In July, the commission recommended that the president declare a national emergency either under the Stafford Act, which would have allowed the allocation of Federal Emergency Management Agency funds, or the Public Health Service Act, the option Mr. Trump chose.
Although Mr. Trump called the opioid crisis a national emergency over the next month, he did not sign a formal declaration of the designation, and the idea ran into stiff resistance in his administration to making an open-ended commitment of federal funds to deal with an issue that has shown no signs of abating.
Administration officials argued that a national emergency declaration was not necessary or helpful in the case of the opioid crisis, and that the powers associated with a public health emergency were better suited to address the issue.
They said the White House would soon send Congress a request for money to combat opioids, with the goal of including it in a year-end spending package.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Christie praised the president on Thursday for what he called bold action to address the opioid crisis, and said the commission would put forth a comprehensive plan next week.
Beyond the lack of funding, it is unclear how much impact the public health declaration will have in the short term, given that Mr. Trump has yet to name central players who would carry it out.
That includes a drug czar to steer a broader strategy on opioids and a secretary of health and human services who would tailor policies and identify sources of funding.
Among the questions left unanswered by the presidents announcement is whether the Department of Health and Human Services will use its authority under the public health declaration to negotiate lower prices for naloxone, a drug that quickly counteracts the effects of opioid overdoses.
Lawmakers and public health and anti-addiction organizations have argued that such a measure is crucial to expand access to the drug.
Jim Hood, a founder and the chief executive of Facing Addiction, who lost his 20-year-old son, Austin, to an accidental overdose five years to the day before Mr. Trumps announcement, said he was grateful that the president took the time to talk about a crisis that had too often been ignored, but worried that his message missed the mark.
That undercurrent that if all of you just decided not to do this, wed be in a better place I can tell you, my son did not decide that he wanted to become addicted, much less die, Mr.
Hood said.
We might have been much better served by framing this as a very serious illness, a very serious health issue.
Advertisement The Opioid Epidemic: A Crisis Years in the Making Image Examining the body of a woman who died of an overdose in August.
Credit Todd Heisler/The New York Times The current opioid epidemic is the deadliest drug crisis in American history.
Overdoses, fueled by opioids, are the leading cause of death for Americans under 50 years old killing roughly 64,000 people last year, more than guns or car accidents, and doing so at a pace faster than the H.I.V.
epidemic did at its peak.
President Trump declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency on Thursday, though he did not release additional funding to address it.
Had he declared it a national emergency, as he promised to do in August, it would have led to the quick allocation of federal funds.
The New York Times has been covering the outbreak from when it started bubbling up in towns around the United States years ago to now, as it decimates communities and families.
Here is a roundup of our best reporting on the epidemic, including short answers to hard questions about it.
Snapshots of a Public Health Crisis A team of reporters went inside the epidemic, from New England to safe injection areas in the Pacific Northwest, to explore the experiences of addicts and those trying to stem the tide.
I dont know how Im alive, honestly, one Massachusetts woman said.
Here are their stories .
Image Even babies are affected by the crisis, with a surge of newborns dependent on opioids.
Credit Ty Wright for The New York Times The youngest members of society have not been exempt from the crisis.
Toddlers and young children are increasingly being found unconscious or dead after consuming an adults drugs, and a surge of opioid-dependent newborns has forced doctors to rethink treatment .
The Numbers Our reporters have been deciphering and providing context to masses of data about the many and varied ways opioids are affecting Americans.
Image How overdose deaths rippled across the United States.
Credit Haeyoun Park and Matthew Bloch/The New York Times Illustrated in a series of maps , heres how overdose deaths rippled across the United States from 1999 to 2014, along with a breakdown of the large concentration of deaths in regions like Appalachia and the Southwest.
This interactive quiz aims to provide a deeper understanding of the mounting toll by asking readers to compare drug overdose deaths with other causes of death.
Video Its the deadliest drug crisis in American history.
It kills about 90 Americans every day.
Here are answers to some key questions about the crisis.
The governments account of drug deaths in 2016 was the first national data to break down the growth by drug and by state, which revealed that deaths involving synthetic opioids, mostly fentanyls, had risen 540 percent in just three years .
While Mr. Trump fulfilled his vow to add urgency to the rapidly escalating opioid problem, his declaration falls short of the national emergency declaration he had pledged.
These are the 28 currently active national emergencies .
Health Care Drug companies and doctors have been accused of fueling the opioid crisis, but insurers may also be playing a role by making it easier to get opioids than the drugs that treat addiction to them.
Here are the findings of our analysis .
Image A patient had to begin taking a hydrocodone, an opioid, to treat her pain after her insurer changed what it covered.
Credit Kevin D. Liles for The New York Times With the soaring death toll, routine autopsies are overwhelming medical examiners everywhere.
We spoke to Dr. Thomas A. Andrew of New Hampshire, which had more deaths per capita from synthetic opioids than any other state.
Dr. Andrew decided to stop practicing medicine and instead minister to the living about the dangers of drugs.
Im not an alarmist by nature, but this is not overhyped, he said.
The Upshot reported on prescription drug monitoring programs, a tool that could be more widely used to fight opioid abuse .
Jails and Justice Heroin users are filling the countrys jails, but recovering addicts are almost always cut off from their medication while incarcerated.
Connecticut, though, is trying something new: a methadone treatment program to help inmates successfully re-enter society.
We looked at the conundrums detention centers are facing .
Video The Times, in collaboration with the PBS series Frontline, followed 10 recently released inmates struggling to succeed on the outside.
On Staten Island, prosecutors are leaping into largely uncharted legal terrain to fight the scourge: charging dealers in overdose deaths .
And a New York Times Magazine writer traveled to a small town in New Hampshire , where one police officer has been trying to curb the rash of opioid overdoses.
Dealing in the Digital Age The internet is proving to be a grim tool in the opioid drug trade.
On Reddit, one of the worlds largest online communities, opioid forums have offered a place to buy drugs and find solace for people like Rachel Frazier, who posted on Reddit regularly and dipped into drug-related communities such as opiates.
She died two weeks after seeking drugs in a forum.
Dealers are embracing the dark web to anonymously send powerful synthetic opioids such as fentanyl to nearly every region of the country.
Despite dozens of arrests, new merchants many of them based in Asia quickly pop up to fill the void.
Sign up for California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state), delivered weekday mornings.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Jos Andrs, the larger-than-life, Michelin-starred chef who owns 27 restaurants, flew in on one of the first commercial planes to land in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria hit Sept. 20.
He quickly realized that people were going hungry, so he and a few local chefs started cooking.
It didnt matter that barely anyone on the island had power, or that the only water in those early days came from bottles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Before he knew it, he was giving food to the Salvation Army to deliver and dispatching food trucks to neighborhoods no aid agency had reached.
I saw children ride their bikes behind his food trucks, happy to get their only hot meal of the day.
I sat with him in a rural church and watched him cry as people prayed for him because no one else was sending food.
The story of emergency food relief in Puerto Rico shed light on the desperation across the island and underscored the lack of government aid, especially in the days immediately following the storm.
Weeks earlier, when hurricanes hit Texas and Florida, I saw a food story there, too.
Never before had so many American kitchens been taken out of commission at once.
So I spent time with cooks in Houston who were trying to regain a sense of normalcy by making kitchens out of gas grills, borrowed microwaves and coolers full of ice.
Similarly, after Hurricane Katrina, I traveled to New Orleans several times to report on how its food culture was recovering.
Just three weeks after the flood, we found only one restaurant open, but cooks were making red beans and rice on the street.
For a city that rises and falls on whats for dinner, taking inventory of its restaurants was one way to measure both devastation and resilience.
A food story also can bring a fresh look to other types of news stories.
The standoff between an oil company and protesters at the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation over a new pipeline in North Dakota had dragged on for months.
With winter approaching and the crowds of protesters growing, I wondered how they were going to feed everyone.
I bundled up and headed to the protest camp, where I found an odd mix of vegans in Ugg boots drinking yerba mate inside a donated Army mess tent, and Lakota and Pueblo cooks making buffalo soup and red chili stew in a string of makeshift cafes.
Even Trayvon Martins death in 2012 brought an unexpected food angle.
He was killed on his way home from a store, a packet of Skittles in his pocket.
The candy soon became a symbol of racial injustice and underscored his youth and the circumstances surrounding his death.
Dont worry.
Those of us who work in the Food section will continue to write restaurant reviews, recipe features and profiles that tell stories about culture, family and commerce.
We will continue to help people buy and cook good food.
Thats our bread and butter, as it were.
But when news breaks, youll find me at the table.
Healthy Humors founders, Deborah Kaufmann, Dina Paul-Parks and Karen McCarty, have more than 60 years of combined experience in health care clowning, mainly in the Big Apple Circuss Clown Care Unit.
When the circus went bankrupt last year, the three pooled their resources and formed Healthy Humor.
They recently signed Childrens Hospital in Philadelphia as their 12th client.
They felt it was especially important to maintain the Vaudeville Visits program, which the Big Apple Circus started in 2004, because there are few such programs for patients with dementia.
(Meanwhile, under new owners, the Big Apple Circus resumed performances in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center last week.)
A recent pilot study in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society reported that clowning reduced moderate to severe behavioral symptoms of dementia.
The study involved teams of two clowns working together, going from room to room to visit patients in Torontos long-term care geriatric homes.
We found that after the residents interacted with the clowns for 12 weeks, there was a significant reduction in their neuropsychiatric symptoms, said Pia Kontos, a scientist at Toronto Rehabilitation Institute and the lead author of the study.
Our study found elder clowns were just as effective as medication in bringing down aggression levels in seniors with dementia.
She said that the clowns wearing vintage outfits likely helped evoke memories for the patients.
I thought, intuitively, this would be pretty magical, and it was.
Vaudeville Visits is meant for people in geriatric residential care facilities and elders in critical care, and its performers clown around but are not dressed as clowns.
Instead, they play iconic characters meant to be easily recognizable to patients, including a cow girl, a used-car salesman and Melvis supposedly Elvis Presleys brother.
Photo When Ms. Kaufmann made her rounds, she dressed as a bride, often roping in eligible bachelors to play her future husband, and she enlisted women to be her bridesmaids.
Everyone recognizes a bride, she said.
Working with a partner, we can get the patients to engage, participate and have fun.
In one instance, my partner played my mother who tried to marry me off.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The performers use a mix of song, dance, juggling, puppetry, storytelling techniques and improvisation.
If there are family members or guests visiting, we can ask about things to trigger memories, Ms. Weiss said.
It was a magic trick that drew a response from one patient.
James Chin, 78, who has borderline dementia and was recovering from aphasia following a stroke, sat silently while Mr. Ellis and Ms. Weiss performed Sinatra tunes.
After a medley of songs and a few jokes, Mr. Ellis, in his role as Dapper Dan, pulled a red piece of paper out of his pocket, waved it in the air, and transformed it into a rose.
As he presented it, Mr. Chin whispered that he used to work as a magician and that he taught others the craft of magic.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The patients with dementia seem to grasp that these characters are there to create fun.
By their dramatic appearance, and their playful invitations, the performers are often able to access forgotten parts of an elders past, and coax participation out of residents who normally do not engage or those who have not responded to other activities and interventions, Ms. Kaufmann explained.
We make them feel essential, Mr. Ellis said.
He and Ms. Weiss are teammates.
They make their rounds twice a month at Saint Barnabas, and work so well together that theyre often asked if theyre married.
We are, but not to each other, Ms. Weiss said.
She got one patient, Thomas Guinee, 78, talking by pronouncing his name with a French accent and speaking a few French words.
Mr. Guinee responded in perfect French and explained that he was a World War II veteran who fought in France and met his wife there.
Then they asked for musical requests.
Mr. Guinee, a Neil Diamond fan, was slightly bothered that none of the young nurses were familiar with Mr. Diamonds music.
After the performers sang Sweet Caroline and a number of Mr. Diamonds songs, Mr. Guinee thanked them for spending time with him and for listening to a little bit of my story.
Maria Brilhante, who oversees the Surgical Step Down Unit at Saint Barnabas, which is where patients go after intensive care, said: A patient may have trouble communicating or not want to cooperate with the staff; then a Vaudeville Visits performer comes in and makes them laugh.
The performers over-the-top manner and corny jokes are effective for people with cognitive decline, said Ruth Drew, director of information and support services at the national Alzheimers Association.
Humor cant be subtle because subtle sarcasm doesnt work with Alzheimers and dementia patients, she said.
What makes Vaudeville Visits work is that the program uses humor from the past, something the patients are familiar with, said Dr. Theresa M. Redling, medical director of the Center for Geriatric Disease and Health Management at Saint Barnabas Medical Center and clinical assistant professor of medicine at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School.
She compared it to Reminiscence Therapy, which also involves music, entertainment, discussions and photographs from the past.
If you go to any adult day program or long-term care facility, Dr. Redling added, the music playing is not from today; its familiar to the audience.
They relate to it, just like vaudeville.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That was the case with another elderly patient on the dementia spectrum at Saint Barnabas.
He appeared to be sleeping, not focused, Ms. Weiss described.
We performed a number of songs and when we got to I Got Rhythm, this patient belted out the finale, Who could ask for anything more?
Photo People who carry the stomach bacteria known as Helicobacter pylori are at increased risk for ulcers and stomach cancer.
But even when antibiotic treatment has eliminated the bacterium, stomach cancer may still arise.
A new study suggests that one reason may be the long-term use of proton pump inhibitors, or P.P.I.s, acid-reducing medicines sold under brand names such as Prilosec and Prevacid.
Researchers studied 63,397 people in Hong Kong successfully treated for H. pylori infection, of whom 3,271 used P.P.I.s and 21,179 took H2-receptor antagonists, another type of acid-controller (Tagamet, Pepcid and other brands).
Over an average 7.6 years, 153 of them developed gastric cancer.
Compared with those who used H2 blockers, those who took P.P.I.s had more than twice the risk for cancer, and the risk increased over time.
The study, published in Gut, controlled for smoking, alcohol use, obesity, statin use, hypertension and many other factors.
Even after the eradication of H. pylori, the risk of cancer persists with P.P.Is, said the lead author, Dr. Wai Keung Leung, a professor of medicine at the University of Hong Kong.
But the absolute risk is not high, and I dont want to discourage people from taking these drugs when necessary.
There are people who benefit tremendously from them.
CS: There are essentially four choices couples make when faced with the conundrum you present, Not Feeling It.
They are: 1.
Compromise by agreeing to do what they might not otherwise do except to please a partner (i.e.
having sex more or less often than theyd prefer).
This works best when the compromise feels more like a collaboration than a demand.
2.
Change the rules of the relationship.
A couple might choose to open a monogamous relationship, for example, so the partner with the higher libido can have his or her sexual needs met from others while maintaining a loving partnership with his or her primary, but less sexually active, partner.
3.
End the relationship or at least the romantic/sexual aspect of it because No.
1 and No.
2 above are unappealing.
4.
Do nothing and feel miserable and resentful about it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
SA: I realize this may sound bleak.
Thats not our intention.
Were simply trying to get at the underlying truth here: that youre sick of being pressured to feel more sexual desire.
This pressure, by the way, doesnt just come from a partner.
It comes from the culture at large, which uses a hyped and fraudulent version of sexuality to peddle all manner of products.
If you dont want to just do it when it comes to sex, then dont.
But if you also love your partner and want to build a stronger relationship with him, youre going to have to confront the incompatibility of your desires.
The best way to do this is to start from a place of acceptance, then to figure out whether there are ways to compromise, to express your feelings and to meet each others needs without judgment or shame.
Thats what true intimacy, of whatever form, is about.
CS: I think the most important thing for any of our readers and listeners to take away from this column and our podcast is that you get to make your life and more than that, youll be happier if you do.
But to do that you have to be willing to rewrite the stories youve been told about a wide range of things; you have to consider things that might scare you.
Just as we told the previous letter writer that he had the right to ask for the sex he desired, you have the right to tell your partner that you dont desire it, or at least not often.
The truth has a powerful way of leading us to the light.
So speak your truth and hear your partners truth.
From that place of honesty, youll figure out where to go next in this relationship.
SA: One thing I can promise you, Not Feeling It, is that Cheryl and I are not in the business of dispensing cures.
It would be dishonest and arrogant to even pretend we have such powers.
What we try to do is help people confront their sorrows and disappointments.
Sometimes those arise from an unmet yearning for sex.
But as you rightly observe, they also arise from the misbegotten notion that the only true measure of romantic intimacy is carnal communion.
Regardless of how our bodies operate, thats not how the heart keeps score.
J.T., Mr. Jordan recounted, if you dont get out of the house now, Im going to call the police.
And he said, Dude, really?
And I said, Yes, really.
The townies have a name for these intruders: Red Bull Zombies.
Before hyper-caffeinated beverages like Red Bull, students could consume only so much alcohol before passing out.
Now, theyre no less addled but the stimulants keep them ambulatory, and so they blunder into the wrong houses.
There are as many students as there are full-time residents in the State College area.
Most locals tuck themselves away in quiet suburban enclaves.
Those who dwell among the students so value their neighborhoods historic houses, tree-lined streets and proximity to downtown and campus that theyre willing to put up with what they call the dumb stuff.
And some positively enjoy the antic energy of their young neighbors.
Theres a pulse to the neighborhood, said Joel Weidner, who called the police when he heard someone thudding around in his basement a few years back.
A drunken student had crashed through a basement window.
Suburbia would be boring.
While these victims of home invasions see the humor in their experiences, theyre keenly aware that their community, like so many college towns, has a serious drinking problem.
Just this year, after a night of alcohol-drenched hazing rituals, a fraternity pledge fell down a flight of stairs and later died.
In response, the university has increased its oversight of the Greek system.
Among new restrictions, it is reducing the number of fraternity parties with alcohol that it issues permits for, from 45 a semester to 10 (wine and beer only, and no kegs).
Its hard to know how often the Red Bull Zombies strike, because many trespasses go unreported and the ones that are called in are variously classified as criminal mischief, public drunkenness, underage drinking or disorderly conduct.
The State College police chief, John Gardner, guesses that 5 to 10 student invasions occur a year.
Theres potential for harm, of course, for residents who let their guard down as well as for invaders.
In 2014 in Sterling, Va., an inebriated teenager was shot and killed when he stumbled into a neighbors house.
Sometimes the residents havent locked up; sometimes the uninvited guest breaks through a window or flimsy door.
In most cases, its not an attempt to commit a crime, Chief Gardner said.
They truly believe thats where they live.
Or where their friends live.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Consider the head-spinning dialogue when Barbara Nilsen found an intruder on her couch, removing his shoes.
She: Why are you in my house?
He: Because you said come in.
She: I did not say come in, and you need to leave.
He: Well, why would I be here if you didnt say come in?
She: Because youre very drunk and confused and you need to leave.
Finally, he put his shoes on and left.
Jackie Sobel, who has lived among students for close to 50 years, called the police about a would-be intruder one snowy night: He wouldnt stop banging on the door even after she told him he was at the wrong house.
But when she saw that the guy was bare-chested, she brought him a T-shirt.
I couldnt stand to see him in the cold, she said.
Her neighbor Nina White, another half-century resident, also took pity on an unwelcome visitor.
Hers is the most famous story in the neighborhood, perhaps because it most resembles the trespass of Goldilocks into the home of the Three Bears.
She was making dinner when her daughter tugged at her elbow.
Mommy, Mommy, the child said, would you get that man out of my bed?
I want to play in my room.
Ms. White thought her daughter was being silly.
Theres no man in your bed, she said.
But the girl insisted three times, as in the fairy tale so her mother checked, to humor her.
Sure enough, a student was zonked out in her room.
Ms. White didnt scream.
She didnt call the police.
Instead, noting that, drunk as he was, her intruder seemed to have taken care to let his shoes dangle off the end of the bed, she pronounced him some mothers son.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When she woke up the mothers son and asked him if he knew where he was, he looked around at the posters of animals on the bedroom walls and said, Im in some enchanted land.
Ms. White lent the disenchanted youth a coat and escorted him to the fraternity house he had been aiming for in the first place.
Arguments about whether an intrusion is actually taking place and if so, who is the intruder and who is the intruded upon are common.
The first thing David McClellands couch surfer said when roused was, What are you doing in my room?
When Mr. McClelland tried to explain that he had it backward, his visitor challenged him to a fight just as soon as he returned from the bathroom.
Mr. McClelland was happy to show him the way.
He opened the front door and the student, clad only in boxer shorts, stepped outside and urinated on the front porch.
The police officer summoned by Mr. McClelland waited until the young man was finished, then cuffed him and hauled him to jail, dressed as he was.
So that was the end of that.
Except Mr. McClelland found that the student had also relieved himself on the couch.
When they met in court a few months later, and he realized the boy was a freshman in his first semester, his desire to punish evaporated.
Yes, somebody peed in the house, he said, but nobody got hurt, nobody was injured, nothing was stolen.
And when the student reimbursed him for the damage to his sofa, we got a nicer couch out of the deal.
Jackie Sobel obtained a different sort of satisfaction when she met her intruder in court.
I said I didnt want to take it any further, she recalled.
I just wanted to scare him as much as he scared me.
Photo LONDON The Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis said on Monday that it had offered to buy Advanced Accelerator Applications of France for $3.9 billion in cash, as it seeks to bolster its portfolio of cancer treatments.
The acquisition comes amid a slowdown in the value of deals in the pharmaceutical sector this year.
Typically, large companies in the industry have made a major impact on merger activity in the wider health care sector, often buying up smaller drugmakers with emerging treatments rather than spending billions of dollars on their own research and development.
But the total size of such acquisitions has slowed in 2017, as many big pharmaceutical companies have concentrated on integrating purchases made in recent years, rather than pushing through new takeovers.
The Novartis deal targets a business that develops and produces radiopharmaceutical products used in the treatment of tumors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Advanced Accelerator Applications, based in St.-Genis-Pouilly, France, employs more than 550 people at 21 production and research-and-development facilities in 13 countries.
It had sales of 109 million euros, or about $126.5 million, in 2016.
So what should parents do, faced with a tantrum?
I dont think any child having a tantrum can respond to what I hear all the time: Use your words, Dr. Egger said.
Instead, the parent should try to be a container, she said, to keep the child safe, and then talk about it afterward.
You have to see it like a storm, she said.
Manage the storm, then find out what was happening beforehand.
Things are unglued, Dr. Egger said.
What do children need to become reglued?
They need that feeling that theres a competent grown-up who is there to contain them.
The last thing you want, she said, is for a child to have the feeling of pushing against a wall, only to see that wall fall down.
Dr. Potegal suggested that parents think about what function a tantrum is serving for a child: Is it attention getting, with negative attention better than no attention?
Is there something tangible at stake, like food or a toy?
Or is there something the child wants to escape doing?
Tantrums typically happen when children are hungry or tired or when there has been some significant change in their routine, Dr. Egger said.
The children with more problematic tantrums, she said, are the ones who are triggered by anger and frustration, or by transitions they arent particularly tired, theyre just furious that its bedtime or bath time.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
And sometimes theres no clear trigger, which can be a sign that all is not well.
Parents describe the tantrums just coming out of the blue, Dr. Egger said, Do you want to wear your blue shoes or your red shoes?
and youre done.
Its less common and more concerning for children to have tantrums regularly with babysitters or teachers, and in fact, Dr. Egger said, kids who have tantrums outside of the home at school and day care, at church, outside, thats another flag.
Children with increased frequency of tantrums almost every day, or even more often and who bite, kick, hit or break things during the tantrums are the children to worry about, Dr. Egger said.
Such children are eight times more likely to meet criteria for impairing mental health disorders, such as anxiety disorders, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and depression, and also more likely to develop problems later on.
And when we follow these children into early and middle childhood, these aggressive early childhood tantrums may be associated with emotional disorders like anxiety and depression, she said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Most children who have tantrums that are really severe in duration and intensity arent just normally angry, they have something else wrong with them, said Dr. Gabrielle Carlson, professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Stony Brook University School of Medicine.
They may have A.D.H.D.
or depression or another psychiatric disorder.
For a long time, she said, tantrums were understood as aggression, but more recently, psychiatrists have begun to think of these children with a very short fuse and a very large explosion as being highly irritable, rather than aggressive.
A childs irritability may be a clue to some medical problem causing pain or distress; its a rare explanation for tantrums, but there are certainly children whose tantrums decrease or stop when they get treated for reflux, or some other cause of underlying discomfort, or for something that is impairing their ability to communicate and leaving them frustrated.
And children with developmental disabilities and autism also often have tantrums, so its important to assess the childs general development.
My son, who has grown up to be quite a nice lad, used to have really, really bad temper tantrums, Dr. Carlson said.
He would scream and yell and throw his shoes.
It would last about 45 minutes.
She would put him in his room, and then he would come out, he would tell me he was mad and sad.
She worried about it, she said, and she thought it was abnormal.
He turned out to have A.D.H.D., it wasnt just a normal kid being a little bit delayed outgrowing the terrible 2s, she said.
He had a developmental condition, and the oppositionality and poor anger management were among the signs.
So if tantrums are frequent or aggressive (hitting, kicking, biting, breaking things), parents should by all means get help, rather than blaming themselves.
If you find yourself changing family routines or avoiding triggers out of terror that youll provoke a tantrum, thats another sign that you should seek help.
And finally, if an experienced day care provider or preschool teacher says these tantrums are something out of the ordinary, take that seriously, though a healthy typical child can certainly have an occasional nuclear meltdown, and many of us have terrible memories of one public agony or another.
But if its happening regularly, talk to your pediatrician, think about possible medical problems, and get a referral to someone experienced in early childhood who can evaluate the child for mental health issues a child psychiatrist or psychologist or developmental specialist.
To say that extreme tantrums may be a sign of something else is only to say that that child and those parents may need some extra help, and the sooner the better.
Once at college, she replaced pills with bags of cheap heroin.
Her roommate moved out.
The drug rendered her friendless.
It was one of the most lonely times of my life, she recalled.
She grew thin and pale.
She would sit in the cafeteria alone, barely eating, occasionally nodding off.
The workers would ask, Are you O.K.?
She still managed to get decent grades and to keep her addiction hidden at her job.
By the end of the semester, Ms. Linnemans father knew something was wrong.
Over winter break, he gathered her sister and brother for an uncomfortable intervention.
She wasnt ready to seek help and went back to school.
She began skipping classes and eventually dropped out.
Then she was ready.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Nasty withdrawal symptoms make stopping doubly hard.
She spent four and a half months in a New Jersey rehabilitation center before joining the Haven, first as a resident, now as a frequent visitor.
She has been clean for a year and a half.
The opioid epidemic has ravaged communities around the nation deaths from overdoses now outnumber deaths from car crashes prompting President Trump to establish a federal task force and, on Thursday, to declare a public health emergency, allowing some grant money to be released to combat the problem and some laws and regulations to be eased.
The task force is to issue a plan of action this week.
Already on campuses, recovery programs are expanding and multiplying, populated by students who have struggled with dependence on Percocet (oxycodone) and Vicodin (hydrocodone), as well as those who have moved on to fentanyl and heroin, which are far cheaper on the street than prescription pills.
Little data exist on the extent of the problem among college students.
But according to a 2016 national survey of them by the University of Michigan, 7 percent of 870 respondents said they had misused opioid painkillers; 4 percent had done so in the previous year.
For 19- to 22-year-olds who hadnt gone to college or had dropped out, which is common when struggling with addiction, close to 13 percent said they had misused painkillers.
Sean Esteban McCabe, a Michigan researcher who has studied student addiction for close to 20 years, said misuse is most prevalent on competitive campuses, where students are more affluent and have better access to prescribed pills.
Studies have indicated that athletes in high-contact sports like ice hockey and wrestling, who are often prescribed painkillers, are particularly vulnerable.
Campus users, Dr. McCabe said, tend to be white, live in fraternity or sorority houses, and have lower grade-point averages.
Thanks to better prevention education and treatment, heroin use among college students has flattened out, and abuse of painkillers seems to be dropping.
A decade ago, 9 percent in the Michigan survey said they had misused within the previous year.
This news has not heartened advocates, though, largely because the number of deaths has actually risen.
Public health officials blame a black market flooded with more dangerous options like fentanyl, a highly addictive synthetic that is 100 times more potent than morphine.
It is the opioid that killed Prince.
Opioid-related deaths among Americans age 24 and under almost doubled from 2005 to 2015, when 3,165 were reported, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, based on data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The number of opioid-related emergency room visits by young people also nearly doubled over five years, from 52 per 100,000 patients to 97 in 2014, according to the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Last May, four students at Johns Hopkins University were hospitalized after overdosing on opioids during a late-night fraternity party.
Furman University in Greenville, S.C., lost a student a day before his graduation last spring when he overdosed on fentanyl.
A sophomore at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who had just spent the weekend with his mother at a Tar Heel football game, was found dead in his bedroom.
In his system were traces of the opioids he had tried desperately to kick.
States have urged colleges to take action.
New York and Colorado are earmarking millions of dollars to their public colleges for prevention education and research.
Maryland now requires colleges and universities to offer arriving students a drug-prevention class that focuses on the risks of opioid use.
Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, who heads the federal addiction task force, announced this year a $1 million increase for recovery dorms on public campuses in his state.
It is not uncommon for stores near campuses, health centers and dorms to stock free overdose reversal kits of naloxone.
And the return to school now includes a bustle of overdose-prevention training sessions for residence hall assistants, campus police officers and health care workers.
Last year, West Virginia University, in a state that leads the nation in fatal drug overdoses, started a parent support group.
Mothers and fathers of young users gather monthly, some calling in remotely, to tell stories of spoons going missing from kitchen cutlery drawers and students calling home, desperate for money, dropping out of classes or getting arrested.
Sometimes the parents cry uncontrollably.
Photo Prescription pills are part of the party mix.
Xanax, a highly addictive anxiety drug, has become a popular accompaniment to beer and vodka shots.
Adderall is crushed for snorting.
And Vicodin is ingested as a relaxant, available from students with prescriptions or on an online black market.
Dr. Joseph Lee, medical director for youth services at the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation, says that students act as mixologists, creating dangerous drug and alcohol cocktails for themselves and friends.
They are alarmingly familiar with what they can do to get high, but not the danger, he said, and they dont know where to get help.
Students in recovery confirm this.
Many of them say that in high school and college they were purposeful about their drug use, smoking pot to calm down and taking stimulants to speed up.
The technique worked well, until overuse and mixed use began to alter the impact.
Drugs that were supposed to do one thing did another.
Bart Arconti, a junior at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, got hooked on prescription painkillers in the basement of his best friends townhouse in a Baltimore suburb.
He was 17.
His friend had bought hydrocodone from a neighbor.
They crushed a pill on the washing machine lid and snorted it.
It became his favorite high.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Arconti hopes his story might inspire others to get help.
He stopped taking opioids four and a half years ago after several stints in rehabilitation.
He says users destined to become addicts generally experiment until they find the drug they want.
There is a lot to choose from, he said.
It should not be a surprise that todays 20-somethings have developed a taste for prescription pill cocktails.
Pills are ubiquitous in homes, schools and offices.
The National Survey on Drug Use and Health in 2015 found that 119 million Americans, 12 and older, take prescription painkillers, tranquilizers, sedatives or, increasingly among children and young adults, stimulants like Adderall.
Thats nearly half the population.
Painkillers in particular have surged.
The sale of opioids quadrupled between 1999 and 2010, according to the American Society of Addiction Medicine.
By 2012, doctors were writing 259 million opioid prescriptions a year, enough for every American adult to have his or her own bottle.
The National Institute on Drug Abuse has been encouraging doctors to reduce the number of addictive pills they hand out.
Parents are being told to dispose of unused painkillers, and drug companies are producing opioids in gel forms, so they cant be crushed to snort.
Dr. Andrew Kolodny, the co-director of Opioid Policy Research at Brandeis Universitys Heller School for Social Policy and Management, describes the drug surge as a pill-for-everything culture, which he says has significantly affected how young people feel about prescription pills when they go off to college.
Multiple studies have shown that the more available pills are to young people, the more likely they are to use them.
Today, if you grow up in a home where pills are used for every little problem, he said, you are likely to leave for college with a lot less fear about them.
Throughout October, a wall of painted sneakers has greeted visitors to the University of North Carolinas student union.
Its part of an exhibit entitled Step Into the Soles of Recovery, sponsored by the universitys four-year-old recovery program.
Alongside the shoes are the personal accounts of the students who decorated them.
The laces of one sneaker are wrapped tightly around it.
On a piece of paper nearby, the student wrote: For me, addiction always felt suffocating.
Frank Allison used heroin and drank heavily until he was 40; now 51, he heads the U.N.C.
recovery program.
He said the exhibit was a way for some of the four-dozen students in his program to talk candidly with the campus about their struggles, part of a push to destigmatize addiction and shift attitudes about treatment.
Mr. Allison wants to see a move away from a moral model that treats students with substance issues like failures with no self-control instead of like people with a chronic illness, which is how the American Society of Addiction Medicine defines it.
Physicians believe that this viewpoint will help frame the opioid problem for parents and educators, and help funnel recovery and prevention funds onto campuses.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story U.N.C.
offers a cadre of services that largely depend on where students are in their recovery six months substance-free or 60 months substance-free.
Two years ago, Mr. Allison persuaded administrators to offer beds on a drug- and alcohol-free dorm floor.
Three of his students currently live there.
Some choose to be closely monitored, through breathalyzers and urine tests.
The university helps them find therapists and coaches who accompany them to multiple recovery meetings a week.
Others have chosen more autonomy but attend Mr. Allisons workshops on meditation, mindfulness and balanced living.
Like others in the movement, he refers to addiction as a substance use disorder and refuses to use the word failure when referring to relapses.
Photo People dont misuse substances because they are bad people, he said.
I wasnt a bad person.
I was a sick person.
Having a substance use disorder is like having diabetes or a heart condition.
Mr. Arconti, now 26 and pursuing a degree in Asian studies, says that Mr. Allisons vision is reflected in the recovery community.
The group, mostly male, consists of former frat boys, rock climbers and hip-hop fans, many not yet of legal drinking age.
While some arrived in the program after too much dorm-room pot smoking, Mr. Arcontis addiction lasted years.
At the height of it, he made frequent runs to a drug-infested neighborhood in West Baltimore.
Some of his friends have since died.
Others are in jail.
That was before he woke up one morning in a seedy hotel room and decided his body was spent.
He committed to stopping.
When there are U.N.C.
basketball games Mr. Arconti watches with his recovery friends.
Together, they go to Durham Bulls games and amusement parks.
But it is at weekly meetings where the recovery ethos shines.
Students talk about sober dating, relapse temptations and struggles to make time for studying and recovery.
When they speak specifically about their addictions, they are quick to play down the drugs they gravitated toward.
Instead, they focus on the illness they share, and the future.
During a recent meeting, when it was his turn to talk, Mr. Arconti said: Im happy to be here.
Im mentally and spiritually feeling well.
Nationally, more students are seeking treatment.
Last year, about one in two patients at the Minnesota youth treatment center of the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation were being treated for opioid addiction.
In 2010, one in six were.
And the number of opioid-related claims for coverage by Blue Cross Blue Shield has almost doubled since 2010 for college-age patients.
The Haven at Drexel is part of a network called the Haven at College, which started in 2012 with one residence, at the University of Southern California, where young people could bond over a common struggle.
Now there are five four on or near California campuses and the one at Drexel housing more than 50 young adults.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The umbrella organization is run by two former users alcohol and heroin were their drugs of choice.
The cost is $1,900 to $3,800 a month, which can be defrayed by financial aid, alumni funds earmarked for recovery and Haven work-study.
Students who live in the houses receive meals, coaching from a licensed clinician and support from a house manager who monitors their whereabouts.
There are curfews for newcomers, penalties for missing them and chores for everyone.
But mostly, students say, there is camaraderie.
Most of the houses are near dorms or fraternity houses, in what Holly Sherman, a founder and the executive director, calls the war zone of party central.
Still, or perhaps because of this, it is not uncommon to have dozens of people show up for the Saturday night meeting.
Ms. Sherman says students arrive on campus and wonder: How am I going to stay sober if I cant find a sober community?
What we do is work with the university to establish that community for them.
Matthew, a 24-year-old former varsity athlete, sometimes attends the meetings.
A May graduate of Albright College in Reading, Pa., he asked that his last name not be used because he wants to work as a financial adviser or analyst at a Fortune 500 company.
But the opioid obsession he developed in college is getting in the way.
He hopes the experiences of other students, many of whom know well the allure of opioids but have managed to kick the habit, will rub off on him.
He was handed a Perc freshman year by an older teammate he looked up to.
At the time, he was at a small Catholic college in a Philadelphia suburb.
Im in college, he recalled thinking.
Lets experiment, lets party.
Hes cool.
I want to be cool.
Soon after, a dealer introduced him to heroin.
He began snorting before class, while doing homework and instead of going to parties and drinking.
The heroin made all the drudgeries homework, dining hall food, boring classes seem manageable.
During Accounting 101, Im in the bathroom snorting heroin, thinking: Ive got to get back to class.
When he transferred to Albright College, he dialed back on the heroin and returned to Percocet.
Last summer, shortly after graduating, he went to a rehabilitation center in Florida.
Im not ready to just throw my life away for a stupid blue pill, he said, perched on a weathered coach in the recovery center living room.
Still, he acknowledged, he struggles to kick the habit.
I dont want to do this for the rest of my life.
Ive got really big goals.
The tiny country is one of the worlds poorest and suffers from the same ethnic divisions and political violence that led to the 1994 genocide in neighboring Rwanda.
Photo The money, according to the African Mission Healthcare Foundation, which oversees the award, is paying for a new surgical building and refurbished laboratory, where local medical students will be trained in surgery, and also for operations and prosthetics to help 350 people walk again.
This years prize will go to Dr. Russell E. White, a cardiothoracic surgeon at Tenwek Hospital in western Kenya.
Thousands of Kenyans have heart valves scarred by rheumatic heart disease, which hardly exists in wealthy countries with ready access to antibiotics but is common in poor nations.
The valve damage, which can be debilitating or fatal, typically emerges years after a childs routine strep throat has gone untreated.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The money will be used to train cardiac surgeons to repair valves and to treat esophageal cancer and complications of tuberculosis, as well as other common local ailments.
It will also pay for ultrasound screening in schools and for antibiotics for students whose strep infections have not yet damaged their hearts.
Mr. Gerson began raising money in 2002 when a college friend, Dr. Jon Fielder, worked in a missionary hospital in Kenya and described an overwhelming dilemma: Faith-based institutions provide 20 to 50 percent of all medical care in Africa estimates vary but the American and European congregations that once supported mission hospitals have shrunk.
The doctors who staff these facilities struggle to buy modern equipment, but every day they spend away raising money means dozens of patients go unseen.
With the money he makes through the Gerson Lehrman Group, which pairs experts and investors seeking advice, Mr. Gerson also supports United Hatzalah in Israel, a network of 3,500 motorcyle-riding volunteer paramedics who whip through traffic faster than ambulances can.
The new award, he hopes, will galvanize attention around what these superheroes do.
But then the delusions turned on her.
The voices said she wasnt going to make it, there was no point in even trying, she was better off not being here.
Thats how she ended up in the hospital the first time.
They gave her medication.
The delusions eventually went away.
She was depressed for a long time afterward.
They gave her more medication, and then she got better.
Our son was 5 months old when the second episode happened, just as unexpected as the first.
My wife was on medication, she was seeing a therapist, everyone thought that the psychosis was a one-time thing, but it still happened, right on the eve of Halloween.
They now called it bipolar disorder.
I took my son out to explore the neighborhood in our improvised lumberjack outfits.
I read somewhere, maybe in a pamphlet from the hospital or on a forum online, that you shouldnt engage a psychotic persons delusions.
Talking about the delusions might breathe more life into them, and will only get the person more agitated.
Acknowledgment of the surreal is akin to nurturing it.
So when my wife was in the hospital for the second time, and found it reassuring to talk about her idea that heaven was a place on earth, I changed the subject.
Her delusion was pleasant, but it wasnt real.
And yet, as a parent, I love imagination.
I constantly make believe with my son, to make the world more exciting and interesting.
Theres Fred the Friendly Coyote, whom we sometimes hear at night in the hills nearby; the monster broom in our closet to sweep the scary monsters out of the house; the tree on our favorite hike where we leave acorns wrapped up in leaves for the friendly forest monster Totoro.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In my vision of parenting, the laws of logic, gravity and time dont matter all that matters is that the world feels safe and loving for our son.
Which I guess is a way of saying that heaven should be a place on earth.
The third episode of psychosis crept in slowly.
It began the same, with a loss of appetite, sleeplessness and anxiety, but we tried to avoid taking Giulia to the hospital.
We thought maybe she could ride it out at home.
But the night before Halloween, long after Jonas had fallen asleep, our plan came crashing down.
Giulias psychosis pulled her in different directions first, she said I was dangerous and needed to get away; then, she was the dangerous one.
I called the hospital and they said they wanted to admit her.
Giulia was calm, resigned to the fate of a third hospitalization, but I felt so torn.
Her focus this time was on the interconnectedness of all life on earth, a beautiful concept, one I too believe in.
I was taking her to the hospital because of an idea I wanted to pass on to our son.
But the way Giulia fixated on the idea and spoke of it over and over again made it clear she wasnt well.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I spent all day at the hospital, until I had to leave to take Jonas trick-or-treating.
Thankfully I tagged along with other families, because I couldnt muster the effort to match his energy.
We went home and fell asleep on the couch in front of the TV.
Jonas was still in his costume.
The next morning, Jonas and I got dressed and took our dog out for a hike to our favorite tree.
We gathered acorns and leaves along the way, so we could leave them as gifts for Totoro.
In the Japanese anime movie, Totoro comforts two young girls whose mom is in the hospital.
They exchange acorns as a sign of their affection.
This morning, more than any other, I needed Totoro to wrap Jonas and me in a cocoon of protection and affection.
So we went out to offer acorns for a friendly forest monster that doesnt exist.
Its been three years since Giulia was last hospitalized.
We have never known why her illness recurred at Halloween.
Jonas is 5 now he is dressing up as Harry Potter this year.
Ive continued to try to build a world with him where he feels included and comforted, even though I know that the world can be anything but.
I put on costumes, and invent magical creatures, all in the aim of building that sense of safety for him.
We hope that psychosis never returns for Giulia.
Its a terrible, disorienting experience, and Im relieved that we know which medications help her weather that storm.
But if it does, Im going to listen to her more as she wrestles with her conflicting thoughts.
Maybe theres more that I can do than just shutting down the things that arent real.
Maybe just as the make-believe world is a place of delight and refuge for Jonas, theres something profound or even helpful in what Giulia envisions.
Maybe.
Photo Q.
Is there any benefit to revaccinating adults against measles, mumps, whooping cough and other diseases making a comeback?
A.
Yes, there are some vaccinations that are recommended for adults, to protect themselves or infants too young for vaccination.
A student at a college with a mumps outbreak, for example, may be asked to get revaccinated to increase protection, because immunity wanes over time, said Dr. Amanda Cohn, a pediatrician and senior adviser for vaccines at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
In adulthood, mumps can cause severely swollen glands and testicles as well as aseptic meningitis, which produces such symptoms as fever, headache, stiff neck and vomiting.
The mumps part of the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine is the weak link, said Dr. Cody Meissner, chief of pediatric infectious disease at Floating Hospital for Children at Tufts Medical Center in Boston and a member of the National Vaccine Advisory Committee, which advises the federal government.
We could use a better mumps vaccine, he said, though theres unlikely to be a new one because of the economics of vaccine development.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With measles, anyone who was born after 1957 and received two doses of the measles vaccine in childhood should have lifelong protection, said Dr. Matthew Leibowitz, chief of infectious diseases at Newton-Wellesley Hospital outside Boston.
People who are unsure whether they got two shots in childhood should get revaccinated if they are traveling to areas where measles is common, including South America, Asia or Africa, he said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Most Americans who get measles now are unvaccinated or under-vaccinated, Dr. Cohn said, because they grew up in a country where vaccination was not required, chose not to be vaccinated, are too young for vaccination or have compromised immune systems.
Bhakta B. Rath, a former associate director of the naval laboratory, said, Isabella Karle took the task of deciphering the theory to provide not only a solution but also to show that it could be used to solve very complex molecules, such as proteins.
Other scientists took notice in the mid-1960s.
With a clearer picture of the structure of biological molecules, drug researchers now have a much better idea of the chemistry going on inside the body and how to formulate drugs to treat illnesses.
After I found some structures that no one could have dreamt of solving before, it started to get a lot of attention, Dr. Karle told The New York Times in 2013.
When Jerome Karle and Dr. Hauptman were awarded the Nobel for their work in 1985, Jerome Karle was deeply disappointed that his wife was not also honored.
He wanted to not accept it, Ms. Hanson said, and she told him, Go ahead, thats silly, you should accept it.
Photo Isabella Helen Lugoski was born in Detroit on Dec. 2, 1921, the daughter of Polish immigrants.
Her father, Zygmunt Lugoski, worked for the citys transportation system.
Her mother, the former Elizabeth Graczyk, ran a restaurant eventually with Isabellas help.
My mother realized fairly early that I like numbers, Dr. Karle recalled in an interview in 2015.
I soon became the accountant, so to speak.
Fresh meat was delivered every day, and the butcher left the bill that had to be paid once a week.
So once a week I added up all the numbers of the money that was owed him.
She skipped a couple of grades in elementary school.
Later, she learned she would need to take a science class in high school to attend a university.
By whim, she said, she chose chemistry, and the teacher, a woman, sparked her passion for the subject.
(Her father was initially disappointed.
He had hoped she would be a lawyer, as he had wanted to be.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She attended Wayne University (now Wayne State University) in Detroit for a semester before obtaining a four-year scholarship to the University of Michigan, where she received her bachelors, masters and doctoral degrees, all before she turned 23.
She met her husband while an undergraduate: The spaces in the physical chemistry laboratory were assigned in alphabetical order, so Karle was seated next to Lugoski.
I walked into the physical chemistry laboratory and theres a young man in the desk next to mine with his apparatus all set up running his experiment, Dr. Karle said.
I dont think I was very polite about it.
I asked him how did he get in here early and have everything all set up.
He didnt like that.
So we didnt talk to each other for a while.
Eventually, they did talk again.
They married in 1942.
Both worked in Chicago on the Manhattan Project, the government effort during World War II to develop an atomic bomb.
Isabella Karle developed processes to synthesize plutonium chloride out of lumps of impure plutonium oxide.
The Karles moved to the Naval Research Laboratory after the war and stayed there until both retired on the same day in July 2009.
Jerome Karle died in 2013.
In addition to her daughter Louise, Dr. Karle is survived by two other daughters, Jean Karle Dean and Madeleine Karle Tawney; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
Isabella Karle published more than 350 papers.
She was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.
In 1993, the Franklin Institute presented her with the Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science, and in 1995 she received the National Medal of Science from President Bill Clinton in a White House ceremony.
Dr. Rath, who supervised Dr. Karles work in Washington, said that her renown within the scientific community was so wide that when scientists from around the world visited the Naval Research Laboratory, they would very often make one request.
They all wanted to see Isabella, he said.
The bottom line is that metabolically healthy obesity doesnt exist, said Dr. Rishi Caleyachetty, of the College of Medical and Dental Sciences at the University of Birmingham in England, who was the lead author of the paper, published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology.
Obesity is not a benign condition.
But critics say the analysis, based on the electronic health records of 3.5 million British patients who were followed from 1995 to 2015, leaves a lot out.
Doctors records dont typically capture lifestyle habits, so the study fails to account for the wide-ranging effects of diet.
They classify weight status by using body mass index, a formula based on height and weight that doesnt distinguish muscle from fat.
Most important, critics say, such analyses dont take fitness level or physical activity into account.
Other studies have found a higher rate of heart failure among obese individuals, said Dr. Carl Lavie, the medical director of cardiac rehabilitation and preventive cardiology at the John Ochsner Heart and Vascular Institute in New Orleans.
But when it comes to coronary heart disease outcomes, studies that take both weight and physical fitness into account have concluded that fitness is more important than fatness, at least for the moderately obese, he said.
For the very large number of people who are overweight or mildly obese, I dont think its doomsday if they can keep themselves out of the low fitness level, Dr. Lavie said.
Dr. Caleyachetty, the author of the new paper, agreed that the lack of information about fitness and exercise was an important caveat.
Those people who are metabolically healthy, obese and vigorously active may have a decreased risk of developing cardiovascular disease, he conceded.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Critics say thats an important message to convey, because many people will find it easier to embark on an exercise regimen and stick with it than to lose weight and maintain the weight loss.
I do think thats a better message than telling people, You better not gain weight, Dr. Lavie said.
People arent trying to gain weight.
Theyre not trying to get to be obese.
A better message would be to tell people that if they get themselves to be more physically active, they can improve their prognosis, despite carrying a few extra pounds.
Thats a better message, and a more obtainable message.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But Jennifer W. Bea, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Arizona Cancer Center who was a co-author of an editorial accompanying the new study, said, we havent heard the whole story yet and questioned whether someone can be obese but metabolically healthy.
Obesity itself is a metabolic disorder, Dr. Bea said, noting that being overweight and obese is often associated with low-grade inflammation that may contribute to cardiovascular disease, regardless of metabolic measures.
That doesnt mean that weight trumps all.
Indeed, the study found that individuals who were considered to be of normal weight but who had a single risk factor such as diabetes, high blood pressure or high cholesterol were actually at greater risk for coronary heart disease than the healthy obese people.
The messaging is always, lose weight no matter what, said Patrick Bradshaw, an epidemiologist at the School of Public Health at the University of California, Berkeley.
But when youre at normal weight, youre not given a lot of lifestyle guidance.
Your doctor may say exercise and eat right, but if you have these metabolic abnormalities youre at higher risk of disease, and you may need more intensive lifestyle modifications not to lose weight, but to improve health.
One of the messages of this new paper is that metabolic health is important regardless of your weight, Dr. Bradshaw said.
That goes for people who are considered underweight as well.
The new study found, for example, that underweight individuals with no metabolic problems were at higher risk for stroke than normal weight, overweight or obese people with no metabolic problems, and if underweight people had metabolic issues, their risk increased even further.
Interestingly, while the risks of being overweight and obese draw scrutiny, doctors are often at a loss to explain the risks of being too thin.
Photo Underweight women are at increased risk for early menopause, a new study has found.
This study, in Human Reproduction, followed 78,759 premenopausal women ages 25 to 42 beginning in 1989.
Over the following 22 years, 2,804 of them reported natural menopause before age 45.
After controlling for smoking, pregnancies, oral contraceptive use and other factors, they found that compared with women who had a body mass index of 18.5 to 22.4 (within the normal range), those with a B.M.I.
under 18.5 at any age had a 30 percent increased risk of early menopause.
Overweight women (B.M.I.
25 to 34.9) had a slightly lower risk of early menopause, and there was no significant increased risk in very obese women with a B.M.I.
higher than 35.
The lead author, Kathleen L. Szegda, who was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, when the work was done, said the reasons for the link between weight and the timing of menopause are unclear and that more research is needed to replicate these results.
Still, she said, Underweight women may want to discuss the findings with their doctors.
Early menopause is associated with several health conditions, including osteoporosis, dementia, heart disease and early death, and has implications for family planning.
Its the deadliest drug crisis in American history.
It kills about 90 Americans every day.
Here are answers to some key questions about the crisis.
Why is the first instinct for many to volunteer and donate after a natural disaster?
One reason is that as humans weve evolved to survive in groups, not alone.
Rallying together makes us feel less alone in the experience, explained the sociologist Christine Carter, a fellow at the Greater Good Science Center at the University of California, Berkeley.
When our survival is threatened, we are going to reach out and strengthen our connections with people around us.
We show generosity.
We show compassion.
We show gratitude.
These are all emotions that function to connect us with each other, Dr. Carter said.
Scientific evidence supports the idea that acts of generosity can be beneficial when we volunteer and give back regularly and not just after a natural disaster.
Volunteering is linked to health benefits like lower blood pressure and decreased mortality rates.
Dr. Richard Davidson, a neuroscientist and founder of the Center for Healthy Minds at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, has been studying the effects of positive emotions, such as compassion and kindness, on the brain since the 1990s.
He said the brain behaves differently during an act of generosity than it does during a hedonistic activity.
When we do things for ourselves, those experiences of positive emotions are more fleeting.
They are dependent on external circumstances, he said.
When we engage in acts of generosity, those experiences of positive emotion may be more enduring and outlast the specific episode in which we are engaged.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Helping others also gives us a sense of purpose.
Dr. Linda Fried co-founded Experience Corps, a program that engages retirees as literacy tutors, after she discovered a strong association between a sense of purpose and well-being throughout life.
Older adults who volunteered to help children with reading and writing tended to experience less memory loss and maintain greater physical mobility, one study suggested.
Giving back is a fundamental teaching of many religions.
Jesus had the Golden Rule.
Buddha said in order to brighten ones own path, one must light the path of others.
During a trip to India in 2016, I experienced firsthand how the benefits of doing good are well established in Indian society.
I paid a visit to a Vedic astrologer because I was anxious about an uncertain future, my own personal crisis, and received a list of prescriptions to help others to get through it.
The first task was to buy a black-and-white checkered blanket, then visit a local leper colony and donate it to the first person I saw.
My next task was to buy a six-pound bag of lentils, circle it around my head, chant a Sanskrit mantra and give it to a homeless person.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Certainly, many Westerners would roll their eyes at these unconventional prescriptions, but they were familiar to my Indian friends, who believe they hold real power.
Later, to better understand the significance of the rituals, I reached out to Dr. Deepak Chopra, author of You Are the Universe.
He said the philosophical underpinnings in India come from the Vedas and Buddhist traditions, where all human suffering is a result of the hallucination of the separate self.
Dr. Chopra explained: The moment you identify yourself as separate from other beings, or other people, or separate from life in general then you will suffer.
And it all begins with initial anxiety because when youre disconnected from people and life, you feel fear, and that creates the beginning of suffering.
Would Western doctors ever prescribe acts of generosity?
Dr. John Rowe, a professor of health policy and aging at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, doesnt rule it out.
We have sufficient scientific information to justify a very significant public health initiative, he said.
If there were a retiree in my office I would ask them, Do you smoke?
Do you exercise?
What is your diet like?
I should also be asking them if they volunteer.
Photo When drug companies give gifts to doctors, the doctors prescribe more and more expensive drugs.
The more lavish the gifts, the greater the effect.
Researchers used data from the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services on the prescriptions written by doctors in Washington, and information from the D.C. Department of Health on gifts from pharmaceutical and medical device companies given to providers in 2013.
The study, in PLOS One, found that 39.1 percent of prescribers received gifts ranging in value from $7 to $200,000, while the rest received none.
Health care providers given gifts wrote an average of 892 prescriptions compared with 389 for those who accepted none.
The average cost of a prescription was $135 for gift recipients and $85 for the others.
Gift recipients chose the brand-name drug a third of the time, compared with a quarter of the time for non- recipients.
Any gift was associated with higher cost prescriptions, but the larger gifts had an even greater effect.
Those who received gifts worth more than $500 during the year averaged $189 per prescription.
The senior author, Dr. Adriane J. Fugh-Berman, director of PharmedOut, a project on drug prescribing based at Georgetown University Medical Center, had some straightforward advice for patients.
You shouldnt see doctors who see drug reps, she said.
Less than a minute of talking to a drug rep will increase prescribing of brand-name drugs.
Once a person has had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in nerve tissue.
Years later, it may reactivate as shingles.
The C.D.C.
estimates that about one million cases are diagnosed in the United States each year.
This is what weve been waiting for, said Dr. Anne Louise Oaklander, an associate professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School and an expert in the disease.
Shingles is an unappreciated and common cause of severe problems throughout the nervous system.
Dr. Oaklander said that while rash symptoms lead some people to consider shingles as minor as a bad sunburn, the illness can cause strokes, encephalitis, spinal cord damage and loss of vision.
Photo Given in one dose, Zostavax had shown a 51 percent reduction in shingles and a 67 percent reduction in nerve pain.
Shingrix is given in two doses, and the company said clinical trials showed it to be about 98 percent effective for one year and about 85 percent over three years.
By preventing shingles, the vaccine also drastically reduces the overall incidence of severe nerve pain, a lasting complication for about one in three people who get shingles.
GlaxoSmithKline said it tested the vaccine in more than 38,000 people.
We believe Shingrix will provide confidence in the protection one can expect from a shingles vaccine, said Luc Debruyne, the companys president of global vaccines.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The recommendation of the advisory committee will be considered an endorsement of Shingrix over Zostavax, although the closeness of the committee vote, 8 to 7, may mitigate the market loss for Merck.
Dr. Kathleen Dooling, a medical officer in the C.D.C.s division of viral disease, said she expected the agencys final recommendation to be issued early next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Shingrix vaccine has the potential to prevent tens of thousands of cases of shingles and its complications, Dr. Dooling said.
She cautioned, however, that more people had adverse reactions to Shingrix than to Zostavax, including fever and muscle aches.
Patients and health care providers should be aware that this vaccine is very effective, but it also causes more reactions than they may be used to with other adult vaccines, she said.
All indications are these are not dangerous to ones health, but they may interfere with your daily activities for a few days.
GlaxoSmithKline said its new vaccine would cost about $280 and would be available next month.
Zostavax costs about $223.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine found that the drug anabasum was effective at treating a rare skin condition.
The drug reduced the severity of symptoms in patients with dermatomyositis, or DM, a rare and often incurable skin condition that causes symptoms ranging from a skin rash and muscle weakness to fevers, shortness of breath due to lung disease, weight loss and light sensitivity.
DM is considered rare with fewer than 100,000 cases in the United States overall.
"Not only are current treatments limited, but this disease itself is very understudied, so we've had to build our understanding of DM from the ground up just to be in a position to run a trial like this," Dr. Victoria P. Werth, a professor at Penn and chief of dermatology at the Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center in Philadelphia, said in a press release.
The study findings, which will be presented at the American College of Rheumatology Annual Meeting next week, demonstrated symptom reduction in 11 patients who were given anabasum, with less severe skin disease and better quality of life being reported.
All 22 patients in the clinical trial had skin-predominant DM and did not respond to standard treatments, which include antimalarial and immunosuppressive drugs.
Researchers have recruited 20 of the 22 study participants for a one-year clinical trial of the long-term effects of the drug.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved a new treatment for adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma, an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
The FDA granted accelerated approval of Calquence, or acalabrutinib, a kinase inhibitor that works by blocking an enzyme key to the cancer's ability to grow and spread.
Mantle cell lymphoma is a rare and aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph system, which includes lymph tissue, nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils and bone marrow.
Nearly 3 to 10 percent of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas in the United States are mantle cell lymphoma, according to the National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health.
"Mantle cell lymphoma is a particularly aggressive cancer," Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the FDA's Oncology Center of Excellence and acting director of the Office of Hematology and Oncology Products in the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a news release.
"For patients who have not responded to treatment or have relapsed, Calquence provides a new treatment option that has shown high rates of response for some patients in initial studies."
The approval of Calquence was based on data from a clinical trial of 124 patients with mantle cell lymphoma who received at least one prior treatment.
Researchers found that after treatment with Calquence, 81 percent of patients had a complete or partial tumor shrinkage -- 40 percent had a complete response and 41 percent had a partial response to the treatment.
"The acalabrutinib approval represents an important development for patients currently battling mantle cell lymphoma," Dr. Michael Wang, a professor at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center who led the clinical trial, said in a press release.
"In addition to the overall response rate, the high complete response rate of 40 percent seen in this trial illustrates the potential of acalabrutinib to help patients achieve a deep response," he said.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- A new discovery could change the way scientists think about where Alzheimer's disease originates in the body.
It has long been believed that Alzheimer's disease, the leading cause of dementia, begins in the brain, but a new study by researchers from the University of British Columbia and researchers in China found that the neurodegenerative disease could actually begin elsewhere in the body.
The study, published Tuesday in Molecular Psychiatry, showed how toxic amyloid-beta proteins could be targeted in the kidney or liver to eliminate the protein from the blood before it ever reaches the brain.
Amyloid-beta is also found in blood platelets, blood vessels and muscles, along with being a precursor protein in other organs.
In patients with Alzheimer's disease, amyloid-beta proteins can form clumps or plaques that kill brain cells.
Researchers used a process known as parabiosis, where two specimens are attached together surgically in order to share the same blood supply for several months.
They used parabiosis on two groups of mice, one that did not have Alzheimer's disease and mice modified to carry a mutant human gene to produce high levels of amyloid-beta leading to Alzheimer's disease.
The study showed that the normal mice joined genetically to the modified mice for a year contracted Alzheimer's when the amyloid-beta protein traveled from the genetically modified mice to the brains of the normal mice.
The normal mice also developed twisted protein strands or tangles that form inside brain cells, killing the brain cells along with other Alzheimer's-related damage including brain cell degeneration, microbleeds, inflammation and an impaired ability to transmit signals involved in learning and memory.
"The blood-brain barrier weakens as we age," Dr. Welhong Song, a Canada Research Chair in Alzheimer's Disease and UBC psychiatry professor, said in a news release.
"That might allow more amyloid beta to infiltrate the brain, supplementing what is produced by the brain itself and accelerating the deterioration.
Alzheimer's disease is clearly a disease of the brain, but we need to pay attention to the whole body to understand where it comes from, and how to stop it."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- A study at the University of Liverpool reveals that as tendons age they affect gene expression in men and women in distinct and opposite ways.
Researchers at the University of Liverpool's Institute of Ageing and Chronic Disease analyzed a parallel number of gene data sets from male and female participants age 20-24 and 54-70 in order to find sex-specific gene expression changes that occur from aging.
"Our research highlights the possible need to treat tendon disease differently in males and females because alternative mechanisms may be involved," Dr. Mandy Peters, a researcher at the University of Liverpool, said in a press release.
"Our findings could help in the treatment of more bespoke treatments for this large patient group."
Tendinopathy is a set of tendon diseases that cause the tendons to not function properly and increases in prevalence with age.
Each cell in the body has a complete set of chromosomes with every gene required to make every protein that the organism will ever make.
Only a fraction of these genes are expressed to specific tissues at a given time.
These cells carry out certain tasks and only need to express certain genes.
The study, published today in Scientific Reports, analyzed genes to find the unique molecular pathway that affects aging in tendons dependent on gender.
The results of the study show that aging affects the cell cycle, oxidative stress, immune signalling and gene expression differently in males and females.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced it is reversing its authorized health claim that soy protein can reduce the risk of heart disease.
According to Susan Mayne, director of the FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, this is the first time the FDA has proposed a rule to revoke a health claim due to numerous studies published since the claim was made.
The FDA made the claim that soy protein could reduce the risk of heart disease in 1999.
In 2008, The Weston Price Foundation submitted a petition to the FDA to drop its claim that soy protein reduces heart disease risk.
"While some evidence continues to suggest a relationship between soy protein and a reduced risk of heart disease -- including evidence reviewed by the FDA when the claim was authorized -- the totality of currently available scientific evidence calls into question the certainty of this relationship," Mayne said in a news release.
"For example, some studies, published after the FDA authorized the health claim, show inconsistent findings concerning the ability of soy protein to lower heart-damaging low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol.
Our review of that evidence has led us to conclude that the relationship between soy protein and heart disease does not meet the rigorous standard for an FDA-authorized health claim."
Mayne said that if new evidence is presented supporting a link between eating soy protein and a reduced risk of heart disease then the FDA could allow a qualified health claim, which requires a lower scientific standard compared to an authorized health claim.
"We look forward to working with stakeholders and others interested in this topic throughout the rulemaking process and invite them to submit comments on the proposed rule," Mayne said.
The agency will accept comments on the proposed change through Jan. 16, 2018.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- The benefits of breastfeeding are well known, but now a new study has found that breastfeeding for two months cuts the risk of sudden infant death syndrome in half.
A new study, published in the October edition of Pediatrics, found that breastfeeding for at least two months cuts the risk of SIDS in half.
Previous studies have shown the benefits of breastfeeding for not just the baby but the mother as well.
A study in February of more than 4,700 Korean women found a link between longer duration breastfeeding and a lower risk of metabolic syndrome in the mother.
Researchers from the University of Virginia School of Medicine analyzed eight international studies of 2,259 cases of SIDS and 6,894 controls for the study.
"Breastfeeding for just two months reduces the risk of SIDS by almost half, and the longer babies are breastfed, the greater the protection," Dr. Fern Hauck, of the UVA School of Medicine and the UVA Children's Hospital, said in a news release.
"The other important finding from our study is that any amount of breastfeeding reduces the risk of SIDS -- in other words, both partial and exclusive breastfeeding appear to provide the same benefit."
The findings are leading researchers to call for efforts to increase the rates of breastfeeding worldwide.
"It's great for mothers to know that breastfeeding for at least two months provides such a strong protective effect against SIDS," Dr. Rachel Moon, of the UVA School of Medicine and the UVA Children's Hospital, said.
"We strongly support international and national efforts to promote breastfeeding."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Researchers at the University of Sydney have uncovered a new, powerful biomarker in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis.
Multiple sclerosis occurs when the immune system attacks the protective myelin that covers nerve fibers, causing communication problems between the brain and body and leads to permanent damage and disability, according to the Mayo Clinic.
"This is the first demonstration that micro-RNAs associated with circulating exosomes in blood are informative biomarkers not only for the diagnosis of MS, but in predicting disease subtypes with a high degree of accuracy," Michael Buckland, head of the Department of Neuropathology at RPA Hospital and the Brain and Mind Center at the University of Sydney, said in a news release.
There is currently no definitive test to diagnose MS, which is typically diagnosed through clinical examination, electrophysiology, MRI and other tests.
The study, published today in Scientific Reports, uncovered dysregulated micro-RNA molecules that can accurately diagnose MS and identifies patients at different stages of the disease through a blood test.
Researchers identified the nine micro-RNA molecules that differentiate between relapsing-remitting MS, or RRMS, and progressive MS. RRMS affects 70 percent of patients with MS, and 10-15 percent are diagnosed with progressive MS. "In studying the blood exosomes of healthy volunteers and patients with MS, the research team identified a 'molecular signature' of MS that not only correctly diagnoses MS, but also discriminates between patients with different stages of disease," Buckland said.
Researchers then developed a blood test to improve diagnosis, and also differentiates between types of MS. "This blood test may allow people with MS to begin treatment earlier, and identify the most appropriate treatment for their condition," Dr. Matthew Miles, CEO MS Research Australia, said.
"This, in turn may lead to fewer relapses and a slower loss of brain volume, resulting in slowing or potentially halting progression of the disease for the person living with MS.
It will also help remove the uncertainty surrounding which sub type of the disease an individual has and therefore be a catalyst for better outcomes for all people with MS."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- New research suggests that working out with a group of people is significantly more effective than working out alone when it comes to lowering stress.
The study, published in the November edition of the Journal of the American Osteopathic Association, found that individuals who workout in a group have a 26 percent lower stress rate and improved quality of life compared to people who work out solo.
Researchers from the University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine studied 69 medical students participating in an exercise program over a 12-week period.
The participants worked out within a group or as individuals, and were evaluated every four weeks via a survey rating stress levels and quality of life in physical, mental and emotional health categories.
The study found that group exercise participants had significant improvements of 12.6 percent in mental health, 24.8 percent in physical health, 26 percent in emotional health and a 26.2 percent reduction in perceived stress levels.
Participants in the individual fitness routines worked out twice as long as the group participants and reported no significant changes in anything but mental health, with an 11 percent increase.
"The communal benefits of coming together with friends and colleagues, and doing something difficult, while encouraging one another, pays dividends beyond exercising alone," Dayna Yorks, of the University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine, said in a news release.
"The findings support the concept of a mental, physical and emotional approach to health that is necessary for student doctors and physicians."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- A recent review of U.S. pharmacy claims suggests that less than half of patients received health insurance approval for a new cholesterol-lowering drug.
The drug, a PCSK9 inhibitor marketed as Repatha or Praluent, lowers low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, commonly referred to as bad cholesterol, by removing it from the blood.
The drugs have been shown to dramatically reduce LDL cholesterol by 60 percent, in addition to reducing the risk of cardiac events.
A study presented at the American College of Cardiology in March showed that participants taking Repatha along with a statin had an average LDL of 30, and in some cases an LDL of 19 or less.
Researchers reported those participants had a 27 percent less risk of developing a heart attack, a 21 percent decreased risk of stroke and a 22 percent decreased risk of cardiovascular revascularization.
The efficacy of Repatha and other PCSK9 drugs has been proven, but the cost of the drugs are prohibitively expensive -- one year of treatment runs an average of $14,300.
The new study, published today in Circulation, found that less than half of patients with high cholesterol are having prescriptions for PCSK9 inhibitors approved by health insurance carriers.
"With the controversy surrounding whether or not these drugs were cost effective, we were anticipating that there might be some reluctance by insurance companies to cover these medications," Dr. Robert Yeh, director of the Smith Center for Outcomes Research in Cardiology at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, said in a news release.
"However, we were surprised by the very high rate of rejection, even when prescribed to patients with known atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, very high LDL levels and those who were intolerant of statins, for example."
Researchers reviewed pharmacy claims for 9,357 patients who were prescribed PCSK9 inhibitor drugs between July 2015 and August 2016, finding that 47 percent of patients were approved for the drug and 53 percent were rejected by their insurance company.
The type of insurance seemed to make a difference, researchers report, with the lowest approval rates coming from private insurance companies and the highest from Medicare.
"Whether or not we can agree on the cost-effectiveness of these drugs, I believe most would agree that one's access to medications should be driven primarily by the strength of the indications for the prescription as opposed to what drug plan you happen to carry," Yeh said.
"Better education for providers prescribing these medications and more uniform guidelines by insurers about what will and will not be covered are necessary to reduce the amount of administrative waste that is created to reject prescriptions for new medications."
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- A recent study may provide new hope for patients with recurring glioblastoma, one of the most aggressive and deadliest forms of brain cancer.
The average overall survival for patients with glioblastoma is 15 months from diagnosis.
Researchers from the Translational Genomics Research Institute, or TGen, the University of California San Francisco and the Ivy Foundation Early Phase Clinical Trials Consortium collaborated on the study involving 16 recurring glioblastoma patients.
The clinical trial used comprehensive DNA and RNA sequencing of a patient's tumor to determine treatment for patients in real time.
Results of the trial, published today in Clinical Cancer Research, found that several patients with recurring glioblastoma survived more than a year after informed treatment.
"To our knowledge, this is the first report of a prospective profiling study in recurrent glioblastoma to show patients with extended time to progression following treatment with genomics-informed therapy," Dr. Sara Byron, research assistant professor in TGen's Integrated Cancer Genomics Division, said in a news release.
"This is a primary example of the benefits of genomics-driven precision medicine being applied for patients with aggressive and refractory tumors."
Fifteen of the 16 patients were given TGen's genomics-informed treatment recommendations and seven of the 15 were treated by their doctors based on those recommendations.
"Notably, two of the patients experienced progression-free survival -- meaning their tumor did not return or increase in size -- for more than a year, with one of these patients progression-free at 21 months, three times longer than the time to progression on their previous therapy," Dr. Michael D. Prados, a chair in Neurological Surgery at UCSF, said.
Challenges in glioblastoma treatment include its penetration to surrounding tissue making it impossible to completely surgically remove all of the tumor in the brain.
The other challenge is treatment being able to penetrate the blood-brain barrier, buffering the brain from the body's circulatory system.
"This precision-medicine study provides one of the first prospective demonstrations of using genome-wide molecular profiling to guide treatment recommendations for patients with recurrent glioblastoma within a clinically actionable time frame," Dr. Michael Berens, TGen deputy director for Research Resources, and professor and director of TGen's Cancer and Cell Biology Division, said.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- A new HIV vaccine candidate is showing effectiveness in animal studies in stimulating an immune response against sugars that form a shield around HIV.
A team of researchers from the University of Maryland and Duke University created a new protein-sugar molecule that could protect against HIV.
"An obstacle to creating an effective HIV vaccine is the difficulty of getting the immune system to generate antibodies against the sugar shield of multiple HIV strains," Lai-Xi Wang, a professor of chemistry and biochemistry at UMD, said in a news release.
"Our method addresses this problem by designing a vaccine component that mimics a protein-sugar part of this shield."
Researchers designed the vaccine candidate with an HIV protein fragment from gp120, which covers HIV like a protective envelope.
The HIV virus's defenses are strengthened by a sugar shield that covers the gp120 envelope.
When tested on rabbits, the vaccine stimulated antibody responses against the sugar shield in four different strains of HIV.
The research overcame two problems that have plagued researchers in creating an HIV vaccine that can target gp120.
The sugar shield on HIV is similar to sugars in the body so it does not create a strong immune response and secondly, there are more than 60 strains of the HIV virus currently and the virus often mutates so finding antibodies against gp120 in one strain may not work in another.
The study, published Thursday in Cell Chemical Biology, could pave the way for an HIV vaccine.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- Scientists from the Ecole Polytechnique Federale De Lausanne in Switzerland have made a breakthrough in mapping how the brain can control artificial limbs.
The research, published today in the journal Brain, examined how targeted motor and sensor reinnervation, or TMSR, changes the way the brain processes motor control and somatosensory input.
TMSR is a surgical procedure performed on patients who have had amputations of limbs.
The TMSR reroutes residual limb nerves to intact muscles and skin to fit them with a limb prosthesis for improved control.
The TMSR system works by transferring residual nerves from the amputated limb to reinnervate and activate new muscle targets, so that when a patient is fitted with a TMSR prosthetic, it sends motor commands to the reinnervated muscles where movement intentions are decoded and sent back to the artificial limb.
Researchers at EPFL used ultra-high field 7 Tesla fMRI to demonstrate how the brain encodes and integrates artificial touch and movements in prosthetic limbs.
This method measures brain activity by identifying changes in blood flow.
The team mapped out changes in the cortices of three patients with upper-limb amputations who had TMSR.
They found that motor cortex maps of amputated limbs are similar in strength, extent and topography to maps of individuals without amputations but different compared to individuals with amputations who did not have TMSR but used regular prosthetic limbs.
The results show the first neuroimaging study of patients with bionic limbs with TMSR prosthesis.
Researchers were also able to find maps of missing fingers in the somatosensory cortex of TMSR patients, which were activated via reinnervated skin from the residual limb and chest area.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- Older men who experience a stroke are much less likely to recover without the aid of a full-time caregiver compared to women, according to a new study.
Researchers from the Department of Health Care Organization and Policy at the University of Alabama at Birmingham analyzed 10 years of data from Medicare claims from 2003 to 2013 and interviews from the Reasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in Stroke study conducted from 2003 to 2007 to determine that men are at a greater risk of needing nursing home care after a stroke if they did not have a caregiver available.
The study, published in the October edition of the Journal of American Geriatrics Society, of 256 men and 304 women aged 65 and older who had experienced a stroke found that within five years of the stroke, 119 participants were placed in nursing homes.
Researchers found that the risk of nursing home placement was higher in patients who lacked available caregivers at home.
Lacking an available caregiver after a stroke increased the risk of nursing home placement by 70 percent, within five years by 68 percent and was limited to men only.
"Our research highlights older adults as being vulnerable to the loss of independent living if they cannot identify anyone to care for them," Dr. Justin Blackburn, of the University of Alabama at Birmingham, said in a news release.
"This is particularly true for older men, who may be unable to access or reluctant to use formal services delivered within their home or community."
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- Food allergies are common among children, however, a recent study found that almost half of all adults with food allergies had adult-onset food allergies.
The study, published in the November edition of the Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology, and presented this week at the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology Annual Scientific Meeting, revealed a significant increase in the prevalence of food allergies in adults.
"Food allergies are often seen as a condition that begins in childhood, so the idea that 45 percent of adults with food allergies develop them in adulthood is surprising," Dr. Ruchi Gupta, ACAAI member, said in a news release.
"We also saw that, as with children, the incidence of food allergies in adults is rising across all ethnic groups."
Researchers found the rate of adults diagnosed with shellfish allergies has risen from 2.5 percent in 2004 to 3.6 percent.
It's the most common allergy among U.S. adults.
Adult tree nut allergies have increased to 1.8 percent compared to 0.5 percent in 2008.
It is believed that many adults do not often realize they have a food allergy and instead believe they have food intolerance, thereby not seeking treatment from an allergist.
A 2014 study by Northwestern University found that of 1,111 adult food allergy patients, 15 percent were first diagnosed over age 18 and most had their first reaction in their mid-30s.
The study also showed that unlike food allergies in children, more adult women than men were diagnosed with adult onset food allergies.
"Our research also found that, among black, Asian and Hispanic adults, the risk of developing a food allergy to certain foods is higher than for whites, specifically for shellfish and peanuts," Christopher Warren, Ph.D. candidate, said.
"For example, Asian adults were 2.1 times more likely to report a shellfish allergy than white adults, and Hispanic adults reported a peanut allergy at 2.3 times the frequency of white adults.
Because many adults believe food allergies mostly affect children, they may not think to get tested.
It is important to see an allergist for testing and diagnosis if you are having a reaction to a food and suspect a food allergy."
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Researchers have found that an education program can increase knowledge of human papillomavirus infection in college men leading to higher vaccination rates.
The study, published today in The Nurse Practitioner, revealed that male college athletes have low rates of HPV vaccination and relatively little knowledge of their high rates of risk factors for infection, such as multiple sexual partners, unprotected sex and being young at sexual initiation.
The findings are of particular importance since a study published last week found that 1 in 9 males age 18 to 69 in the United States are infected with oral HPV, which can cause cancers of the head, neck and throat.
"The incidence of this cancer has increased 300 percent in the last 20 years," Ashish Deshmukh, a research assistant professor at the University of Florida College of Public Health and Health Professions, said in a UPI article Oct. 16.
There is no cure currently for HPV but the HPV vaccines are effective at preventing initial infection of the disease.
Preteen boys and girls are encouraged to get the series of vaccines before becoming sexually active and doctors say it is still effective for young adults who did not receive the vaccine as an adolescent.
However, in the current study of 114 male college athletes, found that more than two-thirds had not had the HPV vaccine.
Researchers developed a program to educate college students on the risks of HPV and the benefits of getting the HPV vaccine.
Of the study participants, 77 were football players and 37 were baseball players who attended an educational session on HPV and were questioned before and after the session to assess changes in opinions about HPV and the vaccine.
The study found that immediately after participating in the educational session, the men had significant increases in their knowledge of HPV, but in a three-month follow-up survey, only 12 percent of the unvaccinated men reported getting the HPV vaccine.
"The ability to provide HPV education to high-risk populations will further empower individuals to make informed decisions regarding high-risk behaviors, increase HPV vaccination rates, and decrease HPV infection rates," the authors stated.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- American workers are not doing their part to combat the spread of influenza, according to a new survey by NSF International.
The survey suggests that, while nearly everybody judges coworkers who come in when they are sick and more than half of people would tell a sick coworker to go home, at least a quarter of people still turn up at the office while under the weather.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates nearly stagnant flu vaccination for the 2016-2017 flu season, aside from small increases in individuals age 50 and older.
The Department of Health and Human Services announced a focus this flu season on increasing the number of people receiving the vaccine, with former HHS Secretary Dr. Tom Price encouraging anybody six months or older to get their shot, specifying several higher risk groups especially need to be vaccinated.
"Vaccines are only as useful as when we take advantage of them," Price said at the press conference in September.
However, the new survey by NSF showed vaccination rates do not have an affect on the number of American workers who go to work sick.
The survey found 26 percent of Americans admit going to work while sick mainly due to workload, deadlines and loss of income.
Nearly 42 percent of participants said they were afraid they would have too much work to make up if they were sick and 37 percent reported that they could not afford to take a sick day and miss work.
The study also found that 98 percent of those surveyed admitted they judge co-workers who come to work sick, although just 16 percent said they viewed their co-workers who come in sick negatively.
Men were twice as likely to come to work sick compared to women, 33 percent and 17 percent respectively.
A previous survey by NSF in 2014 showed that one-quarter of workers who went to work sick said their boss required them to do so, 37 percent said they needed money and 42 percent blamed the workload.
Healthcare providers recommend getting the flu vaccine each year to protect against the virus, along with proper hand washing practices and avoiding going to work to reduce the chance of spreading illness.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Research shows outpatient antibiotic use can increase a person's risk of developing C. difficile infection after discharge from the emergency room.
C. difficile, is a bacterial infection that results in inflammation of the colon known as colitis, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Symptoms of the disease include severe diarrhea, fever, loss of appetite, nausea and abdominal pain.
C. difficile is commonly associated with antibiotic use in hospital settings but beginning in 2014, 41 percent of all C. difficile infections have come from outside hospitals.
Earlier research has detailed how antibiotics can promote C. difficile infection by killing helpful bacteria in the gut.
In that study from 2016, researchers from North Carolina State University found that a single course of antibiotics can allow C. difficile to thrive because the antibiotics kill off bacteria responsible for altering bile acid.
For the current study, published today in Open Forum Infectious Diseases, researchers enrolled 452 patients from 10 U.S. sites from 2014-2015 who tested positive for C. difficile as an outpatient or within three days of being hospitalized, and who had not been admitted to a hospital within the past 12 weeks with each patient being matched with a control who had not tested positive for C. difficile.
The study showed 82 percent of patients with community-associated C. difficile had previous outpatient healthcare visits, 62 percent had taken antibiotics compared to 58 percent who were not infected and 10 percent who had taken antibiotics.
"There's a lot of work that needs to be done in terms of improving outpatient prescribing practices and making sure that providers are appropriately prescribing antibiotics," Dr. Alice Y. Guh, of the CDC, said in a press release.
"Health-care associated C. difficile infection is still a huge burden, but there is increasingly more recognition that community-associated C. difficile can occur.
Outpatient antibiotic use is a risk factor, and we need to improve antibiotic stewardship not just in inpatient settings but also outpatient settings."
The findings point to emergency rooms being the source of infection in the community.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- A new report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reveals that improvements in the rate of high total cholesterol in Americans has remained steady.
Total and HDL cholesterol are commonly used to assess a patient's health along with systolic blood pressure, diabetes and smoking.
Doctors use these factors to identify risk for atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.
Total cholesterol is a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in the blood and is based on LDL, often referred to as bad cholesterol, HDL, or good cholesterol, and triglycerides, which are a type of fat in the blood used for energy by the body.
The study, published today by the CDC, found that from 1999-2000 to 2015-2016 there were declining trends in high total cholesterol levels and from 2007-2008 to 2015-2016 in low HDL cholesterol.
CDC researchers analyzed data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey for the study.
The analysis reveals that about 12.4 percent of adults had high total cholesterol in 2015-2016, down from a high of 18.3 percent in 1999-2000.
The percentage of adults with low HDL cholesterol has dropped to 18.4 percent, down from 22.2 percent in 2007-2008.
The study showed the incidence of high total cholesterol was greater in men aged 40-59 than men aged 20-39 and 60 and older.
Roughly 18 percent of adults had low HDL cholesterol, especially among Hispanics when compared to non-Hispanic white, black and Asian adults.
Researchers believe the results come from a growing awareness of the danger of having high cholesterol, the reduction of the use of artificial trans fats in food production, cholesterol-lowering statin drugs and more health conscious diets.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- A study at the University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center found that the timing of DNA damage impacts the fate of cells, and could lead to new cancer treatments.
DNA damage to cells caused by normal processes, smoking or sun exposure happens regularly during the process of making new DNA.
The study, published today in Cell Systems, showed that checkpoints within cells preventing them from dividing before damaged DNA can be repaired are ignored and, in the case of cancer cells, go on to divide with damaged DNA -- essentially spreading cancer.
Using time-lapse microscopy to study cells as they transition through cycle phases, UNC Chapel Hill researchers found cellular response to DNA damage during certain phases could be strong and halt the cycle, while in other phases cells were less sensitive or showed delayed progression.
The researchers found "commitment points" in cell phases that allow them to move forward to the next cycle regardless of unrepaired damage to DNA.
"It's very important to look at the timing of cell damage because depending on when it occurs within a certain cell cycle, there can be a totally different outcome," Sherry Chao, a graduate research assistant in the UNC School of Medicine Department of Genetics, said in a press release.
"Some stages of the cell cycle are very vulnerable to DNA damage."
Researchers used the information to create a mathematical model of how timing affects checkpoint behavior to show that exact timing of DNA damage determines checkpoint behaviors and can also change the outcome for damaged cells.
These new findings could create new treatment strategies for treating cancer.
"Conceptually, it makes sense that if you could get all of the cells in the same cycle at the same time, you could damage them all with one shot," Jeremy Purvis, UNC Lineberger member and assistant professor in the UNC School of Medicine Department of Genetics, said.
"The key will be finding ways to separate cancerous and healthy cells based on the timing and synchronization of their cell cycles."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- A study by Brown University described gaps in care for young opioid users at risk for hepatitis C. The study found it's much less common for young opioid users to receive hepatitis C care than it is for them to get screened for the disease.
Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease that ranges from mild to serious and lifelong.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there were an estimated 30,500 cases of acute hepatitis C in the United States in 2014 and there are an estimated 2.7 to 3.9 million people living with chronic hepatitis C in the United States.
A CDC study in 2015 showed that rates of hepatitis C more than tripled in Appalachian states that included rural areas of Kentucky, Virginia, West Virginia, and Tennessee, where rates of hepatitis C infection increased by 364 percent between 2006 and 2012.
For the current study, researchers found that between January 2015 and February 2016, 78.6 percent of the 196 young adults ages 18 to 29 in the study who used opioids recreationally in Rhode Island reported getting HCV screening.
Of those who were screened, 18 tested positive for HCV.
Of the participants who tested positive, 13 had a follow-up test to confirm the diagnosis, 12 were referred to specialists, 10 received information on protecting others from contacting the disease and nine received education on how to live with the disease.
"Many young people who are at risk for hepatitis C may acquire the infection and then not know it, and then through drug injection practices may transmit it to others," Brandon Marshall, associate professor of epidemiology in the Brown University School of Public Health, said in a press release.
"For this reason, we need to not only be screening, but also providing care to young people who test positive for hepatitis C." The study was published today in the Journal of Adolescent Health.
"Screening for HCV is free in many parts of the state, but financial and other barriers exist for youth who test positive and are in need of additional resources and hepatitis C care," Marshall said.
"We need to work on improving access to hepatitis C treatment programs and other referral services for young people."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- Losing weight after being overweight or obese has been shown to have numerous health benefits, but now a new study finds weight loss after bariatric surgery can help the heart.
Findings from the new study, which will be presented this week at the American College of Surgeons Clinical Congress 2017, suggest weight loss from bariatric surgery can return the heart to its natural shape and function.
Both are altered due to large amounts of belly fat.
Excess body weight causes the heart to have to generate more force in order to pump more blood through the body.
In a previous study, researchers found that women may have a lower risk of heart disease compared to men after weight-loss surgery.
That study of 2,000 patients found that women had a 41 percent reduced risk of heart disease after bariatric surgery, compared to a 35.6 percent in men.
"We know that obesity is the most prevalent disease in the United States.
And that the cardiovascular system is significantly affected by this disease process," Dr. Raul J. Rosenthal, chairman, department of General Surgery at the Cleveland Clinic in Weston, Florida, said in a news release.
"But we wanted to know to what degree the shape of the heart changes in someone who is obese, what the heart looks like in someone after having bariatric surgery and losing weight, and how that change in geometry affects heart functionality."
For the new study, researchers at Cleveland Clinic analyzed data from 51 obese men and women who had bariatric surgery between 2010 to 2015.
The patients had an average body mass index of 40, or roughly 100 pounds overweight, and were an average age of 61.
Preoperative and postoperative echocardiography was taken and assessed to measure the size and geometry of the heart as well as heart function.
Researchers found that one year after surgery there were significant improvements in the patients' heart shape, including that the size of the ventricles that decreased by 15.7 percent.
"When the size of the chambers gets bigger and the walls of the heart get thicker, the blood flow to the heart is not as good, the functionality of the heart is not as good, and the heart itself doesn't get enough blood," Rosenthal said.
"The whole body suffers because there is less blood going to your feet and to your toes and to your brain."
Researchers do not yet know if the duration of obesity has an affect on the chances to restore heart shape and function.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- President Donald Trump has signaled he may formally declare a national emergency over the opioid crisis in America this week, but some private industry stakeholders aren't waiting for government action.
Retail chain CVS and the Cigna health insurance company are launching their own efforts to combat an epidemic of overdoses on potent opioid-based painkillers by restricting prescriptions of OxyContin.
Cigna told UPI it plans to work with patients, doctors and pharmacists to reduce use of OxyContin, identifying another drug it says works just as well but has less risk of misuse and abuse.
The company will also soon stop approving payments for the drug for its plan participants.
CVS plans to limit the size and dose of prescriptions, based on conversations with individual doctors to be sure patients receive what they need, the company told UPI.
Although public health emergencies are generally related to outbreaks of disease or other medical issues, the idea of declaring a national emergency would offer wider availability of resources to states, counties and municipalities struggling with an epidemic of addiction and deaths.
Trump has called the crisis a "national emergency."
He has scheduled an announcement for Thursday at the White House.
A formal declaration could spur funding for urgent treatment centers, closer work with healthcare providers to limit the spread of non-medical or overuse of opioid-based painkillers, and lower prices of overdose treatments like Naloxone.
Overdose deaths from prescription opioids and the sales of prescription opioids have quadrupled since 1999, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with more than 180,000 deaths in the United States between 1999 and 2015 linked to prescription opioids.
The overprescription of opioid-based painkillers is a contributing factor.
A CDC study found that the average supply administered by doctors for opioid prescriptions increased from 13 days in 2006 to 18 days in 2015.
In March, Trump established a task force, the Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, headed by New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie.
The panel has published recommendations for dealing with the crisis, though no government action has been taken.
Meanwhile, CVS became the first drugstore chain to limit all opioid prescriptions to a seven-day supply.
The company told UPI pharmacists will consult with physicians on a case-by-case basis to find alternatives or make exceptions if needed.
Health insurance giant Cigna announced Oct. 4 that it will start removing OxyContin from its group commercial drug lists beginning Jan. 1 -- but not other painkillers that contain oxycodone, the active ingredient in OxyContin.
"This is a nationwide change," Cigna spokeswoman Karen Eldred told UPI.
"It is important to note that individuals who have started using OxyContin for hospice care or cancer treatments will continue to have the medication covered in 2018.
In addition, Cigna will consider approving coverage for OxyContin for reasons determined to be medically necessary through conversations with our customers' treating physicians."
The company says it is in the process of notifying customers with current OxyContin prescriptions and their doctors of the change so there is time to discuss treatment options.
Cigna signed a contract with the company Collegium, which manufactures the drug Xtampza ER, that "ties financial metrics to dosage levels being prescribed for Cigna customers."
Eldred said Collegium is financially accountable if the average daily dosage strengths of Xtampza ER prescribed for Cigna customers exceed a specific threshold.
If the threshold is exceeded, Collegium will reduce the cost of the medication for Cigna customers, which the insurer believes will encourage better education for healthcare providers to prevent overprescribing.
"We believe linking financial terms to dosage metrics will incentivize more education to prevent overprescribing," Eldred said.
Cigna wouldn't comment on any plans for other prescription opioid drugs containing oxycodone, which include the widely used Percocet, as well as Endocet, Percodan, Endodan and Combunox.
The White House commission, in an interim report published July 31, calls for increased funding and oversight for drug monitoring programs, enhanced education for healthcare providers and efforts such as those by CVS and Cigna.
The commission calls on the federal government to increase research and funding into government- run efforts, but to go beyond lawmaking and law enforcement efforts as outlined in the report.
"It is not only critical that the federal government provide sufficient resources to prevent and combat this disease," commission members wrote in the report, "it must also provide the easiest pathway for private providers and local and state governments to achieve success."
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- A new study reveals that inorganic arsenic, found naturally occurring in drinking water in some countries, can cause cancer decades after initial exposure ends.
Inorganic arsenic is naturally occurring at high levels in groundwater in many countries across the globe and can cause several types of cancer, including skin, kidney, lung and bladder cancer, among other diseases.
A recent study found the U.S. government's tighter limits on arsenic in drinking water since 2006 have resulted in a 17 percent decrease in the levels of arsenic found in individuals, according to public water systems with an estimated 200 fewer cases of lung and bladder cancer the following year.
In the study, published today in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, researchers found that arsenic in drinking water has one of the longest dormancy periods of any carcinogen, possibly up to 40 years after exposure ended.
Researchers studied the affects of arsenic contamination in a water source in Antofagasta, Chile.
The town experienced a sudden dramatic increase of arsenic in its drinking water in 1958.
This increase was followed in 1970 by a dramatic reduction in exposure when an arsenic removal plant was installed.
By analyzing medical records and data from residents who lived in Antofagasta during that time period, researchers found that lung, bladder and kidney cancer mortality rates began to increase roughly 10 years after the spike in arsenic exposure occurred.
This increase in cancer mortality rates did not peak until nearly 20 years after exposure reduction started.
Cancer mortality rates for lung, bladder and kidney cancers remained high for 40 years after the high arsenic exposure was halted.
Researchers believe these findings mean the incidence of arsenic-related diseases will remain high for years to come.
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- Excessive scarring of the heart muscle can lead to heart failure, a potentially deadly condition with no cure, but a new drug may provide hope for patients.
Muscle scarring or fibrosis, including skeletal and cardiac muscle fibrosis, are major causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide, with no real treatment options.
A study, published today in Nature Communications, tested the efficiacy of an experimental drug to prevent heart muscle scarring after a cardiovascular event, such as a heart attack.
The experimental treatment works by targeting molecules on alpha V integrins, or scar-forming cells.
"Cardiac fibrosis is a major contributor to chronic heart failure, which is a major cause of death worldwide," Neil Henderson, of the Medical Research Council Center for Inflammation Research at the University of Edinburgh, said in a news release.
"Our research has identified a promising therapeutic target in the development of new treatments for patients with chronic heart failure."
An earlier study by the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill found a method to reprogram scar tissue cells into healthy heart muscle cells.
UNC researchers identified two methods to regenerate cardiomyocytes, heart muscle cells that normally remain damaged following a heart attack.
For the current study by the University of Edinburgh, researchers blocked the alpha V integrins molecules with an experimental drug.
"We found that Pdgfrb-Cre effectively targeted quiescent PDGFR+ cells and activated myofibroblasts in both skeletal and cardiac muscle," study authors wrote.
"Selective depletion of v integrins on PDGFR+ cells protected mice from fibrosis in both these muscle types, and v integrin depletion on PDGFR+ cells had no adverse effects on skeletal muscle regeneration."
Researchers also found that treatment with a small molecule inhibitor of v integrins, or CWHM 12, weakened fibrosis in both skeletal and heart muscle after the fibrotic process was established.
"Scarring of the heart muscle has a major impact on the heart's ability to pump effectively," said Jeremy Pearson, professor and associate medical director at the British Heart Foundation.
"This can lead to heart failure and there is no effective treatment at the moment.
By finding a new way to limit scarring in the hearts of mice, this research has unlocked the route to a potential treatment for this life-threatening problem."
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- Researchers know all melanomas are not alike but a new study has revealed how much different non-sun-related melanomas are from sun-related melanomas.
Melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer, is most commonly related to sun exposure but the can also be genetic in nature and not related to the sun.
These types of melanomas are not susceptible to the same targeted treatments as sun-related melanomas.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 76,665 people in the United States were diagnosed with melanoma in 2014, and 9,324 people died from the disease that year.
The new study, published in the October edition of Molecular Cancer Therapeutics, identified ALK-fusion, a genetic change, in a patient sample of the mucosal melanoma, a melanoma subtype not caused by sun exposure.
Researchers treated the sample with crizotinib and ceritinib, U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved treatments for ALK-positive lung cancer and found that the tumor shrank dramatically.
The results seemed to reinforce the theory that genetic changes that cause cancer might be shared among different cancer types.
"Maybe these non-sun-exposed melanomas are molecularly more like a lung cancer or a colorectal cancer, and maybe we should be treating them like that," Kasey Couts, an assistant research professor at the CU School of Medicine, said in a news release.
A genetic change known as gene fusion involves genes that should sit adjacent on the genome but instead are accidentally spliced together in a process that creates a new fusion protein.
Researchers found that the gene ALK gets fused with the EML4 gene to create the fusion gene EML4-ALK, creating a new protein responsible for a subset of non-small cell lung cancers.
Researchers found EML4-ALK fusion in the sample of mucosal melanoma, which they successfully treated with ALK-inhibitors used to treat ALK-positive lung cancer.
"It seems like these melanomas that don't come from sun exposure may have fusions not seen in the more common form of the disease, and thus may be more susceptible to targeted treatments that attack these fusions than they are to drugs developed to treat other kinds of melanoma," Couts said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - As Americans begin signing up for Obamacare health insurance plans on Wednesday, experts expect reduced participation as a bitter political debate clouds the programs future.
FILE PHOTO: A man looks over the Affordable Care Act (commonly known as Obamacare) signup page on the HealthCare.gov website in New York in this October 2, 2013 photo illustration.
REUTERS/Mike Segar/File Photo Republicans in Congress have repeatedly failed to repeal and replace former President Barack Obamas healthcare law, which they have said drives up costs for consumers and interferes with personal medical decisions.
Democrats have warned that repeal would leave millions of Americans without health coverage.
President Donald Trump promised to kill the law in his 2016 election campaign, and he has taken executive and administrative actions to undermine it.
The markets going to be extremely confusing.
Theres going to be entire complexity of choice, said David Anderson, a health policy researcher at Duke University.
The Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank, estimated this week that 2018 enrollment would have held steady from 2017, with 12.2 million people signing up for individual health coverage under the Affordable Care Act had there not been administration efforts to undercut it.
The Trump administration has cut the 2018 enrollment period in half to six weeks from Nov. 1 to Dec. 15 for states using the federal Healthcare.gov website.
Enrollment previously ran until Jan. 31, and many consumers often signed up in the last two weeks, according to state officials and organizations that help people choose insurance.
Senate Republicans and Democrats are working on legislation to stabilize Obamacare markets in the short term, but the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that about 1 million fewer people will enroll for 2018 plans due to Trump policies.
The administration has cut off billions of dollars in subsidies that insurers use to discount out-of-pocket medical costs for low-income Americans, slashed Obamacare advertising and cut funding to groups that help people enroll in health insurance.
Several insurers have exited Obamacare markets due to concerns over subsidies and other Trump actions.
The Department of Health and Human Services said on Monday that premiums for the most popular Obamacare plans would rise 37 percent in 2018.
Americans eligible for Obamacare tax credits to buy insurance may pay less for coverage, but costs would increase for middle-class consumers who do not get subsidies.
Its been such a flood of information.
A lot of the population thinks the Affordable Care Act has already been put under, said Daniel Polsky, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and executive director of the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics.
The strange premium increases are going to be very confusing for consumers.
The Trump administration is now planning changes for 2019.
Last week, it proposed a rule giving states more flexibility over the benefits that must be covered by insurance.
Under Obamacare, all insurers have to cover a set of 10 benefits, such as maternity and newborn care and prescription drugs.
COPENHAGEN (Reuters) - Drugmaker Novo Nordisk forecast only muted growth in 2018 and warned that draft legislation in some U.S. states to make pricing more transparent could impact business in its largest market.
Novo Nordisk headquarters are seen in Bagsvaerd outside of Copenhagen, Denmark February 1, 2017.
Scanpix Denmark/Liselotte Sabroe via REUTERS The warning over U.S. state legislation comes after fears that President Donald Trumps healthcare policies could hurt the industry have diminished somewhat during the year.
Trump has repeated a number of times that he believes the industry gets away with murder, obviously we dont agree, said Lars Fruergaard Jorgensen, chief executive of the Danish company.
But at the state level, more and more legislation was being prepared to increase clarity around prices, he said.
If the transparency bills lead to a disclosure level that is too excessive, it becomes difficult to do business, for instance, if we have to publicly share what is in our contracts, Jorgensen said.
The comments came after the worlds top maker of diabetes drugs nudged up its forecasts for the full year after reporting better than expected third-quarter operating profit.
However, its shares slipped 2.9 percent by 0935 GMT on the back of more cautious than expected guidance for next year and weaker third-quarter sales, especially for its Tresiba and Levemir diabetes drugs.
Novo Nordisk said it expected only low to mid single-digit sales and operating profit growth next year.
It narrowed its 2017 sales growth forecast to 2-3 percent from 1-3 percent and lifted the range of its operating profit growth outlook to 3-6 percent from 1-5 percent, all measured in local currencies.
NEW GROWTH HOPES With its established diabetes treatments in the firing line especially due to U.S. price pressures, Novo Nordisk is pinning hopes for growth on new obesity drugs and a once-weekly injection and tablet version of its semaglutide diabetes drug.
Novo makes most of its money from its daily Victoza drug, but its bestseller is still losing market share to rival Eli Lillys once-weekly Trulicity.
In the short term, Novo Nordisk hopes to reverse this trend as it has now updated Victozas label with the claim that the drug reduces the risk of cardiovascular events.
Such a label is a first for so-called GLP-1 drugs.
These drugs are not insulins but an imitation of an intestinal hormone that stimulates the production of insulin.
In the longer term, Novo Nordisk is taking aim at Eli Lilly with its own weekly injection semaglutide, which is expected to be approved in the U.S in December with launch early next year.
We believe we have the ammunition needed to turn this around, Jorgensen said.
The firm posted a quarterly operating profit of 12.04 billion Danish crowns ($1.88 billion) compared with an average 11.95 billion crowns forecast in a Reuters poll of analysts.
LONDON (Reuters) - An experimental biotech drug for severe asthma from AstraZeneca has failed in further clinical tests, following an earlier setback in May and disappointing results with a similar drug at Roche.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of AstraZeneca is seen on medication packages in a pharmacy in London, Britain April 28, 2014.
REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth /File Photo AstraZeneca said on Wednesday that tralokinumabs failure in the latest two Phase III studies was disappointing.
Investors, however, took the news in their stride and the shares rose 1.3 percent in early trade as the setback was not unexpected and was offset by the good news of early approval for AstraZenecas blood cancer drug Calquence.
Tralokinumab had been viewed as a risky project after Roche reported disappointing results with its similar medicine lebrikizumab last year.
Both drugs block a protein called interleukin-13.
AstraZeneca also has another experimental drug for severe asthma called benralizumab that works in a different way and is currently awaiting regulatory approval.
It will compete with other recently approved treatments such as GlaxoSmithKlines Nucala.
(Reuters) - Allergan Plcs third-quarter profit topped Wall Street forecasts on Wednesday, as the drugmaker sold more Botox and benefited from strength in its eye care business that houses dry-eye medicine Restasis.
FILE PHOTO: The Allergan logo is seen in this photo illustration in Singapore November 23, 2015.
REUTERS/Thomas White Allergan has been lobbying hard in recent years to protect Restasis the hallmark of its top-earning eye-care business from being ousted by generic rivals.
It struck a controversial deal with a Native American tribe in September to shield a separate review of Restasis patents by U.S. regulators, drawing the ire of both lawmakers and rival drug companies.
A Texas court last month invalidated Restasis patents on grounds that they cover ideas that are obvious, making it possible for rival generics to hit the market as early as next year.
Allergan has appealed the ruling, Chief Executive Brent Saunders said in a statement on Wednesday.
If a generic product enters the market, Allergan is ready to mitigate that impact by growing our base business, reducing costs and deploying our balance sheet, he added.
Allergans strong earnings may not be enough to offset concerns around challenges it is likely to face, including the loss of exclusivity for some of its key drugs and generic competition for Restasis, Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Louise Chen said.
Allergan said it evaluated all of its dry eye-related assets as a result of the court order, and recognized an impairment of $3.2 billion related to Restasis in its latest quarter.
As a result, Allergan reported a net loss of $4.03 billion or $12.07 per share in the third quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with a profit of $15.15 billion or $38.58 per share a year earlier.
Excluding the charge and other items, Allergan earned $4.15 per share and topped analysts average estimate of $4.05, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Net revenue rose 11.4 percent to $4.03 billion, matching analysts expectations.
Allergans medical aesthetics business generated $602.3 million in sales in the quarter, up nearly 55 percent from a year ago, while sales of Restasis came in at $382.3 million, beating Cowen & Cos estimate of $355 million.
Botox, Allergans best-selling drug, raked in $774.5 million in sales, making up nearly a fifth of overall revenue.
Allergans shares rose 1.7 percent to $180.25 in premarket trading on Wednesday.
(Reuters) - Indiviors experimental drug to help fight Americas growing opioid addiction crisis has been recommended for approval by a U.S. advisory panel, boosting its sales prospects as competitors threaten revenues from an older product.
FILE PHOTO: U.S. Food and Drug Commissioner Scott Gottlieb attends an interview at Reuters headquarters in New York City, U.S., October 10, 2017.
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Shares in the London-listed company, which specializes in addiction treatment, were 11 percent higher by 0855 GMT on Wednesday on the overnight news, extending gains this week.
The advisory committee to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) voted 18-1 that Indiviors injectable drug, known as RBP-6000, could benefit addicts and the lower of two doses studied had an acceptable safety profile.
The FDA, which is due to make a decision on the medicine by Nov. 30, typically follows the recommendations of its advisory panels.
The endorsement comes less than a week after FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb announced the agencys plans to encourage widespread use among opioid addicts of less harmful opioids such as methadone and buprenorphine, the active ingredient in RBP-6000.
I think this is a really promising alternative to whats out there and will be attractive to a lot of patients, said Laurel Habel, a panelist and researcher at Kaiser Permanente in Oakland, California.
The United States is battling an opioid abuse epidemic that in 2015 killed 33,000 people.
President Donald Trump recently declared the problem a national public health emergency.
Indivior studied two dosing regimens.
In one, 300 milligrams were given once a month for six months.
In the other, two doses of 300 milligrams were followed by four doses of 100 milligrams.
There was little difference in effectiveness between the two doses and the higher dose caused more side effects.
Panelists said they would like to see more data about which patients should be given the higher dose, though some said they would like to have it available despite the lack of data supporting any additional benefit.
If approved the product would be the first monthly injectable buprenorphine treatment.
Indivior already sells Suboxone Film, a product which combines buprenorphine and nalexone and is placed under the tongue or inside the cheek.
Two months ago Indivior shares plunged following a U.S. court ruling that cleared the way for a generic rival to Suboxone Film.
Stifel analyst Max Herrmann said RBP-6000 could capture about 30 percent of the broader buprenorphine market and he expects it to generate annual sales of around $700 million by 2021.
Jefferies sees potential peak sales of $1.3 billion by 2025.
Lund, Sweden-based Camurus and privately held Braeburn Pharmaceuticals are also awaiting the health regulators decision on their weekly and monthly injectable buprenorphine drug, CAM2038.
Herrmann forecast these once-monthly formulations, RBP-6000 and CAM2038, to garner around 50 percent of the buprenorphine market, just short of the 56 percent Suboxone currently enjoys.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan Tobacco Inc said it expected a steeper decline in cigarette sales at home than previously estimated, after earlier reporting disappointing results, as more smokers quit or defect to heat-not-burn tobacco products.
FILE PHOTO: Japan Tobacco Inc (JT) headquarters building is seen in Tokyo, Japan, May 18, 2016.
REUTERS/Toru Hanai/File Photo Despite commanding over 60 percent of the cigarette market at home, Japan Tobacco has been caught on the wrong side of the rising popularity of heat-not-burn (HNB) alternatives and has lagged in the category in its own backyard versus global rival Philip Morris International Inc. Quick to see that the number of smokers was shrinking in an era of increasing health awareness, Philip Morris started selling its IQOS HNB product, a tobacco vaping device, in Japan in 2014 and expanded nationwide in April last year.
But Japan Tobacco rolled out its Ploom Tech battery-powered smokeless tobacco product in central Tokyo only in July this year after production delays.
The company is now facing a double whammy - it is trying to increase the number of stores that sell Ploom Tech in a bid to catch up in the HNB space, which also includes British American Tobacco PLCs (BAT) glo device, while battling a drop in domestic cigarette sales.
Japan Tobacco on Wednesday said it now expects to sell 92 billion cigarettes in Japan in 2017, down 13.4 percent from a year ago.
That would be 1 billion less than what it had forecast in August and 4 billion below a projection at the start of year.
Cigarette sales have been hit as more smokers are quitting than the company had expected and there is also the negative impact of HNB products, Japan Tobaccos executive vice president, Hideki Miyazaki, told reporters.
When there are media reports of tax, some people think its time to quit, he said, referring to recent reports that Japan was considering raising its tobacco tax.
The former state-monopoly saw its domestic cigarette sales drop 11.8 percent from a year ago in terms of volume over January to September.
In September, the drop was 13.6 percent.
This drove down the companys operating profit by 5 percent over the first nine months of the year to 469.7 billion yen ($4.12 billion), versus an estimate of 475.5 billion yen from five analysts polled by Thomson Reuters.
Its third-quarter profit, while higher than a year ago, also fell short of consensus.
On Ploom Tech, the company said it was selling the device at 500 stores in Tokyo as of Monday, 100 more than it initially planned.
It started test-selling the product in New York and three other U.S. states in September.
There is still an issue of production capacity but we are trying to manage that, Miyazaki said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Bayer is weighing legal action and Novartis has expressed concern at plans by doctors in the north of England to defy official guidance by using a cancer medicine as a cheap eye drug.
FILE PHOTO: Members of the supervisory board of German pharmaceutical and chemical maker Bayer AG are silhouetted against the company's logo at the annual general shareholders meeting in Bonn, Germany, April 28, 2017.
REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay Doctors from 12 clinical commissioning groups (CCG) plan to make Roches cancer therapy Avastin the preferred option for wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD), even though it is not licensed for this use.
AMD, which occurs when the macula is unable to function properly, is a common cause of sight loss.
David Hambleton, head of the South Tyneside CCG, said the policy of using Avastin rather than Bayers Eylea or Novartiss Lucentis could save the regional National Health Service (NHS) 13.5 million pounds ($18 million) a year.
Clinical safety and effectiveness are paramount but, as the legal guardians of finite NHS resources, we commissioners also have a duty to act efficiently, effectively, and economically, he wrote in the British Medical Journal on Wednesday.
This is one choice that is morally, ethically palatable.
FILE PHOTO: Swiss drugmaker Novartis' logo is seen at the company's plant in the northern Swiss town of Stein, Switzerland October 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann Across England, savings from using Avastin could total more than 500 million pounds, the journal reported.
The new policy from the North East and North Cumbria CCG Forum means doctors will tell patients that Avastin is the preferred choice, although they are still free to choose Eylea or Lucentis if they want.
However, doctors prescribing Avastin for AMD will be using the medicine off label, which goes against guidance from the General Medical Council that a licensed product should be used when available.
While Avastin works in a similar way to Eylea and Lucentis, for a fraction of the price, Bayer and Novartis said it had not undergone the same rigorous regulatory scrutiny for use in AMD as their products.
Bayer feels it has to act to challenge the decision taken by these CCGs.
Bayer is currently considering its position including the possibility of legal proceedings, the German company said in an emailed statement.
Novartis said the move was not in line with the current UK and EU legal and regulatory framework.
The issue of whether Avastin should be used as a cheap alternative in AMD has long been controversial in Europe.
In 2014 in Italy, Roche and Novartis were accused of collusion in trying to impose the use of Lucentis in AMD - a charge the two companies denied.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - It will take a major shift in the way cancer research is done in the United States to meet the ambitious goals set out by the U.S. Cancer Moonshot, researchers said on Tuesday.
FILE PHOTO: Former Vice President Joe Biden reviews his cancer moonshot binder while participating in a roundtable discussion at the University of Pennsylvania, Perelman School of Medicine and Abramson Cancer Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania January 15, 2016.
REUTERS/Mark Makela In a report published in Lancet Oncology, cancer researchers outlined a new model for cancer drug discovery and development focused on increased data sharing and collaboration, as well as a major focus on expanding patient access to clinical trials.
The report also focuses on expanding cancer care to underserved groups, including children, minorities and cancer survivors.
It follows an announcement earlier this month in which the Trump administration threw its support behind a public-private partnership with 11 drug companies to advance cancer immunotherapies, a new class of drugs that uses the bodys immune system to fight cancer.
The five-year collaboration is part of the Cancer Moonshot Initiative, an Obama administration program led by former Vice President Joe Biden, whose son Beau died of brain cancer.
The Cancer Moonshot aims to speed cancer research and make more treatments available to more patients, as well as to improve cancer detection and prevention.
The Lancet Oncology Commission on Future Research Priorities in the USA expands on the work released last year by the Cancer Moonshots Blue Ribbon Panel, which set priorities for the initiative.
The Lancet report sets out 13 priority areas, each with measurable goals and targets.
The programs are intended to make the best use of the $2 billion in funding from the 21st Century Cures Act, passed in 2016, that is intended to accelerate cancer research.
In its report, the Lancet Oncology Commission stresses the need for studies of cancer drugs and how they perform after they are approved or how they work when used off label in indications for which they were not initially studied.
Such studies could shed light on which treatments work best in which groups of patients.
To meet these ambitious goals, the commission recommends that researchers take advantage of technological advances, such as big data and genomics, to better understand the changes that take place before cancer begins.
To that end, the commission will develop a pre-cancer atlas to spot small changes in healthy tissue that signal the first signs of cancer, information that could lead to new screening and prevention strategies.
The report also urges the development of databases in which patients can enter their personal information for use by cancer researchers and get linked up with appropriate clinical trials.
Some 1.6 million Americans are diagnosed with cancer and 600,000 die from their disease each year.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A large group of U.S. states accused key players in the generic drug industry of a broad price-fixing conspiracy, moving on Tuesday to widen an earlier lawsuit to add many more drugmakers and medicines in an action that sent some company shares tumbling.
FILE PHOTO: Mylan NL CEO Heather Bresch is sworn in before a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on the Rising Price of EpiPens, at the Capitol in Washington, U.S. September 21, 2016.
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas/File Photo The lawsuit, brought by the attorneys general of 45 states and the District of Columbia, accused 18 companies and subsidiaries and named 15 medicines.
It also targeted two individual executives: Rajiv Malik, president and executive director of Mylan NV, and Satish Mehta, CEO and managing director of Indias Emcure Pharmaceuticals.
Shares of Pennsylvania-based Mylan, also named as a defendant, closed down 6.6 percent.
The states said the drugmakers and executives divided customers for their drugs among themselves, agreeing that each company would have a certain percentage of the market.
The companies sometimes agreed on price increases in advance, the states added.
The states said Malik and Mehta spoke directly to one another to agree on their companies shares of the market for a delayed-release version of a common antibiotic, doxycycline hyclate.
It is our belief that price-fixing is systematic, it is pervasive, and that a culture of collusion exists in the industry, Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen, who is leading the case, told a news conference in Hartford.
Mylan said in a statement it had found no evidence of price-fixing by the company or any of its employees, and vowed to defend itself vigorously.
Malik, the companys second-ranking official, has received more than $50 million in compensation over the past three years, last year making more than CEO Heather Bresch.
Mylan has deep faith in the integrity of its president, Rajiv Malik, and stands behind him fully, the company said.
Emcure, also a defendant in the case, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Two former executives of Emcures subsidiary Heritage Pharmaceuticals pleaded guilty in January to federal charges of conspiring to fix prices and divide up the market for doxycycline and the diabetes drug glyburide.
The two men, former Heritage president Jason Malek and former chairman and chief executive Jeffrey Glazer, reached a deal with 41 states and territories in which they each agreed to pay $25,000 and cooperate with the state probe.
Soaring drug prices from both branded and generic drug manufacturers have sparked outrage and investigations in the United States.
President Donald Trump this year accused pharmaceutical companies of getting away with murder with their drug pricing.
Executives like Mylans Bresch and former Turing Pharmaceuticals CEO Martin Shkreli have been called in front of Congress to defend the cost of their products.
MORE COMPANIES TARGETED The original complaint, filed in December, targeted Mylan, Heritage, Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc, Citron Pharma LLC, Mayne Pharma USA Inc and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.
The states are pressing a new complaint that would add Novartis AGs unit Sandoz, India-based Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, Endo International PLCs unit Par Pharmaceutical, Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Apotex Corp, Glenmark Generics Ltd, Lannett Company Inc, Alkem Laboratories Ltds unit Ascend Laboratories and Cadila Healthcare Ltds unit Zydus Pharmaceuticals Inc. Jepsen said the investigation is continuing, and that claims would likely be brought against more companies, and possibly executives, in the future.
The news hurt shares of companies named in the expanded suit that are traded in the United States.
In addition to Mylans drop, Lannett lost 13.7 percent.
Shares of Endo were up 7 percent, but down from their 12 percent peak before the news of the amended lawsuit.
Teva spokeswoman Denise Bradley said the company denied the allegations.
Endo spokeswoman Heather Lubeski said the company would vigorously defend itself against the claims.
Other companies did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
The expansion of the suit requires the courts permission.
The original lawsuit centered on just two medicines, delayed-release doxycycline and glyburide.
The price of doxycycline rose from $20 for 500 tablets to $1,849 between October 2013 and May 2014, according to U.S.
Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat who had been pressing for action on high drug prices.
The amended complaint would expand the number of drugs to include glipizide-metformin and glyburide-metformin, which are among the most commonly used diabetes treatments.
Others include: acetazolamide, which is used to treat glaucoma and epilepsy; the antibiotic doxycycline monohydrate; the blood pressure medicine fosinopril; the anti-anxiety medicine meprobamate; and the calcium channel blocking agent nimodipine.
The U.S. Justice Department is conducting a parallel criminal investigation.
On Friday, the department asked the Pennsylvania court presiding over the lawsuit to put the lawsuits discovery process on hold, saying it could interfere with the criminal probe.
Connecticut Assistant Attorney General Joseph Nielsen said on Tuesday the states would likely oppose that request, which could slow the lawsuit.
(Reuters) - New Jersey on Tuesday sued Purdue Pharma LP, accusing the maker of the chronic pain medication OxyContin of fueling the states opioid crisis through deceptive marketing to doctors and patients, including the elderly and the opioid-naive.
FILE PHOTO: A pharmacist holds prescription painkiller OxyContin, 40mg pills, made by Purdue Pharma L.D.
at a local pharmacy, in Provo, Utah, U.S. on April 25, 2017.
REUTERS/George Frey/File Photo The states attorney general, Christopher Porrino, faulted what he called Purdues almost inconceivable callousness and irresponsibility in a decade-long campaign of downplaying the risks and exaggerating the benefits of opioids in the pursuit of profit.
We vigorously deny these allegations and look forward to the opportunity to present our defense, Purdue said in a statement.
We are deeply troubled by the opioid crisis and we are dedicated to being part of the solution.
At least 11 U.S. states have sued Purdue over opioids, including a complaint filed by Alaska on Monday.
Other drugmakers also face lawsuits by state and local governments over an opioid epidemic that President Donald Trump last Thursday called a national public health emergency.
Opioids, including prescription painkillers and heroin, played a role in 33,091 U.S. deaths in 2015, up 16 percent from 2014, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
New Jerseys 103-page lawsuit filed in Essex County Superior Court accused Purdue of engaging in unconscionable practices, making false claims, and creating a public nuisance, costing the state hundreds of millions of dollars in prescription costs.
The state said Purdue misled people into believing OxyContin and other opioids could treat chronic pain over the long term, as an alternative to over-the-counter medication such as Advil and Tylenol, though there were no studies showing their safety and effectiveness beyond 12 weeks.
New Jersey said Purdue drove sales representatives to promote opioids to as many as 40 doctors a week in person, and set annual prescription quotas as high as 8,400 for OxyContin alone.
It quoted a former sales rep as saying she knew OxyContin dosages would rise as patients tolerances increased, and struggled to meet her quotas because she thought patients should not go down that road if they had safer alternatives.
Alaskas complaint filed in Anchorage Superior Court raised similar legal claims.
Governor Bill Walker in a statement said many Alaskans would have never become addicts without that initial prescription that went on too long.
OxyContin was launched in 1996.
Last Wednesday, Purdue said it was cooperating with a U.S. Department of Justice probe related to OxyContin.
In 2007, Purdue and three executives pleaded guilty to misbranding OxyContin and agreed to pay $634.5 million to resolve another Justice Department investigation.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A trail of fossilized three-toed footprints that measure nearly two feet (57 cm) long shows that a huge meat-eating dinosaur stalked southern Africa 200 million years ago at a time when most carnivorous dinosaurs were modest-sized beasts.
Fabien Knoll, Honorary Senior Research Fellow at the University of Manchester, lies next to the exceptionally large carnivorous dinosaur footprints found in Lesotho, Africa in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 26, 2017.
Fabien Knoll/University of Manchester/Handout via REUTERS Scientists on Thursday described the footprints from an ancient river bank in Lesotho, and estimated that the dinosaur, which they named Kayentapus ambrokholohali, was about 30 feet (9 meters) long.
No fossilized bones were found, but the footprints alone showed a lot about the animal.
The scientists concluded it was a large theropod -- the two-legged carnivorous dinosaur group that included later giants like Tyrannosaurus and Giganotosaurus -- but that it was more lightly built than those brutes.
The theropod group also gave rise to birds.
Kayentapus lived early in the Jurassic Period, shortly after a mass extinction that doomed other large reptilian terrestrial predators that lived in the preceding Triassic Period, when dinosaurs first appeared.
Our finding corroborates the hypothesis that theropods reached a great size relatively early in the course of their evolution, but apparently not before the Triassic-Jurassic boundary, said paleontologist Fabien Knoll, of the Dinopolis Foundation in Spain and the University of Manchester in Britain.
There are no skeletal fossils of meat-eating dinosaurs this large so early in the dinosaur evolutionary history.
It lived on the ancient southern hemisphere super-continent of Gondwana.
There are other fossilized footprints from Poland that indicate a similar-sized theropod inhabited the northern super-continent of Laurasia around the same time.
Theropods of similar size do not appear in the fossil record until 30 million years later, Knoll said.
The footprints were found on what was once a river bank, bearing telltale ripple marks and desiccation cracks.
It is the first evidence of an extremely large meat-eating animal roaming a landscape otherwise dominated by a variety of herbivorous, omnivorous and much-smaller carnivorous dinosaurs, added paleontologist Lara Sciscio of the University of Cape Town in South Africa.
The research was published on Wednesday in the journal PLOS ONE.
In separate research, other scientists on Thursday described another new dinosaur, a plant-eater called Matheronodon provincialis, that lived 70 million years ago.
Its fossils were unearthed in southern France.
Matheronodon is distinctive for its large teeth with a chisel-like cutting edge that provided a powerful shearing action like scissors to eat tough vegetation, said paleontologist Pascal Godefroit of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences in Brussels.
That research was published in the journal Scientific Reports.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A small asteroid or comet that has been spotted racing through our solar system may have come from elsewhere in the galaxy, U.S. space scientists say, possibly marking the first such interstellar visitor observed from Earth.
The mystery object, so far known only as A/2017 U1, was discovered earlier this month by a researcher using a sophisticated telescope system at the University of Hawaii that continually scans the universe for such phenomenon.
We have been waiting for this day for decades, said Paul Chodas, manager of the National Aeronautics and Space Administrations Center for Near Earth Object Studies at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.
Its long been theorized that such objects exist -- asteroids or comets moving around between the stars and occasionally passing through our solar system -- but this is the first such detection, Chodas said.
The mass, a quarter mile (400 meters) in diameter, quickly stood out for scientists because of its extreme orbit, coming from the direction of the constellation Lyra, almost directly above the elliptical plane where the planets and other asteroids orbit the sun.
It crossed under that plane just outside Mercurys orbit on Sept. 2 before being slung by the suns massive gravity into a sharp turn under our solar system.
The closest the object came to Earth was about 15 million miles away on Oct. 14.
It is going extremely fast and on such a trajectory that we can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back, NASAs Davide Farnocchia said.
Astronomers were urgently tracking A/2017 U1 with telescopes as it makes its journey through our solar system, hoping to use that data to confirm the objects interstellar origins and learn what they can about its composition.
If the object is formally established as the first of its kind spotted from Earth, rules for naming it would have to be set out by the International Astronomical Union, NASA scientists said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A raccoon-sized, feather-clad dinosaur that roamed China 130 million years ago shared a distinctive trait with the furry modern mammal that topples trash cans in North America: a stripe across their eyes resembling a bandit mask.
This figure shows the best-preserved fossil specimen of Sinosauropteryx from the Early Cretaceous Jehol Biota of China and an interpretive drawing of the bones, stomach contents, and darkly pigmented feathers.
The scale bar represents 50 mm.
Photo courtesy of Jakob Vinther, intrepretive drawing by Fiann Smithwick/Handout via REUTERS Scientists said on Thursday an analysis of fossilized feathers on the dinosaur called Sinosauropteryx revealed a camouflage pattern that included the bandit mask, a light-colored underbelly, dark-colored back and a striped tail.
Its color pattern also hinted at the environment Sinosauropteryx inhabited: an open savannah rather than a forest, the researchers believe.
This was quite a surprising discovery, paleontologist Fiann Smithwick of the University of Bristol in Britain said of the bandit mask.
That feature may have given Sinosauropteryx certain advantages.
In birds, the evolutionary descendants of dinosaurs, a bandit mask pattern often obscures the eyes.
Predators and prey look for eyes as a giveaway of an animals presence, Smithwick said.
The color patterns we found are all known to be associated with camouflage in modern animals, and so it is likely that Sinosauropteryx was under strong predation pressure as well as needing to hide from its own prey.
It was likely both the hunter and the hunted, Smithwick added.
Sinosauropteryx measured about 3.5 feet (1 meter) long, was two-legged with short arms, large thumbs and a very long tail, and was covered in filament-like feathers.
Previous research indicated its dark feathers were brownish-red.
It possessed small, sharp teeth, and ate small vertebrates like lizards.
It would have looked like a skinny version of a raccoon mixed with a turkey, said University of Bristol molecular paleobiologist Jakob Vinther.
Scientists ability in recent years to identify color patterns in fossilized dinosaur skin and feathers has boosted the understanding of these bygone creatures.
The camouflage pattern seen on the side of Sinosauropteryxs body is called countershading, which helps animals blend in with the background.
Animals inhabiting open environments like savannahs often have a countershading pattern like that of Sinosauropteryx that transitions dramatically from dark to light high on the side of the body, the researchers said.
Forest animals typically have countershading that changes from dark to light much lower and more gradually on the side of the body.
We know that at least two other dinosaurs had countershading, neither of which were feathered, so it seems that it was a common color pattern, Smithwick said.
The research was published in the journal Current Biology.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - The earth is a fragile thing that could even destroy itself, Pope Francis told astronauts on the International Space Station on Thursday, saying they had an opportunity to see the planet from the eyes of God.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters Francis spent about 20 minutes in a video call to the six crew members on the space station, asking them several questions, sometimes with the gee-whiz wonder of a school boy.
Hello ESA (European Space Agency) in the Vatican.
This is Space Station.
We hear you loud and clear.
Good morning or Good evening.
Because when one is in space you never know, the pope said from behind a desk with a television monitor in front of him.
The pope seemed moved by comments by mission commander Randy Bresnik, one of three Americans on board, who said what gave him the greatest joy in space was to be able to look outside and see Gods creation maybe a little bit from his perspective.
People cannot come up here and see the indescribable beauty of our earth and not be touched in their souls, Bresnik told the pope, adding, theres no borders, theres no conflict; its just peaceful.
In his response, the pope said Bresnik had managed to understand that the earth is too fragile and it passes in a moment.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters It is a very fragile thing, the atmosphere is thin, so capable of doing harm, of destroying itself, and you have gone to look at it from the eyes of God.
Francis, the second pope to phone the space station - Pope Benedict did so in 2011 - has made many appeals for the protection of the Earths environment.
Slideshow (3 Images) An encyclical, or major letter, he published in 2015 called for action to reduce the harm from global warming caused by human activity.
Sergey Ryazanskiy, one of two Russians on the space station, said he had decided to be a cosmonaut because his grandfather was one of the chief engineers who built Sputnik, the first artificial satellite, which the Soviet Union sent into a low Earth orbit in 1957 during the Cold War.
Roots are our hope and our strength.
Dont forget roots, Francis replied approvingly of the reference to being inspired by a grandfather.
Italian astronaut Paolo Nespoli, who acted as translator for his Russian and American crew mates, thanked the pope for coming on board and for taking us higher.
Then a voice from mission control announced: Station: We are now resuming normal operational communications.
NEWQUAY, England (Reuters) - The Bloodhound Supersonic Car, effectively a fighter jet on wheels, on Thursday kicked off a bid to roar into the record books by eventually reaching 1,000 mph (1,610 kmh).
Before a crowd of spectators, the blue and orange, spacecraft-like vehicle with a high tail and long, rocket-shaped nose made two test runs down a 1.7-mile (2.7 km) track, attaining 200 mph (320 kmh) in about nine seconds.
It was the first public trial of the vehicle, powered by an EJ200 jet engine from a Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet, ahead of a world record bid in South Africa in the next few years.
Twenty years after setting the current world land speed record of 763 mph in the Bloodhounds predecessor, Andy Green, a British air force pilot, will aim to surpass his achievement.
We came here to say Bloodhound is Go!
And thats exactly what we managed to demonstrate today, Green said after the test run in Newquay in the southwest of England.
The Bloodhound SuperSonic Car, which is attempting to break the 1,000mph barrier in 2019, does its first public test run at Newquay airport, Newquay, Britain, October 26, 2017, REUTERS/Toby Melville The performance, the handling, the stability of it - I cant fault the car at all, it just worked brilliantly.
Slideshow (9 Images) The Bloodhound project was launched in 2008 in London with the objective of designing a car able to reach speeds of 1,000 mph.
About 30 million pounds ($39.49 million) has been invested in the project thanks to support from the public and sponsors including Chinese auto group Geely and Rolls Royce among others.
The overall price tag could reach 60 million pounds.
If the roughly 13-metre(39-foot)-long vehicle achieves its target 1,000 mph, that would surpass the low-altitude speed record for aircraft of 994 mph, according to the Bloodhound project website.
At 1,000 mph, it would cover a distance equivalent to over four football pitches every second.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabias Public Investment Fund plans to invest about $1 billion in Richard Bransons space company, Virgin Galactic, and sister companies The Spaceship Company and Virgin Orbit, according to a joint statement published on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: Sir Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Group and Virgin Unite, takes part in a discussion during the Clinton Global Initiative's annual meeting in New York, September 28, 2015.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson/File Photo This investment will enable us to develop the next generation of satellite launches and accelerate our program for point to point supersonic space travel, the statement quoted Branson, the British billionaire founder of London-based Virgin Group, Virgin Galactics owner, as saying.
We are now just months away from Virgin Galactic going into space with people on board and Virgin Orbit going into orbit and placing satellites around the Earth.
Last year Virgin Galactic was granted an operating license by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to fly its passenger rocketship with the worlds first paying space tourists aboard once final safety tests are completed.
Under a non-binding memorandum of understanding there is an option for $480 million of future additional investment in space services, said the statement, issued at the end of a three-day Saudi investment conference in the capital Riyadh.
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman said the deal reflected the progress the conservative kingdom was making toward creating a diversified, knowledge-based economy.
The future of Saudi Arabia is one of innovation, he said.
Its through partnerships with organizations like Virgin Group that we will make active contributions to those sectors and technologies that are driving progress on a global scale.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A mysterious partial skull unearthed in Papua New Guinea in 1929 that once was thought to belong to an extinct human species now turns out to have another unique distinction.
Scientists believe it belongs to the oldest-known human tsunami victim.
The cranium of a person who lived in what's now Papua New Guinea, 6,000 years ago is pictured in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 25, 2017.
Arthur Durband/The Field Museum/Handout via REUTERS Researchers said on Wednesday that new examinations of the sediments where the 6,000-year-old skull was found detected hallmarks of a tsunami, with a composition remarkably similar to the remnants of a deadly 1998 tsunami that lashed the same area.
The skull was discovered near the town of Aitape, about 7 miles (12 km) inland from Papua New Guineas northern coast.
It is one of the earliest human remains from the island of New Guinea, and initially was mistaken for a species called Homo erectus that died out about 140,000 years ago.
Later scientific dating revealed it was actually 6,000 years old.
As probably the oldest-known tsunami victim in the world, the Aitape skull speaks volumes about the long-term exposure of human populations along the worlds coastlines and how such events in the past will have undoubtedly had fundamental effects on human migration, settlement and culture, said tsunami expert James Goff of the University of New South Wales in Australia.
The scientists examined geological deposits at the river-bed site where the skull was found, identifying clear signs of tsunami activity.
They spotted microscopic organisms from the ocean in the sediment, similar to those found in soil after the 1998 tsunami.
We also employed chemistry and examined the size of sediment grains, finding they were indicative of a tsunami, said anthropologist-archaeologist Mark Golitko of the University of Notre Dame in Indiana and the Field Museum in Chicago.
Tsunamis, giant waves typically caused by underwater earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, are particularly dangerous natural disasters.
The 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, caused by a massive earthquake off Sumatra, killed more than 230,000 people.
The 1998 Papua New Guinea tsunami killed more than 2,000 people, wiped out villages, destroyed crops and forced many survivors to relocate.
The tsunami 6,000 years ago apparently was similar.
Much like the 1998 tsunami, we suspect that one or more large waves very suddenly impacted the coast, washing near-shore villages and anyone living there further back into swamps and lagoons that dot the coast, Golitko said.
The skull was found without other bones.
The researchers noted that in the 1998 tsunami, many victims were washed into lagoons and their bodies scavenged by crocodiles.
The research was published in the journal PLOS ONE.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - U.S. scientists on Wednesday unveiled two new molecular editing tools designed to fix mutations that cause the majority of human genetic diseases, some of which have no known treatment.
One technique, by David Liu of Harvard University and the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, offers a highly precise way to fix single-letter mistakes in genes, which are stretches of deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA.
A second, by Broad Institute molecular biologist Feng Zhang, focuses on editing ribonucleic acid or RNA, which carries the genetic instructions to make proteins, without altering DNA.
Both techniques build off of the game-changing CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing tool, a type of molecular scissors for trimming unwanted parts of the human genome to replace with new stretches of DNA.
The genome consists of six billion DNA letters, or chemical bases.
In a paper published on Wednesday in the journal Nature, Liu and colleagues build on his pioneering work called base editing.
Unlike CRISPR, which causes breaks in DNA, base editing chemically corrects single-letter errors in DNA.
CRISPR is like scissors, and base editors are like pencils, Liu said in a statement.
Base editing tinkers with DNAs four chemical bases, adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
It takes two bases to form base pairs which make up rungs in the spiral DNA ladder, and they follow specific rules - C pairs with G, and T pairs with A. Single-letter mistakes, called point mutations, can give rise to genetic diseases.
Last year, Lius team described a base editor that could change CG base pairs into AT pairs.
In a paper published in September, researchers at Sun Yat-sen University in China described using that system to correct a faulty gene that causes the blood disorder called beta-thalassemia in human embryos.
For the latest study, Lius lab researchers engineered an entirely new enzyme that could convert an AT to a GC pair, something that had previously not been possible.
The research goal was tantalizing because about half of the 32,000 disease-associated point mutations are caused when an GC base pair mistakenly becomes an AT in a specific spot in the genome.
They came up with an enzyme that is very specific and very effective, said Dana Carroll, a gene-editing expert at the University of Utah who was not involved in the research.
It really was a heroic effort, and very beautifully done.
Carroll said gene editing enzymes would be very useful tools for both research and practical studies in medicine and possibly agriculture.
Since base editing does not cause a break in the DNA, it might produce more predictable results than CRISPR, which can cause slightly unpredictable insertions or deletions in the genetic code, Professor Robin Lovell-Badge of the Francis Crick Institute in London said in an email.
In the second study published in Science, Zhang, an early developer of CRISPR-Cas9 technology, created a new version of CRISPR that can edit RNA, which could help scientists make precise changes in cells at different points in development.
David Cox, a graduate student in Zhangs lab and a lead author on the study, said the RNA editing system, called REPAIR, can fix mutations without tampering with the genome.
However, the changes are not permanent because RNA degrades over time.
Carroll said both editing systems offer the chance to correct specific disease mutations, either in DNA or messenger RNA.
But neither is ready for human trials yet.
There are a number of hurdles that need to be overcome, including proving efficiency, specificity and safety, he said.
The scientists also need to develop ways to deliver the editing systems into the correct cells in the body.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - It is not the taming of the shrew, but rather the shrinking of the shrew.
A common shrew or Sorex araneus is shown in this September 27, 2008 handout photo.
Courtesy of Karol Zub/Handout via REUTERS Scientists this week described one of natures most intriguing phenomena, the shrinkage of the skull and body of a type of shrew as lean winter months approach and the subsequent regrowth of the critters for the flowering of spring.
This exotic trait of the common shrew, a tiny insect-eating mammal inhabiting central and north Europe and a large part of Asia, was first noted in the 1940s but no previous research had studied changes in individual shrews.
The scientists periodically caught, measured and X-rayed wild shrews near the German village of Mggingen.
Individual shrews shrank their braincase by up to 20 percent -- 15 percent on average -- from summer to winter, then in the spring regrew by up to 13 percent -- 9 percent on average, not quite returning to their original size.
Body mass also decreased by winter and then increased in spring.
Wild shrews live about 13-15 months and never regain their previous size.
In these extremely high metabolic animals, reducing body mass during winter, a period of resource scarcity, might increase their survival chances, as this would reduce food requirements, said evolutionary biologist Javier Lzaro Tapia of the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology in Germany.
And reducing brain size, as well as other tissues, might save energy as the brain tissues are energetically so expensive.
In other words, we are observing a wintering adaptation in terms of energy saving, an alternative strategy for a non-migratory and non-hibernating species.
Common shrews, whose favorite meal is earthworms, are very active, and must eat constantly to supply their ravenous metabolism.
They are territorial and solitary, starting fierce fights when meeting other shrews, and tolerate each other only during breeding season.
Regarding the biological mechanisms behind the shrinking and regrowth, Lzaro said braincase shrinkage is probably achieved by a resorption of tissue at the cranial sutures, joints between skull bones, with a regeneration of bone tissue during the regrowth phase.
If we think of our own skull and imagine it changing in size by 20 percent, this is astounding and unimaginable, Lzaro said.
This image is what we want the reader to take home: how flexible seemingly rigid structures can be if evolution warrants it, making this tiny high-power engine of an animal so successful.
The research was published on Monday in the journal Current Biology.
TAIPEI (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) sees its mobile devices as a major platform for artificial intelligence in the future, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Williams said on Monday.
An Apple employee showcases the augmented reality on an iPhone 8 Plus at the Apple Orchard Shop in Singapore September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Edgar Su Later this week, Apple is set to begin taking pre-orders for its new smartphone, the iPhone X which starts at $999 and uses artificial intelligence (AI) features embedded in the companys latest A11 chips.
The phone promises new facial recognition features such as Face ID that uses a mathematical model of a persons face to allow the user to sign on to their phones or pay for goods with a steady glance at their phones.
We think that the frameworks that weve got, the neural engines weve put in the phone, in the watch ... we do view that as a huge piece of the future, we believe these frameworks will allow developers to create apps that will do more and more in this space, so we think the phone is a major platform, Williams said.
He was speaking at top chip manufacturer Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Companys (2330.TW) 30th anniversary celebration in Taipei, which was attended by global tech executives.
Williams said technological innovations, especially involving the cloud and on-device processing, will improve life without sacrificing privacy or security.
I think were at an inflection point, with on-device computing, coupled with the potential of AI, to really change the world, he said.
He said AI could be used to change the way healthcare is delivered, an industry he sees as ripe for change.
Williams said Apples integration of artificial intelligence wouldnt be just limited to mobile phones.
Some pieces will be done in data centers, some will be on the device, but we are already doing AI in the broader sense of the word, not the machines thinking for themselves version of AI, he said referring to the work of Nvidia Corp (NVDA.O), a leader in AI.
Global tech firms such as Facebook (FB.O), Alphabet Inc (GOOGL.O), Amazon, and Chinas Huawei are spending heavily to develop and offer AI-powered services and products in search of new growth drivers.
Softbank Group Corp (9984.T), which has significantly invested in artificial intelligence, plans a second Vision Fund that could be about $200 billion in size, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday.
At Mondays event, TSMC Chairman Morris Chang described his companys relationship with Apple as intense.
Williams said the relationship started in 2010, the year Apple launched the iPhone 4, with both parties taking on substantial risk.
He credited Chang for TSMCs huge capital investment to ramp up faster than the pace the industry was used to at the time.
Apple decided to have 100 percent of its new iPhone and new iPad chips for application processors sourced at TSMC, and TSMC invested $9 billion to bring up its Tainan fab in a record 11 months, he said.
(CNN) Barely more than children themselves when they give birth, many of the forgotten mothers of Zika-striken babies in the Brazilian state of Alagoas are shiny-new teenagers, just learning to navigate their developing bodies.
Traversing the challenges of motherhood at that age is tricky at best; attempting to navigate them with a baby who carries the mark of the mosquito is almost unthinkable.
Rakely Santos da Silva was only 15 when she gave birth to her "special" child.
She told women's rights activist Debora Diniz, who was traveling across Alagoas interviewing mothers of babies affected by Zika, that she had no idea her daughter, Mirela, had congenital Zika syndrome when she was born.
Special" has a religious meaning for mothers like Rakely, says Diniz, because only "special" mothers can take care of special babies.
"You are the one that God knows is strong enough to take care of a baby with a strong dependency."
Rakely's doctors never mentioned the possibility, even though there were obvious issues with Mirela's eyes and muscle tone, because her baby didn't have the typical "small head" of microcephaly, a rare nervous system disorder in which the brain and head fail to develop properly.
Yet many babies can have Zika's hallmark symptoms of eye damage, brain calcification and joint and muscle stiffness without a small head at birth.
Children born with congenital Zika syndrome could have swallowing and feeding difficulties as well as hearing and vision loss.
They are also at high risk for seizures or severe developmental delays in moving, speaking, playing and learning.
"She should have been invited to a second visit to the hospital to see if the baby was fine and given access to early intervention to improve her baby's chances at a more normal life," said Diniz, a Brazilian native and law professor at the University of Braslia.
"But that didn't happen."
Instead, Diniz said, Rakely's case was discarded, and she and her daughter were added to the list of women and babies considered lucky to escape the ravages of the Zika epidemic.
As a result, Mirela received none of the checkups, medications and developmental resources to which she was entitled.
Mayara Santos de Oliveira and her son, Alejandro Carlos Oliveira da Conceio, live near the coast in Maragogi, Alagoas, not far from all-inclusive tropical resorts.
Mayara Santos de Oliveira was 16 when she gave birth in Maragogi, Alagoas, to her "special" baby, a boy named Alejandro.
If she had a fever, a rash or muscle aches during her pregnancy, Mayara didn't recognize them as typical symptoms of Zika.
"These women have been living with tropical diseases for a long time," Diniz said.
"They told me, 'I felt some pain in my body but nothing different from everyday life.'
Dengue, chikungunya, malaria, it's just another experience of the body."
Maria Jos Santos de Arajo and her daughter Melissa Vitria live in Japaratinga, Alagoas, close to the ocean.
Maria Jos Santos de Arajo had her first baby at 16 and her third, Melissa Vitria, when she was 20.
Melissa Vitria was born with microcephaly, the abnormally small head and brain that is the hallmark of Zika's devastating effect on a developing fetus.
Maria -- who likes to be called Neguinha, a common term of endearment in Portuguese that roughly translates to "sweetie girl" -- told Diniz she had no idea she was carrying a "mosquito baby" until the midwife announced the news with horror at the birth.
In a memory Neguinha described to Diniz tearfully as the "greatest offense," the midwife asked, "Are you going to take her home, or are you going to leave her here?"
Cryslane was 21 when she gave birth to Hiago in Santana do Ipanema, but she told Diniz she still wasn't prepared for the stress of caring for a Zika-affected child.
A Zika mystery These girls, and others like them, are raising their Zika-stricken newborns in Alagoas, a tiny state in Brazil's poverty-stricken northeast nestled between Pernambuco and Bahia, the epicenter of the 2015-16 Zika epidemic.
Though most states in the northeast of Brazil show startling numbers of Zika-related pregnancies and births, the official numbers in Alagoas are low.
That struck Diniz -- who is also a writer and documentary filmmaker who has made numerous films about Brazil -- as more than odd.
"There's no good reason to believe the epidemic had bypassed the state," she said.
"Alagoas is a small, forgotten area, with one of the highest adolescent pregnancy rates in the country.
So there's no way to believe that."
In December, with funding from the English charitable organization Wellcome , Diniz and several of her colleagues from ANIS, the Institute of Bioethics, Human Rights and Gender , traveled to Alagoas.
In the 45-day trip, they visited 21 municipalities, over half of which had officially registered cases of children affected by Zika.
As they entered each town, they went to the local "taxi/motorcycle" stand and asked drivers whether they knew of any babies affected by Zika.
When the answer was yes, they hired a ride to their homes.
"We didn't follow official numbers or data," Diniz explained.
"Instead, we did a home-by-home registration of women who had babies affected by Zika."
What the team found was disturbing.
Of 49 women included in the study, 10 had babies with Zika who had been discarded from the official count.
In fact, Diniz said, Alagoas has twice as many discarded cases per live births as the neighboring state of Bahia.
One of the main reasons: Alagoas, unlike other Brazilian states, requires a computerized tomography (CT) scan of a newborn's brain to add them to the official count.
Only two hospitals in the state own a CT machine; the waiting list for the test is months long.
There's more.
None of the Zika-affected babies Diniz and her team evaluated was receiving proper followup care.
Forty-five percent were not receiving early stimulation, over half did not regularly take essential medications, and none of the babies had received the eyeglasses necessary to correct the widespread ocular damage that frequently occurs.
Patrcia Santos da Silva and her six children.
She is holding baby Gabriel, who has what she calls the "tiny mosquito problem."
Patrcia Santos da Silva, 24, and her family live in the city of Santana do Ipanema, in the western backlands of Alagoas.
Her son Gabriel, who has what she calls the "tiny mosquito problem," is her sixth child; she had her first when she was only 14.
Despite a full list of prescriptions that she showed Diniz, including one for seizures, Patrcia shared that she does not buy or receive any of them for Gabriel.
Nor does she take him to the doctor or to many of his "early stimulation sessions," therapy appointments designed to improve muscle tone and bolster development.
The biggest reason: She cannot leave her other children to take Gabriel, nor does she have any money to hire help or transportation.
Neguinha must travel 80 miles one way to get the early stimulation services her daughter needs.
Neguinha faces the same situation.
There are no early stimulation services in Japaratinga, where she lives.
The closest center is in Macei, over 80 miles (130 kilometers) away; the only other center in all of Alagoas is in Arapiraca, 174 miles (280 kilometers) away.
To get to the Macei center, Neguinha must walk for 30 minutes to the local health department to catch a 4 a.m. ride.
After several early morning treks only to find that the car was already filled, she gave up.
It's the same desperate story for all of the women Diniz surveyed, as they struggle to care for their families.
Even by Brazilian standards, Alagoas is one of the poorest and most dangerous states in Brazil, scarred by the drug trade, a high murder rate and ingrained, extreme inequality, especially for women.
Grandmothers are often called upon to help with child care.
Maria de Rosilene is the primary caregiver for her grandson, Eduardo, who cannot walk.
"It's hard for Maria because he is getting heavy," said Diniz.
Tamires Goldino Filho with her husband, Eduardo, and son Joo Lucas.
They must travel two hours each way from their home in Monteiropolis, Alagoas, to get physiotherapy for Joo Lucas.
"These women were ignored before the arrival of the Zika epidemic," Diniz said.
"They are low in social class, education, culture.
They are unknown women in the political world, and they are the most vulnerable."
'They cannot avoid the bite' Where these women live, substandard housing is the norm, and stagnant water, the breeding ground for the Zika-carrying mosquito, is everywhere.
"They cannot avoid the bite," Diniz said.
"Yet they are not given access to reproductive help, no education or contraceptives, so how can they avoid a pregnancy?
And of course, abortion is rarely an option."
Brazil, like many South American countries, has strict laws against abortion, allowing it only when a woman is raped, her life is in danger or the fetus has anencephaly, a fatal congenital brain disorder.
Women who circumvent the law face sentences of up to three years in prison.
Advocates like ANIS, Human Rights Watch and Brazil's National Association of Public Defenders have been battling the law in court, including one case that cites the Zika virus epidemic.
But conservative lawmakers have fought back, introducing bills that might apply a total ban on abortion.
In the meantime, wealthy Brazilian women have the means to obtain safe, albeit illegal, abortions.
The poor and disadvantaged go without or endanger their lives in back-alley clinics or by off-label use of potentially dangerous medications purchased on the black market.
Joo Henrique, who has microcephaly, with his grandmother and grandfather in So Jos da Tapera.
His mother, Robria, died two months after giving birth.
Most of the women in Alagoas have no money to pursue illegal options anyway.
If there is no other family member who can help, the women cannot work, Diniz said, because of the special needs of a Zika-affected child.
The government provides a stipend, called a cash benefit transfer, but the strict requirements of the law make it a "poverty trap," she said.
"According to the law, the parents cannot work, because if they have any paid work, they will be above the cutoff," she explained.
"So, in reality, they must live on $200 USA a month.
Rent will be 50% of that.
It's a kind of nightmare."
It's a nightmare that continues each day for these women and their families, even though the Brazilian government announced an "end" to the Zika outbreak in May, after the number of new cases fell dramatically.
Zika epidemic over?
"For these women, the classic idea that the Zika epidemic has a beginning, a peak and an end is a fable," Diniz wrote in her final report .
"The abandonment they experience is not the result of the birth of a child with special needs, but of the fragility of social policies, particularly those related to social assistance, health, and transportation."
Rosana Sampaio da Silva and her son, Samuel Emanuel, who has microcephaly.
Rosana quit her job as a teacher, but her husband's salary cannot pay for medications or visits to early stimulation treatments in Macei, an hour away.
As for the women who have never been counted in the official totals, who have no access to any government assistance, Diniz is worried.
How many more are out there?
How many who will be bitten and deliver babies in the next wave of Zika?
"There are many women like these across Brazil who were discarded cases, not identified, not followed, not given help, and now the world has forgotten because the epidemic is over," she said, her voice rising.
"We still have cases of women having Zika during pregnancy and giving birth to babies who are affected by the disease," she continued.
"There is no end to an epidemic when the mosquito is still there, still biting, and can be passed on by men as well because it is a sexually transmitted disease."
(CNN) One in 10 pregnant women with confirmed Zika infection had a fetus or baby with Zika-related complications in 2016, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday.
The findings are based on the US Zika Pregnancy Registry, which was established last year to track Zika among pregnant women in the United States and its territories (except Puerto Rico, which has a separate registry).
That number climbs to 10% when looking at women with confirmed Zika infections.
Birth defects were reported in 15% of women who became infected with the virus during the first three months of pregnancy, known as the first trimester.
This is in line with reports indicating that the infection during the earlier part of pregnancy poses a greater risk to the fetus.
Devastating effects Reported birth defects include microcephaly, in which the brain does not develop properly, and other brain abnormalities.
"We are still learning about the range of birth defects.
... (We've) seen it can cause vision, hearing, brain problems and others," said Dr. Anne Schuchat, the CDC's acting director.
She added that babies can have seizures, restricted joint movement, feeding difficulties, trouble sitting up and inconsolable crying.
JUST WATCHED Pregnant mom takes precautions against Zika virus Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pregnant mom takes precautions against Zika virus 02:07 What's worse, the effects of the virus aren't always obvious at birth and may develop later, which is why screening is critical for all babies born to women who may have been infected while pregnant.
That screening includes brain imaging with an ultrasound or a CT scan, as recommended by the CDC.
Yet the new report found that only 24% of children of women who might have been infected during pregnancy were given brain scans after they were born.
"Because we don't have brain imaging results for most babies (captured by the registry), our numbers may be low," said Peggy Honein, chief of the CDC's birth defects branch.
"Identifying these babies as soon as possible after birth is important to ensure they receive the best care possible."
That care is estimated to cost up to $10 million in infants who survive into adulthood.
Last month, the CDC reported that the proportion of Zika-related birth defects last year was nearly 20 times higher than what was seen during the pre-Zika years.
Although the Zika pregnancy registry includes all 50 states, pregnancies in this new report were reported in only 44 states.
All 51 birth defects reported Tuesday were cases in which the mothers were infected while traveling to 16 areas where the virus is circulating: Belize, Barbados, Brazil, Cape Verde, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Marshall Islands and Venezuela.
Schuchat noted that where a person becomes infected has no impact on Zika-related pregnancy complications.
The CDC reminds women who are pregnant or trying to become pregnant to avoid travel to areas where the virus is circulating and to follow recommendations for preventing sexual transmission of the virus if their partner has traveled to such an area.
Every mosquito bite carries a risk, Schuchat said, and therefore preventing mosquito bites is critical to keep pregnant women and their babies safe.
"Don't let this outbreak become your family's heartbreak," she said.
Ongoing outbreak More than 5,100 cases of the virus have been reported in the continental US and Hawaii.
Only a couple hundred cases of local transmission have been reported, as most people are infected while traveling to areas where Zika is circulating.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Schuchat noted that 30 to 40 pregnant women are reported to the Zika registry each week.
As of March 14, the most recent data available, the registry counts 1,617 women in the United States and its territories other than Puerto Rico.
(CNN) French pharmaceutical giant Sanofi SA paused development of a Zika virus vaccine candidate in response to funding cuts by the US government, the company said in a statement on its website last week.
The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, a division of the US Department of Health and Human Services, informed Sanofi's vaccine unit that it had "decided to focus on a more limited set of goals and deliverables" based on its review of all Zika-related projects after a decline in new infections.
"BARDA has informed us they intend to continue to fund activities required to advance vaccine development to a point where development would be indefinitely paused but could be restarted if the epidemic re-emerges," Ashleigh Koss, a spokeswoman for Sanofi, wrote in an email.
Granted $43 million from BARDA last year, Sanofi announced a research contract in July 2016 with the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research to help study the human safety and effectiveness of an inactivated virus vaccine originally developed by the institute.
The institute's inactivated virus vaccine technology, data and biologic samples had been shared with Sanofi at that time with the hope that the company could produce an effective vaccine against the mosquito-borne disease, which can also be sexually transmitted and passed from mother to baby in utero.
"We are currently working with BARDA to identify which of the ongoing initiatives should continue ... as well as which initiatives should be terminated," Koss explained.
She added that there are approximately 32 Zika vaccines in early development around the world.
She said that estimate is based on comments made by Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institutes of Health's National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
Fauci said he is not sure and has never mentioned an exact number of Zika vaccine candidates "in play," but he said authors of a recent article in the Journal of Virus Eradication say there are 38 candidates at various stages of development.
On February 1, 2016, the World Health Organization declared Zika, which can cause birth defects and other neurological deficits, a Public Health Emergency of International Concern However, in November, the WHO stated that it was no longer an emergency of international concern and in March stated that no countries, territories or global areas had reported new infections over the past month.
Zika remains a concern to pregnant women and those hoping to become pregnant because the consequences for babies of women who are infected while pregnant can be devastating.
In the United States, one in 10 Zika-infected mothers had babies with related birth defects last year, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sanofi will be "completing, with partial BARDA support," an ongoing study intended to provide guidance on Zika epidemiology and diagnosis "that can be applicable to any vaccine subsequently developed," Koss wrote.
The study, which is being conducted in Colombia, Honduras, Mexico and Puerto Rico, is seeking enrollment of 2,400 volunteers, the company said.
As Sanofi places its Zika vaccine on hold, others, including its research partner, forge forward.
The Walter Reed Army Institute of Research said studies of the are vaccine ongoing, with results under review at a scientific journal.
Additionally, the US Army Medical Research and Materiel Command is evaluating soldiers' and families' risk of Zika infection, resource allocation and other matters, including possible new business partners, before deciding the most appropriate next steps in regard to development of the vaccine.
"Right now, there's no indication that Sanofi is anything other than just sort of an individual situation that doesn't necessarily impact other companies," Fauci said.
His institute is working on a number of vaccine candidates based on several approaches.
"Nothing has changed with regard to our vaccine approach," Fauci said.
"We have a number of candidates at various stages of development."
The vaccine candidate that is furthest along is the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases' DNA candidate, which is in phase 2A/2B trials -- safety and effectiveness studies in which testing is done on humans -- in Puerto Rico, Texas and South America.
Fauci said the institute has a strong collaboration with BARDA, which provides some funding, though "mostly, BARDA funds the companies that we work with," he said.
"Currently, BARDA is not funding any aspect of our DNA trial."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Inovio Pharmaceuticals is also continuing separate efforts to develop a DNA-based vaccine candidate to protect against Zika, according to Jeff Richardson, a spokesman for the company.
This Pennsylvania-based company recently completed a public offering of common stock to support various projects, including publication in the final quarter of this year of its vaccine clinical study "We are moving forward on a (clinical) trial in Puerto Rico," Richardson said.
"It's not an efficiacy trial, but because of how we set it up -- with 80 people getting the vaccine and 80 not -- we feel we may get efficacy data from this trial."
He added that the company is also seeking funders for ongoing research of the experimental Zika vaccine.
(CNN) Here's a look at the Zika virus disease, an illness spread through mosquito bites that can cause birth defects and other neurological defects.
The Zika virus is a flavivirus, part of the same family as yellow fever, West Nile, chikungunya and dengue fever.
But unlike some of those viruses, there is no vaccine to prevent Zika or a specific medicine to treat the infection.
Zika virus outbreaks occurred in Africa, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific Islands prior to 2015.
As of May 2017, CDC estimated there were at least 50 countries and territories with active Zika virus transmissions.
CDC is studying the link between Zika and Guillain-Barr Syndrome, a rare autoimmune disorder that can lead to life-threatening paralysis.
It is known to be a side effect associated with other viral illnesses such as influenza.
Fever, rash, joint pain and conjunctivitis (red eyes) are the most common symptoms of Zika virus.
Some patients may also experience muscle pain or headaches.
Zika and Pregnancy: Zika is commanding attention because of an alarming connection between the virus and Zika is commanding attention because of an alarming connection between the virus and microcephaly, a neurological disorder that results in babies being born with abnormally small heads.
Microcephaly can cause severe developmental issues and sometimes death.
A Zika infection may cause other birth defects, including eye problems, hearing loss and impaired growth.
Miscarriage can also occur.
May 2016 report published in the New England Journal of Medicine estimates the risk that a pregnant woman infected with the Zika virus during her first trimester of pregnancy has a one to 13% chance that her baby will have microcephaly.
According to CDC, there is no evidence that previous infection will affect future pregnancies.
1947 - The Zika virus is TheZika virus is first discovered in a monkey by scientists studying yellow fever in Uganda's Zika forest.
1948 - The virus is isolated from Aedes africanus mosquito samples in the Zika forest.
1964 - First active case of Zika virus found in humans.
While researchers had found antibodies in the blood of people in both Uganda and in Tanzania as far back as 1952, this is the first known case of the active virus in humans.
The infected man developed a pinkish rash over most of his body but reported the illness as "mild," with none of the pain associated with dengue and chikungunya.
1960s-1980s - A small number of countries in West Africa and Asia find Zika in mosquitoes, and isolated, rare cases are reported in humans.
April-July 2007 - The first major outbreak in humans occurs on Yap Island, Federated States of Micronesia.
Of the suspected 185 cases reported, 49 are confirmed, and 59 are considered probable.
There are an additional 77 suspected cases.
No deaths are reported.
2008 - Two American researchers studying in Senegal become ill with the Zika virus after returning to the United States.
Subsequently, one of the researchers transmits the virus to his wife.
Two American researchers studying in Senegal become ill with the Zika virus after returning to the United States.
Subsequently, one of the researchers transmits the virus to his wife.
This is now believed to be the first known sexual transmission of the Zika virus.
2013-2014 - A large outbreak of Zika occurs in French Polynesia, with about 32,000 suspected cases.
There are also outbreaks in the Pacific Islands, including Easter Island, the Cook Islands, and New Caledonia during that time.
An uptick in cases of Guillain-Barr Syndrome during the same period suggests a possible link between the Zika virus and the rare neurological syndrome.
However, it was not proven because the islands were also experiencing an outbreak of dengue fever at the time.
March 2015 - Brazil alerts WHO to an illness with skin rash that is present in the northeastern region of the country.
From February 2015 to April 29, 2015, nearly 7,000 cases of illness with a skin rash are reported in that area of Brazil.
Zika is not the suspected illness at the time.
Later in the month, Brazil provides additional information to WHO on the illnesses.
April 29, 2015 - A state laboratory in Brazil informs WHO that preliminary samples have tested positive for the Zika virus.
May 7, 2015 - The outbreak of the Zika virus in Brazil prompts WHO and the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) to issue an epidemiological alert.
October 30, 2015 - Brazil reports an increase in the cases of microcephaly, babies born with abnormally small heads: 54 cases between August and October 30.
November 11, 2015 - Brazil declares a national public health emergency as the number of newborns with microcephaly continues to rise.
November 27, 2015 - Brazil reports it is examining 739 cases off microcephaly.
November 28, 2015 - Brazil reports three deaths from Zika infection: two adults and one newborn.
January 15 & 22, 2016 - CDC advises all pregnant women or those trying to become pregnant CDC advises all pregnant women or those trying to become pregnant to postpone travel or consult their physicians prior to traveling to any of the countries where Zika is active February 2016 - CDC reports Zika virus in brain tissue samples from two Brazilian babies who died within a day of birth, as well as in fetal tissue from two miscarriages providing the first proof of a potential connection between Zika and the rising number of birth defects, stillbirths and miscarriages in mothers infected with the virus.
CDC reports Zika virus in brain tissue samples from two Brazilian babies who died within a day of birth, as well as in fetal tissue from two miscarriages providing the first proof of a potential connection between Zika and the rising number of birth defects, stillbirths and miscarriages in mothers infected with the virus.
February 1, 2016 - WHO declares Zika a WHO declares Zika a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) due to the increase of neurological disorders, such as microcephaly, in areas of French Polynesia and Brazil.
February 8, 2016 - CDC elevates its Emergency Operations Center (EOC) for Zika to Level 1, the highest level of response at CDC.
February 26, 2016 - Amid indications that the mosquito-borne Zika virus is causing microcephaly in newborns, CDC advises pregnant women to "consider not going" to the Amid indications that the mosquito-borne Zika virus is causing microcephaly in newborns, CDC advises pregnant women to "consider not going" to the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
CDC later strengthens the advisory, telling pregnant women, "Do not go to the Olympics."
March 4, 2016 - The US Olympic Committee announces the formation of an infectious disease advisory group to help the USOC establish "best practices regarding the mitigation, assessment and management of infectious disease, paying particular attention to how issues may affect athletes and staff participating in the upcoming Olympic and Paralympic Games."
May 27, 2016 - More than 100 prominent doctors and scientists sign an open letter to WHO Director General Margaret Chan, calling for the summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro to be postponed or moved " More than 100 prominent doctors and scientists sign an open letter to WHO Director General Margaret Chan, calling for the summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro to be postponed or moved " in the name of public health " due to the widening Zika outbreak in Brazil.
August 1, 2016 - Pregnant women and their partners are advised by CDC not to visit the Miami neighborhood of Wynwood as four cases of the disease are reported in the small community and local mosquitoes are believed to be spreading the infection.
September 19, 2016 - CDC announces that it has successfully reduced the population of Zika-carrying mosquitoes in Wynwood and lifts its advisory against travel to the community by pregnant women.
(CNN) We are one step closer to a vaccine against the Zika virus.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, part of the National Institutes of Health, said Friday that the DNA vaccine candidate developed by scientists at NIAID's Vaccine Research Center has been a success in animal trials and in the first human trial of the vaccine It has been such a success that the agency has moved into the next stage of testing, on track with its projected timeline.
Volunteers have been signing up at clinics across the Americas to help test it.
The vaccine is being tested at 11 sites including in Miami, Puerto Rico, Brazil and Mexico.
The next step of the trial will involve 90 healthy adults divided into groups who will get different doses to test its safety.
Then, starting around June, researchers will conduct a randomized control trial in 2,400 adults and adolescents who have not been infected with the virus but who live in areas where it has been detected.
Some of the volunteers will get the vaccine, and some will get a placebo, in order to see if it can prevent Zika.
The vaccine will not be tested in pregnant women, but it will be tested in women of child-bearing age.
If all goes according to schedule, the vaccine could be moved to the next phase by the end of the year.
The trial, which will cost $100 million, is fully funded through this phase, but Fauci said it is unclear whether there is funding for the next phase.
Fauci's boss, National Institutes of Health Director Francis Collins, is meeting with President Donald Trump at the White House on Friday, but it was unclear whether they would discuss the vaccine trials.
The Trump administration has proposed an 18% cut to the institutes' budget, but it is unclear what would be lost if the proposed cuts get through Congress unchanged.
Fauci said the third phase of the trial is "a very high priority for us, and we will keep this as one of our higher priorities."
Scientists have seen evidence of mosquito-transmitted Zika virus in at least 84 countries, meaning there are thousands of fetuses at risk for birth defects if their mothers become infected.
Birth defects linked to the virus include microcephaly, in which the head and brain don't develop properly; vision and hearing defects; and learning disabilities.
People who are infected with Zika can experience heart problems.
The viral infection can also trigger Guillain-Barr, a disorder in which the body's immune system attacks nerves, leading to potential paralysis and even death.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Scientists around the world are scrambling to create viable versions of a Zika vaccine.
Fauci said Zika will not probably go away any time soon.
One of his goals is to develop a vaccine to keep children safe so when people of that generation grow up and have children of their own, they will not pass the virus along during pregnancy.
(CNN) "A Bad Moms Christmas," the new comedy starring Mila Kunis, Kristen Bell and Kathryn Hahn, is the story of three mothers' rebellion against the often-invisible labor imposed on women during the holiday season.
Enough with all the shopping, chopping, wrapping, baking and decorating and all the other activities making this the most wonderful time of year -- for everyone else.
This time, they will take it easy.
This time, they will seek pleasure, not perfection.
And this time, they will be drunk.
Like in the first "Bad Moms," released in 2016, the scenes of mom-driven debauchery in the holiday sequel are played for their shock value.
We, the audience, are meant to be equal parts astonished and amused by the sight of three moms turning an ordinarily feminine and organized activity -- such as going to the grocery store or shopping mall -- into a Bacchanalia.
With the charisma and comedic chops of these actresses, these scenes are quite funny.
But surprising?
Not really.
Moms drinking alcohol has become a staple of popular culture in the past decade.
Two other films, "Girls Trip" and "Fun Mom Dinner," feature moms getting trashed.
A mom death-gripping a glass of wine is now a feature on television shows such as "Modern Family" and "Cougar Town."
According to a number of mothers, and going by the way moms drinking wine is portrayed in popular culture, "wine moms" -- as these women are colloquially known -- tend to drink for two reasons.
For some, it is an act of easily accessible self-care, a chance to consume a little "liquid patience" after being tried and tested by unwieldy children.
For others, a drink is a way to rebel against a culture in which good parenting is synonymous with self-abnegation.
A glass of wine -- or, better, getting drunk -- is a symbolic "nay" to the world of highly curated birthday parties, extended breastfeeding or extracurricular-filled afternoons followed by homemade organic dinners.
Either way, the wine mom is a buzz kill.
Forget bread and roses -- a political slogan popularized by early 20th century, and mostly female, labor activists -- these wine moms want bread and ros, sustenance and joy, as interpreted by parents in the "Sex and the City" generation.
The problem is that when they can't get the bread -- because we live in a society that fails to adequately provide mothers and care workers with the dignity they're long overdue, in both the public and private spheres -- the ros is there to help them forget.
This played out in the first "Bad Moms," in which alcohol was ultimately a self-administered consolation prize for failing, at a macro level, to make the world more hospitable to mothers and caregivers.
And it's playing out among real-life wine moms, who are so entrenched in the "all-in" culture of motherhood that they feel driven or compelled to partake in a perfectly normal adult behavior, such as drinking, within the context of "mommy."
Mother needs something today to calm her down And though she's not really ill There's a little yellow pill She goes running for the shelter of a mother's little helper -- The Rolling Stones, "Mother's Little Helper" The 1966 hit is about the rise of Valium-like drugs that doctors prescribed for moms seeking to escape the ennui and drudgery of domestic life during that era.
Swap out "little yellow pill" for "glass of Zinfandel" and it becomes easy to see how, more than 50 years after the publication of "The Feminine Mystique," the "strange stirring" that Betty Friedan diagnosed persists.
We still don't have universal paid leave or child care, nor family-friendly workplaces, economic support for mothers without jobs, or partners who do their fair share of domestic work.
What we do have is wine.
Drinking more Although being a wine mom doesn't necessarily mean one has a drinking problem, the cultural phenomenon has taken off at a time in which alcohol use has spiked among women.
A recent study in JAMA Psychiatry found that between 2002 and 2013, "high-risk drinking," defined as consuming four or more drinks a day, rose among women by 58% , compared with a 29.9% rise for the general population.
"Problem drinking," or drinking so much that it causes significant problems in your life and/or the inability to stop drinking, rose by 83.7% among women during this period, says the study, compared with a 50% rise in the general population.
Though there is no research looking at how much the wine mom phenomenon has contributed to the change in drinking habits, experts believe there is a connection.
"Moms drinking alcohol used to be taboo," said Emily Feinstein, director of health law and policy at the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse.
"Now, we have more women acknowledging that being a mother is hard work, which is a good thing, and they need a drink at the end of their workday."
There's nothing wrong with having a glass of wine at night, Feinstein added, but she cautioned that it should be done after the kids go to sleep, and they shouldn't be told about it.
"If they see you are drinking to deal with stress, then they learn that is how they should deal with stress."
Having more than a glass of wine on a regular basis, as more and more women are doing, is a different story and can lead to addiction as well as a host of health problems.
According to Feinstein, women metabolize alcohol less efficiently than men and as a result get intoxicated faster and have worse hangovers.
They're also more likely than men to suffer health consequences from drinking, including liver, brain and heart damage.
Britni de la Cretaz, a recovering alcoholic who became a mother when she was three years sober, found the ubiquity of alcohol among moms alienating.
"Even as someone who was really secure in my sobriety, I found I couldn't relate to other moms.
There was always this wink and a nod about how you have to have that glass of wine," she said.
"I don't think there is anything wrong with drinking; what concerns me is the message being sent to women that the only way they can get through parenting is by drinking."
There are, of course, many moms who drink wine who aren't following the wine mom script.
These are the women who drink to have fun and don't view alcohol consumption through the prism of motherhood.
For them, having a drink isn't about numbing themselves from the pain caused by demanding children or resisting the perfect moms.
Instead, it's about taking time to check in with their non-mom selves.
Laura Beatrix Newmark, a mother of two in New York, said that when she was on maternity leave, she would sometimes meet friends at a bar during the day.
Her infant would sleep, and she would "nurse a glass of ros."
"It was really about me showing myself that I was still the same person after I had kids," Newmark said.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
A woman, who happens to be a mom, having a glass of wine -- that's nobody's business but her own.
It's the wine mom that has got to go.
Whether she drinks for release, rebellion or both, that glass of wine is still tethered to all the sacrifice she makes as a mother, a sacrifice the wine might make her too willing to accept.
Here's to raising a glass to birthday parties planned by dads; to workplaces that don't look down on employees who have to leave by 6; to quality and affordable child care spread far and wide across the land.
Here's to moms permitting themselves to exit stage left from motherhood now and then, and feel liberated to pursue pleasure for pleasure's sake, through a glass or wine or whatever else their unburdened hearts might desire.
Parenting Without Borders considers how parenting trends and methods differ -- or don't -- around the world.
How does potty training work in your part of the world?
Share your insight at the CNN Parenting Facebook page (CNN) Some children wear diapers until they are 3.
Others learn about the toilet by 6 months old.
Then, there are those who wear split-crotch pants and squat when nature calls.
That's right: Even though everyone poops, as the classic children's book says, not everyone learns about it the same way.
Across cultures, parents tackle toilet training with an array of techniques, and they introduce training to their little ones at various ages.
Some experts, such as Dr. Peter Metcalfe, point to how access to certain resources can influence the way a family handles toilet training.
"If you're in a third-world country and you can't just walk to the store and get Pampers, then obviously, you're going to be a bit more urgent with it and train them around the age of 1," said Metcalfe, a pediatric urologist and associate professor in the University of Alberta's Division of Pediatric Surgery in Canada.
"Then there's this new move -- the elimination communication -- where parents pick up on cues to get children to the bathroom," he said.
"It's hard to say one is better than the other when they all work 99% of the time."
Other experts, such as Dr. Sydney Spiesel, point to climate conditions as having an influence on toilet training.
Parenting Without Borders considers how parenting trends and methods differ -- or don't -- around the world.
The idea is that the farther from the equator a family lives, the slower children are to potty train, said Spiesel, a pediatrician in Woodbridge, Connecticut, and clinical professor of pediatrics at Yale University's School of Medicine.
"This is something that has never actually been studied, but it's something that I clearly have noticed over many years," Spiesel said.
"The average age of toilet training around the world seems to be directly proportional to the latitude," he said.
"It seems bizarre and a crazy notion, but the reality is, the further you go from the equator, the colder things are, and I think that that's the central issue."
In other words, tiny tots living closer to the equator might potty train at younger ages than those farther from the equator, based on Spiesel's idea.
Here is a sampling of how some parents around the world approach potty training.
In Kenya, some kids train early In traditional Digo communities in Msambweni, Kenya, an interesting example of potty training was described in a paper in the journal Pediatrics in 1977.
According to the paper, mothers monitored their babies after feeding or napping and searched for signs that they had to pee or poop.
Then, if the baby was getting ready to urinate or defecate, the mothers seated their babies in positions that mimic sitting on a toilet.
For the paper, 56 families in that Digo community were interviewed and observed while they went through the process of toilet training their infants.
Training methods for pooping and peeing were documented and photographed in the paper.
If a mother suspected that her baby had to pee, she would sit with her legs straight out in front of her and place the baby between her legs, near her knees, with the baby facing away from the mother.
The mother would make a "shuus" or hissing noise as the infant urinated.
The infant was then rewarded for peeing during the sound.
The child was expected to urinate in position and on command at least by 4 to 5 months, according to the paper.
In general, for most parents, "once you get to know your kid pretty well, you'll know that dance where the kid is getting ready to pee or poop," said Spiesel, who has not researched the Digo practice but was aware of it as described in the 1977 paper.
"If they're detecting that the kid is going to pee, they'll kind of spread their legs, put the kid in their lap, seat their kid facing outward.
They face them inward if they think their kid is going to poop," he said.
In that case, the mother would sit in the same way but position the baby facing her, with the infant's knees over her ankles, as if the infant were straddling a potty.
The mother would hold the infant in that position and would not make noises for the bowel movement.
The child then would be rewarded for pooping.
Whistling for wee ones in Vietnam A paper published in the Journal of Pediatric Urology in 2012 included interviews with 47 mothers in Vietnam who said they rarely used diapers while toilet training their kids.
Rather, the moms said that when their children were newborns, they tried to pay attention to the kicking or crying or facial expressions their children would make when they had to urinate or poop.
"From birth, parents start to look for signs for their baby's needs of emptying bladder and bowel.
They also observe intervals between," Anna-Lena Hellstrm, a professor emerita at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden and a co-author of the study, wrote in an email.
Then, when the mothers noticed those signs, they would hold their babies over a potty and make a whistling sound while the baby peed.
By around 9 months, the mothers planned for their children to urinate at certain times.
If they wanted their baby to pee after feeding or napping, they used that whistling sound to initiate and sort of cue peeing or pooping.
The mothers reported that they kept practicing this whistling method until they no longer had to remind their children to use the bathroom.
All of their children were toilet trained by 24 months, according to the paper.
A variety of methods in Iran Parents in Iran use a variety methods to potty train, according to a study published in the Iranian Journal of Pediatrics in 2013.
One method involves an intensive approach during which the baby is taken to the toilet on regular intervals when the parents think it's time to train.
Another method is the child-oriented approach , during which the child reaches certain milestones -- like walking or showing an interest in the toilet -- and then the parents initiate toilet training.
Among 349 children in that study, about 52% of parents said they used the intensive toilet training method when asked how they trained their child, about 44% said they used the child-oriented method, and about 3% had no idea about the method of toilet training they used.
"The mean age of being dry at day and night was 24 to 27 months," said Dr. Nakysa Hooman, professor at Iran University of Medical Sciences and the study's lead author.
"The parents actually expected their child to become toilet trained at an earlier age.
For this reason, more than half of the parents used intensive methods," she said.
"In Iran, the age of intensive toilet training starts at around 12 months, and the child would take to the bathroom regularly while the napkins (or diapers) were not used anymore."
Babies sport special pants in China Potty training in parts of China includes split-crotch pants and diaper-free babies.
"One of the tricks they use there is, they have these little pants that are split down the middle," Spiesel said.
These open-crotch or split-crotch pants allow children to urinate or defecate without having to lower the pants.
"All they have to do is sort of squat, and they can poop without making a mess," he said.
Also, children are toilet trained fairly early.
"Kids of that same age or that same degree of toilet training would be in diapers here" in the United States, Spiesel said.
The assisted infant toilet training method is also sometimes used in China, according to a literature review in the Brazilian Society of Pediatrics' Jornel de Pediatria in 2008.
Similar to the methods used in Kenya and Vietnam, this method starts in the first weeks of life, and the parent observes signs that the baby has to pee or poop.
Once a signal is spotted, the parent holds the baby on the potty to pee.
A growing US potty training age In the United States, the age at which toilet training begins is climbing, according to the literature review in the Jornel de Pediatria.
For the paper, the researchers reviewed 85 studies on toilet training that were published between 1960 and 2007.
They found that in the US in 1947, 60% of children were toilet trained at 18 months.
In 1974, about 60% were trained later, at 33 months.
By 1980, the average toilet trained age varied from 25 to 27 months, and in 2003, it increased to 36.8, according to the paper.
JUST WATCHED The good ol' days of parenting Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The good ol' days of parenting 01:29 "In Connecticut, I think the average age of toilet training around here is probably around 2," Spiesel said of the state where he practices.
The American Academy of Pediatrics notes that there is no set age at which toilet training should be initiated, since it depends on the individual child's readiness.
Most children become physiologically ready for toilet training around 18 months, but they may not be cognitively ready, according to the Academy.
Recently, a method called elimination communication , which is similar to the toilet training practices seen in Kenya and Vietnam, has become a trend among moms in North America, the University of Alberta's Metcalfe said.
With that method, "you're just watching your child, and when you see facial expressions consistent with 'I feel like I have to pee,' you then rush them to the toilet and have them pee on the toilet," Metcalfe said.
"It's a lot of work.
It's something you do with your first child only, but maybe not so much by the time the second one comes around."
Training differences by income in Turkey In Turkey, the potty training age of a child may be tied to how much money a family has.
That's according to a study published in The Turkish Journal of Pediatrics in 2015.
JUST WATCHED Poor parents forced to re-use diapers Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Poor parents forced to re-use diapers 03:01 The study involved 1,467 children in Turkey and found that the average toilet training age among the group was about 16 to 28 months.
However, as the mother's education and income level increased, so did the toilet training age, according to the study, and the toilet training age was found to be significantly lower when a potty chair was used with the child.
Overall, "toilet training age in Turkey, a developing country, was found to be lower than that in developed countries," the researchers wrote in the study.
Potty training by the numbers in UK Training ages also seem to vary by income in the United Kingdom.
A study of 8,334 children in southwest England found that 2.1% of their parents reported initiating toilet training before 6 months; 13.8% initiated toilet training between 6 and 15 months; 50.4% initiated toilet training between 15 and 24 months; 33.7% had not initiated toilet training by their child's second birthday.
The study was published in the Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics in 2009.
In the UK, the National Health Service suggests using potty training pants or "pull-ups" when toilet training children, calling them a step toward normal pants.
The NHS also suggests encouraging kids to sit on the potty after meals during toilet training, encouraging them to use the toilet, not making a fuss when they have an accident, praising them when they succeed and putting them in clothes that are easy to change.
Metcalfe offered some additional tips for parents.
'Most kids just figure it out on their own' How do you know when your child might be ready for toilet training?
Metcalfe advised paying attention to their nighttime habits.
"If you look at how most children achieve continence, the first thing that happens is, they stop pooping themselves at night.
Then, they start getting fecal continence during the day," Metcalfe said.
"Quite often, toddlers will go run and have a poop behind the couch or something, and that's a sign that they've got control and that they recognize it.
They know that they're going to have a bowel movement," he said.
"Once they've showed signs of that first stage of fecal awareness, if you will, then I just get them on the toilet every couple of hours and just let them go.
... As you notice them get drier and drier and they start to show interest in the toilet, most kids just figure it out on their own."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
For parents who are struggling with toilet training their kids, Metcalfe said to first make sure that there is no medical problem with your child, which is rare, and then practice taking your child to the bathroom every couple of hours.
But "if they turn it into a battle of the wills, then the parent is going to lose," he said.
In other words, don't stress too much about toilet training troubles.
As Spiesel said, "here's the bottom line: How many un-toilet-trained adults have you ever come across?
It's going to happen."
It has robbed her of meeting milestones and being able to make friends or keep up with other toddlers her age.
It has paralyzed her from the chest down, with doctors saying she would never walk.
As she gets older, Za is realizing that she's different.
While wearing ballet slippers, the little girl who loves to bop around to music looked at her mother and said, "My feet are broken, Mama."
But Za -- with the help of her family, doctors and a variety of physical therapists -- has overcome tremendous obstacles just to live.
'Covered with cancer' Za was a happy, healthy baby for the first few months of her life in Miami.
Then, she started running a fever that spiked to 106 degrees by the time she arrived at the hospital.
It was the only sign that something was wrong.
The hospital staff ran every test imaginable.
An MRI revealed the truth that her parents had not dared to imagine.
"She was covered with cancer," said her mother, Heather Lane.
"She had a primary area on her spine, and from there, she had disease that had spread to her liver, lungs, kidneys, bone marrow, even in her skull.
We nearly lost her at that point."
They had never heard of neuroblastoma , a rare cancer that largely affects very young children.
There are about 700 cases a year in the United States, accounting for 6% of cancer in children, according to the American Cancer Society.
While Za was still sedated, her parents had to make a choice within 15 minutes: major surgery to remove the tumor or begin chemotherapy immediately.
The neurosurgeon and the oncologist didn't agree.
It was up to her parents.
They opted for the surgery.
"The tumors were compressing her spine, and it had deviated her spine to the point where they were worried she would be permanently paralyzed for life," Lane said.
After the surgery, Za became paralyzed from the chest down.
Two days after her surgery, Za began her first cycle of chemotherapy.
She would undergo eight total, staying in the intensive care unit for weeks.
The surgery was tough on Za, but it was nothing compared to the chemo.
Each round contained four types of chemotherapy "cocktails," all with different side effects, and she handled some better than others, her mother said.
Some of them would wipe out her immune system to the point where she needed blood transfusions.
Her mother lost count of how many Za had.
"Every time she would get another dose of chemo, I literally watched the life slip away and return," Lane said.
"She turned gray.
And then when she would have a blood transfusion to bring her counts back up, then the life would literally come back.
It was incredible."
Hope and help After Za completed her eight cycles of chemotherapy, her doctors in Miami wanted her to undergo four more.
When Za had surgery to remove her primary tumor, they were forced to leave behind a tiny sliver that remained between her spine and lungs.
Bundled among her nerves, the piece could cause damage.
Removing it could cause Za to lose all movement of her right arm.
Her parents decided to seek a second opinion.
They took her to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York.
Her oncologist at Sloan Kettering, Dr. Shakeel Modak, specializes in neuroblastoma.
He told the Lanes he wanted to keep Za on a "watch and wait" protocol, with no more plans for treatment unless things changed.
He has treated patients with this rare combination of neuroblastoma and paralysis, but it's so rare, there are only about 20 cases per year in the US.
"My job was to make sure we didn't give her too much treatment, which would lead to other long-term complications," Modak said.
"Giving a very young child chemotherapy radiation can be lethal."
For reasons that doctors don't understand, when neuroblastoma occurs in very young children, the tumors can resolve on their own and shrink.
In Za's case, this occurred after her chemotherapy.
The sliver has been inactive on scans during Za's last three appointments with Modak over the past year.
And even better, it's shrinking.
It could become scar tissue, but just to be sure that the small chance of recurrence doesn't happen, they monitor her closely.
She is now considered stable.
While Za was fighting cancer, the damage it left behind on her spine seemed irreversible.
But her parents had hope when they saw her wiggle her toes for the first time after the chemotherapy was completed.
The paralysis wasn't permanent, as they had feared.
Modak wanted to help.
He recalled a young patient in a similar situation he had treated years before; her determined mother was able to find help at the pediatric International Center for Spinal Cord Injury at the Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore.
There was a chance that because Za was still a very young and developing child, therapy and rehab could turn the wiggling of her toes into walking.
It wouldn't work for an adult, but children have a plasticity at that age that makes it possible, Modak said.
Within a month, Za was put on a rehabilitation program at Kennedy Krieger.
Za working on her aquatic therapy.
Learning to walk Za connected with her therapists, Paige Bourne and Rachel Mertins, right away, Lane said.
Bourne is her physical therapist, and Mertins oversees her aquatic therapy.
"I just fell in love with her attitude and her energy she has," Mertins said.
"She loves to play, and she works really hard."
The pools at Kennedy Krieger are special in that hydraulic lifts can raise or lower the floors, enabling their youngest patients to move in dynamic ways on underwater treadmills.
In the water, Za can learn to move in different ways without gravity restricting her.
It also removes the fear of falling and eases movement, as opposed to harnesses that can make movement even more difficult.
"The pool is where they can be a little more free and independent," Mertins said.
"By putting her in water, everything is easier, becomes more buoyant and more successful, which means it is more likely to carry it over to land."
Za began learning to walk in water, building up muscles and strength with floaties on her arms and the steady hands of a therapist on her waist.
She goes for two-week sessions every few months.
Za has therapy for three hours a day, which is intense for a toddler, but she works hard and handles it well.
Her therapists are used to working with kids, so they make sure she takes rest or snack breaks or even a short visit with Mom, when she needs to.
But they also push her when she needs it most, her mother said.
Mertins and Bourne said Za has made tremendous gains since her first session in January.
Then, she was working on developmental milestones like kneeling and crawling, with a little bit of standing and walking.
In May, she came back stronger.
Za walked on the aquatic treadmill without support for her arms and walked for longer distances using the assistance of a walker on land.
Her therapists send Za back to Miami with a customized home program to work on with her local physical therapist in between sessions.
Za's parents also work with her at home on using the walker.
They take her to hippotherapy once a week at Bit-By-Bit, a local nonprofit therapeutic horseback riding center.
The 30-minute sessions riding a short horse named Gypsy Gold provide a fun activity that helps her increase strength and balance, since the horse is constantly in motion.
Her therapists at Bit-By-Bit say Za has shown great progress in mobility and trunk strength.
Za uses a walker at home between sessions.
Za returned to Kennedy Krieger for her third session in October.
"Za continues to make impressive gains," Bourne said.
"She is walking more independently and further every session.
As she's growing up, she's more engaged in physical therapy and is motivated to work hard to reach her goals."
"I saw Za for the first time in five months in the pool and noted improved strength, core stability and gait endurance," Mertins said.
"In the pool, she was able to walk for longer periods of time on the underwater treadmill with only very minimal assist from me and no upper extremity support!"
Za's right leg is weaker, so they try to get her to lead with that leg during exercises.
But they aren't the exercises you imagine for a physical therapy session.
Usually, there is a toy nearby that Za is trying to reach.
During one session, Bourne had Za use a modified Ride On four-wheel car that is triggered to drive when she goes from sitting to standing.
She took one lap around the gym and then asked her mom for sunglasses and a purse so she could drive with them.
"With a kid who is 2, it's about making things functional and also fun and making sure they are really engaged in the therapy," Bourne said.
"It's play and hard work."
Za uses assistive devices to move around.
A fighting spirit Her doctors, therapists and parents are all confident that Za will continue to improve and move more independently.
As she achieves more milestones, Mertins believes, Za could also learn to swim.
"Swimming is a way she can interact with friends and give her a jumpstart in this world where she is constantly struggling and or maybe feeling left behind a little bit," Mertins said.
"I just hope she is able to play with kids her age and move around, especially when she starts school independently, and just being able to do any of the activities that a typically developing kid could do," Bourne said.
The Lane family is willing to travel so that Za can have these opportunities.
They were on a wait list for eight months at a local therapy facility.
Though Za's dad still works, Lane was let go from her job shortly after Za was diagnosed, and she said that a variety of cancer foundations make the travel possible.
Angel Flight provides certificates for air travel through JetBlue for cancer families.
The Ronald McDonald House helps with accommodations in Baltimore and New York.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
They are assisted by local groups in Florida and New York, as well as their community.
The family has also started a nonprofit, Whimsy World , an art therapy program for children with cancer in hospitals.
Everyone who meets Za falls in love with her fighting spirit and sassy personality, her mother said.
Her 10-year-old sister, Kai, calls Za "sweet with a sprinkle of spice."
It's that spirit that has helped Za accomplish so much, and it's why she won't back down even when therapy gets tough.
"As far as her walking independently, I am hopeful she will get there," Lane said.
"But we have reached so many goals they have put in place for her.
Za was not even able to sit up on her own after surgery.
She wasn't able to roll over for many months, wasn't able to crawl.
I never thought that she would.
I was preparing myself for dealing with a child that could potentially be paralyzed from the chest down.
But she just keeps beating the odds."
(CNN) Water drawn from wells at a hazardous waste site in hurricane-hit Puerto Rico meets federal drinking water standards and is fit for consumption, the US Environmental Protection Agency said in a news release on Tuesday.
The water being pulled from wells at the Dorado Groundwater Contamination Site, which is part of the Superfund program for hazardous waste cleanup, meets federal drinking water standards for certain industrial chemicals, as well as for bacteria, Elias Rodriguez, an EPA spokesman, told CNN.
The water is "OK to consume based on the analysis that we've done," Rodriguez said.
CNN previously reported that desperate locals had been breaking into wells on the Dorado hazardous waste site in search of water.
Following Hurricane Maria, which ravaged the island about six weeks ago, 18% of households in Puerto Rico remain without working taps .
Bottled water has been scarce on parts of the Caribbean island, which is a US territory.
The EPA listed the area as a hazardous waste site in 2016.
"Sampling at the site has found chemical contamination that is impacting wells used to supply drinking water to the local communities," the agency said at the time.
"Drinking water with the solvents, which include tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene, can have serious health impacts including damage to the liver and increasing the risk of cancer."
Those chemicals were not present at unsafe levels in the water sampled, Rodriguez said.
Bacteria, which are also a concern in drinking water supplies after storms like Hurricane Maria, were also found to be at safe levels, he said.
The Puerto Rican government has confirmed multiple deaths linked to waterborne illness since the hurricane To the surprise of some people at the EPA, Rodriguez said, some of the wells located on the Superfund site actually were collecting water from an aqueduct system that is not sourced from groundwater at the contaminated site.
At two other wells -- Santa Rosa and Nevarez -- the water was a mix of aqueduct water and groundwater pulled from the Superfund site, he said.
The Puerto Rican water authority has been distributing water from the Santa Rosa well.
The EPA did find between about 1 and 1.5 micrograms per liter of tetrachloroethylene, a chemical linked to risk of cancer, in water sampled from the Santa Rosa well.
That falls within the federal drinking water standard of 5 micrograms per liter.
That chemical "is considered a likely carcinogen and there's no fully safe level," said Erik Olson, director of the health program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, or NRDC, an environmental group.
That level of contamination "poses some long-term cancer and health risk," he said, "but as a short-term exposure issue the risk is fairly limited."
Overall, Olson said he considers the EPA results "somewhat reassuring."
More tests are forthcoming, Rodriguez said, but the test results released on Tuesday covered the chemicals of concern at the Superfund site, as well as bacteria that tend to cause illness following hurricanes and floods, he said.
The EPA results are consistent with earlier results from a Virginia Tech lab .
On October 19, CNN published the results of those university water tests, which also found the water to meet safe drinking water standards for certain industrial chemicals.
The Virginia Tech lab conducted those tests on samples collected by CNN using somewhat crude field methods.
"I would drink" the water based on those test results, Professor Marc Edwards said at the time.
The EPA will decide as it moves forward with its Superfund assessment process whether to keep the water wells open indefinitely or whether some eventually would be closed because of potential risks, Rodriguez said.
The wells that do contain a mix of water from wells on the hazardous waste site are located away from an area that is thought to have more-problematic levels of chemical contamination, he said.
That distance is not especially comforting given the karst geology of the area, which allows contaminants to move more rapidly than through some other soil types, said Olson, from NRDC.
"If you pump heavily you can see contaminants move over very long distance pretty quickly," he said.
"If this is truly next to a large plume of contaminants, that's something I would be worried about -- that the contaminants could move into that area."
Edwards, the Virginia Tech professor, said it is "very unfortunate" that anyone would have to drink from a well located on a Superfund site, "but in the scheme of bad water available in Puerto Rico now, this at least is microbiologically pure" and shows low levels of chemicals with possible long-term health consequences.
(CNN) Two issues are the cause of a plethora of diseases and health conditions affecting people worldwide: smoking and obesity.
And one local health committee in the UK has announced a controversial policy "to support patients whose health is at risk from smoking or being very overweight."
For an indefinite amount of time, it plans to ban access to routine, or non-urgent, surgery under the National Health Service until patients "improve their health," the policy states, claiming that "exceptional clinical circumstances (will) be taken into account on a case-by-case basis."
The decision comes from the clinical commissioning group (known as a CCG) for the county of Hertfordshire, which has population of more than 1.1. million.
The time frame for improving health is set at nine months for the obese in particular; those with a body mass index over 40 must reduce the number by 15% over that time period, and those with a BMI over 30 are given a target of 10%.
The target for smokers is eight weeks or more without a cigarette -- with a breath test to prove it.
The new and most controversial part of the policy is that the surgery ban is indefinite, according to the Royal College of Surgeons in the UK, which opposes the policy.
Other groups in the UK have implemented similar policies, but patients eventually get surgery if they are unable to lose weight or stop smoking, they said.
"The guidance for (general practitioners) and providers has been in place since 2011 for hip and knee operations and was extended in 2012 to all non-urgent routine referrals," the East and North Hertfordshire CCG said.
Smokers had previously been advised to stop smoking and obese patients advised to lose weight, with both sets of patients informed about services available to them.
CCGs are National Health Service bodies that plan health care services for their areas, and the groups for Hertfordshire argue that improving health before surgery improves outcomes and reduces the amount of time spent in the hospital during recovery, helping the patient -- and the health service budget.
Though the group says financial savings are not expected, "the wider health system may benefit from shorter hospital stays," the CCG said.
'Best interests of the whole patient population' "The consultation proposals were developed by local (general practitioners) and public health doctors, with the best interests of the whole patient population of our area in mind," said Dr. Hari Pathmanathan, a Hertfordshire practitioner and chairman of the East and North Hertfordshire CCG.
Data from public consultations and surveys reported by the CCG showed 85% agreement from the public on the need for those with higher BMIs to reduce weight and for smokers to stop, and 73% agreeing with asking people with BMIs over 30 to lose weight.
"We understand that some of our patients will have to make changes and they will be supported to do so, for example with the free weight-loss and stop-smoking advice sessions already on offer," Pathmanathan said in a statement.
smokers.
In the UK as a whole, 27% of the population was obese in 2015, and a similar percentage of adults to those in Hertfordshire, 15.8%, were smokers in 2016.
Government figures estimate that 63% of adults in the county are overweight or obese, and 15% aresmokers.
In the UK as a whole, 27% of the population was obese in 2015, and a similar percentage of adults to those in Hertfordshire, 15.8%, were smokers in 2016.
The new policies came under immediate attack from experts and interest groups.
"Singling out patients in this way goes against the principles of the NHS," said Ian Eardley, senior vice president at the Royal College of Surgeons in the UK.
"This goes against clinical guidance and leaves patients waiting long periods of time in pain and discomfort.
It can even lead to worse outcomes following surgery in some cases."
The conversation has been going for some time, experts agree, but the question is the ethics -- and whether it would even work.
"Rationing treatment on the basis of unhealthy behaviors betrays an extraordinary naivety about what drives those behaviors," Robert West, professor of health psychology at the UCL Research Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, wrote in an email.
'Tip of the iceberg' A 2016 report by the Royal College of Surgeons found that more than one in three CCGs in England are denying or delaying routine surgery to smokers and obese patients in some way, with the college warning that such patients were becoming "soft targets for NHS savings."
The Hertfordshire decision has taken this to a new level by making the ban indefinite.
"We are concerned that the policies in Hertfordshire are just the tip of the iceberg," Eardley said.
The same report found that about 20% of these groups place mandatory weight thresholds on referrals for knee and hip replacement surgeries, an increase from 13% just two years earlier, in 2014.
"We know that these policies have become much more commonplace since" the 2016 report, Eardley said.
"What is especially concerning is that not only are more clinical commissioning groups implementing such policies, they are also implementing increasingly harsher policies, restricting patient access to surgery even further."
These harsher policies include requiring patients to be in varying degrees of pain or imposing bans on surgery for several months to save money, he said.
Questionable cost-efficiency The committee papers outlining the changes state they encourage patients to take more responsibility for their own health and well-being, enabling greater resources for priority treatments.
In the case of surgery, reducing obesity and smoking in patients can reduce the risk of serious complications during and after surgery, shorten hospital stays and help patients recover better, the CCG argues, reducing expenditure.
But other experts do not agree.
"Often, we find that these policies are brought in to help alleviate financial pressure.
The irony is that such policies can actually cost more as patients are simply treated at a later date and may need other health care in the interim," Eardley said.
Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, believes the only reason to withhold treatment or surgery is if it would not work, somehow be detrimental to the patient, or if the cost far outweighed any benefit, "which is not the case here," he said.
"The NHS is a service that is meant to be free at the point of delivery and every person should be judged as an individual," he said.
Questions of evidence and ethics McKee's first reaction to the policy was to ask for evidence to back up banning surgery for this subset of patients.
In response, the East and North Hertfordshire CCG provided National Health Service reports highlighting the need for doctors to optimize the health of their patients for the best results from enhanced recovery after surgery and showing that medical triggers have been shown to promote long-term behavior change, such as changes to diet, exercise and smoking.
McKee agreed that wounds heal faster and recovery is quicker in nonsmokers and that services should be provided and promoted to patients to help them.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
But the evidence he wants is different: showing that withholding surgery works to reduce obesity and smoking.
The CCG did not specifically address whether this evidence exists and a representative said it won't answer any more questions about the surgery ban.
McKee also questions the accountability of CCGs, as they are not a publicly elected body.
Then "we can go on and discuss the morality of it," he said.
West agreed.
"Economic, health and moral arguments point to ensuring that patients have provided with ready access to evidence-based support for tackling their problem behaviors," he said, "rather than seeking to impose counterproductive, unethical and unworkable restrictions on their health care."
(CNN) If Halloween is your excuse for endlessly indulging in candy (and of course it is), go slow on the black licorice.
Just as it does each Halloween, the Food and Drug Administration has posted a reminder on its website urging folks to keep their black licorice consumption to a minimum The reasoning?
Too much of the old-fashioned favorite can cause health problems such as irregular heart rhythm, especially in people over 40.
Black licorice contains a sweetening compound called glycyrrhizin, which can cause a drop in potassium levels.
With low levels, some people might experience high blood pressure, swelling and even congestive heart failure, the FDA says.
The good news is that potassium levels return to normal after you stop eating copious amounts of black licorice.
Read More
Story highlights No children were injured by either product Parents should immediately stop using the Fisher-Price motion seat which may overheat (CNN) The US Consumer Product Safety Commission announced last week the recall of two baby products: Fisher-Price Soothing Motions Seats and PlanToys Baby Gyms.
No injuries have been reported with either product.
Consumers should immediately stop using both recalled products, according to the commission, and contact Fisher-Price for a full refund for Soothing Motion Seats.
Those who purchased the baby gym should contact PlanToys for a free replacement.
Motion seat The recalled motion seats, which sway and bounce while playing music and sounds, include Fisher-Price model numbers CMR35, CMR36, CMR37 and DYH22 as well as Smart Connect model number CMR39.
The model number is on the underside of the motor housing.
Fisher-Price, a brand of Mattel Inc., has received 36 reports of the motion seat overheating, including one of a fire contained within the motor housing, according to the product safety commission.
The overheating poses a fire hazard.
Read More
(CNN) We need more training to get a driver's license than to become a parent, in our culture.
Even though we would benefit from parental education, some of us have never even held a newborn before having one of our own.
And we often rely on advice from friends and family, much of it outdated or just plain wrong.
When it comes to baby sleep, bad advice can be dangerous.
October is Safe Sleep Awareness month, an opportunity to learn more about sudden unexpected infant death and debunk the myths about what is sabotaging your sleep and highlight habits that potentially risk your baby's safety.
Myth 1: Your baby sleeps best in a silent room.
Not true.
In fact, total silence can make it hard for your baby to doze off.
Remember, the womb is noisy: louder than a vacuum cleaner and running 24 hours a day.
For nine months, your little one's been lulled to sleep by the rhythmic whooshing of the blood flowing through the placenta.
To her, the quiet of the average home is jarring.
Plus, in a silent room, she's more likely to wake up when a loud truck on the street or any other bump in the night breaks that silence.
The truth is, your baby will sleep best if you play loud, rumbly white noise during all naps and nights.
Myth 2: You should never wake a sleeping baby.
Nope.
You should always wake your sleeping baby using a little technique called " wake and sleep ."
It gently teaches your child the important skill of self-soothing.
Here's briefly how it works: Starting as early as the first day of life, wake him up the tiniest bit after sliding him into bed.
Just tickle his neck or feet until his eyes drowsily open.
Very soon after, he'll drift right back into slumberland.
In those few semi-awake seconds, he's just soothed himself back to sleep -- the first step toward sleeping through the night.
Myth 3: Some babies sleep worse when swaddled because they want to be free.
Not really.
Your baby may fuss and resist swaddling at first, so it may look like she hates it.
But babies don't need freedom, they need the feeling of security they had in the womb.
Without wrapping, your infant will flail her arms, whack herself in the face and startle easily throughout the night.
That's a recipe for poor sleep.
Swaddling is the first step to calming, and it's important you don't stop there, especially if your infant's been fighting it.
To help her settle, you'll want to layer in other womb-mimicking steps: "shushing," side/stomach position, swinging and sucking, which, along with swaddling, make up the 5 S's of setting up a baby for sleep success .
And once the S's become part of your sleep routine, she'll give up her battle!
(Note: Side/stomach position is for calming only, never for sleep.)
Myth 4: We should teach babies to sleep in their own rooms.
Having our babies grow up to be independent takes a long time.
There's no need to rush it.
In fact, having your new child sleep in another room is inconvenient (for feedings and diaper changes) and possibly dangerous.
The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that babies sleep in the parent's room for at least six months (always on their back, in their own bed).
The simple practice has shown to significantly reduce the rate of sudden infant death syndrome.
Myth 5: Swaddling should be stopped after two months.
Swaddling reduces crying and increases sleep.
But new research shows that swaddled babies who roll to the stomach have double the risk of SIDS compared with an unswaddled baby rolling over.
As a result, the pediatrics academy is now recommending that parents stop baby-wrapping at 2 months.
On the face of it, the group's new advice seems to make sense, but it completely ignores the risks of not swaddling.
In an eight-year review of data collected by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, only 22 sudden unexplained infant deaths related to swaddling were reported; almost 50% were in sleep sacks (a wearable blanket), and 90% were found on the stomach and/or with bulky bedding.
(Note: Fatalities categorized as sudden unexplained infant death include sleep deaths from accidental suffocation, strangulation and SIDS.)
During those eight years, hundreds of thousands -- if not millions -- of babies were swaddled.
Since sudden unexplained infant death strikes one in 1,200 babies, one would have expected hundreds or perhaps thousands of swaddle-related deaths over this period if wrapping caused these deaths.
Of note, during the same eight years, 1,026 deaths related to sofa sleeping were reported to the safety commission.
The point is, though swaddling may introduce a theoretical risk, there is not a lot of proof it is causing a true increase in sudden unexplained infant death.
On the other hand, swaddling has been shown to reduce infant crying and boost sleep.
That is of critical importance because the stress provoked by persistent fussing and parental exhaustion is a potent trigger for postpartum depression, child abuse, car accidents and even risky sleeping practices, which are associated with up to 70% of all infant sleep fatalities We don't want babies rolling over swaddled, but we also don't want them rolling over unswaddled during the 2- to 4-month-old peak period for SIDS.
An unswaddled baby can roll to an unsafe position more easily than one whose movement is restricted by snug swaddling.
And, since swaddling improves sleep, unwrapped babies wake more often and are more likely to tempt their tired parents to fall asleep with them in their beds.
JUST WATCHED Does this $1,200 crib make your newborn sleep?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does this $1,200 crib make your newborn sleep?
02:11 To solve this tricky problem, I assembled a team of MIT-trained engineers and renowned industrial designer Yves Behar to invent a type of swaddle that keeps sleeping babies safely on the back.
In October 2016, my company Happiest Baby debuted Snoo, the world's first responsive bassinet that employs this special swaddle, which clips to the base of the bed to prevent rolling.
This innovation allows parents to reap the substantial benefits of swaddling for a full six months without any of the risks.
Myth 6: Putting babies to sleep on the back has solved SIDS.
The National Institute of Health-led Back to Sleep campaign quickly reduced sleep deaths from 5,500 in 1994 to 3,500 in 1999.
However, for the past 17 years, progress has completely stalled.
The tragic truth is that 3,500 infants die during their sleep each and ever year.
Although more babies are sleeping on the back, the rate of accidental suffocation and strangulation infant deaths has quadrupled since the mid-1990s.
What's behind this alarming trend?
Unsafe sleeping practices.
Seventy percent of all sudden unexplained infant death victims are found in adult beds, sofas and other risky locations.
The terrible, unintended consequence of the Back to Sleep campaign is that it has worsened infant sleep.
Babies just don't sleep well on their backs in still, quiet cribs.
And as discussed in myth 5, when babies don't sleep well, parents resort to bed-sharing, which leads to many more infant suffocation deaths.
It is very important that parents continue to place their babies to sleep on the back, but they also need to start using more tools to improve their child's sleep.
The good news is that there are three effective ways to boost slumber for back-sleeping babies: sound, swaddling and rocking.
Rumbly white noise is inexpensive and very effective for improving a baby's sleep.
Snug swaddling is too, but as explained above, pediatricians now recommend that parents stop wrapping at 2 months old.
Motion, or swinging, is also great, but the American Academy of Pediatrics has found that sleeping in sitting devices, such as rockers and swings, may allow a baby's head to roll forward and cause accidental suffocation and death.
These are issues we sought to address with the Snoo bed.
It allows for safe swinging (it is totally flat), safe swaddling (the baby can't roll over) and safe sound, as the sound increases when a baby cries but then immediately softens -- after the baby calms -- for all-night sleep promotion.
We designed it to deliver the right level of womb-like stimulation that is right for any particular baby to calm his or her fussing and boost sleep.
For nearly 20 years, despite enormous public health educational programs, we have failed to reduce infant sleep death.
But, by focusing on sleep efficacy (boosting a baby's sleep), we now have a very exciting means to prevent many -- if not most -- of these deaths.
And as a health bonus, improving sleep efficacy may also allow us to reduce other serious and unsolved health problems triggered by exhaustion and crying, such as postpartum depression (with about a half million cases diagnosed a year) and shaken-baby syndrome (1,300 incidents a year).
Join the conversation on CNN Parenting's Facebook page See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Parenting on Facebook.
Please join me in October -- and all year long -- by telling new parents about exhaustion's role in sudden unexplained infant death and by sharing the sleep-boosting tips mentioned here.
I am confident that we will dramatically improve the health of American parents and babies as we put more energy and emphasis on helping parents promote better infant sleep.
(CNN) A South Carolina university is looking into whether a student broke its code of conduct when he wore an orange jumpsuit with the name "Freddie Gray" taped on it to a Halloween party.
The College of Charleston student wore the outfit to an off-campus party and posed for photos.
One showed the student, who is white, pointing to the name with his thumbs.
Gray, a 25-year-old African-American man, died in 2015 in Baltimore after suffering a neck injury while in police custody.
His death spurred massive protests and riots in Baltimore.
Three Baltimore police officers were acquitted at trial of charges related to Gray's death and prosecutors dropped charges against the remaining three officers.
The Justice Department also declined to prosecute the six.
"These people make fun of the gender, ethnicity -- basically it is disgusting," said Detrickt Manning, who provided the photo taken at the party to CNN.
He said he received it from someone who was there.
Read More
(CNN) An outbreak of contagious and deadly Marburg virus disease in the Kween district of eastern Uganda was declared by the nation's Ministry of Health on October 19.
Marburg virus disease, which causes severe viral hemorrhagic fever, ranks among the most virulent pathogens known to infect humans, according to the World Health Organization.
As of Saturday, two confirmed cases, one probable case and two suspected cases have been reported in the Kween district, on the border with Kenya, Tarik Jaarevi, a spokesman for the WHO, wrote in an email.
The confirmed and probable cases -- two brothers and a sister -- have died.
The WHO, which is working with Ugandan health authorities to contain the outbreak, has followed up with 135 contacts of the patients, Jaarevi said.
Some positive news has come of these investigations: Blood tests showed no infection in two health care workers who had previously been classified as suspected cases.
"Marburg is a virus that is in the same family as Ebola, and it basically has very similar characteristics," said Dr. Amesh Adalja, a spokesman for the Infectious Disease Society of America.
"So it spreads in blood and body fluids and thrives in areas in which people are not able to do effective infection control and take care of patients with appropriate personal protection equipment."
Although direct contact with the blood, secretions or other bodily fluids from infected people spreads the disease, touching contaminated surfaces and materials (such as clothing or bedding) may also spread the virus.
Symptoms and mortality rate Once transmitted, the virus incubates for two to 21 days.
High fever, severe headache and extreme lethargy are the most prominent symptoms, which may also include muscle aches, diarrhea, abdominal cramping, nausea and vomiting.
Hemorrhaging begins between five and seven days after the fever starts.
Fatal cases usually have some form of bleeding, often from multiple areas.
Patients appear "ghost-like," with drawn features, deep-set eyes and expressionless faces, according to the WHO.
On average, the mortality rate is about 50% for this hemorrhagic fever, which was first detected in 1967 during simultaneous outbreaks in Marburg and Frankfurt, Germany, and in Belgrade, Serbia.
During previous outbreaks, though, fatality rates have varied from 24% to 88% depending on the viral strain and how well health authorities managed the disease, according to the WHO.
Currently, there are no treatments for Marburg virus disease.
"The medical interventions are largely going to be supportive care -- very similar to Ebola," said Adalja, a board-certified infectious disease physician.
Fever control will be most important, he added, and patients may be treated with intravenous fluids and, in more advanced health care settings, electrolyte replacement.
"Those types of interventions were found to be very beneficial during Ebola," Adalja said.
Some of the experimental drugs that were tried during the Ebola outbreak in Western Africa three years ago may have some effect on this virus, he said, so "on the ground, you may see some of the experimental antiviral therapies being used."
Vaccines are in development for both Marburg and Ebola, with most attention given to Ebola, though some vaccines may be beneficial in protecting against Marburg and the same family of viruses, Adalja said.
Beyond these medical obstacles, the WHO reported that it faces challenges in the form of misinformation, superstition and suspicion among residents in the areas at risk.
'Double-edged' situation Kween district , a mountainous area 300 kilometers (about 186 miles) northeast of Kampala, boasts a total population of 93,667 people, according to the Uganda Bureau of Statistics.
About a third of the population is illiterate, and just 4% of households have access to electricity.
Over 90% of households grow crops, while more than 80% breed livestock.
Subsistence farming is the main source of livelihood for 84% of the households.
Many people in this rural district believe witchcraft is responsible for the deaths that have occurred in their community, according to the WHO.
The community members also do not hold health systems and workers in high regard, with many suspecting that health workers are deliberately killing some people to save others from the mysterious disease.
"Convincing people to go to hospital is proving a daunting task for community engagement responders," a WHO news bulletin says.
Jaarevi noted, for example, that one of the confirmed cases traveled into Kenya "in search of traditional healers.
WHO and the government of Kenya are conducting investigations in the places he visited."
Additionally, bats are a known reservoir for the virus, yet the villagers of Kween search caves for bat droppings, which are considered good manure for their crops.
Direct transmission from bats to humans is possible, yet the virus can also "spill between bats and non-human primates, such as monkeys, chimpanzees and gorillas, and from there it may be going into humans," Adalja said.
A few cases from animal exposure can get amplified by human transmission and other factors, such as "non-ideal infection control procedures in health care facilities," he added.
"We know that burial practices, just as we saw with Ebola, can foster the spread of this virus as well."
Burial practices, which include washing the deceased in preparation for funerals, facilitate contact with bodily fluids.
The outbreak, though cause for concern, is far from hopeless.
"Although Marburg is a scary, deadly disease, it's not very contagious," Adalja said.
If people are provided with protective equipment and they change their burial practices, the outbreak can be contained and extinguished.
"You have to remember that Uganda has dealt with Ebola and Marburg outbreaks for several decades.
They are usually very adept at dealing with these," Adalja said.
"It's not completely foreign the way Ebola was in West Africa."
For the current outbreak, prevention and containment activities are underway as health authorities continue to investigate family and community contacts.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"Public health authorities are reaching out to people and giving them actionable public health messages that they understand and can be followed," Adalja said.
The situation in Uganda is "double-edged," he said.
"The fact that this outbreak is occurring in a rural area may make it harder to get resources there, but it also makes it harder for the virus to spread."
(CNN) Climate change is already affecting the health of populations around the world, but things are set to get worse if adequate changes aren't made, according to an international consortium of climate experts.
Fueling the impact is the fact that more than 2,100 cities globally exceed recommended levels of atmospheric particulate matter -- particles emitted when fuels, such as coal or diesel, are burned and are small enough to get into the lungs -- says a report published Monday in the medical journal The Lancet In the UK alone, 44 cities exceeded levels recommended by the World Health Organization.
Since 1990, exposure to fine particulate matter -- smaller than 2.5 micrometers in diameter -- increased by 11.2%, the report states, aided by a slow transition away from fossil fuels.
Climate change "is the major health threat of the 21st century," said Hugh Montgomery, co-chairman of The Lancet Countdown on health and climate change and director of the Institute for Human Health and Performance at University College London in the UK.
"There's an urgent need to address it."
The latest report highlights multiple health, weather and economic consequences that need immediate attention.
Poor air quality "Air pollution is one of the leading causes of premature mortality globally," said Paul Wilkinson, professor of environmental epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, who co-authored the report.
More than 803,000 deaths across 21 Asian countries in 2015 were attributable to pollution from coal power, transport and the use of fossil fuels at home, the report states.
But there are "some glimmers of hope," he said, such as the fact that coal power peaked in 2013 and is now showing evidence of a decline.
Investment in coal also declined from 2013, Wilkinson said, but this "will take a couple of generations to realize."
Wilkinson urges governments to prioritize moving away from fossil fuels, as their harms to the environment and human health have long been known.
But 71% of 2,971 cities in the WHO's air pollution database exceed the organization's annual exposure guideline for particulate matter.
Increased disease "Cases of dengue fever have doubled every decade since 1990," Montgomery said.
More people are getting it due to climate change, he said, and "it's going to go up."
Dengue is a virus spread by mosquitoes and can result in fever, headaches and pain.
Severe cases can bring a multitude of symptoms including bleeding, shock, organ failure -- and potentially death.
There is no treatment or vaccine.
Changes in global temperatures, specifically higher temperatures, have increased the range of countries where the mosquitoes carrying the virus can thrive.
The WHO estimates that 390 million dengue infections occur globally each year.
Deaths from dengue have increased worldwide, particularly in the Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Caribbean regions, the report states.
Heat waves: Increased risk of death, decreased labor Between 2000 and 2016, temperatures rose by 0.9 degrees Celsius where people are living, said Peter Cox, professor of climate system dynamics at the University of Exeter, who also co-authored the report.
"The land is warming much quicker than the ocean," he said, highlighting the increased number of heat waves people experience today and the extreme vulnerability of older people.
With populations now living longer, the numbers of those vulnerable to heat stresses will only go up.
During that same time frame, the number of older people exposed to heat waves increased by roughly 125 million, and the the ability of people to work -- namely to do physical or manual work outdoors -- fell by 5.3%, Cox said, resulting in economic losses for countries.
The need to adapt and become resilient Addressing climate change will result in benefits and improvements to public health, but governments are too slow to address the problem, the authors agreed.
Although an increasing number of countries started to develop plans and strategies to reduce the impact of climate change, the majority are high-income nations, the report shows.
"Less than a third of countries have done anything so far," said Georgina Mace, head of the Center for Biodiversity and Environment Research at UCL, who was also involved in the report.
"In low-income countries in particular, there is low expenditure on adaptation."
Countries can prepare for changes in infrastructure such as transport, electricity and health care supplies, which can be affected by extreme weather events.
In addition, policies to reduce use of fossil fuels and entice people toward electric vehicles and renewable energy sources can be prioritized.
The report shows that while sales of electric cars have risen to 77 million per year, this is easily lost next to the figure of 1.2 billion: the total number of regular gas- and diesel-fueled cars being driven.
Not enough is being done, Mace said.
"Adaptation is going to become more important in the future," she said.
"The impact is going to get a lot worse."
"The indicators reflect the breadth of the transformation that is required to address these public health issues by not only considering the direct and indirect impacts of climate change on health but also considering adaptation and mitigation issues, as well as economic and finance issues as the world moves from a fossil-fuel driven to a low-carbon economy," said Clare Goodess, senior researcher at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, who was not involved in the report.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Goodess said more work is needed to improve the attribution of these observations to climate change, a point on which the authors of the report agree.
"Many of the most dramatic trends in health impacts are related to rising temperature and more frequent high-temperature extremes," Goodess said.
"The attribution of these temperature trends to human activities is now unequivocal so the urgency of addressing the issues raised by this report is not in doubt."
Story highlights Pierce moved to Louisiana in 2005 to help victims of Hurricane Katrina Job applicant an experienced paramedic and law enforcement officer (CNN) A Louisiana man who claims he was offered a job, only to have the offer taken back after a medical exam showed he is HIV positive, is suing a sheriff for alleged discrimination.
William "Liam" Pierce claims that Iberia Parish Sheriff Louis M. Ackal and two police department captains offered him a position in March 2012 subject to his passing a medical exam.
Pierce was examined in April 2012 -- and the resulting medical report stated that he had HIV but that there were "no significant abnormalities or medical findings," the lawsuit, filed in federal court on Tuesday, states.
Sheriff Louis M. Ackal Pierce's resume reads like a good fit for a job in law enforcement, according to the lawsuit.
A former paramedic, EMS instructor, national disaster life support training center coordinator and HIV instructor, Pierce came from Ohio to Louisiana in 2005 to volunteer to help Hurricane Katrina victims, the suit states.
Read More
(CNN) It's not uncommon for drug companies to try to keep generic versions of their best-selling drugs off the market.
But this is a story about a drug company that went to extraordinary lengths to do so, calling into question the safety of a drug it had sold for years.
When its plan didn't work, the company made an unusual decision.
As the opioid epidemic grew, Endo Pharmaceuticals took the extraordinary step in 2012 of pulling a version of one of its best-selling painkillers off the market, saying that the narcotic was susceptible to abuse.
Endo even unsuccessfully sued the US Food and Drug Administration that year to prevent the approval of any generic version of its drug, called Opana ER.
The drugmaker argued that given a chance, drug abusers would crush and snort the generic pills, just as they had with the brand-name drug.
Snorting intensifies the high but heightens the chance of overdosing.
It seemed as though a drug maker was taking selfless action to try to curb the growing opioid epidemic.
But some industry observers say the story of Opana ER may better illustrate the lengths a drug company would go to in order to protect its profits.
Endo introduced a new formulation of Opana ER before phasing out the old one, selling two versions of the drug at the same time.
Both drugs had the same active ingredient, oxymorphone.
Both were extended-release pills for long-lasting effects.
Both were called Opana ER.
Endo agreed to halt shipments of Opana ER starting September 1.
The difference was that the new version had a few different inactive ingredients, including a hard coating that made the pills harder to pulverize.
Even so, addicts quickly learned how to cook the new painkiller and inject the liquid with a syringe.
Endo contended that the new Opana ER and its hard coating deterred abuse, but this summer, the FDA disagreed.
In June, the regulatory agency concluded that the risks of new crush-resistant Opana ER outweighed its benefits and pressured Endo to stop selling it.
It was the first time the FDA had taken steps to stop sales of a currently marketed opioid because of the consequences of abuse.
President Trump alluded to the drug last week when declaring the opioid epidemic a public health emergency .
"We're requiring that a specific opioid, which is truly evil, be taken off the market immediately," he said.
Endo agreed to halt shipments of Opana ER starting September 1.
But that's not the end of the drug's story.
Endo still has the patent on the original version of the drug, the one it fought to keep off the market.
The FDA's action this summer didn't impact the crushable version Endo stopped selling in 2012.
So on August 8, Endo cut a deal with Impax Laboratories to split the profits of a generic version of its original drug.
Endo is now poised to make money from a drug that it said shouldn't be on the market.
'It just doesn't seem right' Endo's efforts to profit from a drug that it said was susceptible to abuse raises ethical questions, in the opinion of one member of the FDA advisory committee that recently reviewed Opana ER.
"They're the ones who called it dangerous and unsafe," said Suzanne Robotti , who is also the founder of the MedShadow Foundation, a patient advocacy group.
"It just doesn't seem right."
Dr. Michael Carome , director of health research for the consumer group Public Citizen, was harsher in his criticism.
"The pharmaceutical industry is solely driven by its desire to make profits and boost its bottom line," Carome said.
"Here's a situation where the company is talking out of both sides of its mouth, depending on what will make them money."
Endo defended its decision to cut the deal with Impax.
"The FDA is charged with -- and makes -- the sole determination of whether pharmaceutical products are safe and effective," the company told CNN.
"In June 2017, the FDA requested that Endo voluntarily withdraw the formulation of Opana ER that is designed to be crush resistant due to unintended use and misuse.
...
In July 2017 the Company, after careful consideration, decided to voluntarily withdraw it from the market.
In the case of the prior formulation of Opana ER, the FDA determined that the product should remain on the market."
The FDA declined to comment on why it left the generic version on the market but told CNN it is assessing the abuse patterns for that drug.
History of keeping generics off the market Endo Pharmaceuticals has a long history of trying to keep generic versions of Opana ER off the market.
Because generic drugs are so similar to their brand-name counterparts, a generic drug's maker can piggyback off the FDA approval of the brand-name drug.
Timeline of Opana ER June 22, 2006: FDA approves Opana ER.
November 15, 2007: Endo sues Impax Laboratories for patent infringement after Impax says it intends to market a generic version of Opana ER.
December 9, 2011: FDA approves a new crush-resistant version of Opana ER.
February 2012: Endo begins selling crush-resistant Opana ER and phasing out original Opana ER without yet raising safety concerns with FDA.
August 10, 2012: Endo petitions the FDA to keep a generic version of the original Opana ER off the market because of safety concerns.
November 30, 2012: Endo sues the FDA to keep generic version off market, demanding a decision by end of the year.
January 1, 2013: Impax is scheduled to launch a generic version of Opana ER.
May 2013: FDA denies Endo's request to declare original Opana ER unsafe and keep generics off the market.
March 14, 2017: FDA advisory committee votes 18 to 8 that the risks of crush-resistant Opana ER no longer outweigh the benefits.
Abuse of the reformulated drug appears to have increased and was linked to outbreaks of hepatitis C, a rare blood disorder and HIV.
FDA advisory committee votes 18 to 8 that the risks of crush-resistant Opana ER no longer outweigh the benefits.
Abuse of the reformulated drug appears to have increased and was linked to outbreaks of hepatitis C, a rare blood disorder and HIV.
June 8, 2017: FDA asks Endo to take Opana ER off the market.
FDA asks Endo to take Opana ER off the market.
July 6, 2017: Endo agrees to pull Opana ER off the market.
Endo agrees to pull Opana ER off the market.
August 8, 2017: Endo announces a deal with Impax Laboratories to split profits on generic version of original Opana ER -- the same drug Endo tried to keep off the market for safety reasons.
The FDA approved oxymorphone as a painkiller in 1959, but the pill form was voluntarily taken off the market in 1982.
Endo decided 15 years later to revive the drug as an extended-release pill.
In 2006, the FDA approved Opana ER.
The extended-release pill comes in higher doses that are slowly released in the body for up to 12 hours.
Opana ER is more potent than its two competitors, morphine and oxycodone, and was intended for use for moderate to severe pain for patients who needed 24-hour relief.
immediately In 2007, Impax sought FDA approval to sell a generic version of Opana ER, but Endoimmediately sued for patent infringement.
The drugmakers settled in 2010, with Impax agreeing to wait until 2013 to launch its generic.
But as that date drew near, Endo tried again to keep Impax from selling a generic version of Opana ER.
That's when Endo decided to pull the original formulation of Opana ER off the market, saying the drug was susceptible to abuse.
Endo petitioned and later sued the FDA to force the agency to declare formally that the original formulation was withdrawn for safety reasons.
Doing so would keep generic drugmakers from piggybacking off the drug's FDA approval.
Endo filed the FDA lawsuit only about a month before Impax was scheduled to sell the generic drug.
The drugmaker urgently sought a decision by the end of the year.
But the FDA persuaded the court to dismiss the lawsuit, telling it "Endo's self-inflicted December 31 deadline is a thinly-veiled attempt to maintain its market-share and block generic competition from Impax."
Opana ER was one of Endo's best-selling brand-name drugs.
In 2012, net sales of the narcotic amounted to nearly $300 million, or 10% of Endo's total revenues.
Endo justified withdrawing the original version of Opana ER by telling the FDA that it saw misuse of Opana ER soar after Purdue Pharma introduced a crush-resistant version of its top-selling Oxycontin in 2010.
The company cited research showing that abuse of Opana ER rose 111% from August 2010 through March 2012.
Endo said it introduced a crush-resistant version of Opana ER "in recognition of increased reports of the potential for abuse and misuse" of the original formulation.
However, the FDA says Endo never told it about these safety concerns until months after it began selling the crush-resistant pill and phasing out the original one.
Even when Endo announced the FDA's approval of crush-resistant Opana ER in December 2011, the company said, "It has not been established that this new formulation of Opana ER is less subject to misuse, abuse, diversion, overdose, or addiction."
In the lawsuit, the FDA asked why Endo continued to sell original Opana ER if it thought the drug was unsafe.
Allowed to join the lawsuit, Impax put it more bluntly: "Contrary to its insincere concern about public safety, Endo distributed the allegedly 'dangerous' Opana ER for years, and then apparently continued distributing it for up to nine months even after obtaining approval to market (crush-resistent) Opana ER."
In 2013, the FDA ruled on Endo's petition, saying that Opana ER "was not withdrawn from sale for reasons of safety and effectiveness."
The ruling was based on the company's failure to present sufficient evidence that the crush-resistant version of Opana ER was less likely to be abused than the crushable version.
The decision allowed Impax to sell a generic version of Opana ER.
Last year, the Federal Trade Commission sued Endo and Impax, alleging that their 2010 agreement to delay the launch of a cheaper generic until 2013 violated federal consumer laws.
The FTC alleged that Endo paid Impax more than $110 million for the delay.
The federal lawsuit also alleged that Endo launched its crush-resistant pill "to protect and extend its Opana ER franchise in the face of potential generic entry."
Endo settled the FTC lawsuit in January, promising not to cut any deals intended to keep generic drugs off the market.
Impax is still contesting an administrative complaint from the FTC on the same allegations.
Abuse of new drug goes up Meanwhile, the FDA decided to take a closer look at Opana ER.
Over time, data from drug rehabilitation centers showed that as users learned to inject the reformulated drug, the rate of overall abuse actually increased.
Opana ER is not the only opioid being abused, but medical researchers were linking its misuse to outbreaks of hepatitis C as well as a rare but deadly blood disorder affecting at least 30 people in Tennessee and North Carolina and an HIV epidemic affecting more than 200 people in southern Indiana Opana can be bought illegally for a hefty price on the street, where the drug is sometimes called "biscuits," "O bomb" and "stop signs."
Because it is so potent, addicts often split the dose with others.
The high is over quickly, so addicts shoot up several times a day.
This year, an FDA advisory committee said these factors may have encouraged needle sharing and the spread of disease.
Vice President Mike Pence, then governor of Indiana, reluctantly gave in to calls in 2015 for a needle exchange -- replacing used needles with sterile ones -- to stop the spread of HIV in his state linked to Opana ER abuse.
In March of this year, an FDA advisory committee held two days of hearings on crush-resistant Opana ER.
The group concluded by a vote of 18-8 that the risks of the newer version of the drug outweighed its benefits.
But before pulling the drug, the Pennsylvania-based drugmaker went into negotiations with Impax to settle ongoing litigation.
The deal announced in August was to split the profits on generic extended-release oxymorphone for the next 11 years, starting January 1, 2018.
Endo told CNN that the deal "allows Endo to be fairly compensated for Impax's license to use Endo's valuable intellectual property in offering the product for use as intended."
Last year, Impax made $72.7 million from sales of the generic drug.
Endo's sales of Opana ER amounted to about $159 million last year.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
During a recent conference call with investors, Paul Bisaro, president and chief executive officer of Impax, said, "I think our challenge will be to make sure that patients and caregivers understand that if their patients are on oxymorphone extended-release product because they prefer that, that that product remains available."
Asked by CNN about the safety of the generic, Impax issued a statement: "Patient safety is very important to us.
We believe that our product is an effective therapy for patients with chronic pain when used as directed by a physician and in accordance with the label/package instructions."
(CNN) The US Food and Drug Administration called into question Monday the authorized health claim that soy protein reduces heart disease risk.
"We are proposing a rule to revoke a health claim for soy protein and heart disease," said a statement from Susan Mayne , director of the FDA Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition.
"For the first time, we have considered it necessary to propose a rule to revoke a health claim because numerous studies published since the claim was authorized in 1999 have presented inconsistent findings on the relationship between soy protein and heart disease."
For consumers, the FDA's move does not change the nature of soy or its potential role as a vegetarian alternative to animal protein, wrote Linda Van Horn, professor and chief of nutrition in the Department of Preventive Medicine at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine , in an email.
"Vegetarian diets can be nutritious and offer a way to lower LDL-cholesterol when saturated fat intake from meats or other animal sources are substituted with vegetable protein and especially when accompanied by poly-unsaturated fat sources," Van Horn said.
"Bottom line: the FDA decision does not condemn soy protein as a harmful ingredient when consumed within a healthy eating pattern," she wrote.
"It simply acknowledges the scientific evidence indicating no special benefit independently as an agent to reduce risk of CVD," or cardiovascular disease.
"But we've since learned that not every way of lowering cholesterol has benefits, and some things that do lower cholesterol actually have shown harm, (and) what we know is that there was never any clinical trials ever that showed eating more soy improves heart health," said Dr. Karol Watson, a cardiologist and director of the UCLA Women's Cardiovascular Health Center Yet many Americans rely on high-quality protein like soy, said John Erdman, professor emeritus in the division of nutritional sciences at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a scientific adviser to the Soy Nutrition Institute.
"If nothing else, it doesn't contain cholesterol, and it's not high in saturated fats, so if you're replacing meat or dairy with soy, you're automatically getting heart health benefits," he said.
Erdman was disappointed but not surprised with the FDA's announcement, he said.
After all, he said, the FDA has been "under tremendous pressure" from anti-soy groups like the Weston A.
Price Foundation to revoke the claim, despite some studies suggesting that soy has health benefits.
The foundation is a nonprofit that works to restore what it calls nutrient-dense foods to the human diet , according to its website.
The history of soy and health claims "There was a sufficient amount of data prior to 1999 to suggest that 25 grams of soy protein a day was sufficient to lower cholesterol, assuming you had an otherwise appropriate diet," said Erdman, who authored a statement paper in the journal Circulation in 2000 that concluded "it is prudent to recommend including soy protein foods in a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol to promote heart health."
Then, in 2008, the American Heart Association stated that there was not enough evidence to claim a strong link between soy protein and the reduced risk of coronary heart disease Last year, the FDA denied a citizen petition submitted by the Weston A.
Price Foundation, requesting that the health claims about soy protein and reduced risk of heart disease be revoked Now, "while some evidence continues to suggest a relationship between soy protein and a reduced risk of heart disease -- including evidence reviewed by the FDA when the claim was authorized -- the totality of currently available scientific evidence calls into question the certainty of this relationship," said the statement from the FDA's Mayne.
"Our review of that evidence has led us to conclude that the relationship between soy protein and heart disease does not meet the rigorous standard for an FDA-authorized health claim," the statement said.
On Monday, the American Heart Association said in an emailed statement that its "position on soy protein and coronary heart disease remains the same as outlined in our 2008 comment letter.
Moving forward, we will carefully review the FDA's proposed rule, especially the possibility that the FDA may allow a qualified health claim related to soy and heart disease, because in this instance we are concerned that consumers may not understand the claim or that it is based on limited evidence."
What is a health claim?
Qualified health claims do not require as much scientific evidence as is required for an authorized health claim.
Authorized health claims are reviewed by the FDA and typically allowed on food labeling to show that a food or food component may reduce the risk of a disease or a health-related condition.
However, such claims must be supported by scientific evidence.
The FDA's proposed rule to reverse the claim sets in motion a 75-day public comment period.
The comments, along with all related research, will be reviewed to consider whether the rule will become final.
If it does, the FDA said, a qualified health claim may be permitted if the agency feels there is evidence to support one.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
The authorized health claim is one of 12 such claims allowed on foods.
Other examples include the benefits of calcium and vitamin D to reduce risk of osteoporosis, some fruits and vegetables preventing cancer and folic acid preventing birth defects.
The FDA has been evaluating health claims on packaged foods since 1990, it said.
The take-away message for consumers should be to maintain a healthy daily diet as a whole to benefit your heart health and not focus too much on individual food items or nutrients, Watson said.
"You can actually prevent many diseases with lifestyle," she said.
Since #MeToo went viral two weeks ago in the wake of sexual harassment allegations against producer Harvey Weinstein, Twitter reports that more than 1.7 million women and men have used the hashtag in 85 countries.
In Italy, women rallied behind a version called #QuellaVoltaChe , which translates to "That time when," while French women decided to out their harassers by name under #BalanceTonPorc , which roughly translates to "snitch out your pig."
At least nine well-known powerful men have been accused of various forms of sexual assault, including former President George H.W.
Bush Hollywood producer James Toback and journalist and author Mark Halperin .
And just last week, California Rep. Jackie Speier launched #MeTooCongress , asking Washington staffers to share their stories on harassment on the Hill.
But can a hashtag, a meme or any viral moment -- no matter how widespread -- really turn into a lasting movement that that will create social change and reduce sexual abuse of women?
Maybe.
But experts say it's going to take a coordinated effort between antiviolence organizations, the media and Hollywood as well as concrete actions from each and every one of us, especially men.
"I am really tired of talking about women," said Toni Van Pelt, president of the National Association of Women.
"We must focus on the men.
We must be demanding that the men step forward and take responsibility, whether they think they are the good guy or not.
They are not the good guy if they are not speaking out against this, if they are allowing the bullying to continue."
It's the men's turn A Call to Men, a violence prevention and male socialization group, is hoping the launch of its new campaign, #IWillSpeakUp, will help the cause.
"We felt like we really needed to respond because it's out of control," A Call to Men co-founder Ted Bunch said.
"And it's not just Hollywood.
Viewing women as objects, property and having less value than men is something that all males have been taught, even by 'well-meaning men,' and we pass that on to our boys.
So this has to become a men's issue, because men won't stop unless other men say so."
Launched Monday in conjunction with the Joyful Heart Foundation, founded by "Law and Order: SVU" star Mariska Hargitay , the campaign includes an op-ed and public service announcement featuring male celebrities such as Danny Pino, Blair Underwood, Christopher Meloni, Anthony Edwards and Peter Hermann, who all encourage men to pledge better behavior toward women under the hashtags #IWillSpeakUp and #SupportSurvivors.
The theme of the PSA is "I'll say something next time," Bunch explained.
"It finishes with a line that we frequently use when we train men on healthy, respectful manhood: 'Most men are not abusive.
But they are far too often silent about the abuse committed by other men.
Their silence is as much of the problem as the abuse.'
" A viral graveyard Social media is littered with the digital bones of once-vibrant hashtags and memes, so getting the momentum behind #MeToo to translate into literal action could be an uphill battle.
Last year, Canadian-born writer Kelly Oxford shared her story of being groped at age 12 on the bus; the response from women to her #ItsNotOkay was unprecedented.
But it soon faded.
#WhyIStayed, #YouOKSis, #EverydaySexism, Other hashtags expressing social outrage over sexual abuse have suffered similar fates: #YesAllWomen #ToTheGirls and #BrockTurner , to name a few.
#MeToo was created over a decade ago by female activist Tarana Burke , who works with Girls for Gender Equity and founded Just Be Inc., organizations focused on empowering women of color.
She launched the hashtag after her own experience with abuse kept her from helping a traumatized young girl.
"I could not find the strength to say out loud the words that were ringing in my head over and over again as she tried to tell me what she had endured," Burke wrote on her website.
"I couldn't even bring myself to whisper...'me too.'
" I was just made aware of an earlier #MeToo movement, and the origin story is equal parts heartbreaking and inspiring https://t.co/tABQBODscE Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) October 16, 2017 Though Burke sees #MeToo as a movement, she admits that the hashtag's popularity ebbs and flows.
"I've seen it happen over and over again in small waves, but to see it happen en masse has been pretty amazing," she told CNN Some social activists blame the media for the public's short attention span, believing that online interest is driven by the amount of time and attention the press gives to any given subject.
Just look to #Charlottesville #Ferguson and #BringBackOurGirls Others point to "slacktivism," a portmanteau of "slacker" and "activism," as part of the problem.
It's a pejorative term coined by sociologists to describe keyboard activists who react to an online movement so they can feel good about themselves, but these social "slackers" are thought to stop short of taking offline action.
"Saturday Night Live" poked fun at armchair activism this year with a skit called "Thank you, Scott," starring comedian Louis C.K.
as a well-meaning man who shares a few articles with his Facebook friends.
But it's no laughing matter.
A University of British Columbia study found that public displays of support, such as "liking" a charity online or wearing a lapel pin, hurt that charity's fundraising efforts, as people failed to follow through with their wallets or volunteer their time.
Private displays of activism, such as signing a door-to-door petition, fared better.
Keyboard apathy is such a problem in fundraising that in 2013, UNICEF Sweden tackled it with a hard-hitting poster and video campaign: "Like us on Facebook and we will vaccinate zero children against polio.
We have nothing against likes, but vaccines cost money."
There have been successes, most notably the 2014 ALS #IceBucketChallenge , which raised more than $115 million for causes related to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
According to the ALS Association, more than $77 million of that went to research, which recently scored by uncovering a key gene, NEK1, that contributes to more than 3% of ALS cases.
Another hashtag to make the leap from online social activism to the street was #BlackLivesMatter.
It burst onto the scene after the 2012 killing of African-American teenager Trayvon Martin by George Zimmerman, a white Hispanic man.
#BlackLivesMatter gained national prominence during violent protests in Ferguson, Missouri, following the killing of 18-year-old African-American Michael Brown by a white police officer and has since grown to 40 chapters , including Canada and Britain.
This summer, the group won the 2017 Sydney Peace Prize.
Though much has been written on the demise of the hashtag and what that means for the movement, co-founder Patrisse Cullors disagrees.
"It's not a hashtag that built the movement," she said in an interview with the Los Angeles Times.
"It was organizers, activists, educators, artists -- people who built an actual infrastructure so that a movement can exist and have life."
From meme to movement That's exactly what is needed to solidify #MeToo's viral legacy, according to sociologist Jen Schradie, who studies digital activism for the Institute for Advanced Study in Toulouse, France.
"Based on my research, the movements that are most successful are those who have an organizational infrastructure in place: a network, a coalition, a united front of a group of celebrities or established organizations," she said.
She points to the civil rights movement as the ultimate example of success.
"The energy we see in the #MeToo movement is very similar to that of the civil rights movement," Schradie said, "but the difference is, the civil rights movement was able to connect people who just heard about it with actual organizations who were coordinating resistance.
"I've found that the groups that can sustain high levels of online participation are those which are more structured and have volunteers and staff dedicated to keeping that online effort in place."
"People want concrete ways to be part of a solution, and that's where the #MeToo movement needs to go," said Kristen Houser, chief public affairs officer at the National Sexual Violence Resource Center.
"Talking about victimization doesn't end victimization," she said.
"We need people to intervene.
We need whistle-blowers.
Parents need to be great role models.
Ask your school, church, civic organizations and youth sports clubs to be proactive.
Walk the walk in your own home."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Many of these men's and women's rights organizations say that all anyone has to do to get involved is reach out to the many local, state and national organizations that have been fighting for equality for women for decades.
Volunteer.
Donate time and money.
Do more than lift your finger to "like."
"Funding for prevention work is hard to get, yet investment in this space is critical," Bunch said.
"We are trying to go upstream and prevent things before they start.
It's not in a man's DNA.
It's not who we are.
We are socialized to behave this way.
That has to stop."
"This could be a watershed moment if this connects the dots," Van Pelt said.
"Connect the dots from a culture of male authority and patriarchy to the fact that women do not get equal pay; connect the dots to birth control and abortion that is being kept from women.
"Because if women are in position of authority, they will help stop the submission of other women," she continued.
"So that men can't corner them, can't force them into sexual acts, because women won't need the financial stability.
The economic security."
(CNN) Long-term use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was associated with twice the risk of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder in children, according to a study published Monday in the journal Pediatrics.
However, two experts believe that the data do not support these findings.
Acetaminophen, also known as paracetamol, is the active ingredient in Tylenol and hundreds of over-the-counter and prescription medicines, according to the US Food and Drug Administration .
It is commonly prescribed during pregnancy to relieve pain and fever, with an estimated 65% of pregnant women in America using the drug, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The lead author of the new study, Eivind Ystrm, a senior researcher at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health, said pregnant women who need medicine for fever or pain relief "should not refrain from short-term acetaminophen use."
However, pregnant women who require "continuous acetaminophen for a longer period" should consult with their physicians, he wrote in an email.
The study defines a longer period as 29 days or more.
The makers of Tylenol, McNeil Consumer Healthcare (a Johnson & Johnson company), did not respond to a request for comment on the study.
Association, not cause and effect The Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study provided data for the new research.
Women were invited to participate after routine ultrasound examinations around week 18 of their pregnancies.
Information was gathered from 95,242 mothers, 75,217 fathers and 112,973 children born between 1999 and 2009 -- including 2,246 children diagnosed with ADHD.
Nearly 47% of the women used acetaminophen during their pregnancies: 27% in one trimester, 16% in two trimesters and less than 4% in all three.
"We found that using acetaminophen for 29 days or more during pregnancy gave a 220% increase in risk for ADHD in the child," Ystrm wrote -- more than twice the expected risk.
"This was after taking medical conditions and risk for ADHD in the family into account."
Use of acetaminophen by pregnant women for less than seven days was associated with a decreased risk of ADHD in offspring, the researchers say, based on their analysis.
Fathers who used the pain reliever for 29 or more days prior to conception also had twice the number of children with ADHD.
Unsure how to interpret this finding, Ystrm suggested that "it could be that fathers who use a lot of acetaminophen have a higher genetic risk for ADHD" or that long-term use of the medicine might lead to changes in sperm.
No evidence of a cause-effect relationship between the drug and ADHD was found, Ystrm and his colleagues concluded.
Still, they believe further study is needed.
Dr. Alison G. Cahill, a member of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Committee on Obstetric Practice, said the study "doesn't add anything to our medical knowledge."
Cahill was not involved in the research.
She applauds the researchers for their efforts -- in particular the high number of participants -- but says the study simply cannot "overcome" certain challenges and design flaws.
Chief among these is the way in which a diagnosis of ADHD is assessed, she said.
Ideally, the same careful and measured approach would be used with all the children in the study.
Instead, the researchers calculated the number of children diagnosed with ADHD by codes in their medical records.
"As you can imagine, there can be some disconnect between the making of that diagnosis and how it's actually coded," Cahill said.
Also, variability between providers and how they make that assessment means it is possible a child didn't have ADHD but instead had a related disorder.
Dr. Max Wiznitzer, co-chairman of the professional advisory board for the nonprofit Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, agreed.
Doesn't make 'biological sense' Wiznitzer, who also did not participate in the new research, noted that the codes the researchers used to calculate the total number of ADHD diagnoses may have merged in learning and language disorders.
"They also did not confirm the diagnoses," he said.
And past telephone surveys conducted in the US have asked parents whether their child was ever diagnosed with ADHD and then whether the child still has that diagnosis.
"It's a smaller percentage," Wiznitzer said.
"Just because a kid gets labeled with having this diagnosis doesn't mean it's accurate."
For expected rates of ADHD in children, the researchers used an estimate of 4%, yet in the United States, most people would use between 8% and 11% based on CDC estimations , Wiznitzer said.
This lowball estimate would explain the twofold increase in risk the researchers found.
Ystrm explained that Norway and other nations rely on the World Health Organization's International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems to diagnose ADHD.
By that standard, children must show symptoms, both inattention and hyperactivity, before age 7.
It is a more rigorous standard than the one commonly used in the US, he said.
Cahill said that when linking a prenatal exposure to a certain outcome, scientists would expect to see certain things if the "association is actually true."
One of those things would be seeing the same result repeated across many studies.
Previous studies have shown an association at times, and at other times, they've shown none, she explained.
"The other thing we expect to see is a dose-response relationship, where an increasing dose would relate to a worsening risk or worsening severity of that disease," Cahill said.
This too was not seen in the new study.
At low doses, acetaminophen reduces risk of ADHD in offspring, while at high doses, the reverse is true.
"And that doesn't make any biological sense," she said.
The researchers also didn't measure the amount of acetaminophen taken or levels of biomarkers; they used a survey in which patients self-reported the number of days.
That is "not informative from a scientific perspective," she said.
Finally, the numbers don't add up to a statistical significance as the authors imply, she said.
Wiznitzer agreed that "the numbers here don't support the conclusion."
However, Ystrm maintains that the lower estimates uphold the statistical significance and that the sensitivity analysis further supports the study's conclusions.
Wiznitzer also noted that, since the study began at 18 weeks into each pregnancy, mothers and partners had to recall their use of acetaminophen from months earlier.
"You have to be careful about distance recall," he said, noting that people often have distorted recollections of their behavior from even a week ago.
Animal models Acetaminophen is usually prescribed for only short periods during pregnancy, so Wiznitzer wondered, "Who during pregnancy would have all these pain complaints that they would be taking pain medicine regularly?
I can make an argument that perhaps there's something special about that group."
The special reason -- probably some underlying condition -- may be associated with ADHD in the children, rather than the use of acetaminophen.
In their conclusion, the authors speculate about the association, and according to Wiznitzer, they quote "all this animal research.
I'll guarantee these rodents are not getting the type of dose like you would take if you're pregnant."
"It's good to use the animal models as a first step, but you cannot automatically assume because it happens to the animal, it happens to humans," said Wiznitzer, who is also a professor of pediatrics and neurology at Case Western Reserve University.
An example of this is thalidomide , a sedative prescribed in the 1960s for morning sickness; later, it was found to cause birth defects.
"It was tested in animals, and it was safe for the animals," Wiznitzer said.
Cahill, who is also chief of maternal fetal medicine at Washington University in St. Louis, said some untreated symptoms during pregnancy can have "negative impacts" on the unborn baby.
Doctors are trained to read medical studies and decide whether the results need to be followed when treating patients.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"A board-certified provider is really the best person to advise them on medications during pregnancy," Cahill said.
Wiznitzer said "acetaminophen serves a practical purpose in pregnancy."
"Women should not be afraid of using acetaminophen, especially if it's their doctor's recommendation," he said.
"The data here is not strong enough to support the conclusion."
Lawrenceville, Georgia (CNN) Twenty seconds is all it took to kill 19-year-old Dustin Manning.
His devastated parents, Greg and Lisa Manning, said the toxicology report found he had taken a toxic mix of heroin and fentanyl, a synthetic opioid so powerful it's often fatal.
"The amount of fentanyl in his body was the equivalent to three grains of salt.
That's all it took to kill a 180-pound guy," said Greg Manning.
Dustin died on Friday, May 26, in Lawrenceville, a suburb on the outskirts of Atlanta.
At 6:09 a.m., paramedics were called to a home with reports of an unresponsive teenager.
Dustin was dead.
"I had told him I'd get him up early for work, and I came up around 5:45 to wake him up, and when I opened the door, he looked like he was tying his shoes.
Very quickly I realized, grabbed him and he was cold," said Greg Manning.
Lisa Manning was at the gym when she got the call from her husband.
"He said, 'Oh my God, oh my God, call 911.'
I didn't ask any questions.
I knew."
Less than an hour later, at 6:53 a.m., another phone call was placed to 911.
Half a mile down the road, 18-year-old Joseph Abraham was found slumped on the floor by his parents, Dave and Kathi Abraham.
He had no pulse.
"I started yelling and yelling and yelling, 'Joe, Joe -- wake up, man!'
And then I realized there was something really wrong," said Dave Abraham.
"As soon as I saw him, I knew and I just ran and I just started holding him and I could tell he was cold," said Kathi Abraham.
"Dave was on the phone to 911 and I said, 'It's too late.
We can't fix this,'" she added, as tears welled in her eyes.
Childhood friends Dustin Manning and Joseph Abraham were childhood friends.
They played on the same Little League team.
For two years, Joseph's father coached them.
But in middle school, both began to dabble in drugs.
The Abrahams believe their son had his first dose of opioids when he had his wisdom teeth removed.
He was prescribed the drugs again when he broke his ankle -- and later, his hand -- playing sports.
"When you're given a prescription from a doctor, we often just trust that," Kathi Abraham said.
She believes Joseph turned to drugs after dealing with two major tragedies at a young age.
"He lost two of his really good friends in eighth grade -- one to cancer and one to a drowning.
He really had a hard time.
He struggled with that," she said.
At the age of 12, Dustin told his parents he felt like he was suffering depression.
He soon started drinking beer and taking drugs.
"He told us the drugs are what gave him 'the out' and made him feel good," Lisa Manning said.
Both parents sought help from treatment centers, not once, but time and time again.
Lisa Manning even began working at one of the centers to keep an eye on her son and better understand addiction.
But Dave Abraham says the treatments weren't enough to fight his son's battle.
"Once they take (opioids), there's a switch in their brain that gets flipped on -- and to get that switched flipped back could take up to five years, and most treatments are 35 days and they're back out," he said.
According to both sets of parents, Dustin and Joe hadn't been in touch in recent years, yet it appears they may have bought the drug that killed them from the same dealer.
According to police records, some of the pill wrappings were almost identical.
There were fears in the community that other kids may have bought the same drugs.
Lost potential As the parents started to gain insight into the world of opioid addiction, they realized that getting the drug is fast and easy.
Like most parents, they had high hopes for their beloved sons and their great potential.
Photos: Remembering Dustin Manning and Joseph Abraham Dustin (left) and Joseph.
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Remembering Dustin Manning and Joseph Abraham Dustin (bottom row, second from left) and Joseph (top row, center) played Little League together.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Remembering Dustin Manning and Joseph Abraham Dustin played baseball for Mountain View High School in Lawrenceville, Georgia.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Remembering Dustin Manning and Joseph Abraham Joseph and his mother, Kathi.
Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Remembering Dustin Manning and Joseph Abraham Dustin and his mother, Lisa.
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Remembering Dustin Manning and Joseph Abraham Dustin's mother, Lisa (left) with Joseph's mother, Kathi.
Hide Caption 6 of 6 Walking through her son's bedroom, Lisa Manning pointed at a US flag on the wall.
"This flag was a symbolic thing for him.
He always wanted to go in the service.
He always wanted to be a Marine.
He would have made a great Marine," she said, breathing a deep sigh.
"Joe was a sensitive young man, he was funny, he had a big heart", Kathi Abraham recalled.
"He loved to fish, he loved to be outside and hike.
He could have done anything he wanted.
He was very smart, in advanced classes."
Dave Abraham added: "He could watch a video on YouTube and go and play it on the piano.
...
Most dads teach their kids how to fish.
Joe taught me how to fish."
Community in shock Hopes for their children's futures were dashed in an instant.
"This happened within 18 houses of each other to two young men on the same morning.
The community was in total shock," said Kathi Abraham.
JUST WATCHED Why are opioids so addictive?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why are opioids so addictive?
01:09 The parents now attend a support group for people who have lost children to opioids.
And in a sign of the times, the support group grows in size each month.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expects drug overdose deaths to top 64,000 in 2016 when the numbers are finalized.
Most of these overdoses involved an opioid.
Fentanyl, which is 50 to 100 times more powerful than morphine, was devised to treat chronic pain.
A tiny amount can be fatal.
The number of people killed by fentanyl has risen from 3,000 to more than 20,000 in just three years -- a 540% increase.
President Trump has declared opioid addiction a public health emergency, which officials say will allow the federal government to waive some regulations and give states more flexibility in how they use federal funds.
It does not provide any additional funding to deal with the crisis.
Like many critics, the Manning and Abraham families say it doesn't go far enough.
"This is a just a step, a small step," said Greg Manning.
"The problem with treatment right now is there is a very low percentage of success.
The longer they stay in treatment, that success rate goes up," said Dave Abraham.
They also want tougher punishment for dealers.
"These drugs are killing people and there's a lot of drug dealers around," Kathi Abraham said.
"To me it's poison or murder -- anyone who sells fentanyl should have a life sentence," her husband added.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
These parents believe prevention is key and education needs to start as early as fifth grade.
They have started spreading awareness in their community in the hope it will save another family from suffering the loss of a child.
As they tried to hold back tears, Lisa Manning and Kathi Abraham conceded their lives are forever changed.
"You change.
You're never going be the same.
I'll never be the person I was.
It's like a knife deep in your heart," said Lisa Manning.
"We wanted to have two children because we wanted them to have each other," said Kathi Abraham as she cried.
"Now (our son) Matthew is an only child."
Story highlights Melissa Dabas died of cancer after splurging on celebratory Lady Gaga tickets Her family is auctioning off some of the premium seats to benefit a cancer charity (CNN) After scans showed she had beaten breast cancer at the end of 2016, Melissa Dabas did what anyone with a new lease on life would do: She celebrated.
Melissa, a hardcore Lady Gaga fan from Winchester, Virginia, decided to go all-in on 26 tickets to the DC stop of Lady Gaga's Joanne tour in November.
The price tag was north of $10,000 but the money paled in comparison to what promised to be the party of a lifetime for her friends, family and fellow cancer survivors.
Then, a few weeks later, her back started hurting .
Her husband, Dr. Sanjay Dabas, an anesthesiologist, saw her scans and delivered heart-wrenching news.
Her cancer was back, and it was aggressive.
Melissa Dabas died on September 2.
Sanjay Dabas and the couple's two sons felt they needed to do something to keep Melissa's vision of celebration and hope alive.
Sanjay told radio station WINC he reached out to the Winchester Medical Center where he worked and learned about the Angel Fund, which helps cancer patients with non-medical expenses.
Read More
(CNN) If nutrition headlines catch your attention, you've probably heard the advice to eat more fresh, whole foods and consume fewer processed foods.
It sounds straightforward enough, and you may have chosen to abide by this "food rule."
But like many topics in nutrition, the advice is not as simple as it sounds.
Before you do a pantry or freezer overhaul, keep in mind that "processed" is a very general term.
Some processed foods serve as important players in filling nutrient gaps and contribute to the availability of a safe and convenient food supply.
Others are, well, pretty much junk food.
The challenge lies in knowing which ones to include in your diet and which processed foods pose a problem.
Processed Foods 101 Processed foods include any food that has been deliberately changed before we consume it.
"I think it is important that people understand, anytime you alter the food from its natural state, that is actually considered 'processed,' " said Kristi L. King, a senior registered dietitian at Texas Children's Hospital and a national spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
According to the International Food Information Council, processing can be as simple as freezing or drying food to preserve nutrients and freshness, or as complex as formulating a frozen meal with the optimal balance of nutrients and ingredients.
Minimally processed foods retain most of their inherent nutritional and physical properties.
Examples of these include washed and cut fruits and vegetables, bagged salads and roasted nuts.
Those, along with foods processed to help preserve and enhance nutrients and freshness of foods at their peak -- canned tuna, beans and tomatoes, as well as frozen fruits and vegetables -- are healthful and offer important nutrients.
Other processed foods include sauces and dressings, as well as ready-to-eat breakfast cereal, crackers, nut butters, yogurt and milk fortified with calcium and vitamin D. It's the more heavily processed foods, snacks and meals high in added sugars, sodium and unhealthy fats that are the "problem" processed foods, as consuming too many of them can lead to health problems.
Also known as "ultra-processed" foods, they are formulations of salt, sugar, oils and fats, as well as flavors, colors and other additives.
"The problem with highly processed foods is, they are usually loaded with sodium for shelf stabilization, sugar for taste or added fats, including saturated and trans fats, for mouth feel," King said.
Research has linked all of these ingredients to chronic health problems, including obesity, heart disease, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and some types of cancer, according to King.
"The cookies, chips, snack cakes that we all know and think of as 'processed foods' would be ones that are not so healthy for us, as well as sugar-sweetened beverages and highly processed meats such as sausage," she said.
How to cut back on highly processed foods According to experts, the key to an overall healthy diet is to limit your intake of "ultra-processed" foods, which make up about 60% of our calories and contribute 90% of calories from added sugars, while choosing healthier, unprocessed and minimally processed foods that offer a variety of nutrients.
And there are some relatively painless ways to do it.
1.
Start slowly.
"If you eat a significant amount of highly processed foods, try taking small steps toward a less processed diet," said Jackie Newgent, a registered dietitian, culinary nutritionist and author of "The All-Natural Diabetes Cookbook."
"There's no need to go cold turkey today -- and often, if you slowly ease into a less-processed eating plan, your likelihood of continuing your wholesome new habits increases."
2.
Supplement your meals with fresh foods.
Try adding a banana or apple at breakfast or as a snack, or a vegetable at lunch.
"Ultimately, half of your plate at lunch and dinner should be fruits and vegetables," King said.
"Simply adding a freshly prepared salad to an otherwise not-so-fresh meal makes it better for your body ... and more enjoyable," Newgent said.
3.
Fewer sugar-sweetened beverages, more water.
If you get tired of water, King recommends carbonated water or adding fruit to water for flavor.
4.
Stop adding salt to foods.
"If you need an extra flavor boost, add garlic or pepper instead," King said.
5.
Choose whole grains over processed grains.
"Go with brown rice in place of white rice, whole-wheat pasta instead of 'white' pasta and whole-grain bread instead of 'white' bread.
These swaps are nuttier-tasting and more filling, too," Newgent said.
6.
Limit or avoid processed meats.
Meats such as bacon, ham, hot dogs and sausage have been Meats such as bacon, ham, hot dogs and sausage have been linked to increased risk of colorectal cancer 7.
Plan ahead.
"If you find that you are reaching for the highly processed foods because they are convenient and you are in a hurry to get to your meeting or your kid to soccer practice, try planning out snacks on the weekend for the weekdays," King said.
Set aside portions of trail mix, carrots and celery with hummus, Greek yogurts, and fruit with natural nut butters so they are ready to grab and go.
8.
Use substitutes for highly processed snacks and foods.
Instead of potato chips, try nonfat popcorn, which is whole grain and a good source of fiber and still gives the crunch you're looking for.
"You can add a dash of chili powder or Parmesan cheese for flavor," King said.
You can also replace sugar-sweetened cereal with unsweetened oatmeal and add fruit for flavor.
9.
Make your own versions of traditionally processed foods.
Consider homemade kale chips, granola and even salad dressings.
"Instead of bottled salad dressing that may contain preservatives your body doesn't need, whip up your own," Newgent said.
"Simply whisk together three tablespoons of olive oil and one tablespoon vinegar of choice for an easy two-ingredient vinaigrette.
Or add that oil and vinegar to a blender with a small handful of berries for a lovely fruity salad dressing."
10.
Make healthier versions of frozen meals.
"Try batch cooking on the weekend or a weeknight when you have time," King said.
Consider a homemade mac and cheese with whole-wheat pasta and veggies or turkey burger patties with sauted vegetables.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
11.
Don't be fooled by the advertising.
If you see fat- or sugar-modified food, such as fat-free mayo or sugar-free yogurt, be wary.
"These foods may have artificial ingredients -- such as the artificial colors yellow No.
6 or red No.
40 -- or other chemical additives, such as the artificial sweetener acesulfame potassium, making them more processed and potentially less healthful for you," Newgent said.
"Read the ingredient list on packaged foods, and look for a list that reads more like a recipe rather than a pseudo-science experiment," she added.
(CNN) Offending and being offended have become Halloween traditions as obvious and predictable as jack-o-lanterns rotting on the front porch.
It seems, however, that the yearly agitations over blackface, sombreros and topical shock get-ups carry more weight now.
We're in a time when hate has a prominent spot on the national stage.
But it's also a time when we're discussing complex issues of race and privilege more nimbly and more widely than ever before.
In this climate, Halloween costumes have become a litmus test of sorts.
From the blatant bigotry of blackface to the more nuanced ills of cultural appropriation, colleges and social organizations are seeking to establish guidelines regarding what and why certain portrayals offend.
And as they do, they're butting heads with those who decry what feels, to them, like restrictive -- if not dangerous -- oversensitivity.
Why it's nuanced Blackface, of course, is the most verboten and overtly offensive of costume choices.
Below that, a whole array of potentially bad ideas unfold, from the obvious (terrorist costumes and Native American headdresses, to name just two) to the more oblique.
For instance, a recent article on Good Housekeeping points out an "Adult Granny Costume" for men.
This, and other men-dressed-as-women gags, the article says, could be seen as transphobic.
(The costume was removed from Walmart's website.)
An "Adult Granny" costume from Spirit Halloween Other ideas that could be considered offensive include costumes depicting sexual harassment, mental illness or animal abuse.
Then there's the concept of cultural appropriation versus appreciation.
There is a difference between caricatures of pale-faced geishas and sacred Native American headdresses at college house parties and, say, eating another culture's food or learning another culture's language.
How do you distinguish between the two?
In March, Kimberly Griffin, an education professor at the University of Maryland at College Park told Inside Higher Ed that students of color may feel more sensitive to or threatened by appropriations of culture as the climate of hate and social justice changes around them.
"While they have long experienced marginalization, Latino, black and Native American students are living in campus communities that are perhaps more openly hostile than they once were," she said.
"They are also managing and navigating political rhetoric and policies that are often at best marginalizing, and at worst, racist."
How it can get overblown Earlier this month, "Riverdale" actress Lili Reinhart was criticized when she posted a photo of a young white woman painted head-to-toe in black, with demon-like details.
A Twitter user defends actress Lili Reinhart's costume idea.
Angry social media users said it was an example of blackface.
Reinhart apologized.
But there was also overlapping anger that what was clearly a supernatural look was being lumped in with blackface.
Several commenters claimed blackface is a direct representation of black people, and doesn't include every single conceivable use of dark makeup on the face.
"Dressing up as a demon - not racist," one Twitter user wrote .
"Comparing a demon to black people = racist."
Even those who are sensitive to cultural appropriation can find some outrage goes a little too far.
Some corners of the internet lit up this year when a Halloween costume sites appeared to offer an "Anne Frank" costume.
Various listings also described it as a "World War II costume" or a "World War II Evacuee Girl."
An "Anne Frank" costume sold by several online retail hubs.
After substantial online outrage, a spokesman for the costume retailer Fun Costumes apologized.
In a deleted tweet , it said the company sells the costumes not just for Halloween, but also for school projects and plays.
Since there is no universally accepted guidelines for what is and is not cultural appropriation, sometimes good-natured depictions can run afoul of its more stringent enforcers.
For the last two years, the wholesome Disney Princess "Moana" has been a popular Halloween costume for young girls.
However, some parents have publicly spoken out this year, saying because the character is Polynesian, having non-Polynesian children wear the costume would amount to cultural appropriation.
Why the intent matters Being faced with more complex rubrics of social acceptability has left some people wondering -- good naturedly or otherwise -- where the line between freedom of expression and personal responsibility is, and whether there is one at all.
In 2015, a lecturer at Yale publicly criticized a campus-wide email warning about Halloween costumes.
She said the university's guidelines exerted an "implied control" over students.
"I wonder, and I am not trying to be provocative: Is there no room anymore for a child or young person to be a little bit obnoxious, a little bit inappropriate or provocative or, yes, offensive?"
Her words caused such ire, hundreds of students protested and called for her removal.
She eventually resigned , but reflected on the incident a year later in the Washington Post.
"I had hoped to generate a reflective conversation among students," she wrote.
"What happens when one person's offense is another person's pride?
Should a costume-wearer's intent or context matter?
Can we always tell the difference between a mocking costume and one that satirizes ignorance?"
JUST WATCHED Is this Halloween costume offensive?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Is this Halloween costume offensive?
01:38 Not all critics of costume policing are so academic.
For some, wearing offensive costumes is an act of gleeful rebellion, an inversion of Hanlon's razor driven chiefly by malice and intended to provoke.
This year's tasteless costume du jour is "The Wall."
It's a play on President Trump's proposed Mexican border wall.
A "Wall" costume sold by Party City According to the various voices in the great Halloween costume debate, such an outfit could be read as unforgivable racism, trolling, a defensible exercise of free speech or a flight of youthful satire.
Why we need guidelines The University of Texas in Austin publishes a series of suggestions and guidelines regarding costumes and theme parties .
The document has existed for several years and isn't just for Halloween.
But last year, it became a favorite target of critics who mocked its broad scope.
The guide, which was slightly updated this year, lists potentially harmful costumes and themes like stereotypes of Asian and indigenous cultures, "ghetto fabulous," "chicks and hicks" and "Pimps & Hoes."
It also includes questions for theme party planning like, "Is the theme or costume referring to a living culture or people?"
Angry commenters said such suggestions "ruin" Halloween and threaten free speech.
JUST WATCHED Campaign on offensive Halloween costumes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Campaign on offensive Halloween costumes 00:59 Fox Business covered the guidelines during a "Risk & Reward" segment this month.
"Every piece of literature I've seen from these colleges highlight the impact that these damaging costumes could have," said guest Allie Stuckey.
"And my question is what?
What tangible impact are these costumes having?"
Sara Kennedy, the manager of Strategic and Executive Communications at the school, told CNN the idea of the guide is not to restrict or scold, but to get students thinking about the value and impact of their choices.
"After something happens, students can find out why [insensitive costumes] are a bad idea," she said.
"While there is a lot of learning in that moment, part of our goal is helping students avoid that confrontation, and maybe learn some of those lessons without causing hurt to others or themselves."
How they're ignored anyway Despite the widespread warnings and the accompanying eye rolls from social justice critics, there's a steady stream of students being called out for their offensive attire.
Last year, the Sigma Tau Gamma fraternity sent out an email to all chapters before the Halloween season.
"Please, brothers, be attentive of what you wear this Halloween season," it read.
"What might be harmless to you, might be extremely offensive and hurtful to others."
Just days later, a white student at the University of Central Arkansas was photographed in what appeared to be a Bill Cosby sweater, in full blackface.
He was suspended, as was the fraternity's chapter of the school.
Earlier that October, two students at Allbright College in Pennsylvania were suspended for an online video of one student mocking the Black Lives Matter movement while wearing blackface.
The college's president called the stunt a "hurtful, offensive act."
Mercifully, as the Halloween season ends, this year's offensive costumes will be filed away with past years' -- next to ebola doctors and Caitlyn Jenners and other homemade bad ideas too awful to mention.
Next year, it'll be joined by others, and so on and so forth, until there's either no more hatred or no more Halloween.
It's safe to bet on the latter.
(CNN) Dr. Michael Eisenberg , an assistant professor of urology, sees a lot of patients at the Stanford University Medical Center who have problems performing in the bedroom.
To determine what the problem is, they'll go through a laundry list of regular activities.
Often, patients will ask whether they need to smoke less marijuana.
There isn't a lot of research on the topic.
However, with marijuana becoming legal in a growing number of states, Eisenberg thought it'd be worth exploring.
What he found surprised him.
"Usually, people assume the more frequently you smoke, the worse it could be when it came to sex, but in fact, we learned the opposite was true," Eisenberg said.
His study was published in this week's Journal of Sexual Medicine.
in the four weeks prior to the survey and how frequently they used marijuana in the past year.
The study looked at data from the US government's National Survey of Family Growth .
It asked more than 28,000 women and nearly 23,000 men how often they had sexin the four weeks prior to the survey and how frequently they used marijuana in the past year.
Women who didn't use marijuana reported having sex six times on average during the past four weeks.
Women who used marijuana daily had sex 7.1 times on average.
The trend was similar for men.
Men who abstained from marijuana said they had sex an average of 5.6 times in the four weeks before the survey, compared with the daily marijuana users who reported having sex 6.9 times, on average.
"We were surprised to see the positive association between users," Eisenberg said.
"This was across the board: marital status, race, none of that mattered."
The study focused on heterosexual sex, and it didn't explain why there might be a connection between sex and marijuana.
Eisenberg said past research on human and rodent models has shown that marijuana use may generally increase arousal.
However, studies have also shown that too much marijuana use can decrease sperm count , and while men may want to have sex more, orgasm may be a challenge.
"It can have a different impact on different people," said Joseph Palamar , an associate professor in the Department of Population Health at New York University, who is not connected with the current study.
He thought it was a "cool epidemiological paper" that "did the best it could with the data," but it did have limitations.
"It's unclear from the data if people had marijuana in their system before or during sex," Palamar said.
Someone could smoke in the morning but not have sex until the evening, when it wouldn't be in their system any more, for example.
He added he'd like to see a study that could show more of a direct effect on frequency.
Palamar authored a small study comparing the sexual experience of people who are under the influence of alcohol versus marijuana.
Studying 24 adults , his research found that people under either influence had increased feelings of self-attractiveness, but alcohol seemed to make people more social and bold and helped them make more connections with potential partners, compared with those people using marijuana.
It showed that drinkers typically have more regrets about who they slept with and are less choosey, whereas marijuana users tended to be more selective.
Because marijuana is still illegal in the majority of places, Palamar found that most people have to smoke in private, and that could lead to more opportunities to initiate intimacy, compared with people who drink, since alcohol is everywhere.
Marijuana may also have increased some people's sensitivity during the act itself, although some reported getting so "lost in their own heads," they weren't paying as much attention to their partners, and they did not enjoy sex as much.
"And if marijuana makes you paranoid, as it does with some people, it could really, pardon the pun, screw your ability to have an orgasm," Palamar said.
Some women also reported vaginal dryness when they smoked pot, and that too can limit sexual pleasure.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Both scholars hoped these studies will encourage other researchers to dive deeper into the topic.
In the meantime, Eisenberg said that if a patient asks whether his frequent marijuana use is getting in the way of his sex life, he will tell them that "it may not be the culprit."
Regular marijuana use can have other impacts on your health.
Research in adults is still limited, but what we know is that smoking can irritate your lungs, and studies have shown it can raise your heart rate, making you more vulnerable to a heart attack.
"For most people, we tell them instead to go to the gym and lose 20 pounds," Eisenberg said.
Being overweight can give men arousal problems "We always talk about anything that can be good for your heart can be good for your penis," he said.
"For a lot of guys, hearing that is an amazing motivator."
A biologic mechanism in yeast cells may explain the relationship between sugar and malignant tumors, according to a recent study published in the journal Nature Communications.
The nine-year research project may even influence personal medicine and diets for cancer patients, the authors concluded.
The study begins by looking closely at cancer cells' appetite for sugar.
Scientists understand that cancer cells support their rapid reproduction by rewiring their metabolisms to take glucose, ferment it and produce lactate.
Conversely, healthy cells continue with normal respiration, a process in which they take glucose and break it down into carbon dioxide and water.
This "switch of cancer cells from respiration to fermentation is something that was discovered by Otto Warburg, a German biochemist, about 70 or 80 years ago," said microbiologist Johan M. Thevelein, senior author of the study and a professor at KU Leuven in Belgium.
It is known as " the Warburg effect ."
Fermentation of sugar to lactic acid produces about 15 times less energy than respiration of sugar, Thevelein noted.
Yet cancer cells "grow much more rapidly than normal cells, and yeast actually grows the fastest when they ferment," he noted.
"This is weird," he said, and it raises an important question: Is the Warburg effect a symptom of cancer -- or a cause of it?
Searching for the answer, Thevelein and his colleagues experimented with yeast cells since, just like cancer cells, they are known to favor fermentation over respiration.
The researchers found an intermediate compound that is a "potent activator" of the RAS protein.
RAS is a proto-oncogene: a gene that codes for proteins that help to regulate cell growth and differentiation.
Proto-oncogenes can become oncogenes or cancer-causing genes when mutations occur.
Mutant forms of RAS proteins are present in many tumors, Thevelein said.
The new study, then, reveals "a vicious cycle," he said.
As sugar is broken down in cells, the intermediate compound activates the RAS proteins, and this in turn stimulates cell proliferation, he said.
This cycle seen in yeast cells might help explain the aggressiveness of cancer.
"Very interesting," said Dr. Jennifer Ligibel, chairwoman of the American Society of Clinical Oncology's energy balance committee .
Still, she urges caution in interpreting these findings.
"It's important to not make too many jumps into a patient message based on a study of yeast," she said.
Eating sugar or too much weight?
Even though the researchers pinpointed some similarities between yeast and human cancer cells, Ligibel explained, "it's important to recognize we're a few steps away from even human cancer cells in a test tube."
The study showed only an increased rate of cell growth triggered by glucose, she said.
Even though the team showed RAS pathways being activated, this "actually didn't result in the cells replicating more quickly," she said.
Still, the data are "incredible," said Ligibel, who is also an associate professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School.
"This is really one of the first studies that's provided a biologic mechanism that could explain a relationship between glucose itself and cancer progression.
"When we think about the relationship between sugar and cancer -- when we think about what drives the level of sugar in someone's body -- it's primarily related to their weight," Ligibel said.
When people are heavier, their bodies manage sugar differently than those of people who are lighter.
This sugar management is what leads to type 2 diabetes, a disease in which blood sugar is high and levels of insulin, the hormone the body uses to manage blood sugar, begins to rise because the body becomes resistant to its effects.
"We've known for a while that having a higher blood sugar and having a higher level of insulin in your system are both linked to the risk of developing cancer," Ligibel said.
At the same time, studies that have tried to look at how eating sugar might be linked to cancer risk "have been much less consistent," she said.
One large study of older US adults, for instance, did not find a relationship between the amount of sugar people ate and the risk of developing cancer.
Conversely, she noted, other studies show that people diagnosed with colon cancer who ate a higher proportion of their total calories in sugar had a higher risk of cancer recurrence -- but only for people who were already overweight and obese.
Once again, how the body manages sugar -- and not the sweetener itself -- may be key.
Studies in breast cancer patients have compared low-carbohydrate diets to low-fat diets and found that the amount of weight people lost, not the diet itself, was important, Ligibel said.
If it led to weight loss, either diet brought an identical lowering of sugar in the blood stream and an identical lowering of insulin.
"Whether you achieved that through one diet versus another didn't seem to be as important as the amount of weight you lost if you were overweight or obese," she said.
Translated into practical advice for cancer patients: "If you have someone who is obese or overweight, helping them to lose weight is going to be an important thing.
We know that from a lot of different lines of study.
"I think that sugar definitely contributes to weight gain.
I think that sugar doesn't have a lot of nutritional value," Ligibel said.
Still, cancer patients need to focus on maintaining a healthy weight by balancing exercise and the food they eat.
Sugar can cause obesity which leads to cancer Asked whether he believes that eating more sugar leads to more cancer, Thevelein immediately answered, "No!
definitely not."
He and his co-authors do not state that in the paper; instead, they explain how normal, healthy cells can handle sugar in a controlled way.
"On the other hand, we all know that when you eat a lot of sugar, you have a tendency -- that has been clearly shown -- to become more obese," Thevelein said.
"And obesity is linked to a higher risk of cancer."
Though it's "too early to say," Thevelein said that when you eat too much sugar over a long time, "maybe this can also lead in some way to dysregulation of the RAS protein in the normal cells," and possibly it is this "dysregulation" that triggers RAS genes into becoming mutants.
"It's better not to eat too much sugar so that you don't become obese," he said.
"And if at the same time, you also decrease your risk of cancer, the better -- but this is something we cannot make a statement about at this moment."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
If anything, he would suggest that cancer patients eat less simple sugars and more complex sugars, such as those found in starch and whole grains.
Complex sugars are released more slowly and are taken up by the body more slowly, and this might be helpful to cancer patients.
"That would be our message," Thevelein said: "Try to look for alternative ways of providing sugar and energy to cancer patients rather than rapidly metabolized simple sugars."
Atlanta (CNN) We hear about those who've kicked addictions, inspiring hope.
We shake our heads in sadness and despair when we learn about those who've lost the battle and instead found early graves.
Our hearts ache when surviving family members and friends share their pain in hopes of saving others.
But what about those who are deep in with no expectation of seeing their way out?
Offering a rarely heard perspective, two heroin addicts in Atlanta opened up to CNN recently to tell their stories straight.
They want their stark realities to serve as warnings.
'Not what you want to do' Heroin was a birthday present given to her, when she turned 14, by a close relative.
Today, for this onetime teen beauty pageant competitor, it's her $200-a-day habit.
At 46, Allie says she looks two decades older.
She's weathered, too thin; her teeth are gone.
The black tights she wears bear images of skulls and crossbones.
On a bookshelf near where she sits in her dingy room, there is a Bible.
She spends her days getting high but also buying the drug and selling it to others for a profit.
"It's so easy to get," she says.
"I get a gram for $60 and sell it for $110."
Her regulars include waiters and waitresses, engineers, an anesthesiologist and a pilot: "Normal people," she says, "functioning addicts, which is more dangerous because nobody has any idea."
They come by most mornings and often on their way home to their spouses and children.
Her eyes well up when she thinks about how young she was when she entered this hell, and the tears fall when she talks about the young people she sells to, whom she'd rather scare off.
People like the "girl with everything going for her": a penthouse apartment, a new car, access to schools and supportive parents.
She hates that she even knows her.
"Believe it or not, I tell them, 'Honey, this is not what you want to do,' " she says.
"It's the end of the line.
This is skid row.
...
This shit will kill you."
She warns girls and young women that the power of heroin will drive them to sleep with men they never would have imagined even talking to.
And guys, even those who openly "gay bash," she says, will give men oral sex for fixes -- because that's how this world works.
Allie had kids of her own but walked away for this life.
The last time she saw them, they were 13 and 11.
That was half their lifetimes ago.
Parents need to wake up, especially if their children are behaving differently or blowing through money, she says.
They need to look into their children's eyes.
If the pupils are constricted and exceedingly small, "unless they're looking right into a ... spotlight, your kid is on heroin or some type of opioid."
Once upon a time, she glorified this lifestyle.
She capitalized on being cute and felt powerful with her pockets full of cash.
Today, she's no better than most junkies who wake up covered in their own vomit or not knowing what -- or whom -- they've done.
"This is not a road you want to go down," she says, as she continues to cry.
"It's evil.
Nothing good can come of this."
But then she pushes the needle into a vein in the back of her hand.
As the heroin takes hold, she scratches her head and neck.
She begins to slur her words as she explains how her body tingles and her heart beats out of her chest.
"I may have done a little too much," she mumbles as her eyes grow heavy, her head nods forward and her limbs go temporarily limp.
'Chasing something that ain't real' He sleeps in a graveyard at night and shoots up in a crypt.
It's not that he wants to die, but If the heroin happens to kill him, he says, "I'm right where I'm supposed to be."
Johnny, also 46, started using heroin at 15 because his heroes in the music world did.
He played guitar and went on to rehearse and sing with a band right down the street from where he now sits on a tombstone.
He says he was married to a stripper, and his life was "heaven," an existence steeped in "sex, drugs and rock 'n roll."
Now, the drug owns him.
"When I do a shot of heroin, it's almost like being back in my mama's womb," he says.
"I feel safe.
I'm warm.
I don't have to worry about anything.
Nobody's going to hurt me."
That's how he feels, he says, even though he knows it's not true.
Even though he says he's dashed his hopes and dreams "chasing something that ain't real."
His body sways, and his words come out sluggish, signs of his current high, as he talks about those new to the heroin itch.
He watches kids who glamorize this drug like he once did and wishes he could stop them.
He suggests they go home but knows some don't have good homes to go to.
He wonders if, in heroin, they've found a place where they can belong.
Johnny sees them as they wait for the same dealer.
He once sat beside one who shot up and then died.
He thinks about the redhead who reminds him of his own daughter -- "so clean and pure," he says -- and what she's become.
"Now, she's a heroin addict, and I'm slowly watching this girl turn into a junkie," he says.
"I just want to whisper in her ear and tell her to run."
It's the loneliness that really gets to him, he says, that feeling that you have nothing.
"There's always that one person that always has hope in you, and when that last person gives up on you," he says, before trailing off.
"I don't think that person realizes how that little bit of hope they had for you helps keep you alive."
Pain pills were, still are, the entry point for many, he says.
Those who've had surgeries, suffer from severe back pain or have been injured in an accident, once the prescriptions that hook them run out and doctors refuse to refill them, they turn to what's cheaper: heroin.
He's seen it happen time and again and says he's buried five friends since last year.
Along the way, he's tasted what it's like to witness someone full of promise lose it all to drugs.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"I've always been the one everybody's watched deteriorate.
I finally got to see somebody close to me kind of deteriorate," he says.
"It's scary watching somebody turn into something and then not be able to stop it."
For anyone thinking about trying heroin, he'd like to be an example, a wise teacher who's learned from experience.
"I don't have to lecture them," he says.
"I just point to myself."
He wants them to look at him and see what they never want to be.
Journalist Sally Holst contributed to this report.
Watch "New Day" and "CNN Newsroom" each Friday to see inspiring stories of officers going above and beyond the call of duty.
Houston (CNN) As Hurricane Harvey punctuated its arrival with a seemingly never-ending deluge of rain, no one would have blamed Houston Police Officer Norbert Ramn if he chose to seek shelter.
The soft-spoken 55-year-old is battling stage 4 colon cancer, and the disease has spread to his liver and lungs.
But as parts of Louisiana and Texas began to flood from Hurricane Harvey, Ramn couldn't stand the idea of not doing his job.
Do you know an officer who has gone above and beyond what the job requires?
E-mail us at BeyondtheCallofDuty@cnn.com.
"Our oath is to go out and protect and serve other people," Ramn said.
"You're always concerned about other people.
You don't dwell on yourself."
He's an officer first Ramn, after all, is not a man who gives up.
When all the rain was making it impossible to find a way to his station downtown, he "(got) up on the curb just to make the turnaround and get back on the freeway," he recalled.
He then drove to the one station he knew he could still reach: Lake Patrol, right on Lake Houston.
Ramn, who is in his 24th year on the force, contacted his sergeant and told him that's where he would be helping out.
For the month of August, Ramn had been on desk duty.
While enduring chemotherapy every two weeks, he needed a break from the blistering Texas heat.
But now it was the start of September and he was itching to get back outside.
"(I'd) rather be out in the street," Ramn explained.
"I enjoy being out there."
"Out there," in this case, meant out in the water.
The officers took the boats normally used to patrol the lake and put them in the floodwaters above the now sunken streets.
On the boats, they had to navigate around trees and cars that sat below the water's surface as they made their way to residents in need of rescue.
"Once we got there, then it was just normal work," Ramn said.
"We were just working.
We're loading people, getting them out."
The people were taken to buses that took them to shelters.
Back and forth the officers navigated the murky water to rescue people.
Amid the chaos, there were some images that Ramn won't forget.
"What sticks in my head is those children.
I mean, you'd see different emotions.
Some were, you know, scared.
Some were excited.
Some were happy," Ramn recalled, noting that there was often sadness in the adults' eyes.
"There was a lot of people walking in the water.
There were kids out there swimming."
Reason for concern But there were risks.
The water was full of bacteria, Ramn's platelet count was low and he was putting in long days.
Working in 12-hour shifts, the officers were responding to an onslaught of calls from people who needed to be rescued from their flooded homes and apartments.
Bayous snake throughout much of the Houston area.
As these waterways overflowed their banks, the water had nowhere else to go but up, swiftly surging into neighborhoods and putting residents at risk.
Houston Police Officer Norbert Ramn, pictured here with his wife, Cindy (right), sent her a picture of himself while in the midst of boat rescues so that she would know he was feeling fine.
Over three days, from sunrise to sunset, the entire unit pulled some 1,500 people to safety.
Ramn estimates he helped rescue 200 or 300 people, maybe more.
While all this was going on, Ramn's wife of 13 years, Cindy Ramn, was at home watching the water that had infiltrated their neighbors' yard creep closer to their property.
She kept track of the water and would text updates to her husband, who stayed at the police station in the midst of the flooding.
Luckily, their home was spared.
While Cindy was worried about their house, she was more concerned about her husband's health.
"I didn't know how it would affect him, but at the same token, I knew there was nothing I could say or do that was going to hold him back," Cindy said.
Houston Police Sgt.
Epi Garza, who has known Ramn for about 15 years, was one of the first to learn of his cancer diagnosis.
With Ramn now working from Lake Patrol, Garza felt somewhat responsible for him.
"I knew that I had to monitor him, see for myself," Garza said.
"At no time he showed me or the guys any types of signs that this disease was affecting his performance."
In fact, Ramn was not in any pain and he was comfortable even though he was soaking wet.
The only thing bothering him was a blistery rash across his face, a side-effect from the chemotherapy.
'He's not looking for sympathy' For boat rescues, Ramn was paired with Senior Police Officer Alvin Steelman, who had no idea Ramn is battling cancer.
When the two met, they had to get straight to work; there was no time to get to know each other.
But Steelman saw a man who was holding his own with all the other first responders.
"He's not looking for sympathy.
He just wants to be part of the team and he was," Steelman said.
"He's stepping up and just doing what's necessary to help someone else without even looking back.
No hesitation at all, and I was pretty amazed by it."
Garza believes in some ways Hurricane Harvey brought Ramn some relief.
"For three days of his life after being diagnosed, he was in a world where he didn't have to think about it," Garza said.
"He was really happy being occupied knowing that he was doing something that was amazing, which was helping people."
Officer one day, cancer patient the next Lake Patrol was in full-on rescue mode for three days, and a little bit of the fourth.
On the fifth day, Ramn quietly slipped away.
With the airports closed from Hurricane Harvey, he and his wife drove to Oklahoma so he could get chemotherapy.
"The only time it hits me, reality hits me, is when I have to leave ... and go get my chemo," Ramn said, getting emotional.
"I'm out there on the street and then I got to leave half the day to go out there and do that."
He pauses and takes a breath before continuing, "But as long as I'm with these guys, you know, they keep me up."
At 50 years old, Ramn had a colonoscopy.
"They did find some polyps and they told me to come back in three years," Ramn said.
"Came back in three years, no symptoms, just had a regular colonoscopy -- and they told me I had cancer."
Houston Police Officer Norbert Ramn was diagnosed with cancer in March 2016, and wants to use his platform to encourage other cancer patients to stay optimistic.
That diagnosis in March 2016 was devastating; the cancer was already stage 4.
Ramn immediately underwent surgery to remove part of his intestine and started chemotherapy two months later.
"There was no in between," he said, remembering how he was in the best shape of his life when he found out he was sick.
"I [had] started seeing a nutritionist.
I lost all this weight.
I was running.
I was down to like 7% body fat."
'It can be beat' While he has been told he has about five years to live, he's using his platform to encourage other cancer patients to stay optimistic.
"People have told me that they were diagnosed with just six months to live and now they're on their 19th year," Ramn said.
"So I mean, it can be beat.
You just got to figure out where to go and what to do."
For Ramn, that means spending time fishing with Cindy, talking about anything but cancer and, of course, continuing to work as a Houston police officer.
"As long as they put me on full duty and doctors say 'you can go out there,' I just want to be treated like I don't even have it," Ramn said, his voice just above a whisper.
"Just a regular officer without cancer."
"I was wearing jerseys all the time, watching sports on TV," he said.
"It was what I spent every second of my free time doing."
In college, Levitt promptly chose Sports Management as his major.
He started his first internship as the equipment manager for the college football team.
"I'll never forget walking into the equipment room," Levitt said.
"Shelves full of the nicest cleats, shoulders pads, training gear ... it was all top of the line."
Then, right before the start of the season, Levitt was told to throw out all the equipment.
The team needed to make space for the brand-new equipment arriving the following week.
"Some of this gear was barely used," Levitt said.
"I was throwing away footballs that the running back held a few times in practice."
Levitt knew there must be a better use for it.
He started thinking about the equipment that was being wasted all over the country -- not just at the college level, but among secondary schools and families.
"I had a very fortunate upbringing; I could play any sport I wanted and just go to Sports Authority and get whatever I needed," Levitt said.
"But when I got to college, I met kids who didn't have the opportunities I had.
I thought they really could have used equipment like this when they were kids."
In 2011, Levitt decided to make his college dream a reality.
He started Leveling the Playing Field, a nonprofit that he describes as a "food bank for sports equipment."
In 2013, he quit his job to run the organization full time.
Today, the group has a 4,000-square-foot warehouse in Silver Spring, Maryland, with more than $1 million worth of athletic equipment.
The majority of equipment donations come from local school teams and individuals.
The organization donates to low-income schools and nonprofits that apply for equipment.
Once a school or team is approved, they can receive free equipment in perpetuity.
"Every kid should have the opportunity to play on a team," Levitt said.
"You learn work ethic, structure, sportsmanship, perseverance.
You learn so much that will shape the person you become."
CNN's Meghan Dunn spoke with Levitt about his work.
Below is an edited version of their conversation.
CNN: Why is access to sports opportunities a challenge for some kids?
Max Levitt: There are so many barriers in the way of a low-income kid trying to play a sport.
The registration fees to join a team are incredibly high, not to mention how much money you have to spend at a sporting goods store just to come home with enough stuff to play.
We're talking about $250 to $500 for equipment that the kid is going to outgrow rather quickly.
That sometimes is the equivalent of multiple months of paying your heating bill or a week's worth of dinner for your kids.
And for families that struggle to even do that, to think about investing in baseball equipment that is going be no good within a year or two, it's not a decision.
They cannot let their kid play baseball.
CNN: Who do you donate to and what is the process to get equipment?
Levitt: We're donating it to Title 1 schools, charter schools, after-school youth programs, like a Boys and Girls Club or a YMCA.
It could be a church or a neighborhood after-school care program.
Really any organization that is trying to engage low-income kids in athletics, we want to be there as a resource to them.
One of the core values of what we do is just making it very simple and easy to work with us.
We just want them to be able to get the equipment.
They come in here, and within an hour, they leave with everything they need to start that program.
A battle they've been fighting for 10 years is solved in such a simple way.
Some people are flabbergasted by that.
CNN: What does the future look like for Leveling the Playing Field?
Levitt: When we started in my parents' basement, I remember just envisioning a warehouse with racks full of sporting equipment.
There's a lot of stuff that I envisioned and it's incredibly satisfying to see them come to reality.
Now, I'm envisioning more warehouses like this.
Hopefully, in a couple years from now we'll have a couple locations.
I don't even think we've really scratched the surface in terms of the amount of equipment we can collect.
Want to get involved?
Check out the Leveling the Playing Field website and see how to help.
To donate to Leveling the Playing Field click the CrowdRise widget below.
For some parents, understanding the pressure of social media can be difficult, and as a result, some teens may feel they cannot talk to their parents about cyberbullying, body image problems and other struggles they face in their day-to-day life.
"One of the hallmarks of adolescence is to make mistakes, part of adolescence is figuring out who you are," Dr. Logan Levkoff, an expert in parent-child communications, told ABC News.
"Sometimes you make choices that arent so great, but ... those choices are an opportunity for growth."
"The challenge with social media is that it doesn't give a young person freedom to make mistakes without being defined by them," she added, saying she believes that social media plays a "huge role" in causing anxiety for teens.
'GMA' experiment finds moms surprised by the pressures their daughters face on social media In an experiment set up by "Good Morning America," a group of 15- to 17-year-old girls candidly discussed with ABC News' Deborah Roberts the stresses they face, especially as a result of how pervasive social media is in their lives.
ABC News Unbeknownst to them, their mothers sat behind a glass mirror to listen and learn about their daughters' struggles.
Approximately 79 percent of parents said that their teens use social media, according to a 2017 report from the American Psychological Association.
Additionally, 69 percent of the parents of teen girls reported that they worried about the influence of social media on their child's health, compared to only 39 percent of parents of teen boys.
A majority of the teens in the "GMA" experiment said they felt stress was a big problem in their lives.
Most of the girls, who wished to only be identified by their first names, also said that social media was also a big part of their lives.
The group answered a collective "no" when asked if they ever went a day without being worried about their online profile.
"Every girl thinks she has to be better than another girl and it shouldnt be like that," said 15-year-old Cayla Kumar.
Another, Booch O'Connell, 16, added, "Theres just constant pressure, I guess, with everyone and social media."
Anyaa Adams, 17, said she felt like social media causes her to question herself, saying, "Sometimes theyll say, like, 'Your stomach area is fat,' Im like, 'Wait, is it?'"
ABC News Cayla also said she questioned her own body as a result of social media, saying, "a lot of my friends think I'm anorexic."
"I have a high metabolism, they just don't understand," she added.
"Sometimes it can hurt, but you've got to grow tough skin."
Alexus Analyz, 16, added that she feels she is criticized for almost everything on social media.
"I choose not to pay attention to it," she said.
"They can talk about things that you post, things that you wear, things that you say."
Booch said that during her first year of high school, the criticism directed toward her that started online affected her even offline.
"Cyberbullying translates to real life," she said.
"And you have people taunting you while youre right there."
Anyaa Adams, 17, added that it can be hard to simply brush off the criticism that you face on social media.
"Its like, 'Wait, I think I look great,' so then its, 'Who cares what they say?'
but then its like ... 'Somebody just said that to me ... are you kidding me?'"
she said.
Destiny Mateo, 15, added, "I dont hate my body, but I do feel like there's room for improvement all the time."
ABC News The teen girls also said that they also feel pressure from social media when it comes to relationships.
Some of the girls said they feel pressure to hook up or to have a boyfriend because of social media, to the shock of their mothers in the next room.
"I think it's like girls always make it a competition, and I think it's a bad thing, that goes around everywhere," Cayla said.
Cayla went on to say that she felt like she could not talk to her mother about some of her struggles with social media, saying, "When I try to explain situations to her she doesn't quite understand it from my perspective because things have changed so much."
The mothers, who eventually entered the room and surprised their daughters, said that they were shocked to hear some of their thoughts.
"What really surprised me in this group is ... these girls are gorgeous," one mother said.
"[But] they are full of anxiety."
Another mom added that "the struggles the kids are going through now" are "so different."
How parents can talk to their teen about social media and anxiety "The part that parents miss is they think that social media is stressful just when you use it, but it's even stressful when youre not on," Levkoff said.
"Because youre wondering, what are people thinking of my posts?
Are they liking my photos?
Am I missing out on something?"
Levkoff said one of the most important things that parents can do if they are concerned that their teen may be struggling with anxiety, is to "trust your gut."
She added that if your teen is "avoiding social activity," or taking a step back from activities they once enjoyed, "that might be a sign that something is going on."
If you do suspect your teen is struggling with anxiety, Levkoff recommends asking questions "that are meant to illicit a more thoughtful answer" than simply "yes" or "no."
"If parents suspect that something is going on, I think asking questions about friendships, I think asking to see phones and social media usage of your children and their friends is absolutely within a parents range of authority," she added.
Levkoff said that she also believes parents should restrict screen time if they are concerned about their child's social media use.
Parents should also set clear rules when it comes to technology, Levkoff added, saying she gave her son a "contract with 17 points of all our expectations of technology."
"Young people, we think that they are really savvy and intuitive, and they would know what not to do with technology, but the reality is that they don't know what to do, so sometimes we have to be explicit in our expectations and rules," she added.
"As parents we want kids to love us ... we want them to be our friends, and often times as they get older we have a really hard time putting restrictions on things," she said.
Finally, Levkoff recommends for parents to emphasize to young people the gap between social media and reality, especially for teens who may feel pressured by what they see online.
"One thing we have to make sure our kids know is that people curate their lives online," she added.
"None of it represents the holistic reality of our lives."
"So the decisions we make about our bodies or relationships or sex, if we make them about what we're seeing, well we're not really seeing the whole picture," she added.
The Latest on an ill death row inmate fighting his November execution (all times local): 1:05 p.m. A doctor working for Ohio's prison system says it would be reasonable to allow a condemned killer with health problems to partially sit up during his execution next month.
Dr. James McWeeney said death row inmate Alva Campbell became agitated when officials tried lowering him to a normal execution position in a test.
McWeeney also said a nurse's exam failed to find veins suitable for inserting an IV on either of Campbell's arms.
Campbell is scheduled to die Nov. 15 for fatally shooting teenager Charles Dials during a 1997 carjacking.
The 69-year-old Campbell has cited his poor health and tough upbringing in an attempt to avoid execution.
The Ohio Parole Board has rejected Campbell's request for mercy.
12:15 a.m. A doctor working for Ohio's prison system says it would be reasonable to allow a condemned killer with health problems to partially sit up during his execution next month.
Dr. James McWeeney said death row inmate Alva Campbell became agitated when officials tried lowering him to a normal execution position in a test.
McWeeney also said he couldn't find veins suitable for inserting an IV on either of Campbell's arms.
Campbell is scheduled to die Nov. 15 for fatally shooting teenager Charles Dials during a 1997 carjacking.
The 69-year-old Campbell has cited his poor health and tough upbringing in an attempt to avoid execution.
The Ohio Parole Board has rejected Campbell's request for mercy.
President Donald Trump's re-election committee is lashing out at Democrats in a new TV ad that incorrectly blames his critics in the opposing party for blocking fixes to the nation's health care system.
The ad, which was set to broadcast on cable stations nationwide on Tuesday, seizes on "skyrocketing" insurance premiums "all while Democrats in Washington, D.C., block a better plan to repeal and replace Obamacare once and for all obstructing our president just to score political points with the radical left."
The ad comes as the Trump White House and GOP leaders in Congress struggle to revive efforts to repeal and replace Barack Obama's health care law.
Despite the ad's claims, however, the Republican Party's health care problems are largely of its own making.
The president's party, which controls the House and the Senate, had a chance to pass a new health care law without a single Democratic vote in the summer.
Recent health care plans backed by the White House stalled chiefly because Republicans like Maine Sen. Susan Collins and Arizona Sen. John McCain opposed the specific fixes.
The ad excludes Republican critics altogether, even though Trump and his allies have attacked them publicly in recent weeks.
The TV spot features grainy images of Democrats such as Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Florida Rep. Frederica Wilson, the cowboy hat-wearing Democrat who recently clashed with Trump over his comments to the widow of a fallen soldier.
"President Trump will fix it," the narrator says of health care.
The Congressional Budget Office has determined that the White House-backed legislation would cause millions of Americans to lose health care coverage in the coming years, while eliminating popular protections in some cases for those with pre-existing health conditions.
At the same time, the ad omits significant information about insurance premiums.
Insurance premiums associated with the federal health care law are indeed rising.
The consulting firm Avalere Health determined last week that premiums for the most popular "Obamacare" plans are going up an average of 34 percent.
But the firm found that the Trump administration's actions are contributing to the price increases by adding instability to the underlying problems of the health law's marketplaces.
Avalere said market instability is driven by Trump's recent decision to end subsidy payments to insurers, the continued debate over repeal and replace, and a presidential executive order that could open a path for lower cost plans outside of the Obama-era law.
Find AP Fact Checks at https://apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck EDITOR'S NOTE _ A look at the veracity of claims by political figures
U.S. regulators want to remove a health claim about the heart benefits of soy from cartons of soy milk, tofu and other foods, saying the latest scientific evidence no longer shows a clear connection.
Monday's announcement by the Food and Drug Administration marks the first time the agency has moved to revoke a health food claim since it began approving such statements in 1990.
The claim that soy protein can reduce heart disease appears on about 200 to 300 products in the U.S., according to industry figures, including popular brands like Silk soy milk.
Calls to WhiteWave Foods Company, which markets Silk brand soy products, were not immediately returned Monday.
The FDA first approved the language about the benefits in 1999 based on studies suggesting soy protein lowered a type of heart-damaging cholesterol in the bloodstream.
But some later studies have failed to show a clear link.
One 2005 study by the U.S. government's Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality found that soy products had little effect on bad cholesterol.
The FDA began reevaluating the food claim in 2007 and said Monday "the totality of the evidence is inconsistent and not conclusive."
The agency will take comments on its proposal for 75 days before moving ahead.
If the language is removed, companies may still be able to use a less definitive statement about soy's benefits by including a disclaimer or description of the mixed evidence.
Consumer advocates backed the proposal, arguing that earlier research misinterpreted soy's effect on cholesterol.
Bonnie Liebman, a nutrition scientist at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, explained that a person might benefit by replacing red meat with soy, but the benefit would be from the reduction in red meat, not because of anything special in the soy protein.
The FDA estimates it will cost companies between $370,000 and $860,000 in upfront costs to re-label their products, according to a federal filing posted online.
An industry group for soy manufacturers disputed the FDA's decision and pointed to 12 other countries, including Canada, that have approved health labeling claims making the link between soy protein and heart benefits.
The group, Soyfoods Association of North America, said it would make its case to the FDA during the comment period.
Allowing a condemned killer with health problems to partially sit up during his execution next month would be a "reasonable" accommodation, according to a doctor working for Ohio's prison system.
Death row inmate Alva Campbell became mildly agitated when officials tried lowering him to a normal execution position in an Oct. 19 test, according to a medical review by Dr. James McWeeney, a contractor for the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction.
McWeeney noted there were no objective findings such as increased pulse rate or breathing to corroborate Campbell's anxiety.
"Nevertheless, given the events observed at this examination and the patient's underlying pulmonary and mental health disorders, it would be reasonable to make an accommodation for the patient during the execution process that would permit him to lay in a semi-recumbent position," the doctor wrote.
McWeeney also said a prison nurse's exam failed to find veins suitable for inserting an IV on either of Campbell's arms.
In 2009, problems placing an IV in the arms of death row inmate Romell Broom led to the cancellation of the execution after almost two hours and 18 needle sticks.
Broom remains on death row, arguing in court the state shouldn't be allowed a second attempt to execute him.
Campbell is scheduled to die Nov. 15 for fatally shooting teenager Charles Dials during a 1997 carjacking.
Campbell, 69, has severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder as the result of a decades-long two-pack-a-day smoking habit that finally stopped nine years ago, the doctor said.
Campbell's attorneys also say he uses a walker, relies on an external colostomy bag, requires four breathing treatments a day and may have lung cancer.
Campbell's health problems "could create a spectacle of a terminally ill man, with tourniquets on his arms and legs, being stabbed repeatedly to no avail," defense attorney David Stebbins said Monday.
The Department of Rehabilitation and Correction said it "has taken Campbell's medical conditions under consideration for planning of possible accommodations for his execution."
Campbell was regularly beaten, sexually abused and tortured as a child, Stebbins and other attorneys argued in court filings and before the Ohio Parole Board.
The board rejected Campbell's request for mercy earlier this month.
Republican Gov.
John Kasich, who has spared some inmates while rejecting clemency for others, has the final say.
Prosecutors say Campbell's health claims are ironic given he faked paralysis to escape court custody the day he killed Dials.
Campbell was paroled in 1992 after serving 20 years for killing a man in a Cleveland bar.
On April 2, 1997, Campbell was in a wheelchair when he overpowered a Franklin County sheriff's deputy on the way to a court hearing on several armed robbery charges, records show.
Campbell took the deputy's gun, carjacked the 18-year-old Dials and drove around with him for several hours before shooting him twice in the head as Dials crouched in the footwell of his own truck, according to court records.
Franklin County prosecutor Ron O'Brien calls Campbell "the poster child for the death penalty."
Andrew Welsh-Huggins can be reached on Twitter at https://twitter.com/awhcolumbus.
This story has been corrected to say that a prison nurse, not doctor, found veins suitable for IV insertion.
As she pressed down on the plunger of an empty syringe, a drop of blood oozed from the crooked tip of its needle a test, Denise Brown said, that she uses on unpackaged syringes she now buys on the street.
She got in the routine after a program that allowed people who use heroin to get sterile injection equipment was shuttered more than a year ago.
The closure of the needle exchange in Camden, a struggling New Jersey city across the Delaware River from Philadelphia, and a place where drugs are dealt openly on streets lined with abandoned storefronts and homes, has left many people there without a resource intended to stop the spread of blood-borne illnesses.
"They say they're doing this to keep us safe, keep us clean.
Then they take it away," Brown, 41, said of the exchange program that she frequented for years during her nearly two decades of heroin addiction.
"What does that say?"
And even with President Donald Trump declaring a public health emergency amid the national opioid crisis and Republican Gov.
Chris Christie making addiction services a priority in his final year in office, the ending of the Camden program makes clear the tenuous position in which some of these services operate.
The city of about 74,000 needs to approve a permanent location for the health services van that once distributed the needles, but that decision has been held up in the office of outgoing Democratic Mayor Dana Redd, according to Martha Chavis, executive director of the Camden Area Health Education Center, which operated the program.
"I don't get it," said Chavis, noting positive dealings with the city from when the exchange started about a decade ago until private development forced them to shut down, although the van is still used to provide HIV tests, water and condoms.
"I'm just trying to get an answer," Chavis said, calling Redd's office the "roadblock" to why the program hasn't given out a syringe since August 2016 and recently had to forfeit nearly $93,000 in state grant funding.
She said her team began trying to find a replacement location in 2015 after announcements that a campus for the energy company Holtec International would be built along the Delaware River in Camden.
Holtec official Ed Mayer said it was unsafe to have the van on the property.
Vincent F. Basara, a spokesman for Redd, said officials haven't agreed on a new place "that does not negatively impact our Camden residents or the quality of life in the surrounding area."
For people who used to get sterile syringes from Chavis' organization, it doesn't make sense that a city with so many vacant properties and fatal heroin overdoses health officials linked 115 deaths in Camden County to heroin in 2015, the highest in the state is struggling to find a permanent space for the program.
"Put your child in our place," said Joanna Greene, 31, who said she starting using heroin in 2008.
"We're sick.
So who cares if we get sicker?
Because you don't even have a legitimate reason on why you took the needle exchange away."
Nationally, the programs can be hampered by neighborhood pushback, shoestring budgets or bureaucratic hurdles, advocates said, but statistics show they are becoming more prevalent.
According to AmfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research, there are 263 syringe programs in 37 states, Puerto Rico and Washington, D.C., roughly 60 more than in 2012.
Congress approved the use of federal funds toward the programs in 2015 but stipulated that the money can't go toward buying syringes.
Twenty-six states, including New Jersey, and six select counties have been identified as experiencing or being at risk of significant increases in hepatitis infection or an HIV outbreak because of injection drug use after consulting with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a necessary step in using federal money for syringe programs.
The programs have been shown to decrease needle sharing.
The CDC said in a report released last year that only about 1 in 10 people who used exchanges shared syringes, compared with more than 40 percent who didn't use the programs.
But it's difficult to link them directly to decreased rates of blood-borne illnesses because data aren't typically collected in controlled clinical trials.
In New Jersey, Christie has committed about $200 million to programs aimed at addiction prevention in his final year in office, including $2.1 million for syringe access programs in the state.
Christie has also signed legislation that would allow any municipality to operate a syringe access program and has approved a law authorizing syringe sales in pharmacies without prescriptions.
In Camden, Brown, with splotchy scars on her neck from injections with dulled needles, wondered why officials would allow such a long time to pass without allowing the exchange to operate.
"When people are desperate, they'll pick needles up off the ground," she said, her shaky hands lighting a cigarette.
"They're worried about AIDS and hepatitis C. This is one easy way to keep it down."
A new study associates the long-term use of acetaminophen, the active ingredient in over-the-counter pain relievers like Tylenol, during pregnancy with the risk that the children born from those pregnancies could develop attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
But many in the medical community say the study, published Monday in the journal Pediatrics, should be taken in stride.
For expecting mothers with pain or fever during pregnancy, acetaminophen has long been the pain reliever of choice.
In the U.S., about 65 to 70 percent of pregnant American women say they take acetaminophen-containing products during pregnancy, according to the CDC.
Ibuprofen, the other most popular analgesic, isn't recommended in the latter months of pregnancy because of the risk it could harm the fetus.
Acetaminophen has been used widely in pregnancy, Dr. Alison Cahill, chief of Maternal-Fetal-Medicine at Washington University in St. Louis, told ABC News.
Its always important to ask what we know and what we might need to know about the safety of prescription and non-prescription medications in pregnancy.
Over-the-counter medications containing acetaminophen do not require a prescription, so theres little control over how much people take at once or how they take it.
STOCK PHOTO/Getty Images And few studies have been done about how drugs taken during pregnancy can affect babies and fetuses; doctors know it is unethical to design a study that hands medications to pregnant women and tells them to take it as part of a trial, particularly if part of what theyre asking is if that the medication could be harmful to the child.
But, research is needed.
And because of the large number of women who use acetaminophen during pregnancy, researchers in Norway decided to study the possible risks to the children, looking back at medical records, as well as information from mothers and fathers.
They analyzed a registry of 112,973 children born between 1999 and 2009, including more than 95,000 mothers and 75,000 fathers in Norway.
The registry, compiled by the Norwegian Institute of Public Health, used questionnaires given to mothers and fathers during the pregnancy period at multiple time points that asked about their medication use.
The study calculated how many of the children born from those pregnancies were diagnosed with ADHD by searching Norways national electronic medical records.
Researchers took risks factors that could also have contributed to ADHD diagnosis into account in the study.
They controlled for a number of different possibilities, symptoms of ADHD, depression in the mother, the amount of acetaminophen the mother was using before getting pregnant and the reason she gave for using acetaminophen.
The results of their analysis showed that children of pregnant mothers who used acetaminophen for 29 days total, or more, during the pregnancy were associated with a 220 percent increased risk of ADHD.
Some previous studies have also shown an association between acetaminophen use during pregnancy and ADHD.
But the results have not been consistent.
This study, like many others, had a number of issues that limited what researchers and doctors can take away about any connection between ADHD and taking acetaminophen during pregnancy.
Its very challenging to do this sort of work, said Cahill.
Its unfortunate that this study is not precise enough to draw any conclusions.
One problem is that how much acetaminophen was used relied on the parents self-reporting.
The researchers were only able to collect information on the number of days mothers believed they had taken acetaminophen-containing products in their surveys.
The study does not account for how many pills, or the total dosage, the mother took in a single day which is a very important gauge of whether the medicine was used according to directions and assumed her memory of when and how much she took was accurate.
Since providers can only diagnose ADHD through behavior, since there's no medical test for it, doctors may vary in how -- and if -- they diagnose ADHD.
The authors acknowledge that the diagnosis of ADHD was not confirmed in a laboratory, but were simply noted in electronic medical records.
Short-term use of acetaminophen in pregnancy meaning fewer than 29 total days in this study -- did not show an association with the development of ADHD.
In fact, if the mother used acetaminophen for fewer than eight days, the opposite result appeared to be true: the child had a lower risk of ADHD.
If the hypothesis is that acetaminophen causes ADHD, but at some level its protective, then it really doesnt make any biological sense, said Cahill.
If the hypothesis were true, investigators would likely have found a dose response.
And another discovery of the study, which cannot yet be explained: the fathers use of acetaminophen in the six months before the pregnancy independently increased the risk of developing ADHD by just over 200 percent.
While it is possible that acetaminophen use alters sperm, such as the authors suggest in their paper, it is also possible that a dad's use might mean that parents have their won higher risk for ADHD, may be more bothered by pain theoretically...and therefore may take more acetaminophen, Dr. Mark Wolraich, a pediatrician and chief of the Section of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics at Oklahoma University Health Sciences Center, told ABC News.
Many experts caution that it's too early to ask pregnant women to change their behavior based on the findings of this study, including OB/GYN groups.
This latest study shows no clear evidence that proves a direct relationship between the use of acetaminophen and developmental issues in children, Dr. Hal Lawrence, executive vice president of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, told ABC News.
Physicians should not change clinical practice until definitive prospective research is done and, most importantly, patients should not be frightened away from the many benefits of acetaminophen.
Cahill expresses similar concerns.
There is an old notion that it is not safe for patients to take the medications that they need during pregnancy, she said, adding that patients should work with their doctors and specialists to continue treating any medical conditions during pregnancy.
Wolraich suggests similarly that the current findings, are not strong enough to cause a major warning.
This study identifies a possible association.
From an association, you cant necessarily infer a causal relation, he said.
There may be a third factor that causes the relation to go in either direction."
Therefore, more research is needed before pregnant mothers would be advised to stop or change their usage of acetaminophen products.
Acetaminophen is generally indicated for pain or temperature, Wolraich said.
It tends not to be a medication that is essential for taking.
To my knowledge, things like low-grade fever are not harmful to the fetus, so if the medication is not essential, one could err on the side of not taking it.
Connecticut's attorney general and 45 of his colleagues are seeking to expand a federal antitrust lawsuit against generic drugmakers to include more manufacturers and medications, as well as senior executives at two companies.
Led by Connecticut, the states sought a federal court's permission Tuesday to widen their complaint, which alleges a number of illegal agreements among 18 manufacturers to fix prices and divvy up the market for specific generic drugs including treatments for high blood pressure, arthritis and asthma.
Mylan N.V., one of the drugmakers named in the suit, said it has investigated the allegations thoroughly and "found no evidence of price fixing."
Mylan also said it stands by Rajiv Malik, its president since January 2012 who was named in the expanded complaint.
Based outside of Pittsburgh, Mylan makes a range of generic and branded drugs, including the EpiPen emergency allergy injector.
Shares of the company slid 6.6 percent to close at $35.71.
The original lawsuit filed last year claimed six drugmakers artificially inflated and manipulated prices for two drugs, an antibiotic and a diabetes drug.
At the time, Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said "it was just the tip of the iceberg."
Jepsen said Tuesday the alleged collusion is "so pervasive that it essentially eliminated competition from the market" for 15 generic drugs.
Premiums for the most popular "Obamacare" plans are going up an average of 34 percent, according to a study Wednesday that confirms dire predictions about the impact of political turmoil on consumers.
Window-shopping on HealthCare.gov went live Wednesday, so across the country consumers going online can see the consequences themselves ahead of the Nov. 1 start of sign-up season for 2018.
The consulting firm Avalere Health crunched newly released government data and found that the Trump administration's actions are contributing to the price hikes by adding instability to the underlying problems of the health law's marketplaces.
President Donald Trump puts the blame squarely on "Obamacare" saying the program is imploding, while ignoring warnings that his administration's actions could make things worse.
The Avalere analysis is for the 39 states using HealthCare.gov.
Along with the increase for silver plans, premiums also are going up by double digits for different levels of coverage, including bronze (18 percent), gold (16 percent), and platinum (24 percent).
Many states had higher increases.
Avalere found that average plan silver premiums will go up by 49 percent in Florida, 43 percent in Missouri, and 65 percent in Wyoming.
Consumers eligible for income-based tax credits will be protected from rising premiums but those who pay full-cost face a second consecutive year of sharp premium increases.
Only three states will see declines Alaska, Arizona, and North Dakota.
Avalere said market instability is driven by Trump's recent decision to end subsidy payments to insurers, the continued debate over "Obamacare" repeal and replace, and a presidential executive order that could open a path for lower cost plans outside of the Obama-era law.
"You put all that together, and there are a lot of additional forces on top of market forces driving high premium increases for 2018," said Chris Sloan, a senior manager with the health industry consulting firm.
Significant increases also are expected in states that run their own health insurance websites.
Starting Nov. 1, new customers can submit applications, and returning ones can make changes to their coverage.
Open enrollment will end early, on Dec. 15, about half the time allotted under Barack Obama's administration.
Sign-up season comes after the president abruptly pulled the plug on federal payments that reimburse insurers for reduced copays and deductibles they're required to provide to people of modest means.
That exposes insurers to a potential $1 billion loss for the remainder of this year.
A federal judge in San Francisco on Wednesday denied a request by state attorney's general to order the payments immediately restored.
Administration officials say the payments were not properly approved by Congress and Trump is following the U.S. Constitution by denying them.
Bipartisan legislation to resolve the problem is pending, and the Congressional Budget Office on Wednesday said the bill would reduce federal deficits and have no major impact on coverage.
But the legislation by Sens.
Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., and Patty Murray, D-Wash. faces an uncertain future.
Trump has sent mixed signals about whether he would support it.
Restoring the funds may have little immediate impact on 2018 premiums, but the bill calls for insurers to rebate money to the government and consumers if they collect too much.
Avalere's Sloan said that consumers who receive subsidized premiums would generally be protected from premium increases.
That's not the case, however, for an estimated 7 million unsubsidized customers, most of whom buy individual plans outside the government markets.
"There is a danger that middle-class people who don't get government help in paying their premiums could be increasingly priced out of the market," said Larry Levitt of the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation.
About 10 million people currently have private health insurance through government-sponsored markets like HealthCare.gov.
More than 8 in 10 customers receive tax credits to help pay their premiums, and that aid is still available despite the political turmoil.
Unlike the Obama years, the Trump administration has set no enrollment goal for 2018.
"We are really focused on having a smooth consumer experience," said Randy Pate, director of the HHS office that oversees the program.
"That is our target for this year."
Administration officials say they have made a series of improvements to the sign-up process unheeded in the acrimonious political debate over health care.
Online - https://www.healthcare.gov/get-coverage/
U.S. regulators have approved a new treatment for people with a rare form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
The Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday granted accelerated approval to AstraZeneca PLC's Calquence for people with mantle cell lymphoma after chemotherapy or other treatments fail.
The British drugmaker is now conducting further testing required by the FDA to confirm the drug's benefits and risks.
Mantle cell lymphoma is a blood cancer that usually strikes middle-aged people and the elderly.
By the time it's diagnosed, it usually has spread to the lymph nodes, bone marrow and other organs, according to the FDA.
About 4,200 Americans are diagnosed with the cancer each year.
Median survival is about five to seven years, according to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.
But treatment has been improving in recent years with the addition of targeted drugs and stem cell therapy to chemotherapy.
"Mantle cell lymphoma is a particularly aggressive cancer," Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the FDA's oncology center of excellence, said in a statement.
Calquence, also known as acalabrutinib, works by blocking an enzyme needed by the cancer to multiply and spread.
Patients take two capsules a day.
The drug will cost about $14,260 per month without insurance, according to AstraZeneca.
The drugmaker said it will offer patients financial assistance, including copayment cards that it said will cover out-of-pocket costs for some patients.
The FDA based its approval on a company-sponsored study of 124 patients who had received at least one prior treatment.
After taking Calquence, 40 percent went into remission and another 41 percent saw their tumors shrink, the agency said.
The study did not include a comparison group, as is standard in bigger studies.
Serious side effects included bleeding, infections and irregular heartbeat, and some study participants developed a second type of cancer.
Follow Linda A. Johnson on Twitter at @LindaJonPharma.
Transcript for How to detox from your Halloween candy binge Everybody doctor Mike and they were going to be talking about how to detox from your Halloween sweet indulgences.
And how to maybe not absorb all the sugar that you're eating during Halloween.
Number one.
Before Halloween plan ahead you know you're gonna be eating a ton of garbage so people rest sleep.
That good stuff buries them but here's a life act.
Right tackler.
Be some fiber before going on your Halloween binge.
Why if you need at least ten grams of soluble fiber to Stuckey fight vegetables and beans you actually decrease in out of sugar absorbed from stuff like this.
By 25%.
That's a big number so imagine.
Don't done and I think between pac ten can't because inning game but beginning eating candy anyway LC point 5% of the sugar and calories.
Next.
You very evening a full bag of marshmallows you've eaten every trick or treat candy in the world and you feel like.
You need to go into comatose slowed because sugar and I get.
Sugar crash is a real thing your kids bounce off the walls but you crash.
Totally normal.
What do you do yes you should get your rest yet he she get any sleep.
But drink water.
And a lot of people think all of that's detox to me that's pushing other toxins.
Yes water helps you detox and clean up toxins things like that but the real reason you should drink the water is because it hydrates.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for FDA moves to ax claim for heart benefits from soy foods The FDA's proposing a rule revoking the heart healthy claims of soy protein.
The FDA points to inconsistent evidence that soy protein actually lowers heart damaging LDL cholesterol.
It's the first time the agency as ever attempted to retract a previously authorized health plan.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Motivated' podcast: Do you have a healthy relationship with food?
There were here this afternoon with Brad lamm does and I guess I'm really been looking forward to speaking went.
He's an author he's a teacher he's an interventionist and he's the founder of the breathe life healing center rink into what they do there a lot more thank you for being here.
Your welcome.
It was such a heartfelt and sort of nervous when I walked in my ears were red and three on outside your New York so.
I was walking in I was excited to meet you but also slightly so I'm so excited.
Talk to you because you're an expert on something that has affected my life probably more than anything house which is.
Disordered eating you know.
This show this podcast is not about weight loss a lot of people think that it is it is not it is about getting to a healthy place in your relationship with food.
And learning to love and be excited about exercise your body can do.
I can't tell you how many people I talk to you who have a disordered relationship with you it is now.
Myrna number one problem in America why we don't want to talk about it well two thirds of America is overweight or obese and even ten people tell me.
Even who then people.
We'll say enemy I had well terrible relationship with it fair enough but then that person is often restricting.
So but I just eyeballing it.
The you do you don't get on the plane or go to Ramallah think oh my god there's so many thousand people I find it's a travel we're getting bigger and bigger and bigger.
And the shame that surrounds the conversation matter most and member relations which which is food.
We're not having.
So what do you see in your practice talked about the breed like killing center and what you guys do around the issues years ago why come from.
Home my mother father never tasted I'll call levered memories drug is that your for.
Now but I'm I'm clean and sober almost fifteen years.
But think you.
My last and slammed so I was like literally I had lamb and spam and my father was a preacher and by.
My mother.
Was had an eating disorder and she was a laxative the limit for thirty years we knew and when it Wallace.
But three out of four of us boys four boys and apparently grew up to have disordered eating.
And so it was something it was cellular molecular for me and I attended a like amphetamines.
Beacon news it is.
Helps enter up to a select cigarettes for the same reason.
Although I don't I haven't smoked for many many years but.
The that hold chewed those things to minimize my.
Vacuum approach to eating historically.
Was was in my DNA.
And so from from that system I sprang and it's had a passion about it I I got.
I serve in my own journey into.
Recovery fifteen years ago and was also believe nick and was supposed to beater in polemic.
And so it was in that period was fifteen Summers ago right now that I started.
Having the internal dialogue about.
Well something I don't need to be afraid of are ashamed of and might I actually say it out loud that I'm dying from my food over here now it's stopped math.
He's in Ritalin and Ater all and then finally I was using a lot of math I was a weatherman and Washington DC it Bucs fell in.
Lost that job missed my my life I really struggled and and so I was getting a lot better.
The yet the most fundamental thing a ball that I would do three to five times a day heat.
Right and it was I was in a lot of pain I was really in a lot of emotional and spiritual pain over.
That fundamental relationship with me you know I had a dog called bandit.
I just Gunter a break up and and here I was at my food and it was in that period that I serve really.
That's developed a hunger for discovery around what was at the root of and that led to Iowa you know led to lot of stuff but it is led to me getting healthier but it also led to me trying to help other people on that round and I.
Remember clears day I had attic I know 00 preferred years and years since I was in college and I.
And I were to Warner Bros. when I was in college and her film a color purple the color purple was was there.
And so I have friendship with turn intimacy and I remember saying back during that period is that do you think that you're addicted.
Multitudes.
Well I'm certainly addicted to chipper mama sugar.
And she citizen joke none as a joke now.
But.
As I mind the conversation I mean I wanted to know well OK given that what might you do to change that it had lasting change around it.
And she said I think it's have to make appear mom and and and then that became began a conversation that led to a doctor series called addicted to food that I created produced for her.
And and then I wrote a book called just ten pounds in that was through a lot of work on the doctor on Russia to help.
Create the conversation on food and say let that it's killing us why not talk about it and we don't have to be Graham about it we can actually have a lovely conversation sleeper.
A lot of people Val and a Catholic this is changed a little bit before a lot of people the idea that you can be addicted to food is absurd.
And it's absurd even to people who are food addicts it's not something that we think about as an addictive substance.
So what I mean by that is.
When I was in my most disordered eating face.
Am I had binge eating disorder.
It was not diagnose the time because it was not the guys and eating disorder at the time I used to wasn't in the Bible was and the Bible I used to make his joke.
That I have half of an eating disorder that I know how to bend but not hurt I didn't know how much truth was in that joke but I was describing.
My life.
And at that time I was no different than any other addict who is at rock bottom I would eat four hours.
And it was always you know junk sugar and high fat and I would go home to myself please stop and that it would go back out and get more and it just was like I could not get control of the beast.
Act that time I never thought I was addicted to food it didn't seem like it was something that you could be addicted to.
Well it's those very controversial in the in the realm of behavior health have you ever had an eating disorder therapist on your show now.
A case of get this this gonna blow your mind reading so let's go to an eating disorder conference the biggest one in the comp.
Country we show up and we want to talk about food addiction and you know why.
They will treat us like we are.
Interloper from Pluto.
Honestly they will want to talk about anorexia and believe Meehan.
Just now they'll be open document binge eating but they don't want to talk about the impact of sugar in the brain.
And how is it creates a compellent.
Decree to compelling obsession right.
Aunt and so even in my world.
That I doing behavior health where there's a split between the therapists that say I'm opener curious that it might be possible.
That food addiction exist.
And other other people will will shout you down I've seen I seen speakers at conferences where.
People are interrupted.
And by -- people much smarter than me that have credentials that.
It would seem.
That they might be curious are warm no but.
It's in the infant in infancy really that treating of those who are.
You know we it's easy to say people that are overweight but it's not all binge eaters are overweight it's often neo yes cycle of binge and then restrict engine or.
Allison did know that he so what does the research tell us about whether or not food compete.
Not everyone who's have been Jeter.
Is addicted to food.
Most aren't not everyone who's a food addict is overweight.
Not everyone who's old pieces of binge eater.
He really you need it you need a good assessment other assessments can you take a test on line here so he needed disorder specialist historically the Yale eating disorder are you familiar with.
So that scale used for a binge eater is really not useful but.
But that the approach to treating them then Jeter it's really in its infinite in infancy so when I was doing addicted to food.
A went to and he disorder program in Arizona that I use for anorexic some blowing its and I said.
I want to help this population.
And nobody's treating that population this is eight years ago and they said.
Okay will work with you on it and so we created an approach that was.
It was it was crafted out of the dirt then.
But with an eye collaborated with very Smart people Steve doctor Steve carp one of the best eating disorder positions in the country and a psychiatrist.
He was involved debt Hughes was involved and but it was really was from the ground up how might we help.
This population because there was so little help available we're tons of die a box.
We're obsessed but that you know the gain in -- cycle is something anybody who shows dude is intimately.
Knowledgeable Greta also kills like you know.
These days people are changing in that there's a lot more body acceptance and there's much more of a movement towards wellness as opposed to end that's.
And that part of that wellness is a freedom from the torture.
Of food.
A lot of people dealing with food multiple times a day is it to.
Torturous experience do you have scaling your house yes and we myself everyday Ecstasy.
These some people some therapists would say he must not have a scale.
And they'll they'll lose their mind if they wouldn't he fears Skelton you're not doing and we needed to the thing that is most important.
Is I do not want you to get on that scale it just seemed different approaches.
I have a scale.
And do you Ayers.
In.
Once a month I guess I weighed myself this morning Kazan knows it's re pleased.
It's into seeing instead a higher number.
And I thought it was and then I stepped up and got back on.
And it was the number at that it would be like 184 okay.
I hate and inconsistently Taylor really pisses me on and I did it again and the second win again but.
For anyone who doesn't struggle with food or wait they have no idea.
The importance.
Of that number.
On the scale absolutely but so in ninety pounds heavier that richer highway that was nice and and to be clear I was pregnant.
That was the weight my highest way I want to the hospital to give birth to my daughter.
And you're right calf triplets and right now sadly there was just one baby incinerated deeper now with a lot of the baby weight so forty pounds that was being UEFA and fifty pounds and it was so I started my pregnancy fifty pounds a delicious saying the want the beautiful woman.
That I'm looking at right now.
He editor top weight not navy cadets in criminal and fifty pounds heavier.
So when it was 190 your liver was different your heart was different.
The way that we carry weight impacts everything not only how we feel how we parent how we look how we want apps acts Howard drives work.
But it also in or else the god given rituals or universe given rituals that we have to beat ourselves.
So it creates this lack of momentum as we get heavier and it's.
It's I think of it it's like sloth like behavior that's the bigger you get the slower you get so.
It makes me crazy when we talk about.
The acceptance of fat because.
I'm all for accepting where we are.
In a moment.
And considering are getting curious about getting better.
If famine and disease state where it's gonna keep the facts and the pacing me that's gonna kill me I would challenge a person to let's talk about how we can get better.
But the acceptance of a disease state I'm not for that.
But for someone who says okay my goal it may be to lose weight it may not be to lose weight in my primary goal here the healthier awesome but also freedom.
Because that to me has been the greatest gift is not smaller close its freedom from the torture of the daily minute to minute torture that I experienced.
Over then I heard you say a year earlier.
Not today whose lives in relation to muffin but he's he said that was some version of self talk.
Do you look at things like that when you are tempted or your eyes take you to a place where you think I think that's not going to be a loving decision that.
That was a moment of weakness I mean I was having a debate in my mind to a one and we end to fill people and is the conversation that we were having before we went on the air.
Is that yes I know my.
I. I don't myself if the -- presented to stay away from my drug of choice is baked goods and I cannot control myself ram them.
And I was having an emotional morning and I stopped the but he and I was debating whether an Allentown them off the record does not in New York bodega.
Is that corner market and it has lots of cheap baked good.
And sometimes this gets straightened out earlier my catcher and a so come and did the debate was to do I want to do this on this quick temporary comfort or.
Do I want to just plow through and I and I think you know it's not really worth and it feels so lousy afterwards it just gonna make my emotional experience worse over right now I'm gonna pass.
And that was that's it whenever an upset my first go to place its food I have this conversation with myself every time I'm upset.
I'm out this will honor it is that you have a similar experience.
So how freedom mine was triggered by the thought of them often.
Right like there was two minutes a moment.
I was still back at them often but isn't that a sign of if someone said well he's out of an object.
It's it's is on ES it's a sign of a problem but it's also.
A baseline for action.
He if you can identify problem it gives you the wonderful opportunity for a solution and I think there.
There are solutions ethnic with food though it's really hard to sell because people believe have a hard time integrating.
Ritual of self care around food into their dated lives now you describe a lot of different types of the common problem eaters.
You know they emotionally and spiritually well I think we look back that's.
And a great idea to.
Opt in and and discover what kind of leader you are because if you of the language for like when you walked into the store this morning and he said.
And that muffin as talking to me.
Then self talk probably took you to place you're on the food from a committee that today him and walk out on the recognize I'm an honor myself and know that sensitive a problem for me and I'm not gonna do it.
Similarly to check this out.
A year ago.
And my a my father passed away we went to my.
Father's funeral and my brother Greg got very sick to come to the hospital turned that he had stage four cancer.
What a surprise right 57 Arab guys total sweetheart.
Nothing worked couldn't figure out exactly.
What type that was an it was such if such a shame that we thought.
We're gonna lose them right.
But we didn't yet know what kind it Wallis so was this conundrum the mystery of what's killing rhetoric.
And finally we got we got his samples this memorial Sloan Kettering.
They tested and they came activists good news.
It is this kind and there's a new drug if we treated 5% chance that it'll cure you but also make you even sicker more and I I counseled to myself.
It's ups to.
But we had to answer what do was and he took the leap and decided take take take the advice that doctor he simple remission now I.
He literally we went out and said are good byes to Greg and but that.
Important piece of information with Greg lamb wants he with the help of others discovered what it was it was Killen.
While it wasn't.
That over there or this over here it was this exact thing and if we know what it is and it goes to what type of leader you are to commuter plan.
It's good information date on which to base a plan.
So that in than year.
Addressing your responding to a actual fact rather than going and I can't keep the weight off to describe the different kinds of eaters.
Well one is an emotional later I would say that's that's what most people who struggle with food world.
They'll describe themselves as the emotional into the per person that.
Win their heart hurts when their spears it is out of sorts win name.
I'll I'll use the term dis regulated.
Meant.
They turned from.
And when they make a decision to turn to food everything changes even before they put through their mouth.
As an as a release you know there's and even if you say I'm gonna go shopping in an hour and get that thing that is going to suit me.
You're saying she hated for a time and then you go get it in your city issues began in the dope I mean is released and your body knows what's straight ahead.
So don't opening can be released prior.
See you actually absolutely that's interesting because once oh in in my experiences once I've made the decision to have a binge I feel better.
Then I start to feel relief.
Even before you put an in your mouth and it's with that decision you start the bends it's not.
When you put the food in your mouth it's with the decision you start the balance of if you're emotional eater knowledge is power if you know and you can own I get this regulated.
And I want to eat and it suits me that's powerful information.
Because they're like an attempt attempt to work on like I would say tock to read a book about relational trauma.
See why.
Emotional binges or say she had to buy food because that's a specific thing and that's a lot of us.
And it's it's not just the things that happen to us but the things that didn't happen to us.
The neglect with which we retreated Agassi talk and emotionally don't know much earlier that's when that that is the most Americans it's a struggle with her food it is in part tied to emotions aggressive to free yourself from that you have to do what learn how to process your Russians and and nonfood way.
Yes but and hard well known as hard as it it looks though because honestly.
Read about that there's a wonderful approach to complex -- healing that's base and I FS which is internal and we systems and if you know anything about their PC BT is the big and therapy that's used in groups the last 3040 years.
And it's what insurance pays for the there's an evidence based approach to called that's a drop and the systems it's little more difficult to use.
For therapists use it's really impact apple.
If it's grated impacting the impact.
In helping with the impact them relational trauma in our bodies because we carry just like I carried ten pounds fatter on my belly.
I Kyrie relational trauma in my central nervous system and that impacts the decisions I make with how.
I wanna feel better I was talking there's a great cardiologist in LA called Richard Carlsberg and our stock from him about last week I said.
Of the you're our patients.
Who are The Who gave your speech about if you don't change the way your eating.
You are gonna die we just put by extensive and if you don't changes you're gonna die and has say.
I say ice he 'cause I got to see him give that speech to someone.
Content you're an interventionist.
You're amazing you save lives every day I say what percentage of those that you give that speech you'll actually.
Take the lifestyle intervention changes that you're suggesting and run with access 1020%.
That you have the majority.
Choosing their food.
Over them.
I with and yes and I think it also illustrates how hard it is to change our relationship with them but it's doable.
Okay but I want to give people hope I also want to move to aid these other categories lets it.
Even at time the so let's quickly talk about what the other categories are.
And give people real well strategy.
If I don't I look rabbit hole it's it's taught patent most of them are.
Emotional leaders is the largest category and what's essential leader.
Is another group says that's her sensual.
That's for the person who is not.
Food addicted doesn't have an eating disorder.
But they consistently well over feeder make unhealthy choices because they're they're really into the art and the beauty of the essence of that sauce or done.
Heritage of that meat and Levin's and I must you know.
Now that's not who do agree I think you have habitual eaters and that's just more Perrier you do have habitual leader would just be that person that's really been cycle that's a lot of people if your person that wakes up in the middle of the night and without thought.
Talks to the dictatorships just as they are talking to you from the shelf and goes to them and devour some that's.
That's a lot of people to.
Often you'll see an emotional eater with a binge widow with their bit shall hear.
Him to you can be more than one but.
But it's it's good to know.
How are you eat because if you don't like Fred a habitual leader one easy way to have new rituals around food is.
Don't have to create a food desert for the foods that you've been done.
Which has been my house and my two my flashlight kites and I came back nothing good they date yet.
I came back from LA yesterday and I did.
Delivery for last night so I get home.
And I know that there's going to be good leavened food in my house I I think of it is garbage food or self love food really viewed as through that could greatly itself but it's not bad food or good food it's either.
Food that nature intended for meaty or crime permanent permanent adopt that south of garbage because I don't likely than it is good or bad either I I am I an amended as productive or not protect.
Why try to teach people to do just have a love senator diet if you can in include self love in your plan.
That's a great star.
Frank I agree it you don't have to load yourself to want to change or get better.
And start a place of some nutritionists though want you do desert challenge is in the you'll want to give you ice cream and cakes and see how you feel I would say if you if years.
It if you're aware of what you're binges are are trigger foods are so can you put and keep them on the shelf for house.
For the what do you what con ourselves.
What's your best advice for people who say have a problem of food I think about it obsessively I regret the choices that I made I'm always trying to diet might try to make up for some indulgence who are just in this cycle of torture with food.
Well.
Don't let exercise.
Be your default because you'll never get ahead if that becomes the thing.
And then connect.
This is one thing I would suggest that people do it doesn't cost a thing you can downloaded for free well I'll give me the link to.
That you can download a workbook for my book just ten pounds in if you put pen to paper and our.
Thoughtful about doing a little work treat it like a class the class where you want to get better being news.
Put pen to paper for thirty days that's all it is and it's a chance to become more aware I I find it people are.
If I can help a person become curious to learn a little bit more about themselves to be healthier.
Mrs. crow bar.
We don't know live oh.
I Abbott people are still making choices that nurture like them to veto pen to paper so great this morning nice and I did in my iPad now but it's lying there aren't that he's a little apple pencil on night irate every morning and I. I find that that connection is a really powerful one and creating new reachable.
Rituals around food.
It's on.
If we've become.
More intentional about how many while my approaches an coping strategies for when.
You wanna go to the dark place when you you know want to barriers sorrows and Tampa by noon.
Via outs I'll say this you know there's nothing like.
Peer to peer support.
Now we do together we can alone and thing as a notion.
That that's one thing that helps Lotta people sell I'm a fan.
They're all different kinds of food support groups but.
Weight Watchers as a food support group but so is a way and so is its end in LA there's a prop popular program called see how that's composed of leaders announced.
But the value of those programs is eager to sit in a room occasionally.
And get support from other people with him you share an understanding and a common common enemy if you will witches.
The harm I do myself with the so I looked peer to peer support I think there's nothing like it in some churches have celebrate recovery is part of their.
Work too and so very recovery has language for getting healthier with their with your food.
The the that's one idea and appeared appears sport plus it didn't cost anything and advice.
On getting back up after you've fallen down so a lot of us are very rigid and our ideas that what we should be eating and when we have a slip.
That day can turn into week two weeks almost summer.
And we're just too ashamed not ten days to him and up Villa last Tuesday sometimes that works and sometimes it doesn't hurt do you think there has widened.
And you land in a ditch.
You know some people would be punitive but I've I've really found.
The best motivation.
Is self talked it's encouraging that is lacking in chain.
In the practice of self talk around re starting.
You know there's no shame in.
Failure and certainly with food.
Around which we don't have the same kind of since Ivan Ivan done method fifteen years I get it I get a prize right to do you know it's awesome.
And and and that now Brad thank you for being here Brad -- where can people find more information you norte.
Well you can find me a Brad lamm dot com and TL AM and or.
Google me look a brief like peeling center of the largest acute care.
Program.
That is treating binge eaters and those that really struggle with the eating disorders and Weezer trauma a focused sophisticated clinical program.
And I'm really proud of that work of all the stuff I've done in my time I've ever real passion for people like my family and my mom.
Receive news.
Has struggled with who.
And he can find out there Bradley am to him come and thank you Brad.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Surrogate learns one of the twins she was carrying is her biological child Now to our "Gma" cover story.
A mother's battle for her baby.
Listen to this a woman who oftened to be a surrogate giving birth to two babies then discovering one of them was actually her biological child.
We first saw the story in "The New York post" and linsey Davis is here with this incredible story.
It really sounds surreal.
Good morning.
We're talking about two babies in the same womb and both have two completely different sets of parents.
One of the babies is Asian and the other is half white and half black.
They are even slightly different ages.
You're about to hear from a woman who agreed to be a surrogate.
She became pregnant with one baby as a result of ivf and then managed to become pregnant naturally with another baby at the same time.
For Jessica Allen and her husband Wardell jasper there is no greater blessing than their children.
After two healthy pregnants the California couple decided to pay it forward and Jessica signed up to be a surrogate.
No woman in the world should have to live their life without experiencing the love and the bond from a mother and a child.
Reporter: Jessica was matched with a couple and in April of 2016 she says one of their embryos was successfully implanted into her uterus.
Six weeks into the pregnancy she says her doctor noticed something rather unexpected.
He goes, well, I definitely see that there's another baby, the chance of embryo splitting is very small but it does happen and, you know, I just thought, you know, I was very surprised.
Reporter: Jessica delivered what she believed to be identical twin boys via c-section.
She says she never got to see them in person but was shown a photo.
I did notice, you know, one was much lighter than the other.
You know, obviously they were not identical twins.
Reporter: One month later some shocking news.
She says a DNA test confirmed the second baby was not a twin to the implanted embryo but actually Jessica and her husband's biological son.
It's called superfetation and while rare, it occurs when a woman continues to off late after becoming pregnant resulting in two babies with different gestational ages and in this case two different sets of genetic parents.
I didn't even know I was pregnant with you.
I carried my own child.
I didn't know he was mine.
Reporter: Jessica says after a complicated process she and Wardell got custody of their son in February.
Now 10 months old he they say he's the piece that completes their family puzzle.
The concept of superfetation essentially becoming pregnant while pregnant is not all that rare in certain animals but in humans it's said to be so unusual we're talking 1 in several million pregnancies.
This is something maury povich would have a field day with.
You are not the father but you are the father of this one.
That's true.
Thank you, linsey and Dr. Jennifer Ashton is here.
What?
I know.
This is incredibly, incredibly rare, so rare there are in fact maybe 11 case reports in the world literature.
Most ob/gyns myself included will never see it.
Most have never heard of it.
It has nothing to do with in vitro fertilization, it happened to be a coincidence so I want you to know better chance of being struck by lightning or winning the lottery than having this happen to you if you're a woman with a uterus.
What's the medical reason this doesn't happen more often?
Well, we don't understand how this could possibly happen because to your question, when -- as soon as conception occurs there are processes that actually prevent the woman from releasing another egg.
So in this case the babies are conceived at different times.
They're usually a couple of days to a couple of weeks apart and as we heard in the piece, different eggs in this case different sperm but different in terms of the time line.
Any rhysing to the woman.
You have the risk of multiple gestation, twins, the risks are predetermine delivery, usually the second baby will be born slightly premature and riches like high blood pressure, pre-eclampsia, anything you can see with twins or triplets.
Adding to the complexity of surrogacy at times.
Very complicated medically, legally, financially, emotionally and then you get these rare cases here but obviously very, very emotional.
I would imagine you've heard of it.
We've heard of it but it is literally so rare and this is where, again, the legal documentation, anyone going through surrogacy don't really have to worry about this but you have to have that legal documentation in place.
Good thing to keep in mind.
Thanks so much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New guidelines to help prevent peanut allergies ???
Time for the download.
The soaring statistics on peanut allergies, researchers from the American college of allergy, asthma and immunology found that peanut allergies in American kids increase 21% in the last 7 years.
Here's with what you need is Dr. Tania Elliott, chief medical officer at ehe.
Tania, happy to have you.
What is going on that we're seeing this huge rise in peanuts?
We were discussing in the break I don't think cave men were allergic to peanuts, why now.
Parents were told not to into inthose deuce them to kids until they're over 2 then the immune system is exposed to something brand-new, it says, oh, ply gosh, this is something foreign and develops an allergic response.
We should introduce peanuts early and then we would avoid the problem.
A stud DI was done with kids that were at high risk for developing peanut allergies so half of them were introduced to it very early on then the other half of it were introduced in the delayed response at 2 and up.
The kids introduced to it after the age of 2, 17% of them developed peanut allergies.
The ones introduced early on only 2%.
What do the guidelines say.
They support early introduction of peanut into the diet.
With Halloween coming up a time when a lot worry about peanut allergies what can we do around Halloween?
Yeah, so Halloween could be scary for kids with peanut allergies.
Really important to read labels.
I say when in doubt, throw it out.
And always carry your epipen with you at all time.
Dr. Tania Elliott with really useful advice.
You may have saved some lives this morning.
Great to meet you.
Thanks for coming on.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New documentary 'Heal' explores the power of the mind It's not just that disease starts in the mind.
It's been everything starts in the minds.
This world he stresses are 24/7 365 the net result is illness.
90% of what takes people to the doctor are stress related illnesses.
What you perceive a threat in the old days we refer to that is fighter flights and now it shall spouse saw it gives you boss or his friend that's due in a week and yet the system reacts as it's a life threatening situation and if you're running a fight or flight response all the time.
You're immune system's compromised chronically.
We have the most money going into health care than any country in the world and we have some of the worst statistics on health care doctors and insurance companies give drugs to enhance the side effects more toxicity more toxicity do you know.
Ill health.
In my body wants to be healthy budget to the head to the chest X. I don't know clay Goodell is it flew in a way we have more faith in the power Cantu to kill us then we have faith in the power of infinite possibility tune.
Every organ in the human body has the ability to heal itself under the right conditions.
We're those conditions that's that's the question.
We are in a mindset that her body as a machine all of organs with buttons and levers that need adjusting.
Psoriasis an accidental cause unknown also Oscars this cause and no fibromyalgia.
Cause I know there have been radical remission for every single cancer take.
Pancreatic cancer stage four lung cancer a big brain tumor that's considered inoperable there are examples of people out there with Gil trend.
When I went to attack they were all using these nine only two of them is the rest are mental emotional and spiritual.
Does this mean medicine is all negative like no absolutely not medicine does miracles live trauma Kim grundy units believe today homelessness but don't believe the problems.
BC he and his belief itself shifts biology that intelligence giving us life it is degrees Koehler and world.
Symptoms are brilliantly intelligent and waking.
Doesn't matter how long even six you can he'll always remember that in never forget it.
We are here with the director that documentary Kelly needing course the talk about.
How you came up with the idea to do this.
Documentary what took you on that journey all the things just start with at the beginning attack how did you even decide that you wouldn't do this.
It just all of all the people the documentary had empowered me in my life.
You know a different phases of my life and I think that.
You know I didn't go on.
Healing journey with.
A diagnosis a lot of people ask me when you sick without a motivated you do this but actually.
I just average and I would hear read a book by one of these experts.
About what's possible with the human body your our how our mind.
Scientifically.
You know affects the chemistry of our body our thoughts emotions or beliefs.
I thought oh my gosh everybody needs to know this has its own powering.
We we are victims.
You know our jeans at the genetics says that we are lifestyle choices and our beliefs and our motions actually.
In form what genes are expressed so.
I just thought it was so much empowering information at a time when so many people are suffering.
Like.
Almost 50% that the country is dealing with a chronic illness and I thought that the information it's the time is mounted just.
Make people aware of what the human body is capable and how we can participate in the healing will.
When you talk about here and I think that's sort you know new world thinking aching and like a little hippie Dick be what's the response been.
And and talk a little bit about sort of how you do make this Warner.
Opened for every once and a understand.
Wrecked yes.
It yet he might be perceived as being Lulu and new AG but I really you know a lot of people in the film are actual.
Scientific researchers so Bruce Lipton Kelly turner.
David Hamilton is organic chemists that used to work for the pharmaceutical industries so.
A lot of this is science fact and I wanna to.
Present.
A balance.
You know kind of case for the mind body connection and and and show the scientific research behind how our thoughts affect the chemistry of our body you know stress.
It's kind of a good example.
The way we perceive life and that's you know whether it's emotional Strasser.
Or toxins and chemical stress all of that has you know and detrimental affect on our body.
So.
I it tried to make it a blend you know the science behind spears it's.
What's the benefit in having people take away away when he think you want people to remember one name walkway seeing.
Couple different things it's meant to.
Give like.
Inspired people to take their health back into their hands and not be a victim of the diagnosis.
To look at your condition in these symptoms as a conversation.
Feedback from your body saying that something is out of balance and if you want to Healy need to get to the root cause you don't want to just take a pill to silence a symptom.
And this is not a anti western medicine documentary it's actually saying you know western medicine were so grateful to have what.
Amazing technology and advancements in west medicine and drugs and surgery.
But we should really.
You know.
Use those in an acute illness and in emergencies.
And to get us over the hump you know take a pill to get you through the pain and tell you can.
Find out what the root causes a you can you know.
Figure out what's it is to regain balance as they did everything in collaboration together not just.
Western medicine not just eastern Madison correct an eastern medicine it's these.
Ancient wisdom that's you know been applied and successful for.
Thousands of years when it's using herbs there.
You know food or energy medicine or sound healing all of these modalities have been around an effective for thousands of years.
So act you know we are energy where were made by operational you know.
Everything is made up vanity so.
You know.
User western medicine go to your doctor get the diagnosis.
But then you know don't fall prey to a prognosis don't let a doctor tell you what's possible for you here.
Life and healing based on.
Statistics because everyone is unique.
And actor gonna take a western course of treatment support at and enhance it by you know doing mental emotional and here to work those happen.
Scientists shown us.
You know benefits under buys well seems like common sense kind things to think about it and but most people out there you know we're just kind of hypnotized to believe that you know.
Our bodies are failing us and we just have to you know.
But there's there's ways that we can boost immune system through positive thoughts and healing emotional trauma island and also expect that you mentioned the science behind this idea of a whenever you thinking your brain actually had some sort of reaction in your body.
What it what is considered when you think something you have it as something else happens negatively positively what.
Connection her act and they do they show some research in the film.
Wouldn't they let that be to heart and HRT monitor their when people are meditating they're measuring and there their heart rate and that.
They show that when your writing your mind getting to that he's a place like you're releasing.
You know all sorts of healing chemical toxin Towson to open in all of these positive chemical also can meditation.
Also through when you're feeling gratitude.
And loved it measured but that's also releasing pots of healing chemicals on the other side.
They've found that if you're feeling frustration jealousy rage they can measure that you're releasing stress hormones in July cortisol adrenaline.
Northern on all of these things and that suppresses your immune system.
The more stressed we are which you know the perception of life.
One thing's gonna stress someone out that doesn't stress and others not to talk.
Perception interpretation.
That is sending signals through your nervous system to your cells.
To turn on and off jeans and also release either harm.
All our helpful.
To basically think path.
I have signed up like the more positive you can think the better.
It is but that scenes so super and you know and like.
But you know we talk in the film it's.
They.
Judges spends as talks about you when you get a diagnosis you've healed the year.
Or sadness.
And so you can think positively all you want Michael that the best thing.
But if you're feeling fear.
You know it's not gonna that the positive thinking knock and it translate that here's an.
Eat the thing that's putting in the stress and when you're in the stress reaction when you're in the sympathetic nervous system.
You're mean system's not working now.
So.
You're either in Reston repair or in fighter flight so.
The problem is a lot of people are stressed all the time and and I just make people aware of how that.
Is affecting your immune systems so when you need to heal you really need to act.
Look at the stresses in life you know need to do all of these things to help your body.
Get into the person that services them in Reston repairman.
So that.
It in a healer with and can do its job.
Your audience and then.
Herat like this incredible intelligence system.
That now you had a big night here in New York today.
Yes it's opening tonight in New York I'm running for week.
At that abilities that and we just out of me run and in LA did really well we sold out and chosen.
They're expanding it there so people that are letting it feeling fired.
And want to share with that are going fears and how can people who aren't and you are currently intends to watch it.
So people are hosting screenings all over the country and the world.
And you can go to he'll documentary dot com a website and find we're screenings are in your area.
You can also host a screening if you communities.
Marines that found Q.
And then will be in San Francisco Phoenix Denver and saint pay for a week one.
In the month and a member.
And then finally December 5 it'll be released on I.
Went down.
You can do it and hair found it.
What's the response and to be honest.
Most people are like oh my gosh I want to watch that again there's so much good information and and I I try to.
Presented in a way that's you know.
Not everything is gonna resonate with everybody but you know it had enough science and there too.
You know resonate with the skeptics that may not naturally think this way.
And and people you know I have.
I have pharmacists and western national doctors that I like this that was really sticking with me and it just kind of ships the way that they'd.
Deal with their patients I think is beautiful.
And then other people want to watch against Vick and really soak in the information and they want to immediately shared it with people that they love it.
Could use this information.
In power can you nervous when.
Her back.
It's so vulnerable in like my first down and it's a sensitive subject you know when someone dealing with.
Cancer it's you know it's easy to.
Talk about.
Howell you know the possibilities of healing we actually going through it and doing the fear and pain and everything else that's you know so it's it's a very sensitive topic and I.
Approached it and a lot of the people in this.
Them are people in now the people who are looking healing process where.
Hoping for healing their people we are close to you just random strangers exactly and that's that's what's crazy to me it's like just I know some people.
And I feel like.
You know.
Everybody knows someone touched by cancer like and it's more and more prevalent and you know it's not the from that camp at about chronic illness and all of these mystery illness is out there Aston.
Lupus and have a mountain ease the skin diseases that you know.
And so.
I just think it's crazy house how many people are dealing with an in house is it is it just because our world is becoming so toxic or.
Are we just too stressed out like what is gone really wanted to explore that in response.
You know.
That it lets get that Elena healthy how you know it's crazy cellular.
Thank you for doing it today you can see.
He'll documentary for self.
It'll be on iTunes this summer that it.
Yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How to do a festive, full-body pumpkin workout The most minimal Robert.
Is your grass.
I'm just a little bit more the memory bit down a challenge.
And your focusing not only on the word dude itself but also managing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How a Facebook fitness group has helped members lose a collective 4,000 pounds And this morning, we have a very inspirational story how one man lost more than 200 pounds and not only that he's helping other men do the same with a secret Facebook group.
A real weight loss warrior.
???
for property manager Josh Lajaunie, 420 pounds was the tipping point.
So the self-described country boy from Louisiana started walking on a treadmill then he started running and didn't stop.
He changed his diet.
In here I some red lentils.
Split peas.
Reporter: And lost 230 pounds.
Compared to where I was, I'm an olympian.
Reporter: The journey changed him and inspired him to help guys like himself.
Giving in his words beer-drinking, back-slapping men an avenue to health and happiness.
The secret chins run club was born.
A secret face group for big guys only.
I've lost 170 pounds.
I'm down 1 8 pounds from 500 pounds.
I've lost a total of 105 pounds since joining.
Reporter: Now up to over 80 members they boast a total weight loss of more than 4,000 pounds.
Being a member of the missing chins running club has been an invaluable source of education, inspiration and camaraderie.
Reporter: A virtual brotherhood.
This group is full of amazing men that hold each other accountable every day.
We share our successes, our failures.
I can't thank this group enough.
Love them to death.
Reporter: Changing lives one post at a time.
I'll be running my first half marathon here in three weeks.
I'm getting healthier.
Long live the missing chins.
Wow!
Yeah.
We're excited because we're here now with the amazing guy who started the missing chins run club.
I got to love the club.
Josh Lajaunie is here with us.
Josh, you know a lot of people says research groups really are helpful when trying to lose a lot of weight.
You lost so much weight you helped over 80 men do it.
Did you think it was going to be so big when you first started?
I didn't realize it was going to be so big in the beginning but I really had aspirations that we would be able to reach out.
I have been inspired throughout my journey and I felt it -- I felt it important to pay it forward to the universe and do that for other guys and to see what has come of it is just amazing That's how we roll down in New Orleans.
That's it.
That's it.
Good old southern hospitality.
Who dat, baby.
Love you, man.
And all the men that you have helped and we have a few of them here because collectively over 1,200 pounds collectively.
Some of the men that have been helped.
???
let it go.
You don't even recognize them.
Who are you?
We're going to talk to Jason Cohen, another Louisiana boy.
You lost 125 pounds.
You said the group was helping you keep on track.
Whenever I didn't feel like getting up and running I would see somebody else they posted four, I have to run six.
They run six, I have to run eight.
Lace up my shoes and just get out there.
Oh, wow, it's working for you, man.
Thank you.
So we have New Orleans represented.
We've got Houston here.
All right.
Marcus, Marcus.
280 pounds.
You know, two years ago I was 500 pounds.
I started walking 20 minutes a day and I -- six months ago I did a full iron manage.
Yes, you did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
An ironman, 500ounds now you're doing an iron man.
I've never done one.
You're one up on me.
Congratulations.
Astros fan.
I'm a Houston boy.
My man right hire.
We got Justin lacy from Missouri.
You lost 290 pounds.
A little bit more.
Almost close to 300.
Close to 300 pounds.
You say your mother helped motivate you.
How S that.
She had a stroke and she -- she really, really maid me realize that health is really important and, you know, they really, really inspired me to make myself better but they're so proud of me and they're eating plant based and losing weight.
Getting off medications.
It's a beautiful thing.
So they've inspired you but you've inspired them all the same.
I hope so.
Congratulations.
Living your best life.
Very happy for you.
New York is represented.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
How are you?
Good.
Tim from New York.
All right, so how has this club helped you stay motivated and keep the weight off?
It's like this huge inspirational club and like every time we check in you think something is impossible and then somebody breaks what you thought was impossible and it just keeps everyone just motivated and it's so amazing.
How much have you lost.
I lost about 200 but you know I think I can speak for all of us, it's not really what we've lost, it's what we've gained and plant-based lifestyle, you know, it didn't just save my life.
It gave me a new one and aim so grateful for that.
Grateful for you sharing your story.
Last but not least we have Josh turner, the Louisiana boy we saved for last.
Josh, you're a few pounds away from 100-pound weight loss so you know what, how does it feel that you're about to reach the milestone.
It was never really about the weight.
It was more about getting my type one diabetes under control.
The weight was just a plus.
That's all it is.
And really I can't go any more -- I can't lose any more weight.
I'm almost underweight now.
You're almost underweight now.
So, Josh, how does it make you feel, man?
Come on.
It's amazing.
It's just amazing.
I mean, I feel somewhat guilty being the person getting some kind of credit, but it's just I wanted to pay it forward.
Like I said, and help give inspiration that I have received throughout my skwaurnny.
It's just been an amazing thing.
Couldn't be more proud of the brothers I gained in this process.
And you're right when you say it's not what you've lost, it's what you've gained but we do have a way of illustrating how much you've lost.
Come on around.
Now, these guys collectively your group has lost about 4,000 pounds, so here we have 4,000 pounds worth of sugar.
So pull that cover off.
Great job.
So this is 4,000 pounds.
Sweet tea.
Oh, my goodness.
A lot of sweet tea and pralines.
It's shocking to see, you know, all this sugar but I'm so proud of you guys.
You guys are an inspiration to so many watching probably struggling saying what can I do?
How can I turn the corner with this group you helped so many.
I'm sure you helped so many.
It's about community.
It's about coming together as a community as they have.
Maybe just one more time.
Who dat.
Who dat, baby.
Don't mess with me.
My giants aren't doing so well.
Super bowl ring buckle.
Congratulations to all of This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Family shares update on formerly conjoined twins following separation surgery We gotta be outraged.
About what's happening.
We need to see in the international community come together and say no we will not let this continue.
Democratic and Republican senators have voiced concern over US policy to a Myanmar formerly known as Burma.
In response to the deepening repression of the countries trying to Muslims.
The United States should not abandon our.
However it may be time for policy adjustment.
Myanmar is military campaign against retention Muslims has forced hundreds of thousands to fleeing to bump a speech since August.
Myanmar has rejected allegations it's necessary is responsible for any violence.
It claims that it was cracking down on militants who attacked security forces in Reston are kind of states.
There have been no conflicts since the fifth of September up.
Annual appearance operations.
Last week the US secretary of state Rex Tillerson said the US holds Myanmar has military accountable for the injured crisis drawing a distinction with Aung sung Suu Kyi civilian government.
But we see chi has been under pressure by the international community for failing to act and condemn what the United Nations called a case of ethnic cleansing.
Publicly shared my shock and dismay at her dismisses us of these concerns an advantage he has maintained even in the face of unfolding humanitarian crisis.
And mounting international criticism.
The senate hearing came after the China administration said it was considering taking action against Myanmar if he's the violence continues.
Suspending travel waivers for military leaders.
The State Department said it has pushed out to various measures against those responsible for the violence there's no question in our minds that atrocities have been committed.
And we will work with the international community and Burmese stakeholders to pursue all means available.
To hold accountable those responsible.
For these acts attracts some lawmakers us the administration to describe the violence has genocide and ethnic cleansing.
We will stop this type of conduct in the civilized society.
Cannot occur.
Yes I think it's genocide.
Last year right specific and so.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nutritionist shares her best diet tips to help boost your workouts you I you you.
And we are back now on "Gma" with simple secrets to boost your workout.
I'm here with registered nutritionist and a spokesperson for kefir.
We have to start with strong bones.
We can get it through nutrition.
It's really important for everyone to have good bone health.
Okay, so we have some foods here that will improve bone health.
Salmon, almonds and kale.
These have strong nutrients like vitamin D, calcium, magnesium and phosphorous partnered with exercise can help reduce your risk of osteoporosis, isn't it crazy, absolutely nuts so when you partner those together you can reduce your risk of osteoporosis.
They seem to show up on everything.
These are super foods.
Do this.
When you're done working out.
People don't know this.
You do need to refuel.
It's Sporn to refuel with carbohydrates and protein.
Livway kefir has carbohydrates and protein but a cool part is it has 12 live and active cultures in it which help the absorption of carbohydrates in protein so the carbs help refuel the body and protein helps to repair the muscle.
Plus, a really even cool fact, is that this has natural electrolytes in it which will help the hydration get into the cells.
After you've gotten all that out in your hard workout.
We have it in the morning too so livway kefir is amazing any time of day.
We have our amazing audience.
They will help us out.
I know they're over there.
This is Kelly's choice.
This is the power five.
Power five.
And so everybody, how many fingers do you have?
All: Five.
This is how you can remember.
Protein, we have vegetables, we have fruits and we have dairy and also we have our whole grains, okay.
So by getting in the power of five, it's going to ensure you get all the vitamins and minerals and nutrition you need all day long.
It's so simple.
It's so simpf?
We've heard it before but feels like I've got to do it today because Kelly said so.
So totally easy.
You don't have to be a four day chef.
Everyone thinks dietitians are chefs but they're not.
Cucumber, tomato, apple, glass of milk, that simple.
Thanks so much.
Kelly.
Thank you all.
We'll all be healthy today.
Mike: Good morning.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Festive pumpkin workout helps get you in shape before Halloween Halloween is less than a week away and we all know what that candy can do to your figure but a pumpkin figure is trending.
Josey Greenwell is showing us the moves with the pumpkin, man.
I just want to get right to it.
We all love our candy but we got to work it off.
The pumpkin is going to help us.
What is this workout that's been trending?
What we're doing is basically exchanging a medicine ball with a pumpkin.
Okay.
So you're using this pumpkin in place of the medicine ball.
So you just want to grab a pumpkin.
Make sure it's got a good enough size on it.
You know that sounds funny, right I heard you snicker.
Just grab a pumpkin, people.
Make sure it's yours.
Not your neighbor's.
Make sure it's fresh so that is hard.
Otherwise you're smoosh that thing together.
What are some of the exclusives we can do.
The first one we'll do is called the push-up.
Put your hands down on the pumpkin and step your feet back.
You don't have to worry about it crushing -- You have to make sure it's fresh.
Here we go.
What we'll do now is work your chest.
You're getting into it.
The Mike is on.
Here we go.
All right.
It's a suit friendly workout.
Drop your chest down to the pumpkin keep your elbows tight and keep your abs nice and tight.
Okay.
Okay.
What else we got?
The second one this.
Is called the jack-o'-lantern swing so what you'll do is hold it by the base.
Keep your chest open.
If it had like the -- don't do that because it might come off and fly through the window go that's up to you.
By the stem you might lose the pumpkin.
What you do is keep your chest open.
Let your arms Hage straight.
Drop it down in a squat.
You raise it up eye level.
Like a kettlebell.
Yes.
That's your shoulders.
That's your back.
You get a little glut action too.
I'm feeling it all in the glutes.
Believe that, Josey.
You do it until you're tired out.
I'm tired out.
What we got next.
Last one, squash squat.
Squash squat.
Classic pumpkin move right here.
Drop down into your squat.
Keep your chin up.
As you stand up you're driving that pumpkin straight to the ceiling.
So what we've got here is total legs, total shoulders.
Total legs, total shoulders.
Are you feeling it?
Anywayed it.
Keep your heels flat.
Keep your heels down so it's all in your -- If I do, my pants might open up in the back.
We don't that.
Josey, thank you so much.
Thank you guys for the workout.
I'm done for the day.
You at home make sure you get your pumpkin and get in shape for Halloween.
Because you're going to consume the candy.
Might as well try to work it off in advance and everybody, coming This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Girl raises more than $4K after mom's breast cancer diagnosis Glamorous and dozens breast cancer this spring.
And I want any channel raise money.
Parent American football like brand on.
As strong season and I things you know having a daughter and we just want to remain as positive as possible name is Mary thanks.
Sang in a handyman.
I'm dealing in good kids she knows and it's helping other people.
Like Karen.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
For some parents, understanding the pressure of social media can be difficult, and as a result, some teens may feel they cannot talk to their parents about cyberbullying, body image problems and other struggles they face in their day-to-day life.
"One of the hallmarks of adolescence is to make mistakes, part of adolescence is figuring out who you are," Dr. Logan Levkoff, an expert in parent-child communications, told ABC News.
"Sometimes you make choices that arent so great, but ... those choices are an opportunity for growth."
"The challenge with social media is that it doesn't give a young person freedom to make mistakes without being defined by them," she added, saying she believes that social media plays a "huge role" in causing anxiety for teens.
'GMA' experiment finds moms surprised by the pressures their daughters face on social media In an experiment set up by "Good Morning America," a group of 15- to 17-year-old girls candidly discussed with ABC News' Deborah Roberts the stresses they face, especially as a result of how pervasive social media is in their lives.
ABC News Unbeknownst to them, their mothers sat behind a glass mirror to listen and learn about their daughters' struggles.
Approximately 79 percent of parents said that their teens use social media, according to a 2017 report from the American Psychological Association.
Additionally, 69 percent of the parents of teen girls reported that they worried about the influence of social media on their child's health, compared to only 39 percent of parents of teen boys.
A majority of the teens in the "GMA" experiment said they felt stress was a big problem in their lives.
Most of the girls, who wished to only be identified by their first names, also said that social media was also a big part of their lives.
The group answered a collective "no" when asked if they ever went a day without being worried about their online profile.
"Every girl thinks she has to be better than another girl and it shouldnt be like that," said 15-year-old Cayla Kumar.
Another, Booch O'Connell, 16, added, "Theres just constant pressure, I guess, with everyone and social media."
Anyaa Adams, 17, said she felt like social media causes her to question herself, saying, "Sometimes theyll say, like, 'Your stomach area is fat,' Im like, 'Wait, is it?'"
ABC News Cayla also said she questioned her own body as a result of social media, saying, "a lot of my friends think I'm anorexic."
"I have a high metabolism, they just don't understand," she added.
"Sometimes it can hurt, but you've got to grow tough skin."
Alexus Analyz, 16, added that she feels she is criticized for almost everything on social media.
"I choose not to pay attention to it," she said.
"They can talk about things that you post, things that you wear, things that you say."
Booch said that during her first year of high school, the criticism directed toward her that started online affected her even offline.
"Cyberbullying translates to real life," she said.
"And you have people taunting you while youre right there."
Anyaa Adams, 17, added that it can be hard to simply brush off the criticism that you face on social media.
"Its like, 'Wait, I think I look great,' so then its, 'Who cares what they say?'
but then its like ... 'Somebody just said that to me ... are you kidding me?'"
she said.
Destiny Mateo, 15, added, "I dont hate my body, but I do feel like there's room for improvement all the time."
ABC News The teen girls also said that they also feel pressure from social media when it comes to relationships.
Some of the girls said they feel pressure to hook up or to have a boyfriend because of social media, to the shock of their mothers in the next room.
"I think it's like girls always make it a competition, and I think it's a bad thing, that goes around everywhere," Cayla said.
Cayla went on to say that she felt like she could not talk to her mother about some of her struggles with social media, saying, "When I try to explain situations to her she doesn't quite understand it from my perspective because things have changed so much."
The mothers, who eventually entered the room and surprised their daughters, said that they were shocked to hear some of their thoughts.
"What really surprised me in this group is ... these girls are gorgeous," one mother said.
"[But] they are full of anxiety."
Another mom added that "the struggles the kids are going through now" are "so different."
How parents can talk to their teen about social media and anxiety "The part that parents miss is they think that social media is stressful just when you use it, but it's even stressful when youre not on," Levkoff said.
"Because youre wondering, what are people thinking of my posts?
Are they liking my photos?
Am I missing out on something?"
Levkoff said one of the most important things that parents can do if they are concerned that their teen may be struggling with anxiety, is to "trust your gut."
She added that if your teen is "avoiding social activity," or taking a step back from activities they once enjoyed, "that might be a sign that something is going on."
If you do suspect your teen is struggling with anxiety, Levkoff recommends asking questions "that are meant to illicit a more thoughtful answer" than simply "yes" or "no."
"If parents suspect that something is going on, I think asking questions about friendships, I think asking to see phones and social media usage of your children and their friends is absolutely within a parents range of authority," she added.
Levkoff said that she also believes parents should restrict screen time if they are concerned about their child's social media use.
Parents should also set clear rules when it comes to technology, Levkoff added, saying she gave her son a "contract with 17 points of all our expectations of technology."
"Young people, we think that they are really savvy and intuitive, and they would know what not to do with technology, but the reality is that they don't know what to do, so sometimes we have to be explicit in our expectations and rules," she added.
"As parents we want kids to love us ... we want them to be our friends, and often times as they get older we have a really hard time putting restrictions on things," she said.
Finally, Levkoff recommends for parents to emphasize to young people the gap between social media and reality, especially for teens who may feel pressured by what they see online.
"One thing we have to make sure our kids know is that people curate their lives online," she added.
"None of it represents the holistic reality of our lives."
"So the decisions we make about our bodies or relationships or sex, if we make them about what we're seeing, well we're not really seeing the whole picture," she added.
President Donald Trump's re-election committee is lashing out at Democrats in a new TV ad that incorrectly blames his critics in the opposing party for blocking fixes to the nation's health care system.
The ad, which was set to broadcast on cable stations nationwide on Tuesday, seizes on "skyrocketing" insurance premiums "all while Democrats in Washington, D.C., block a better plan to repeal and replace Obamacare once and for all obstructing our president just to score political points with the radical left."
The ad comes as the Trump White House and GOP leaders in Congress struggle to revive efforts to repeal and replace Barack Obama's health care law.
Despite the ad's claims, however, the Republican Party's health care problems are largely of its own making.
The president's party, which controls the House and the Senate, had a chance to pass a new health care law without a single Democratic vote in the summer.
Recent health care plans backed by the White House stalled chiefly because Republicans like Maine Sen. Susan Collins and Arizona Sen. John McCain opposed the specific fixes.
The ad excludes Republican critics altogether, even though Trump and his allies have attacked them publicly in recent weeks.
The TV spot features grainy images of Democrats such as Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Florida Rep. Frederica Wilson, the cowboy hat-wearing Democrat who recently clashed with Trump over his comments to the widow of a fallen soldier.
"President Trump will fix it," the narrator says of health care.
The Congressional Budget Office has determined that the White House-backed legislation would cause millions of Americans to lose health care coverage in the coming years, while eliminating popular protections in some cases for those with pre-existing health conditions.
At the same time, the ad omits significant information about insurance premiums.
Insurance premiums associated with the federal health care law are indeed rising.
The consulting firm Avalere Health determined last week that premiums for the most popular "Obamacare" plans are going up an average of 34 percent.
But the firm found that the Trump administration's actions are contributing to the price increases by adding instability to the underlying problems of the health law's marketplaces.
Avalere said market instability is driven by Trump's recent decision to end subsidy payments to insurers, the continued debate over repeal and replace, and a presidential executive order that could open a path for lower cost plans outside of the Obama-era law.
Find AP Fact Checks at https://apnews.com/tag/APFactCheck EDITOR'S NOTE _ A look at the veracity of claims by political figures
Transcript for How to detox from your Halloween candy binge Everybody doctor Mike and they were going to be talking about how to detox from your Halloween sweet indulgences.
And how to maybe not absorb all the sugar that you're eating during Halloween.
Number one.
Before Halloween plan ahead you know you're gonna be eating a ton of garbage so people rest sleep.
That good stuff buries them but here's a life act.
Right tackler.
Be some fiber before going on your Halloween binge.
Why if you need at least ten grams of soluble fiber to Stuckey fight vegetables and beans you actually decrease in out of sugar absorbed from stuff like this.
By 25%.
That's a big number so imagine.
Don't done and I think between pac ten can't because inning game but beginning eating candy anyway LC point 5% of the sugar and calories.
Next.
You very evening a full bag of marshmallows you've eaten every trick or treat candy in the world and you feel like.
You need to go into comatose slowed because sugar and I get.
Sugar crash is a real thing your kids bounce off the walls but you crash.
Totally normal.
What do you do yes you should get your rest yet he she get any sleep.
But drink water.
And a lot of people think all of that's detox to me that's pushing other toxins.
Yes water helps you detox and clean up toxins things like that but the real reason you should drink the water is because it hydrates.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Image copyright NataliaDeriabina/Getty A blood test in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy could indicate a risk of miscarriage or premature birth, early research suggests.
US doctors believe they have found molecules in the blood that can be linked to serious birth complications, months before symptoms are apparent.
The findings could help doctors take steps to avoid premature birth.
But experts warned against overstating the findings, citing the "small and preliminary" nature of the research.
In the UK, one in five pregnancies ends in miscarriage, while Britain has one of the highest rates of premature birth in Europe.
The proposed blood test screens for molecules called microRNA, which are found in blood cells in the placental bed - a thick membrane that lines the uterus during pregnancy.
Predicting problems The team, from the Laboratory for Reproductive Medicine and Immunology in San Francisco, assessed the microRNA cells' ability to predict premature birth, pre-eclampsia, and miscarriage during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy.
In total, they looked at 160 births - over a series of four published studies.
The results predicted miscarriage and late pre-eclampsia with about 90% accuracy and premature birth before 34 weeks with about 89% accuracy.
Pre-eclampsia is a serious condition where abnormally high blood pressure and other problems develop during pregnancy.
It affects up to 10% of all first-time pregnancies and often leads to premature birth.
Unlike that of miscarriage, the risk of pre-eclampsia and premature birth can be managed by medical intervention.
The study authors said the test could possibly be used in combination with other established screening tests.
'Root cause' Daniel Brison, honorary professor of clinical embryology and stem cell biology at the University of Manchester, said the study was "exciting looking" in a much needed area.
But he added: "Although the results might seem exciting and cutting edge, there is unfortunately a high risk of them being wrong.
"We'd need larger follow-up studies to be sure whether these results are valid."
Tim Child, associate professor at the University of Oxford and medical director of Oxford Fertility, echoed his concerns but described the research as important.
"Pre-eclampsia, premature birth and miscarriage are significant issues all around the world, so any research is important," he told BBC News, stressing that "while the number [of cases studies] is very limited, the statistical relationship between the test and the complication is very high."
He added that he hoped ongoing research would help doctors understand "the root cause" of placental disease.
Image copyright Getty Images More will be done to protect the NHS in England from "despicable" acts of fraud, the head of the health service's new anti-fraud body has said.
Sue Frith promised a crackdown as she released figures suggesting the yearly bill for fraud in the NHS topped 1bn.
Cases include patients falsely claiming for exemptions on dental and prescription fees, and dentists charging for work they had not done.
Ms Frith said the fraud takes vital funds from front line care.
Ms Frith, the chief executive of the NHS Counter Fraud Agency, said it would be looking at new ways to fight the crime.
The analysis by her team estimated that 1.25bn of fraud is being committed each year by patients, staff and contractors - the first time the health service has put a figure on total fraud committed itself.
The sum represents about 1% of the NHS budget.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
The most common frauds The two biggest single areas of fraud were related to patients and procurement of good and services, both of which was likely to cost the NHS in excess of 200m a year each, according to Ms Frith.
She said patient fraud included cases where people wrongly claimed for exemptions for the cost of things like prescriptions and dental fees.
Meanwhile, payroll fraud was thought to be costing 90m a year, while dentists were said to be claiming around 70m in work on NHS patients that has not been done.
Image copyright DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Ms Frith said: "People may think it is just a small amount, but in large volumes it adds up and has an impact.
It is criminal behaviour.
"It is despicable people would even claim things they are not entitled to.
This is money that should be spent on front line patient care."
She acknowledged the NHS must do better at detecting and preventing fraud.
Last year investigators successfully pursued cases worth 9.6m, although another 30m of cases are pending.
But this is only a small fraction of what she suspects is out there.
Ms Frith said the 1.25bn was probably on the conservative side - previous estimates by experts have put it even higher.
She believes the new organisation, which is officially formed on Wednesday, will be able to improve on this detection rate.
It has been given independent status and allowed to focus solely on fraud.
Its predecessor organisation, NHS Protect, also covered security.
Responsibility for security has now been devolved down to local NHS trusts and the budget for tackling fraud increased by over 10%.
This will also mean more field officers to be appointed to gather evidence, as well as a greater effort on fraud prevention by reviewing contracts and systems put in place to safeguard against fraud, she said.
Image copyright Getty Images Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt is meeting social media giants, including Facebook and Twitter, to challenge them on cyber-bullying.
In tweets ahead of the discussions, he says some responsibility for rising rates of youth self-harm lies with social platforms.
He says the industry must be "part of the solution" regarding young people's mental health.
Social media companies have said they do prioritise user safety.
Mr Hunt will be meeting representatives from the biggest providers of social media, including Facebook, Twitter, Google and Microsoft.
Mr Hunt said: "Social media has become a fundamental part of our children's lives and while the internet provides amazing opportunities we cannot ignore the negative effect disturbing images and bullying are having on their mental health.
"Now is the time to turn the tide on this abuse.
I will be working closely with the top social media companies to ensure they can become the solution and not the problem."
Mr Hunt will ask the social media companies: If they can share statistics on how often cyber-bullying happens on their platforms, and what form it takes.
If they have information on the number of underage users, and what can be done to prevent them accessing services.
Whether it is possible to identify unhealthy online behaviour among teenagers.
And take action to try to provide advice and support.
A Facebook spokesperson said: "We want to make sure that everyone, including anyone affected by a mental health issue, has a good experience on Facebook and Instagram.
"We look forward to working with ministers and others to make sure we do everything we can to protect people's wellbeing.
"We have already introduced online tools such as Instagram's automated offensive comment filter and last month launched a new partnership between Facebook, Childnet International and The Diana Award, which is offering every UK secondary school the chance to have a young digital safety ambassador who can support their peers' safety and well-being."
Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, has previously been rated as the worst social media platform when it comes to impact on young people's mental health, in a poll of people aged 14-24.
Instagram responded by saying it provided tools and information on how to cope with bullying and warned users before they viewed certain content.
'Take responsibility' Dr Marc Bush, chief policy adviser at charity YoungMinds, said social media companies had an important role to play in tackling online bullying, but education was also crucial.
"This means ensuring that young people learn about the positives and negatives of social media from a young age and that they know what to do if they're being harassed or come across upsetting content.
"It also means encouraging young people to take responsibility for their own behaviour and to understand what the impact might be on other people of what they post."
Image copyright Getty Images Thanks to the clocks going back, many of us managed to grab a little bit of extra shut-eye over the weekend.
And that's no bad thing because, as a country, we seem to be chronically sleep-deprived.
According to the Sleep Council, the average Briton gets six-and-a-half hours sleep a night, which for most people is not enough.
Lots of studies have shown that cutting back on sleep, deliberately or otherwise, can have a serious impact on our bodies.
A few nights of bad sleep can really mess with our blood sugar control and encourage us to overeat.
It even messes with our DNA.
A few years ago, Trust Me I'm a Doctor did an experiment with Surrey University, asking volunteers to cut down on their sleep by an hour a night for a week.
Dr Simon Archer, who helped run the experiment, found that getting an hour's less sleep a night affected the activity of a wide range of our volunteers' genes (around 500 in all) including some which are associated with inflammation and diabetes.
Disturbed nights So the negative effects on our bodies of sleep deprivation are clear.
But what effect does lack of sleep have on our mental health?
To find out Trust Me teamed up with sleep scientists at the University of Oxford to run a small experiment.
This time, we recruited four volunteers who normally sleep soundly.
We fitted them with devices to accurately monitor their sleep and then, for the first three nights of our study, let them get a full, undisturbed eight hours.
For the next three nights, however, we restricted their sleep to just four hours.
Image copyright Getty Images Each day our volunteers filled in a psychological questionnaire designed to reveal any changes in their mood or emotions.
They also kept video diaries.
So what happened?
Sarah Reeve, a doctoral student who ran the experiment for us was surprised by how quickly their mood changed.
"There were increases in anxiety, depression and stress, also increases in paranoia and feelings of mistrust about other people", she said.
"Given that this happened after only three nights of sleep deprivation, that is pretty impressive."
Three of our four volunteers found the experience unpleasant, but one of them - Josh - claimed to be largely unaffected.
"This week probably hasn't taken as much of a toll as I thought it would on me," he said.
"I feel perfectly fine - not happy, sad, stressed or anything."
Yet the tests we did on him showed something very different.
His positive emotions fell sharply after two nights of disturbed sleep, while negative emotions began to rise.
So even though he felt OK there were signs that he was, mentally, beginning to suffer.
'Stuck' in negative thoughts The outcome of our small test reflects the results of a much bigger study looking at the impact of sleep deprivation on the mental health of students.
Researchers recruited more than 3,700 university students from across the UK who had reported problems sleeping and randomised them into two groups.
One group received six sessions of online CBT (cognitive behavioural therapy) aimed at improving their sleep; the other group got standard advice.
Ten weeks into the study, the students who received CBT reported a halving in rates of insomnia, accompanied by significant improvements in scores for depression and anxiety, plus big reductions in paranoia and hallucinations.
This is thought to be the largest ever randomised controlled trial of a psychological treatment for mental health, and it strongly suggests that insomnia can cause mental health problems rather than simply be a consequence of them.
Daniel Freeman, professor of clinical psychology at Oxford University, who led that study thinks one of the reasons why sleep deprivation is so bad for our brains is because it encourages repetitive negative thinking.
"We have more negative thoughts when we're sleep-deprived and we get stuck in them," he said.
Reassuringly he doesn't think a few nights of bad sleep means you will become mentally ill.
But he does think it increases the risk.
"It's certainly not inevitable," he said.
"In any one night, one in three people is having difficulty sleeping, perhaps 5% to 10% of the general population has insomnia, and many people get on with their lives and they cope with it.
But it does raise the risk of a whole range of mental health difficulties."
The positive side of this research is it implies that helping people get a good night's sleep will go a long way to helping improve our sense of well-being.
Norbert Schwarz, a professor of psychology at the University of Southern California, has even put a figure on it.
He claims: "Making $60,000 (48,400) more in annual income has less of an effect on your daily happiness than getting one extra hour of sleep a night."
So, sleep well.
Trust Me I'm a Doctor - Mental Health Special is on BBC2 at 21:00 GMT on Wednesday 1 November .
Image copyright Nikki Davies Image caption Nikki is having chemotherapy to help prevent the cancer from returning One in three adults might ignore potential symptoms of pancreatic cancer, according to a charity.
Stomach ache, indigestion, unexplained weight loss and faeces that float rather than sink in the lavatory can be warning signs of the potentially deadly disease, says Pancreatic Cancer UK.
Early detection and treatment are vital to save lives.
Nikki Davies was diagnosed in March, aged 51.
Her tumour was caught early, meaning a surgeon could remove it.
"I have been incredibly lucky that mine could be operated on and hadn't spread, as far as we can tell.
"My message to others would be that no-one knows your body like you do.
"Know what the symptoms are and talk to your GP if you notice anything that's unusual for you.
"Deep down, I think you know something is wrong.
"For me, it was the pain.
It felt like an animal was eating me from the inside.
It was in my back too, between my shoulder blades.
And I'd lost a lot of weight very quickly.
"I didn't know anything about pancreatic cancer before my diagnosis, and I certainly wouldn't have known what the symptoms were."
Know the signs Currently, about one in 10 people diagnosed with the condition survives beyond five years.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hollywood actor Patrick Swayze died from advanced pancreatic cancer aged 57 This is in large part due to most patients being diagnosed at a late stage, when treatment options are very limited, says Pancreatic Cancer UK.
Its survey of 4,000 UK adults suggests awareness of the symptoms is still too low.
Alex Ford, chief executive at Pancreatic Cancer UK, said: "We do not want people to panic if they have some or all of these symptoms, because most people who have them will not have pancreatic cancer.
"But it is vital that people know more about this disease, and talk to their GP if they have any concerns.
"The earlier people are diagnosed, the more likely they are to be able to have surgery, which is the one treatment which can save lives."
Common symptoms of pancreatic cancer include: stomach and back ache unexplained weight loss indigestion changes to bowel habits, including floating faeces Other symptoms include:
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Age-related macular degeneration affects more than 600,000 people in the UK Health chiefs face a legal fight over plans to give a cheap drug to patients with a debilitating eye condition.
Twelve clinical commissioning groups (CCG) in the north of England want to offer Avastin to people with wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
It has been licensed by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) but not specifically to treat AMD.
Pharmaceutical firms Bayer and Novartis are threatening legal action, claiming prescribing it "undermines" guidelines.
Bayer produces Eylea and Novartis produces Lucentis, which are both licensed to treat AMD.
Bayer said it had to "act to challenge the decision taken by these CCGs" and was "currently considering its position including the possibility of legal proceedings".
Roche, which holds the rights to Avastin, said licensing takes time and money better spent on the research and development of future treatments.
Image caption Patients will be given the option of all three drugs The 12 CCGs said clinical trials showed Avastin was suitable and could save them up to 13.5m a year within five years.
South Tyneside CCG chief officer Dr David Hambleton said this could "pay for an extra 270 nurses or 266 heart transplants".
Some estimates suggest a national switch to Avastin could save the NHS around 500m per year.
AMD Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a painless eye condition that causes people to lose central vision, usually in both eyes This makes reading difficult, colours appear less vibrant and faces can be hard to recognise.
Peripheral vision remains unaffected, so while it won't cause complete blindness it is debilitating AMD affects more than 600,000 people in the UK and is the leading cause of vision loss It is more common with age and there are two main types - wet AMD and dry AMD Wet AMD is more serious and develops when abnormal blood vessels form and damage the cells at the back of the eye There is currently no cure for either type Patients in the North East, north Cumbria and North Yorkshire will be offered Lucentis and Eylea but also told about Avastin and its lower price.
Avastin costs about 70 per injection, compared with more than 700 for Lucentis.
Dr Hambleton said pharmaceutical companies "should not dictate which drugs are available to NHS patients".
"The choice between three clinically effective drugs should be one for NHS clinicians and patients to make together," he said.
He added that he believes the CCGs are acting lawfully.
'Frustrations of doctors' However, prescribing so-called "off-label" drugs is against General Medical Council (GMC) guidance.
Bayer said it "undermines the regulatory framework and NHS constitution".
Novartis argued the drugs "have not undergone the same regulatory scrutiny as licensed medicines".
GMC assistant director of standards and ethics Mary Agnew said it was "sympathetic to the frustrations of doctors and organisations seeking to use resources effectively".
It hoped for a "licensing solution" or clarification from the courts, she said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Organ donation nurse Michelle Powell said staff had to be understanding of families' concerns Organ donors in Wales are being urged to speak to their families about their choice to donate to prevent relatives overriding their decision.
Figures show 21 families denied consent for organs to be given or did not support deemed consent in 2016/17.
The Welsh Government said this could have resulted in 65 extra transplants, with three organs retrieved per donor on average last year.
Adults in Wales are regarded as agreeing to donate unless they opt out.
A new advert highlighting the issue shows a man's choice to donate his organs being overridden by family members because he did not talk to them about his decision to join the donor register.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The Welsh government said families were more likely to honour relatives' wishes if they had discussed their choice Health Secretary Vaughan Gething said awareness and understanding of presumed consent donation was increasing but more work could be done.
He said: "We have seen huge improvements in our consent rates, in March 2013 they were just 50% but in March 2017 they increased to 64%.
"However while there are people dying waiting for their transplant we must work harder to further increase the consent rate to have a significant impact on reducing transplant waiting lists.
"Your family will be involved in any discussions about organ donation if, when you die, you are in a position to donate your organs."
In December 2015, Wales became the first country in the UK to move to a presumed consent organ donation system.
It means unless somebody registers to opt out, their organs will be donated after they die.
But family members can still go against that decision.
Scotland has said it will introduce a similar system to Wales, while England is also consulting on the issue.
Image copyright Science Photo Library UK maternity units are turning to expensive temporary staffing arrangements such as overtime and agency staff to plug gaps in midwife rotas, union leaders say.
Royal College of Midwives data showed the bill hit nearly 100m in 2016, with services having to pay hourly fees twice as high as the normal rates.
The union said that was enough to cover the "national shortage" of 3,500 staff.
The findings come as the RCM's annual conference got under way in Manchester.
It compiled the figures using the Freedom of Information Act, receiving responses from 159 local maternity services, close to 99% of those asked.
Services were asked for their spending on three types of temporary staffing arrangements: overtime agency staff the NHS bank, effectively the health service's in-house agency service A total of 97m was spent last year.
By far the biggest area of spending was on the NHS bank, which accounted for two-thirds of the bill.
The RCM said the fact maternity services were turning to these arrangements on such a scale showed the service was "under-staffed and under-resourced".
It also highlighted the levels of pay required to get these staff to fill shifts - the average hourly spend on agency staff was 43.65, compared with 18.20 for a staff midwife with 10 years' experience in England and Wales.
RCM director of policy Jon Skewes said: "The use of temporary midwives to staff permanent shortages is counterproductive and smacks of short-termism when there needs to be sensible and strategic long-term planning in midwifery and across the NHS.
"It is costing more in the long run to pay agency, bank and overtime than it would if services employed the right numbers of midwives in the first place."
The 97m bill for temporary staff would be enough to pay for between 2,700 and 4,300 midwives depending on their experience level.
In England, the RCM estimates services are 3,500 midwives short.
The RCM also said it thought the bill was rising.
It carried out similar research in 2015 - and while it is not exactly comparable, it did suggest the spending on temporary staff had increased in England at least.
The Department of Health in England pointed out it had brought in a cap on agency spending which was reducing that element of the bill, while overall midwife numbers were rising.
"We want the NHS to be the safest place in the world to have a baby," a spokeswoman added.
Meanwhile, Scottish health secretary Shona Robison said Scotland was the least reliant on temporary staffing arrangements out of the four UK nations with no agency spending at all.
Image copyright Getty Images There is no good evidence that a nutrient drink being sold online in the UK to "help" people with early Alzheimer's actually slows the disease, say experts.
Latest trial results in patients who took Souvenaid did not find it preserves memory and thinking.
The authors say in Lancet Neurology that bigger studies are needed to show if the product can work as hoped.
And consumers should be aware that the 3.49 per bottle drink "is not a cure".
Manufacturer Nutricia says its drink should only be taken under the direction of a doctor, specialist nurse or pharmacist.
What is the drink?
Souvenaid comes in strawberry or vanilla flavour and contains a combination of fatty acids, vitamins and other nutrients.
Taken once daily, the idea is that the boost of nutrients it provides will help keep Alzheimer's at bay in people with the earliest signs of this type of dementia.
But the latest phase two clinical trial results do not prove this.
What the trial found The study involved 311 patients with very early Alzheimer's or mild cognitive impairment.
All of them were asked to take a daily drink, but only half were given Souvenaid - the other half received one with no added nutrients.
After two years of participating, the patients were reassessed to see if there was any difference between the two groups in terms of dementia progression, measured by various memory and cognitive tests.
The treatment did not appear to offer an advantage, although patients in the Souvenaid group did have slightly less brain shrinkage on scans, which the researchers say is promising because shrinkage in brain regions controlling memory is seen with worsening dementia.
But experts remain cautious.
Prof Tara Spires-Jones, a dementia expert at the University of Edinburgh, said: "Some of the other tests of brain structure and function were promising, but overall this study indicates that a specific change in nutrition is unlikely to make a large difference to people with Alzheimer's, even in the early stages.
"There is strong evidence that a healthy lifestyle including exercise and a healthy diet can help reduce risk for developing dementia, but once the brain damage starts, a dietary intervention is unlikely to stop the disease."
Another expert, Dr Elizabeth Coulthard from University of Bristol, said people should think carefully before buying something that is, as yet, unproven.
Dr David Reynolds, from Alzheimer's Research UK, advised: "If people are worried about their memory, or are considering buying and taking Souvenaid as a supplement to manage their diet, then it is important that they discuss this with their GP."
A spokeswoman from Nutricia said: "We are pleased that this adds to the body of evidence for Souvenaid and we remain committed to ongoing and further clinical research."
Image caption Bosses at the University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust asked for the ruling Doctors can operate on a mentally ill woman who does not accept her breast cancer diagnosis, a judge has ruled.
The woman, who is in her 60s and has paranoid schizophrenia, maintains she "has a cyst".
Bosses at the University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust in Staffordshire asked Mr Justice Keehan for a ruling.
The judge decided surgery was in the woman's best interests and specialists said she was likely to die without it.
The woman, who has not been identified, believed medics treating her were "actors or impostors".
The judge explained his decision in a written ruling, after analysing the case at a hearing at the Court of Protection in early October, where lawyers representing doctors and the woman submitted evidence.
Mr Justice Keehan said he was satisfied the woman had breast cancer and that surgery was the right option.
Hospital chiefs had asked the judge to rule that the woman did not have the mental capacity to make treatment decisions and that surgery was in her best interests.
The woman was represented by staff from the office of the Official Solicitor, who help people who lack the mental capacity to make decisions.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Mrs P was left "minimally conscious" in hospital after a fall in 2016 A paralysed elderly woman whose care became the focus of a family dispute can have her life-sustaining treatment discontinued, a judge has ruled.
The 72-year-old was left "minimally conscious" after suffering an aneurysm following a fall in 2016.
Doctors wanted artificial feeding to continue but relatives were divided.
A judge concluded the woman would have viewed her "present high level of dependency and minimal awareness" to be a "travesty of life".
The matter came before a Court of Protection hearing, sitting in Preston, where issues relating to people who lack the mental capacity to make decisions are considered.
The woman's sisters wanted her feeding to carry on in the hope that her condition would improve, but her daughters and partner disagreed.
Mr Justice Hayden concluded that the woman, who is being cared for at a unit in the north of England, would have found her "present circumstances" to be "not only intolerable but humiliating".
The court previously heard the woman, identified as Mrs P, had sent an email to one of her daughters nearly four years before her fall, in which she wrote about her fear of being left in such a condition.
'Wishes and feelings' The judge said evidence from family members had permitted the woman's "voice to be heard" at the hearing.
He said her "incapacitous state" did not mean that her wishes could be "disregarded".
Staff at Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust had asked for a ruling on whether the treatment should continue.
Following the publication of the judge's ruling on Monday, a lawyer representing one of the daughters said there were no winners or losers.
Mathieu Culverhouse, of law firm Irwin Mitchell, said: "The judge has decided that withdrawing the life-sustaining treatment is in my client's mother's best interests given her current quality of life and her previously expressed wishes and feelings."
"While the court has dealt with the case very sensitively, my client and her sister have found it distressing and painful to have to go to court to fight for their mother's wishes to be respected, and they hope that in future a different way can be found to resolve cases such as this, so that other families do not have to go through the same ordeal."
Image copyright Getty Images Deaths involving some of the most-common superbugs have hit their lowest levels in Wales for at least 15 years, official figures have shown.
Statistics from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) show downward trends in deaths involving MRSA, C. difficile and Staphylococcus aureus continued in 2016.
The number of death certificates which mentioned MRSA hit a 22-year low.
The Welsh Government said it reflected "overall progress" NHS Wales has made.
There were 10 death certificates in which MRSA was mentioned in 2016, according to the ONS figures - the lowest since the 14 equivalent deaths in 1994.
In 2013, there was the first rise in the number of deaths involving C. diff in Wales since 2008.
However, the latest ONS data show there were 79 deaths with C. diff mentioned on the death certificate in 2016 - the lowest number since 2001.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There is a wealth of good practice information for healthcare organisations wanting to cut infection rates, the Welsh Government has said Earlier this year, Staphylococcus aureus was named in a list of the world's most dangerous superbugs.
But the number of deaths in Wales in 2016 which were linked to the bacterium via mentions on a death certificate was at its lowest since 1994, according to the latest figures.
The drops come after experts have repeatedly warned that society is on the cusp of a "post-antibiotic era", in which some infections could become untreatable.
The Welsh Government said it was taking steps to strengthen infection prevention and to improve antibiotic prescribing through its Antimicrobial Resistance Delivery Plan, which was issued in March.
A spokesman said: "The fall in the number of deaths reflects the overall progress being made by NHS Wales in reducing healthcare associated infections.
"The fight to prevent avoidable infections is multi-faceted and challenging but there is a wealth of evidence, national guidance and good practice for healthcare organisations to draw upon.
"Patients and the public expect to receive healthcare in a safe environment and we are doing everything we can to ensure that NHS Wales provides this."
Image copyright Getty Images Children's lives could be at risk because some hairdressing salons are not following guidelines on hair dye products, BBC Wales has found.
No dye products should be used on under-16s, according to manufacturers and the industry's professional body.
But a 12-year-old who went undercover for BBC Wales' X-Ray was offered colouring appointments at 16 salons.
Hair dyes contain chemicals that in rare cases can cause severe, even life-threatening, allergic reactions.
Hair dye manufacturers say they are not intended for anyone under the age of 16.
The European Commission insists that this warning should be put on all hair dye packaging.
The Hairdressing Federation, the profession's own body, goes further.
It tells its members that hair colour products should never be applied to anyone under the age of 16.
But when X-ray's undercover schoolgirl tested out the guidance - just one out of 17 salons acted on it, and told her she was too young.
CASE STUDY Sammi Ford knows only too well the dangers of colouring your hair.
In March, she had a severe allergic reaction to her home dye kit.
"Within half an hour my head was itching," she told X-ray.
"About an hour later I had a burning, itching feeling at the sides and then things got progressively worse.
My eyes were so swollen I couldn't actually open them".
Her face became covered in sores which took weeks to heal.
But the reaction could have been avoided if she had undertaken a recommended skin patch test.
It involves placing a tiny amount of the dye product on an area of uncovered skin and leaving it for 48 hours before proceeding.
Any soreness or redness would suggest an allergic reaction is likely, and using the dye should be avoided.
Manufacturers state that a patch test must be carried out, this is for home dye kits and those used by professionals in hair salons.
The hairdressers own federation goes further saying that "allergy testing is a must for every salon".
Image copyright Getty Images Donna Wallbank, who owns a salon in Brynmawr, in Blaenau Gwent said she has witnessed a growing number of her own clients having reactions to the skin test.
"We're used to normally seeing perhaps one reaction a year," she said.
"But since May we've seen three.
It's quite scary to think, had that service been carried out without them having the skin test, what could've happened."
'Appalled' Shirley Davis is an industry expert and the Hair Council's representative for Wales.
She said she was horrified by the results of the secret filming.
"I am absolutely appalled, they should've all said I'm sorry you're not 16, we can't do it and sent her away," she told X-Ray.
"Everyone within the industry is trying to professionalise it and we have salons that are actually contemplating colouring a young person's hair.
"If they did something with this young girl and she had an anaphylactic shock she could die - that's how serious it is.
"You have to patch test over-16 and under 16 it's a no-no."
X-ray is on BBC One Wales on Monday, 30 October at 19:30 GMT, repeated on Tuesday on BBC Two Wales at 17:30, or you can catch-up with the programme on the BBC iPlayer.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Death rates from cancer are 61% higher in the most deprived areas of Scotland, according to the latest figures.
NHS Scotland found living in a poor area affected your chance of survival despite an 11% drop in the number of deaths from all cancers since 2006.
There were also 27% more cancers diagnosed in deprived areas compared with the most affluent last year.
Campaigners have called for more to be done to understand and address the disparity.
The figures showed that in 2016 a total of 15,814 people died from cancer in Scotland, with lung cancer the most common cause of death, accounting for 4,035 deaths.
Over the decade to 2016, the lung cancer death rate for men had dropped by 23%, compared with 6% for women, reflecting "historical trends in the prevalence of smoking".
Cancers that were associated with smoking "tended to be strongly correlated with deprivation", the report said.
Main risk factors For cancer of the trachea, bronchus and lung, incidence and death rates were three times higher in the most deprived areas compared with the wealthiest.
That was despite the death rate for all cancers combined falling by 11% - with men seeing a 13% drop in mortality rates compared with 7% for women.
Breast cancer mortality decreased by 17% for women, while for men the prostrate cancer death rate fell by 7%.
However, the mortality rate for liver cancer increased by 55%, with the main risk factors identified as alcohol and hepatitis B and C infections.
Image copyright Thinkstock The death rate for cancer of the uterus also increased by 71%, which statisticians said could be linked to changes in fertility and growing levels of obesity.
Health Secretary Shona Robison said the Scottish government was taking action to increase awareness of screening in deprived areas.
'Devastating toll' She added: "I recently announced a new performance delivery group to improve waiting times for cancer diagnosis and treatment, as well as additional funding of 1m to roll-out new technology to allow consultants to report on diagnostic scans taken anywhere in the country.
"This is in addition to 4.85m investment to support improvement is diagnostic scopes and imaging capacity for suspected cancer patients."
Trisha Hatt, from Macmillan Cancer Support, said: "While it's good news fewer people are dying from cancer, we must remember than many thousands of people will die from the illness every year.
"We know that too often people are missing out on the right support.
We want to make sure everyone with cancer is offered a care plan outlining how and where they would like to be cared for at the end of life.
"It's also clear from last week's Audit Scotland report that mortality rates from cancer in Scotland are higher than the rest of the UK, and much higher in deprived communities.
It's vital that work is done to understand and tackle this."
Gregor McNie, of Cancer Research UK, said the report highlighted the devastating toll taken by "Scotland's biggest killer".
He added: "Cancer must remain an urgent priority for the NHS.
An early diagnosis, followed by speedy treatment, is key to improving a patient's chances of beating the disease."
Image copyright Supplied A cancer charity has appointed a digital nurse to combat "fake news" online, which they say leaves patients "scared and at risk of bogus cures".
Macmillan Cancer Support found two-fifths of people with cancer looked up information about their diagnosis on the internet.
One in eight of those went online because they didn't fully understand what their doctor had told them.
Glaswegian nurse Ellen McPake, who landed the job, says she wants to correct the misinformation that exists.
She said: "Once the doctor says 'cancer', people automatically then shut down and they don't take in the information that they're given.
"So they go home, speak to the family.
And then they'll sit online that night and get themselves in a frenzy with what they're reading."
She says people focus on the worst-case scenario: "There's quite a lot of myths out there," she said.
Here are some of them: Sodium bicarbonate can cure cancer "Some people think that drinking it or taking it intravenously can cure cancer.
There isn't any evidence to support that," she said.
Working on Macmillan's support line, Ellen said people would report trying it because it seemed less harsh than chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
"For some people it can be quite dangerous - it affects their kidneys and makes them feel quite unwell," she said.
Sugar gives you cancer Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some people mistakenly believe that sugar can give you cancer Ellen said some patients misguidedly think sugar causes cancer.
While obesity has been linked to cancer, consumption of sugar itself does not increase risk.
Medical practice the Mayo Clinic writes: "Sugar doesn't make cancer grow faster.
All cells, including cancer cells, depend on blood sugar (glucose) for energy.
But giving more sugar to cancer cells doesn't speed their growth."
Ellen has seen patients try to eradicate sugar based on false beliefs.
"There's no way you can take sugar out of your diet completely," she said.
Vitamin C cures cancer Ellen said: "I had a call once where a couple had been to a clinic and paid lots of money to be treated with vitamin C, which they were told could cure cancer."
The trips abroad to the clinic cost them their life savings and provided no benefit.
"The man was so upset.
He wished he'd used whatever savings they had for a better quality of life.
And that decision is with them forever," she said.
Only old people get cancer Ellen said there is a belief that only the elderly get cancer "because it's more common as they get older".
In fact, half of all cancer cases in the UK each year are diagnosed in people aged 70 or over.
This is because over time our body's cells become damaged and this damage can build up and result in cancer.
But in recent decades, it is young people who are having the greatest increase in being affected.
Sharks don't get cancer Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A great nurse shark was found to have skin cancer in 2010 Ellen said patients think that sharks don't get cancer and therefore their cartilage could be used to fight or cure it.
This myth dates back to the 1970s, when researchers in Florida exposed them to high levels of a carcinogen and then found no evidence of tumours.
But, in a number of studies, there has been no evidence found that it works as a treatment - not even in mice.
And in 2010, it was found that sharks could in fact develop cancer after a female nurse shark in Indianapolis Zoo was found to have a melanoma.
Coffee enemas help Ellen said: "Coffee enemas were popular for a while.
Sites were coming up advertising that they could do something to the make-up of the bowel and that would cure cancer."
In fact, Cancer Research UK writes: "Coffee enemas have been linked to serious infections, dehydration, constipation, colitis (inflammation of the colon), and dangerous electrolyte imbalances or even death."
Ellen said the myth led many people to travel long distances to special clinics "being charged lots and lots of money".
It's a modern disease "There is the idea that it's a man-made modern disease," says Ellen.
"But it isn't - it's been found in Egyptian mummies."
One of these, from 2,250 years ago, was found with prostate cancer, while an ancient 1.7 million-year-old toe from South Africa was found to have an aggressive type of bone cancer.
Image copyright Google Image caption The midwife was dismissed by University Hospitals of Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust A midwife who admitted being "stupidly nosy" for looking up dozens of confidential medical records has been struck off.
Vicky Anne Bloxham, 38, viewed records of friends, an ex-boyfriend and colleagues over 14 years "without clinical justification", a panel found.
Mrs Bloxham told the panel she was "very ashamed and embarrassed" about her "completely inquisitive" actions.
She was sacked by University Hospitals of Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust.
The midwife from Leicester, who looked up records between October 2002 and January 2016, was dismissed by the trust last year.
An investigation began when a patient complained to the trust that Mrs Bloxham had passed on information from her medical records to another person, the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) heard.
The midwife initially denied using the computer system to view records, but broke down in tears when told it was possible to find out what records she had accessed.
Midlands Live: Local news and breaking stories Mrs Bloxham, who looked up her own records and a former neighbour's as well as viewing some people's records several times a day, claimed her actions also resulted from "fear about health, illness and death".
The midwife wrote to the panel she had "learnt a lesson" from the "unchangeable events".
"I hope to be able to move forward and put this harrowing time behind me," she said.
Panel chair Yvonne Brown said Mrs Bloxham had "abused her position of trust" over a sustained period.
"We are satisfied that Mrs Bloxham's misconduct will have brought the reputation of the profession into disrepute," she said.
University Hospitals of Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust added: "The midwife concerned has not worked for the trust in over a year.
"As soon as these allegations came to light, we launched an immediate investigation and referred this individual to the NMC."
The idea of NHS hospital patients recuperating in Airbnb-style accommodation has not been ruled out, health minister Philip Dunne has said.
Southend Hospital had been linked to a trial where hospital patients could be discharged to people's spare rooms.
The hospital distanced itself from the idea following criticism by politicians and health groups.
But Mr Dunne told BBC Radio 5 live he "wouldn't immediately reject it" as "one's got to trial different things".
The pilot scheme, proposed in Essex, would have seen some 30 hospital patients staying in local residents' spare rooms instead of in hospital while they waited to be discharged.
The idea followed warnings about delays in discharges from UK hospitals.
As part of the trial, healthcare start-up CareRooms said it would recruit "hosts" whose properties had spare rooms or annexes with a private bathroom.
Southend Hospital later said the pilot would not be supported until certain criteria had been met.
'New care models' However, when asked by the BBC's deputy political editor John Pienaar if the idea deserved a look, health minister MP Mr Dunne said: "Well, I wouldn't rule it out.
"This is not national policy, anything innovative needs to be very carefully scrutinised and assessed before we proceed with it.
"But I wouldn't, just as an immediate knee jerk, say that new models of care in the community are necessarily wrong."
Image copyright PA Image caption The idea followed warnings about delays in discharges from UK hospitals Mr Dunne added that the idea had involved "people who may have had minor procedures who need a bit of help".
It could also include B&B owners who were already medically trained and could offer accommodation, he said.
But Tom Abell, deputy chief executive of Southend University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, said: "While we welcome and encourage new ideas and innovation, there is no intention and there never has been for the hospital to support this pilot at this time."
A 'sticking plaster' The idea first emerged last week, when it sparked widespread debate.
Labour's shadow health minister Justin Madders said the scheme would be a "sticking plaster" for wider NHS issues, while shadow social care minister Barbara Keeley warned there were "clear safety risks".
Ex-Labour minister Lord Clark warned that "vulnerable patients" would be allocated to homes where the host had no "medical expertise".
However, Dr Harry Thirkettle, co-founder of CareRooms, said the idea could help patients who either live alone and do not have support leave hospital sooner.
He said that some people may find the scheme preferable to staying in hospital.
An NHS England spokesman said it was "good to hear innovative ideas from NHS staff", but the idea was "a long way from being implemented" and would need to be very "carefully assessed" before being tested.
Image copyright Getty Images People across the UK will wake up having gained an hour's sleep on Sunday morning, as the clocks go back heralding darker evenings and shorter days.
But how much do we know about sleep and its impact on our lives, from our health and mood, to how long we'll live?
1.
We're told to get our eight hours We often hear that we should all be getting eight hours' sleep a night.
Organisations from the NHS to the US National Sleep Foundation recommend it.
But where does this advice come from?
Studies carried out around the world, looking at how often diseases occur in different groups of people across a population, have come to the same conclusion: both short sleepers and long sleepers are more likely to have a range of diseases, and to live shorter lives.
But it's hard to tell whether it is short sleep that is causing disease or whether it is a symptom of a less healthy lifestyle.
Short sleepers are generally defined as those who regularly get less than six hours' sleep and long sleepers generally more than nine or 10 hours' a night.
Pre-puberty, children are recommended to get as much as 11 hours' sleep a night, however, and up to 18 hours a day for newborn babies.
Teenagers should sleep for up to 10 hours a night.
Shane O'Mara, professor of experimental brain research at Trinity College Dublin, says that, while it's difficult to tell whether poor sleep is a cause or a symptom of poor health, these relationships feed off each other.
For example, people who are less fit exercise less, which leads people to sleep badly, become exhausted and less likely to exercise, and so on.
We do know that chronic sleep deprivation - that is, under-sleeping by an hour or two a night over a period of time - has been linked time and again by scientists to poor health outcomes: you don't have to go for days without sleep to suffer these negative effects.
2.
What happens in your body when you don't sleep enough?
Poor sleep has been linked to a whole range of disorders.
A review of 153 studies with a total of more than five million participants found short sleep was significantly associated with diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, coronary heart disease and obesity.
Studies have shown that depriving people of enough sleep for only a few nights in a row can be enough to put healthy adults into a pre-diabetic state.
These moderate levels of sleep deprivation damaged their bodies' ability to control blood glucose levels.
Vaccines are less effective when we are sleep deprived, and sleep deprivation suppresses our immune system making us more prone to infection.
One study found participants who had fewer than seven hours of sleep were almost three times more likely to develop a cold than those who slept for seven hours or more.
People who don't sleep enough also appear to produce too much of the hormone ghrelin, associated with feeling hungry, and not enough of the hormone leptin, associated with feeling full, which may contribute to their risk of obesity.
There are also links to brain function and even in the long term to dementia.
Prof O'Mara explains that toxic debris builds up in your brain during the course of the day and waste is drained from the body during sleep.
If you don't sleep enough, you end up in a mildly concussed state, he says.
The impact of sleeping too much is less understood, but we do know it is linked to poorer health including a higher risk of cognitive decline in older adults.
3.
We need different types of sleep to repair ourselves After we fall asleep we go through cycles of "sleep stages", each cycle lasting between 60 and 100 minutes.
Each stage plays a different role in the many processes that happen in our body during sleep.
The first stage in each cycle is a drowsy, relaxed state between being awake and sleeping - breathing slows, muscles relax, the heart rate drops.
The second stage is a slightly deeper sleep - you may feel awake and this means that, on many nights, you may be asleep and not know it.
Stage three is deep sleep.
It is very hard to wake up during this period because it is when there is the lowest amount of activity in your body.
Stages two and three together are known as slow wave sleep which is usually dreamless.
After deep sleep we go back to stage two for a few minutes, and then enter dream sleep, also called REM (rapid eye movement).
As the name suggests, this is when dreaming happens.
In a full sleep cycle a person goes through all the stages of sleep from one to three, then back down to two briefly, before entering REM sleep.
Later cycles have longer periods of REM, so cutting sleep short has a disproportionately large effect on REM.
4.
Shift workers who have disturbed sleep get sick more often Shift work has been associated with a host of health problems.
Researchers have found shift workers who get too little sleep at the wrong time of day may be increasing their risk of diabetes and obesity.
Shift workers are significantly more likely to report "fair or bad" general health according to a 2013 NHS study, which also found people in this group were a lot more likely to have a "limiting longstanding illness" than those who don't work shifts.
People who work shifts are significantly more likely to take time off sick, according to figures from the Office for National Statistics.
There is a far bigger gap for non-manual workers than manual workers - lack of sleep seems to have a bigger impact on those doing more sedentary jobs.
5.
And many of us are feeling more sleep deprived than ever To judge from media reports, you'd think we were in the grip of a sleeplessness epidemic.
But are we really all more sleep deprived than before?
A big piece of research looking at data from 15 countries found a very mixed picture.
Six showed decreased sleep duration, seven increased sleep duration and two countries had mixed results.
Lots of a evidence suggests the amount we sleep hasn't changed that much in recent generations.
But if you ask people how sleep deprived they think they are, a different picture emerges.
So why do so many people report feeling tired?
It may be that this problem is concentrated in certain groups, making the trend harder to pick up on a population-wide level.
Sleep problems vary considerably by age and gender, according to one study of 2,000 British adults.
It found women at almost every age have more difficulty getting enough sleep than men.
The sexes are more or less level at adolescence but women begin to feel significantly more sleep deprived than men during the years where they may have young children, while work may become more demanding.
The gap then shrinks again later in life.
Caffeine and alcohol both affect sleep duration and quality.
And later nights and more social activities mean some of us are getting less rest, despite having the same number of hours of sleep, according to Prof Derk-Jan Dijk, of the University of Surrey's sleep research centre.
Some people may also sleep too little during the week and catch up at the weekend, bringing the average up but leaving those people feeling sleep deprived.
Adolescents are particularly at risk of becoming sleep deprived, according to Prof Dijk.
6.
But we didn't necessarily always sleep this way Aside from a few outliers - Margaret Thatcher could apparently get by on only four hours a night - people tend to go to bed in the late evening for around seven or eight hours.
But this wasn't necessarily always the norm according to Roger Ekirch, a history professor at Virginia Tech in the USA.
He published a paper in 2001 drawn from 16 years of research.
His subsequent book, At Day's Close, contained a wealth of historical evidence suggesting that hundreds of years ago, humans in many parts of the world slept in two distinct chunks.
Dr Ekirch uncovered more than 2,000 pieces of evidence in diaries, court records and literature which suggest people used to have a first sleep beginning shortly after dusk, followed by a waking period of a couple of hours, then a second sleep.
He thinks this means the body has a natural preference for segmented sleep.
Not all scientists agree.
Other researchers have found hunter-gatherer communities in the modern world who sleep in one block despite not having electric lighting.
This suggests sleeping in two blocks is not necessarily our default.
According to Dr Ekirch the shift from biphasal to monophasal sleep happened in the 19th Century because domestic lighting pushed bedtimes later with no corresponding change in rising time, improved lighting changed the human body clock, and the industrial revolution put a greater emphasis on productivity and efficiency.
7.
Phones are keeping teenagers awake Sleep experts say teenagers need up to 10 hours sleep a night, but almost half don't get this much according to the NHS.
Bedrooms are supposed to be a place of rest but are increasingly filled with distractions like laptops and mobile phones, making it harder for young people to nod off.
We have more different types of entertainment on offer than ever, making the temptation to stay awake greater.
The blue light emitted by electronic devices makes us feel less sleepy.
And the activity itself - be it talking to friends or watching TV - stimulates our brain when it should be winding down.
Digital Awareness UK and the Headmasters and Headmistresses Conference recommend a nightly "digital detox", putting mobile devices away for 90 minutes before lights out.
Last year the two organisations commissioned a poll which found a high proportion of young people check their phones after going to bed.
8.
Testing for sleep disorders is on the up More people are turning up at their doctors complaining of problems sleeping.
Analysing data collected by NHS England, the BBC found in June that the number of sleeping disorder tests had increased every year over the past decade.
There are a number of factors, but the biggest is probably the rise in obesity, according to Dr Guy Leschziner, a consultant neurologist at Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital's Sleep Disorders Centre.
The most common and fastest-growing complaint he sees is obstructive sleep apnoea - where the airway collapses and people stop breathing in their sleep - and this is strongly related to weight.
The media has also played a role because people are more likely to go to their GPs having read an article or searched for their symptoms online, he says.
The recommended treatment for insomnia is cognitive behavioural therapy, and doctors are increasingly aware that they shouldn't be prescribing sleeping pills.
But many still do because it's difficult to access non-drug based treatments, particularly outside big cities.
9.
Are other countries doing it differently?
One study looked at sleep habits in 20 industrialised countries.
It found variations of up to an hour in the time people went to bed and woke up, but overall sleep duration was fairly constant across countries.
Generally, if a population on average went to bed later, they woke up later too, although not in every case.
Researchers have concluded that social influences - hours worked, timing of school, leisure habits - play a far bigger role than the natural cycle of light and dark.
In Norway, where the period of lightness each day varies through the year from zero to 24 hours, sleep duration throughout the year only varies on average by about half an hour.
Both in countries like the UK, where dusk and dawn times vary considerably across the seasons, and in countries closer to the Equator where dusk and dawn times vary minimally, sleep duration remains constant through the year.
But what about the impact of artificial light?
A study of three communities who had no access to electricity, in Tanzania, Namibia and Bolivia, found the average sleep duration was 7.7 hours - in step with industrialised countries.
So sleep duration seems remarkably consistent throughout the world - it's the time we all go to bed and wake up that varies slightly.
These pre-industrialised communities did not fall asleep as soon as it got dark, but around three hours after sunset and generally woke before sunrise.
Most studies in this area suggest that artificial light delays sleep time but does not necessarily decrease overall sleep duration.
10.
Morning larks, night owls?
There have always been morning people and evening people.
We even have genetic evidence that backs this up.
But the introduction of artificial light appears to have exacerbated this effect, particularly for people who prefer to stay up late.
If you are already inclined towards being a night owl, artificial light will make you stay up even later.
About 30% of us tend towards being morning people and 30% towards being evening people, with the other 40% of us somewhere in the middle - although marginally more people prefer early rising to late nights.
We do have some control over our body clocks, however.
Those who are naturally late to bed and late to rise can try reducing their exposure to light in the evenings and making sure they get more light exposure in the daytime.
A team of researchers took a group of volunteers camping in Colorado, where they had no access to artificial light.
Only 48 hours was enough to shift the campers' body clocks forward by almost two hours.
Levels of melatonin, the hormone that tells our body to prepare for sleep, began rising earlier in the volunteers - their bodies were preparing for sleep much closer to sunset.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About 66,000 people in Wales live with the effects of stroke Caring for people who have suffered from stroke is costing Wales 1bn annually, according to a leading charity.
The Stroke Association has also warned the figure could almost triple to 2.8bn by 2035 if immediate action is not taken.
The charity said the "vast majority" of the financial burden is placed on families and carers.
Strokes cost the UK as a whole 25.6bn per year.
The break down of the 1bn annual cost of stroke to Wales is: 613m in informal care 204m in formal social care 133m in NHS care 58m in lost productivity 'Not acceptable' Ross Evans, interim-director for the Stroke Association in Wales, said: "With the number of people living with stroke set to soar, and the cost of the condition spiralling, we need radical changes to the way stroke is treated and managed in Wales.
"The majority of the vast financial burden caused by stroke is shouldered by thousands of families and carers, who give up everything, including their jobs, to look after loved ones whose lives are turned upside down in an instant.
"Stroke survivors without close family are left isolated, without the long-term support they desperately need.
Stroke is one of the biggest causes of adult disability in Wales and can leave people at any age unable to walk, speak, read or write.
"In the UK, for every person living with stroke, just 48 a year is spent on medical research compared to 118 for every dementia patient.
"This simply is not acceptable - we must change the story for stroke."
Image copyright Getty Images The study suggested that a sustained 60m investment across a number of priority areas of stroke research in the UK could lead to an overall saving of up to 10bn by 2035.
A Welsh Government spokesman said: "We are making good progress on stroke care across Wales.
More people than ever before are surviving strokes but we know we need to do even more to ensure the best possible care for stroke patients and their families.
"Whilst health boards are responsible for commissioning stroke services from their funding allocations, we also provide 1m annually to support the work of the Stroke Implementation Group."
Video The UK cities with atmospheres considered harmful by the World Health Organization are revealed in a new report by the Royal College of Physicians.
Video From a nightmarish clown to an angry goblin, or a White Walker, Manchester make-up artist Beth can become a terrifying monster in a matter of hours.
She says creating horror looks has helped her cope with depression and an eating disorder.
Beth wants to inspire young women to "invest in their talents" rather than feeling pressured to post "the perfect life and the perfect body" on social media.
"I went downhill and started to get depression, and I started to feel guilty about the food I ate," said the 24-year-old.
"When I started putting this passion I had into my face paints, I felt a lot more positive about myself."
"If you are passionate about something, don't hide it, do it," she added.
This clip is originally from BBC Radio 5 live.
Black Mamba's 'killing me but I need it' Darron's been sleeping rough on the streets of Birmingham since he got out of prison in December for shoplifting.
Video A group of breast cancer survivors in Kenya is making knitted prostheses for women who have been affected by the disease.
The Limau Cancer Connection in the capital, Nairobi, has been giving free "knitted knockers" to those who have had a breast removed.
Video journalist: Mercy Juma
Video Abortion was partially legalised in England, Wales and Scotland 50 years ago.
BBC 5 live brings together two women whove had an abortion, then and now.
Jess is 24 and had an abortion last year.
She said she really wants to be a mum one day, but it wasnt the right time for her to have a baby.
Bronwen also had an abortion as a young woman in the 1970s.
She said it was "a horrible situation" but after the procedure she felt a "huge sense of relief".
Video A pioneering project has begun which aims to get young people with life-limiting conditions to express their emotions and opinions.
Run by the University of Sheffield, it uses art to document the lives, fears and dreams of those taking part.
BBC Breakfast's Graham Satchell was given exclusive access and has been to meet some of them.
Video Declaring a US opioid emergency, President Donald Trump warns of addiction's perils by sharing a story about the "very, very tough, tough life" of his older brother, Fred, who died an alcoholic aged 43 in 1981.
Trump declares opioid public emergency
Video At this special educational needs school in north London, children on the autism spectrum practice yoga every week.
It's been so successful that the school is sending its teachers on a yoga teacher training course so that they can incorporate yoga classes into the curriculum.
Produced by Hannah Gelbart and Warren Moran.
Image copyright Margaret Wilson Image caption Former Flying Nightingale, Margaret Wilson, hopes to track down the family of a fellow nurse who died in the conflict One of the last living air ambulance nurses to have served during World War Two is seeking help with tracking down a former colleague's family.
Margaret Wilson, 95, was one of 95 nurses who risked their lives transporting nearly 100,000 wounded soldiers to British hospitals.
Known as the Flying Nightingales, the nurses went unrecognised until 2008.
Mrs Wilson says she hopes to contact the family of Margaret Walsh, one of two nurses who died in action.
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption Flying Nightingales were civilian volunteers who risked their lives The nurses were sent into mainland Europe from three bases in England from 1944.
Because their outbound planes were carrying ammunition supplies for the forces, they were unable to use the Red Cross emblem to protect them from attack.
Although the nurses were given parachutes, they were told they were not allowed to use them if the plane was shot down on its return from Europe.
Instead, they had to stay with the wounded soldiers and be on hand to provide medical support should anyone survive the crash.
In 2015, the BBC tracked down Lilian West who believed she was the last living Flying Nightingale.
But, following the article, London-born Mrs Wilson, who now lives in Perth, Australia, came forward.
She said had never been on an aircraft before she applied to join the Women's Auxiliary Air Force (WAAF).
"The reaction I would have now would be, 'Hey, no way.
I'm not going up there'," she said.
"But it's amazing the sort of things you do during a war."
Mrs Wilson was stationed at Down Ampney, in Gloucestershire, and shared a hut with another nurse - Margaret Walsh, whose plane went down over the Channel in April 1945.
Miss Walsh, 33, from Hove, Sussex, was lost along with the crew.
It is believed she was the daughter of Major Patrick Walsh and Mary Margaret Walsh "Margaret used to read cards and we used to take the mickey a little bit," said Mrs Wilson.
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption The nurses were told they must go down with their planes in case they could treat any crash survivors "One day I came back from my flight into the hut and I saw she was upset.
She was due to go out and she had obviously seen something on the cards.
"I said, 'If you are worried, I'll take your place on the plane.
No problem.
I'm all dressed to go.'
But Margaret wouldn't let me.
"I think the middle of the next day, we were told that the plane was lost over the Channel.
Margaret's body was never found.
"The incident still lives with me so clearly and it's one of my big sorrows I was never able to contact her family and talk to them about her.
I can still see her face - I can still remember her."
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption Each plane had one nurse treating up to 20 wounded soldiers Mrs Wilson made dozens of trips across the Channel between 1944 and 1945, transporting wounded soldiers and freed prisoners of war in RAF Dakota planes to British hospitals.
"Each plane had only one nurse to look after between 10 and 20 very badly wounded soldiers," she said.
"Some had lost legs and arms, some were blind and had injuries.
It was so sad.
They were mostly young boys, about the same age as me, 20 or 21 years old."
One of her last flights was on 8 May.
"We were halfway home when the pilot called out, "Hey boys!
The war is over!"
Well, I have never been kissed by so many men in my life," she said.
"We were all crying and laughing at the good news.
That was the happiest flight of all."
She left the air force in 1945 and got married.
However, she never mentioned her nursing career to her friends or family.
"My own sons didn't know until about 20 years ago," she said.
"My Australian friends were fuming when they found out about the award - I had never told them about what I did.
"I suppose it's a generational thing.
Personally, I don't think there was anything brave about it.
We were just doing a job.
We didn't expect any recognition."
The nurses' bravery was largely forgotten until 2008 when they were finally honoured for their bravery.
Mrs Wilson, who emigrated in 1968, was presented with a statue of Florence Nightingale and a letter signed by the Duchess of Cornwall at a ceremony in Australia.
Image copyright Margaret Wilson Image caption Margaret Wilson, pictured during the time she served She was also invited to a grand tea at a museum run by the Royal Australian Air Force where she was allowed to go inside an old Dakota.
"It brought back so many memories," she said.
"I am ashamed to say I shed a few tears."
Image copyright Getty Images Gordon Brown has revealed in a new memoir how he feared he might completely lose his eyesight during his third year in Downing Street.
The then-prime minister, who has been blind in one eye since his teens, told how he tore a retina in the other eye.
He did not tell colleagues and tried to carry on with his cabinet duties despite not being able to see properly.
He also writes about his struggles with "touchy-feely" modern politics and what he got wrong, and right, as PM.
"When I woke up in Downing Street one Monday in September (2009), I knew something was very wrong.
My vision was foggy," writes Mr Brown in My Life, Our Times.
"That morning, I was to visit the City Academy in Hackney to speak about our education reform agenda.
I kept the engagement, doing all I could to disguise the fact that I could see very little - discarding the prepared notes and speaking extemporaneously.
"Straight afterwards, I was driven to the consulting room of a prominent surgeon at the Moorfields Eye Hospital in London."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Gordon Brown visits the City Academy in Hackney in September 2009 Surgeons discovered the retina in his right eye was torn in two places.
They eventually decided not to operate, writes Mr Brown, who had lost the sight in his left eye following a teenage rugby accident.
"I am grateful that the (right) retina has held to this day and I feel lucky beyond words," he writes.
Downing Street released a statement at the time saying there had been "no change" in Mr Brown's eyesight and his visit to the hospital had been "part of regular checks on his eyes and this check was also fine".
Mr Brown, who took over as prime minister from Tony Blair in June 2007, without a Labour leadership contest, also writes about his regret that he could not convince voters of the need for "radical" reforms in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mr Brown struggled to master social media during his time in power Referring to his decision to bail out the banks and co-ordinate international recovery efforts, he says: "We won the battle - to escape recession.
But we lost the war - to build something better.
"I fell short in communicating my ideas.
I failed to rally the nation around the necessary fiscal stimulus and my plans for radical change.
"Banking should have been transformed, our international institutions refashioned, inequality radically reversed - and if we are to be properly equipped to face the next crisis this is still the agenda we must pursue."
Mr Brown, who lost power in the 2010 general election to a coalition government headed by Conservative leader David Cameron, also writes about his struggles with social media and personality politics.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Browns kept their sons out of the spotlight until their final day in Downing Street "The modern version of 'connecting' seems to increasingly include a public display of emotion, with the latter - authentic or not - seen as evidence of a sincerity required for political success," he writes.
"In a far more touchy-feely era, our leaders speak of public issues in intensely personal ways and assume they can win votes simply by telling their electors that they 'feel their pain'.
"For me, being conspicuously demonstrative is uncomfortable."
He says he managed to keep his two sons out of the media spotlight and resisted pressure during his time in politics to "cultivate an image that made the personal constantly public - reticence was the rule".
He also uses the book - to be published next month - to take a swipe at social media, saying: "During my time as an MP I never mastered the capacity to leave a good impression or sculpt my public image in 140 characters.
"Now no politician can succeed without mastering social media - and yet, in it, the prime minister becomes one among millions of voices competing to be heard."
He says he "fully understands" the need to "lighten up to get a message across" and accepts that "in the second decade of the 21st Century, a sense of personal reserve can limit the appeal and rapport of a leader".
But he adds: "Really, to my mind, what mattered was not what I said about myself, but simply what our government could do for our country."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sources being checked for new antibiotics include the blood of Komodo dragons Over-reliance on and misuse of antibiotics has led to warnings of a future without effective medicines.
Why is it so difficult for scientists to discover new drugs?
It's a tale of scientific discovery taught the world over: the serendipitous find of a mould that revolutionised modern medicine.
Almost 90 years ago, Alexander Fleming returned from holiday to find Penicillium on Petri dishes left in his basement laboratory at St Mary's Hospital in London.
By the 1950s, the golden age of antibiotic discovery, an array of new medicines was being found.
Today, scientists are searching for a new breakthrough, testing microbes in sources as diverse as soil, caves and Komodo dragon blood, as well as developing new, lab-made synthetic drugs.
Yet despite these remarkable advances, we are running out of effective antibiotics - the drugs that fight infection and are essential for everything from organ transplants to the treatment of food poisoning.
Deadly bacteria resistant to penicillin, or the more than 100 different antibiotics since developed, are already killing 700,000 people every year.
Unchecked, the global toll could rise to 10 million a year by 2050.
If the problem is so serious, why, in this age of incredible medical and scientific endeavour and advance, is it so difficult to get the new antibiotics the world so desperately needs?
Racing the superbugs The answer lies partly in scientific challenge and partly in the broken economy of research and development work.
Perhaps the less well known part of Fleming's story is the long period of research and collaboration which followed, before, in the 1940s, Penicillium became the world's first antibiotic.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Alexander Fleming in his laboratory at St Mary's Hospital Or that Fleming himself cautioned from the earliest days that bacteria could become resistant to drugs.
As a patient, antibiotics can seem such a simple treatment for infection, but the pills have a complex relationship with the very bacteria they are designed to destroy.
All microorganisms evolve and those that develop defences against antibiotics will survive, while the defenceless will be killed.
The more antibiotics we use, the faster the process of bacteria developing resistance becomes.
The result of misuse and overuse, in human and animal health, is a continual race to stay ahead of the superbugs.
Surprising sources for antibiotics being investigated Years of testing It's easy to find chemicals that kill bacteria.
The challenge is that it's much more difficult to discover and develop substances that are not also toxic to humans.
The path from discovery to clinically approved medicine is necessarily long and the failure rate is high.
The process starts with basic research to identify organisms which produce antibiotic substances.
Thousands of possibilities will be screened - a process which in itself can take years.
Scientists look at different chemicals, combinations of chemicals and ways to weaken bacteria.
Some might try to attack the cell wall; others interfere with the way the bacterial cell functions, or with its metabolism.
When a candidate is found this must be tested on known infectious bacteria.
Then, if the results are promising, it will be tested for its possible toxicity to humans and must be produced at scale.
Only then can the years of clinical trials begin.
In total it takes around 10 to 20 years from discovery to medicine.
The overuse of antibiotics A fifth of antibiotic prescriptions are unnecessary, Public Health England says Coughs or bronchitis may take three weeks to clear on their own, but antibiotics reduce that by just one to two days, it says An estimated 5,000 people die in England each year as a result of drug-resistant infections Worldwide, if unaddressed, drug-resistant infections could kill more people than cancer by 2050 Animals consume a large proportion of antibiotics - as much as 80% in the US No new discoveries Of course, with complexity and uncertainty comes cost.
This is where the broken economy comes into play.
Antibiotics are not only complex to develop, the most innovative new products also cannot be sold freely.
Instead, they must be put on the shelf in reserve for serious cases - as is the case with colistin, the "drug of last resort".
This doesn't present an appealing investment opportunity, and over the past 30 years pharmaceutical companies have significantly decreased their work developing new antibacterial therapies.
No new classes of antibiotics have been invented for decades.
In fact, all the antibiotics brought to the market in the past 30 years have been variations on existing drugs discovered by 1984.
Most worryingly, it was as long ago as 1962 that the last new class of antibiotics to treat those infected by the most resistant gram-negative superbugs was discovered.
These include multi drug-resistant bacteria which can cause severe and often deadly bloodstream infections and pneumonia.
They pose a particular threat in hospitals, nursing homes and for patients treated with devices such as ventilators and catheters.
Other priorities include increasingly drug-resistant bacteria that cause more common diseases such as gonorrhoea and food poisoning caused by salmonella.
In recent years, as awareness of drug-resistant infections has increased and politicians have taken heed of the warnings long given by doctors and scientists, the public and private sectors have begun to work together to find solutions.
As of May 2017, a total of 51 antibiotics were in the clinical pipeline - around a third targeting priority pathogens, 12 families of bacteria seen as posing the greatest threat to human health.
But only a small number are innovative products - those not based on existing classes of antibiotics.
Not just luck New drugs are vital but they are only part of the solution.
We also need to explore the potential for vaccines to protect against infection in the first place.
Image copyright Getty Images And better, more accurate diagnosis of infections could help doctors know as quickly as possible the best and most appropriate treatments.
We also need a better understanding of where drug-resistant infections are spreading, not just in people, but also in animals and the environment.
Improving hygiene in hospitals, clinics and communities across the world would help stop infection taking hold in the first place.
If we are to succeed in getting and staying ahead of superbugs we cannot rely on Fleming's luck in 1928.
More needs to be done to ensure industry and governments work together to test promising treatments and bring them to market.
Perhaps most importantly of all, we must give this miraculous and marvellous medicine the respect it deserves.
Antibiotics, old and new, are a valuable resource, to be used only when necessary for protecting and improving health.
About this piece This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation.
Tim Jinks is head of drug-resistant infections at the Wellcome Trust, which describes itself as a global charitable foundation working to improve health for everyone.
The Wellcome Trust is supporting antibiotic discovery through its US partnership, CARB-X.
In the past year it has announced funding for 18 projects targeting the most urgent drug-resistant gram-negative bacteria, including eight potential new classes of antibiotics.
Edited by Duncan Walker
Image copyright sturti Image caption Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet requirements without workers from abroad The proportion of EU nationals leaving jobs in the NHS is rising, while the share of those joining is shrinking.
The BBC analysed NHS Digital figures, which showed the trend in England over the past two-and-a-half years.
Health experts say the UK's decision to leave the European Union in June 2016 was behind the trend.
The Department of Health says new language requirements for EU nurses may have played a part.
The analysis comes days after the Care Quality Commission (CQC) said the health system was "straining at the seams" and faced a "precarious" future, highlighting staff shortages and rising vacancy rates.
What do the figures show?
In the last full year before the referendum - 2015 - there were 7,535 EU nationals who left NHS Trusts, making up 5.6% of workers of all nationalities leaving their jobs.
The following year, EU nationals accounted for 6.6% of all leavers, and in the first six months of this year, they made up 7.4%.
The pattern was repeated in 80 NHS Trusts out of 240 across England.
The proportion of EU staff joining fell over the same period.
In 2015 EU nationals made up 10% of new joiners.
In the first six months of 2017, they accounted for 8.2%.
That trend was reflected in 62 trusts.
Danny Mortimer, co-convenor of the Cavendish Coalition, which represents health and social care organisations, said: "This analysis starts to confirm anecdotal stories we are hearing from our members, especially in the South East.
"Our members don't feel able to recruit in big numbers.
"There are practical challenges like the exchange rate [between the pound and the euro] is weak - and the number of people choosing to leave is increasing."
The trend was more pronounced when focussing solely on nurses.
In the year before the vote, EU nurses made up 7.6% of all the nurses leaving nationally, rising to 11.5% in the first six months of 2017.
Almost one in five nurses, 6,299 out of 34,595, joining the NHS in 2015 came from other EU member states.
In the first six months of 2017 this had fallen to just one in 10 newly-recruited nurses.
One source told the BBC of at least one NHS trust that had abandoned a recruitment fair on the continent due to poor response rates.
The General Medical Council surveyed more than 2,000 doctors from the European Economic Area (EEA) in February and of the 60% who said they were thinking of leaving the UK at some point in the future, nine in 10 said the UK's decision to leave the EU was a factor in their considerations.
Janet Davies, chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, said: "A nurse who trained in Lyon or Lisbon is as much a part of the NHS family as one trained in London.
But sadly, it is no surprise that so many are leaving - few can live with the uncertainty.
"During the Brexit negotiations, [Prime Minister] Theresa May must reassure nurses from around Europe that they are needed and welcome in the NHS.
It would not survive without their contribution."
Overall, the NHS says there are around 3,200 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum, as the size of the health service continues to grow.
Over the same period, there has been a slight reduction of 162 nurses, which it suggests may be down to the Nursing and Midwifery Council introducing new language requirements in January 2016, making it more difficult to be eligible for employment.
But our analysis shows the growth is slowing.
The year-on-year percentage increase in the EU workforce dropped from 16.8% in 2015 to 2.7% in the first six months of 2017.
Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet staffing requirements without workers from abroad, although the government wants to make the country "self-sufficient" in training doctors and create thousands more nursing training places to boost the domestic workforce.
The Commons Health Select Committee previously began to take evidence on the implications of Brexit but postponed its inquiry when the snap General Election was called for June 2017.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt had told the committee the government had stopped short of publishing its own analysis because "the publication of what might be called the worst-case scenario could itself have an impact on negotiations".
Dr Andrew Dearden, the treasurer of the British Medical Association, said: "We know that Brexit has already had a huge impact on the morale of EU NHS staff working here.
Our own research has shown us that more than four in ten EU NHS staff are considering leaving the UK following the EU referendum result."
A spokeswoman for the Department of Health said: "There are 3,193 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum we have been absolutely clear that these staff play a vital role in the NHS and want to see their excellent work continue long after the UK leaves the EU.
"However, we recognise the NHS also needs more home-grown staff, so we'll be training an extra 1,500 doctors and 10,000 nurses, midwives and allied health professionals a year by 2020 to ensure the NHS has the workforce it needs both now and in the future."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Health secretary Jeremy Hunt has promised more training places for home-grown doctors and nurses Across the UK In Wales, the proportion of EU nationals leaving the NHS was 2.5% the year before the referendum, rising to 3.5% in 2015-16 when the vote took place.
It has since returned to 3%.
Neither NHS Scotland or The Department of Health in Northern Ireland records the nationality of leavers and joiners.
More about this story The Shared Data Hub makes data journalism available to news organisations across the media industry, as part of a partnership between the BBC and the News Media Association.
For more information on methodology, click here.
For the full dataset, click here.
The figures do not include data for GPs and practice staff or Clinical Commissioning Groups, and concern headcount rather than full-time equivalent posts.
Image copyright Other At any one time, a sixth of the population in England aged 16 to 64 have a mental health problem, according to statistics body NHS Digital.
Whether it is family or friends, neighbours or work colleagues, the chances are we all know someone who is affected.
And bearing in mind the figure leaves out less common conditions and is a snapshot in time, you could easily argue it is even more prevalent than that.
Indeed many do.
With Prime Minister Theresa May expected to announce plans to improve care next week, these 10 charts show the extent of the challenge.
1.
Problems are on the increase It seems to be getting more common - or at least among those with severe symptoms.
While the proportion of people affected does not appear to have risen in the past few years, if you go back a little further there has certainly been a steady increase.
Evidence from the NHS Digital study in England shows the rise has been driven by an increase in women with illness.
Why is this?
Undoubtedly some of it is down to people being more willing to report and admit mental health problems.
Experts point to the way self-harm in particular is recognised in a way it was not 20 or 30 years ago.
But it is also clear 21st Century life is taking its toll on some people.
Economic uncertainty, social media, the influence of the media and rising expectations of what life should be like have all been suggested as possible causes.
2.
Women are now more likely to be affected Women are now much more likely to have a common mental illness.
One in five report they have, compared with one in eight men in England.
If you include only those with severe symptoms, the difference is less acute, but still apparent.
Young people are particularly susceptible.
A number of theories have been put forward for this.
The economic uncertainty of the past decade has particularly affected the young, making it harder to get on the career ladder.
And psychiatrists and mental health campaigners are increasingly raising questions about whether social media increases peer-group pressure and online bullying.
Whatever the reason, the one thing experts are agreed on is that the figures are shocking.
3.
But men are more likely to take their own lives Mental health problems prompt thousands of people to take their own lives.
In fact there are about 6,000 suicides in the UK each year and it's the biggest killer of men up to the age of 49.
Men account for three-quarters of the total figure.
The best overall measure is the number of suicides per 100,000 people.
That's because, with a rising population, the absolute figure is almost bound to go up.
Since the 1980s, the trend is down.
There's quite a big national variation, with England having the lowest suicide rate and Northern Ireland the highest.
Scotland and Wales have similar rates and are in the middle.
4.
Mental health problems tend to start early As already mentioned, mental health problems are particularly common in the young in the UK.
In fact, most mental health problems develop in childhood or when a person is a young adult.
Three-quarters of problems are established by the age of 24.
It is why there is such an emphasis at the moment on addressing childhood mental illness.
In 2015, the government promised funding for child and adolescent mental health services would increase.
5.
Mental health services are the poor relation when it comes to funding Extra money has also been earmarked for adult services in England.
Together with the investment in children's services it means by 2020-21 1.28bn more should be spent in real terms than was in 2015-16.
Ministers say the money will be used to put mental health services in A&E, more crisis teams in the community and a focus on helping new mothers, with one in five reporting problems in the first year after the birth of their baby.
But an analysis last year by the King's Fund health think tank found 40% of mental health trusts in England had actually seen their budgets cut in 2015-16.
The government is adamant things will change.
They have to.
While 23% of NHS activity is taken up by mental illness, mental health trusts have been receiving only about 11% of funding in recent years.
Extra investment is being made in the other parts of the UK.
Wales and Scotland have both recently unveiled new plans.
But like England, mental health remains the poor cousin compared to the spending on physical ailments.
6.
A nation of pill-poppers?
The promise of investment has also been accompanied by a desire to reshape services - and particularly how quickly we can access them.
The government established the first set of waiting time targets for the NHS in England in 2016.
They mean the health service should be providing access to talking therapies within 18 weeks and treatment for those experiencing their first episode of psychosis within two weeks for at least half of people.
Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland all have their own targets too.
But drugs are still the most common form of treatment.
The number of medicines dispensed for anxiety, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and panic attacks has more than doubled in the past 10 years.
An increase in the numbers of people getting antidepressants is clearly a factor.
But so too is the fact prescribing patterns have changed.
Doctors are much more likely to keep people on drugs for longer with evidence suggesting it is a more effective way of treating patients.
But as common as antidepressants are, the fact remains the majority of people with mental illness report they are not getting help.
Only one in three of those polled said they were receiving treatment, according to NHS Digital.
7.
More and more people are being detained With the high rates of non-treatment in mind, it perhaps should not come as a surprise that there is an upwards trend in England in the number of people being detained under the Mental Health Act.
Campaigners say patients in crisis are given just enough treatment to stabilise them before being sent home too early to ease pressure on beds.
What happens then?
They suffer another crisis and are detained again.
So some people spend years being detained over and over again without ever getting well.
8.
A long way from home The pressure on the system also manifests itself in long journeys for treatment.
Last year a major report looked at the issue and pointed to thousands of people being sent more than 30 miles for services like acute care, psychiatric intensive care or rehabilitation.
In some rural areas, of course, travelling long distances is not that uncommon for all sorts of care.
But that's not the point, said the report.
Far too many people in towns and cities, where services should be easier to access, are affected, and the situation was "unacceptable".
Everyone knows it's a problem.
Nobody likes it, and it can be massively disruptive for patients and their families.
Yet an awful lot of sufferers of mental ill health travel a long, long way to get treatment.
And, according to the British Medical Association, things are getting worse not better.
In fact, it says, there's been a "startling rise" in the number of patients being sent out of area for treatment, a rise of nearly 40% between 2014-15 and 2016-17 to 5,876 adults.
One patient they found had been sent from Somerset to the Highlands, a journey of 587 miles.
9.
It's not all bad news...
The use of police cells for people in mental health crisis has attracted huge disquiet, not least among officers themselves.
In a rare public statement of concern from a senior police chief, Devon and Cornwall Assistant Chief Constable Paul Netherton tweeted "#unacceptable" when a 16-year-old girl was held for two days in a cell in 2015 because no beds were available.
That caused quite a stir among officers, patients and distraught families who felt that police cells were the last place someone in a health crisis should be held.
But now the use of police cells is down - at least in England and Wales, though figures in Scotland suggest it may have gone up.
In England and Wales it has fallen by more than half from 4,500 in 2014-15 to just over 2,000 in 2015-16, according to the National Police Chiefs' Council.
The NPCC also says the downward change is even bigger for under 18s to just 43 cases in 2015-16.
10.
It's Time to Change But perhaps the most promising development in terms of mental health is the changing attitude towards mental illness.
A public campaign called Time to Change was launched in 2009 by leading charities Mind and Rethink.
It has been supported by the lottery and government along the way - and seems to be working.
Latest results from the National Attitudes to Mental Illness Survey, released in May, showed people's willingness to work, live with and live nearby someone with a mental health problem has been improving in England.
Campaigners have described the progress as wonderful but warn against complacency.
Despite the improvements, nearly nine in 10 people who have had mental health problems report they have suffered stigma and discrimination.
For all the positives, there's a long way to go, it seems.
Image copyright Gareth Down Image caption Gareth, who now has a son, says male fertility should be treated like any other medical condition Male infertility care can be insensitive and one-sided, says charity Fertility Network UK which has surveyed men seeking help to become fathers.
Men can feel excluded, with female partners being the main focus of attention in clinics, it found.
The charity says men's needs are too often ignored, which must change.
Gareth Down, 31, set up a support group for men with fertility problems because he says he had nowhere to turn for help when he needed it.
Men's feelings At the age of 20, in a blunt conversation with his GP, he was told tests showed he had no sperm.
After eight years, nine cycles of treatment and four miscarriages, he and his wife Nat finally had a baby 17 months ago.
He said a men-only space for sharing experiences was important, and would have made him feel much better about his personal situation.
"I just wanted to rant sometimes, but I didn't feel my thoughts were valid.
"Women are the ones having to go through it all and I felt I didn't have a right to talk or complain.
"But now I can say in confidence what other men feel.
"It just makes you feel less alone."
Gareth says the long, agonising wait for a baby "nearly broke us many times over".
He says male fertility should be treated like any other medical condition.
"It's still quite a taboo subject - made even worse when you're made to feel like you're wasting NHS time and resources."
Overlooked Fertility Network UK says very little is known about how men cope with infertility - men are often reluctant to share their experiences.
Forty-one men responded to its online questionnaire, designed with researchers from Leeds Beckett University.
On average, men who responded had been trying for a baby for five years and most had suffered directly from male infertility.
Nearly all the men said fertility problems had affected their wellbeing, with many saying they felt worthless or "less of a man".
Many felt excluded or marginalised.
One man said: "The whole experience has been focused towards my wife even consultants' letters about my genitalia are addressed to my wife.
There seems to be no equality."
Another said: "I now know what it feels like to be identified on official documentation as an appendage to one's spouse."
'Suffer in silence' Some said they were treated insensitively: "A very rude GP then on the analysis result, rather than explaining the result, called me at work to ask if I had had a vasectomy."
A lack of emotional support for men going through treatment for infertility was another common complaint.
"There are always women in the media admitting that they have had infertility issues but we do rarely hear about the man.
I know it is a big issue for men and the risk of being called 'less of a man' but I feel infertility is something that many men suffer in silence, fearful of being called hurtful names.
"It is a silent problem that many men suffer," said one of the men who responded to the anonymous survey.
Susan Seenan, chief executive of Fertility Network UK, urged men to speak out and said clinics should pay extra attention to the care needs of the men they see and treat.
"Men are half of the fertility equation; when they cannot create the family they long for without medical help they suffer and struggle physically and mentally just as women do."
What are the causes of male infertility?
There are many reasons why men can be infertile.
The most common cause is poor quality semen, the fluid containing sperm, either because there is a low sperm count, the sperm isn't moving properly or it is abnormal.
Damaged testicles, ejaculation disorders and low levels of testosterone - the male sex hormone - can also cause infertility.
However, 25% of cases of infertility are unexplained in the UK.
Tests to find out the causes of male infertility include semen analysis and a urine test.
More information on how infertility can be treated is available on NHS Choices.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ian Goldsworthy says bars across the windows have made his son's bedroom "look like a cell" Parents struggling to cope with their violent autistic children are not being properly supported by local authorities, the National Autistic Society says.
For some, a violent outburst can be a daily occurrence.
"I'm scared of him.
You live on a knife edge.
You don't know what's coming next," Lucy Goldsworthy told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme.
She has previously been left with a split lip and bruising following her son Elliot's violent outbursts, while her husband Ian has been left with a scratched cornea.
Twelve-year-old Elliot has autism and learning difficulties which, in his case, means he is unable to speak.
His condition requires round-the-clock care and he does not understand the effects of his actions.
Ian and Lucy say their son became violent and aggressive from the age of five.
At his current age, he is becoming increasingly difficult to control.
"If it was a toddler, having a huge tantrum, scratching and kicking you, you can manage it better," Lucy says.
"Whereas when Elliot does it, it's like a small man suddenly attacking you.
Image caption Elliot's bedroom has bars across the window for his safety "He's still only violent 5% of the time - but the consequences of that violence are getting worse and worse."
Ian and Lucy have had to put bars across the window in Elliot's bedroom and locks on the door to help keep him - and their other children - safe.
"You kind of get used to your child's bedroom looking like a cell of some kind," Ian says.
Elliot attends a special school, but the couple say they do not get enough specialist support from their local council.
"You have to get to the point where one of you is hospitalised or you've had to call the police out [for help to arrive]," they say.
For its part, the family's local authority, Hertfordshire County Council, says it does provide a range of care support and is deciding if more help is needed.
Image caption "Sam" says she asked for help on a number of occasions One woman who wished to remain anonymous, "Sam", says she "cried and cried" for help from her local authority to look after her teenage son.
She had hoped that one incident, which required her to have a head wound glued after he became violent, would act as a "turning point".
"At first I got a bit of help," she says, before claiming that the council later tried to "wash their hands" of her - providing her with 48 hours' worth of support a year.
What services can families expect?
Assessment of the problems that may provoke challenging behaviour A care plan outlining steps needed to manage it Help to increase structure and minimise unpredictability If all else fails, anti-psychotic medication can be considered Information from NICE Guidelines for health and social care professionals One 2011 study, of nearly 1,400 children with autism in the US, found more than half were aggressive or violent towards their families or carers.
Tim Nicholls, from the National Autistic Society, believes parents and families need more support "to help them avoid or de-escalate challenging behaviour".
"Some examples of this would be helping them with positive behavioural strategies or respite for the young person," he adds.
Image caption Tim Nicholls says support systems must identify the needs of autistic children Mr Nicholls is calling on local authorities and NHS England to improve the care they provide.
"If children are not having their needs met, then they are being failed," he says.
"We need a special educational needs and disabilities system that identifies all the needs of autistic children, then puts in place the support and the services to allow them to live the life that they and their families want to live."
'His nature is gentle' Nineteen-year-old Cameron is one of 700,000 people in the UK on the autism spectrum.
He was diagnosed at the age of three.
"Sometimes you don't know how Cameron's going to react and it is very scary," says his father, Doug Clements.
"The [other] children have to lock themselves in the room because they are so scared."
At the moment, Cameron goes to a specialist centre each day.
However, life at home has become very difficult, and his parents are currently looking for a residential care home for him, run by the local authority for children and vulnerable adults, close to their own home in Surrey.
Image caption "It's horrible, because I love him so much," says Hannah Clements of her son Cameron His mother, Hannah, says the family can no longer manage Cameron's behaviour.
"It's really upsetting, because I love him so much," she says.
"I don't want people to be scared of him, because his nature is gentle.
"I feel sorry for him because he's frustrated, and he can't tell me why or other people why."
Hannah says in the last six years, they have had "no direction at all" from support services, but Surrey County Council said it continued to offer respite care and day support to the family.
'Gone to bed sobbing' NHS England says it has "set out a clear programme" for those with learning difficulties and autism to "enable more people to live in the community, with the right support, and close to home".
However, the Local Government Association says that while "councils are working hard to make sure children with autism and other special needs get access to the support they need... they have been put in an impossible situation due to increasing demand and historic underfunding".
Elliot Goldsworthy's parents believe their need for support will only become greater as their son gets older.
"We've definitely had moments when we've gone to bed sobbing, and despairing at how this is our life," says Ian.
"But you can't wallow in it too long, because you've got exactly the same life the next day."
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News Channel.
For nearly two decades Sweden has been battling a mysterious illness.
Called Resignation Syndrome, it affects only the children of asylum-seekers, who withdraw completely, ceasing to walk or talk, or open their eyes.
Eventually they recover.
But why does this only seem to occur in Sweden?
When her father picks her up from her wheelchair, nine-year-old Sophie is lifeless.
In contrast, her hair is thick and shiny - like a healthy child's.
But Sophie's eyes are closed.
And under her tracksuit bottoms she wears a nappy.
A transparent feeding tube runs into Sophie's nose - this is how she has been nourished for the past 20 months.
Sophie and her family are asylum seekers from the former USSR.
They arrived in December 2015 and live in accommodation allocated to refugees in a small town in central Sweden.
"Her blood pressure is quite normal," says Dr Elisabeth Hultcrantz, a volunteer with Doctors of the World.
"But she has a high pulse rate, so maybe she's reacting to so many people coming to visit her today."
Hultcrantz tests Sophie's reflexes.
Everything works normally.
But the child does not stir.
An ENT surgeon before she retired, Hultcrantz is worried because Sophie does not ever open her mouth.
This could be dangerous, because if there were a problem with her feeding tube, Sophie could choke.
Image caption Elisabeth Hultcrantz: Children disconnect the conscious part of their brain So how could a child who loved to dance become so deeply inert?
"When I explain to the parents what has happened, I tell them the world has been so terrible that Sophie has gone into herself and disconnected the conscious part of her brain," says Hultcrantz.
The health professionals who treat these children agree that trauma is what has caused them to withdraw from the world.
The children who are most vulnerable are those who have witnessed extreme violence - often against their parents - or whose families have fled a deeply insecure environment.
To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden Karl Sallin, Paediatrician Sophie's parents have a terrifying story of extortion and persecution by a local mafia.
In September 2015 their car was stopped by men in police uniform.
"We were dragged out.
Sophie was in the car so she witnessed me and her mother being roughly beaten," remembers Sophie's father.
The men let Sophie's mother go - she grabbed her daughter and ran.
But Sophie's father did not escape.
"They took me away and then I don't remember anything," he says.
Sophie's mother took her to a friend's home.
The little girl was very upset.
She cried, shouted "Please go and find my dad!
", and beat the wall with her feet.
Three days later, her father made contact, and from then on the family remained on the move, hiding in friends' homes until they left for Sweden three months later.
On arrival, they were held for hours by Swedish police.
Then, quite quickly, Sophie deteriorated.
"After a couple of days, I noticed she wasn't playing as much as she used to with her sister," says Sophie's mother, who is expecting a new baby next month.
Soon afterwards, the family was informed they could not stay in Sweden.
Sophie heard everything in that meeting with the Migration Board, and it was at this point that she stopped speaking and eating.
Resignation Syndrome was first reported in Sweden in the late 1990s.
More than 400 cases were reported in the two years from 2003-2005.
As more Swedes began to worry about the consequences of immigration, these "apathetic children", as they were known, became a huge political issue.
There were reports the children were faking it, and that parents were poisoning their offspring to secure residence.
None of those stories were proven.
Over the last decade, the number of children reported to be suffering from Resignation Syndrome has decreased.
Sweden's National Board of Health recently stated there were 169 cases in 2015 and 2016.
It remains the case that children from particular geographical and ethnic groups are the most vulnerable: those from the former USSR, the Balkans, Roma children, and most recently the Yazidi.
Only a tiny number have been unaccompanied migrants, none have been African, and very few have been Asian.
Unlike Sophie, the children affected have often been living in Sweden for years, speak the language and are well-adjusted to their new, Nordic lives.
Numerous conditions resembling Resignation Syndrome have been reported before - among Nazi concentration camp inmates, for example.
In the UK, a similar condition - Pervasive Refusal Syndrome - was identified in children in the early 1990s, but there have been only a tiny handful of cases, and none of them among asylum seekers.
"To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden," writes Dr Karl Sallin, a paediatrician at the Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital, part of Karolinska University Hospital in Stockholm.
Find out more Image caption Sophie's mother, sister and father Listen to Sweden's Child Migrant Mystery on Assignment, on the BBC World Service For transmission times or to catch up online, click here So how can an illness respect national boundaries?
There is no definitive answer to that question, says Sallin, who is researching Resignation Syndrome for his PhD.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not Lars Dagson, Sophie's paediatrician "The most plausible explanation is that there are some sort of socio-cultural factors that are necessary in order for this condition to develop.
A certain way of reacting or responding to traumatic events seems to be legitimised in a certain context."
So somehow - and we do not know the mechanism for this, and why it should happen in Sweden - the kind of symptoms displayed by the children are culturally sanctioned: this is a way the children are allowed to express their trauma.
If that is the case, it raises an interesting question: could Resignation Syndrome be contagious?
"That is sort of implicit in the model.
That if you provide the right sort of nourishment for those kinds of behaviours in a society, you will also see more cases," says Sallin.
"If you look at the very first case in 1998 in the north of Sweden, as soon as that case was reported, there were other cases emerging in the same area.
And there have also been cases of siblings where first one develops it and then the other.
But it should be noted that researchers who proposed that model of disease, they are not certain that there needs to be direct contact between cases.
It's a topic for research."
Here Sallin hits on the main obstacle to understanding Resignation Syndrome - the lack of research into it.
No-one has done follow-up on what happens to these children, but we do know that they survive.
For Sophie's parents, that is hard to believe.
They have seen no change in their daughter in 20 months.
Their days are punctuated by Sophie's regime - exercises to stop her muscles wasting, attempts to engage her with music and cartoons, walks outside in a wheelchair, feeding and changing.
"You need to harden your heart with these cases," says Sophie's paediatrician, Dr Lars Dagson, who has seen her regularly throughout her illness.
"I can only keep her alive.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not."
Image caption Annica Carlshamre: This sickness has to do with trauma, not asylum Dagson shares the view commonly held among doctors treating children with Resignation Syndrome, that recovery depends on them feeling secure and that it is a permanent residence permit that kick-starts that process.
"In some way the child will have to sense that there's hope, something to live for That's the only way I can explain why having the right to stay would, in all the cases I've seen so far, change the situation."
Until recently, families with a sick child were allowed to stay.
But the arrival of some 300,000 migrants in the last three years has led to a change of heart.
Last year, a new temporary law came into force that limits all asylum seekers' chances of being granted permanent residence.
Applicants are granted either a three-year or 13-month visa.
Sophie's family have the latter, and it expires in March next year.
"What happens afterwards?
The real issue hasn't been dealt with - it's limbo," says Dagson.
He doubts Sophie will recover in 13 months.
"I can't say it's not possible, but it all depends how the parents sense this - are we going to stay after these 13 months?
If they're not sure about that, they cannot give Sophie the sense that everything is OK." But evidence from the town of Skara in the south of Sweden suggests that there is a way of curing children with Resignation Syndrome even if the family doesn't receive permanent residence.
"From our point of view, this particular sickness has to do with former trauma, not asylum," says Annica Carlshamre, a senior social worker for Gryning Health, a company that runs Solsidan, a home for all kinds of troubled children.
When children witness violence or threats against a parent, their most significant connection in the world is ripped apart, the carers at Solsidan believe.
"Then the child understands - my mother can't take care of me," Carlshamre explains.
"And they give up hope, because they know they are totally dependent on the parent.
When that happens, to where or what can the child turn?"
We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there Clara Ogren, Solsidan That family connection must be re-built, but first the child must begin to recover, so Solsidan's first step is to separate the children from their parents.
"We keep the family informed about their progress, but we don't let them talk because the child must depend on our staff.
Once we have separated the child, it takes only a few days, until we see the first signs that, yes, she's still there" All conversations about the migration process are banned in front of the child.
The children get up every day.
They have day clothes and night clothes, and experienced staff like Clara Ogren, help them colour or draw by holding their hands to grip a pencil.
"We play for them until they can play on their own.
And we goof around a lot and dance and listen to music.
We want to bring all their senses to life.
So we might take a little bit of Coca Cola, and put it in their mouth so they taste something sweet.
Even if they are tube-fed, we put them in the kitchen so they smell food," she says.
"We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there, but they just forgot or lost the sense of using them.
This work takes a lot of energy because we have to live for the children until they start to live on their own."
The longest time it took for a child to recover was six months.
Often the children will have no contact with their parents until they are able to talk to them on the phone.
Of the 35 children Calshamre has met over the years, one of them got permission to stay in Sweden while still at Solsidan.
The others recovered before their asylum status was assured.
A book - The Way Back - has recently been published about Solsidan, but its work is not well-known.
Could this kind of treatment help Sophie?
Twenty months is a very long time for a child of her age to be disengaged from the world.
What do her parents think will aid her recovery?
"Maybe the new baby when it comes will help," says Sophie's father.
Sophie's mother can only repeat what she has heard from the doctor.
"In order for Sophie to wake up, the doctor says she and her family should feel safe."
Their biggest fear is that they will be deported back to where they came from, and that the men who drove them out will find them.
"They promised they will kill us.
There is nothing more devastating that can happen."
In order to protect the family's identity, Sophie's name has been changed Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "I really struggled, it made me feel very alone and isolated", Becky said.
A woman who was told she would need open heart surgery aged 20 is campaigning to raise awareness of heart disease in young people.
Frustrated by a lack of education and support surrounding the disease, Becky Morgans, from Colwyn Bay, Conwy county, has set up a social media campaign called Beating Hearts.
It comes as charity Welsh Hearts revealed it has screened more than 1,400 16-35 year olds over the last year, with one session at the Principality Stadium in May leading to 32 referrals to treatment.
Here, she tells her story: I was 20.
Walking up the stairs I would get so out of breath.
I went to the doctor, thinking I had a chest infection.
She thought maybe I'd punctured a lung so she sent me to the local hospital and I had a chest X-ray.
It was the doctor there before I got discharged, listening in his stethoscope, who heard a heart murmur.
I thought, "what's a heart murmur?"
I was so naive at 20 years old.
I thought anything heart related was just a heart attack.
I always thought, because I've only ever lived in my body, that feeling my heart beat was normal, but it wasn't.
He explained that he thought my heart was leaking.
They diagnosed me and told me that I would have to have open heart surgery to fix it.
Image copyright Becky Morgan Image caption Becky spent time in intensive care I had surgery in January 2014 - an aortic valve replacement [her damaged valve was replaced with a tissue valve from a pig's heart].
It [her aorta] was twice the size and it could have ruptured.
I could have died if it was left.
I was terrified before.
I didn't know what the process was going to be.
It made me feel very alone and isolated.
I went on Google to try and find other people my age who had gone through it or were going through it because I wanted to talk to them.
I thought, "I can't be the only 21-year-old who is about to have open heart surgery".
I set up Beating Hearts on social media and so many people reached out.
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption Becky said Beating Hearts was "like a community now" and she has met "so many people" I didn't want it to be a cry for help, I didn't want sympathy.
I wanted it to help other people.
I think there needs to be more help, more understanding.
Maybe a nurse who gives you their number if you are confused, or want to know more about your condition, your surgery, your recovery.
Or if you're feeling like your head can't take it.
In February I tried to get some support, to speak to a counsellor.
I had to try three different websites, whereas back when I was 20 I would have just given up and thought there was no help.
Advertising needs to be relatable, to not just show children and then skip to retirement age - 18 to 35-year-olds who use social media need to know "I'm not the only one who's going through that".
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption "The scar for me was the biggest insecurity" Beating Hearts really went big on 27 April 2016 because there was a "Scars are Beautiful" campaign.
I did my first ever picture showing my scar because I was finally happy and confident with it.
I struggled having an eight-inch scar down my chest but it's only a scar, it doesn't make me who I am.
Rebecca Ferguson tweeted asking people why music is an inspiration to them, and I replied because music helped me.
She messaged me asking if I would feature in her recent music video "Superwoman".
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption X Factor singer Rebecca Ferguson set up hashtagsuperwoman.com for women of all ages to go online and chat I had one girl message me who was 14 years old who gets bullied in school.
She said my posts made her realise that her life wasn't that bad, and it made her feel better about her bullies.
It made me cry.
I met a lady called Kerry, who has had two open heart surgeries, who told me her daughter was doing a project on me in school.
It makes me realise what I'm doing is worth it and I should continue doing it.
In my eyes, if I can help one person it would be worth it.
I find it so much easier speaking to people online who have been through that, because I know they will have been through the same, so I open up a lot more.
When I speak to family and friends I feel like I have to hold back on what I say about my feelings or how a certain situation made me feel mentally.
I did my first speaking event with Chris Roberts, co-founder of the North Wales Dragons football team.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "We said it was like a counselling session" Chris messaged me and said: "I didn't realise you were from north Wales, I've been following you a while."
He had a heart attack, he was following me because of my heart journey and he asked if we could meet up because he was only down the road.
I'd never met the guy but because he has had a heart operation it was so easy to talk to him.
We said it was like a counselling session.
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption Chris Roberts and Becky Morgans now meet every two weeks This year's been quite tough, back in February my ECG results [a test which measures the electrical activity of your heart] showed increased gradient.
I know I have to have another operation in the future.
I will have to have a mechanical valve.
My aorta will need to be changed to a plastic tube.
That's always on your mind.
Every time you go to hospital changes could be happening, I could need the second operation already.
But it doesn't control my life, it's just part of my life.
Image copyright Getty Images When it comes to taking opioids, the United States has the dubious honour of leading the world.
For every one million Americans, almost 50,000 doses of opioids are taken every day.
That's four times the rate in the UK.
There are often good reasons for taking opioids.
Cancer patients use them for pain relief, as do patients recovering from surgery (codeine and morphine are opioids, for example).
But take too many and you have a problem.
And America certainly has a problem.
In two years, the town of Kermit in West Virginia received almost nine million opioid pills, according to a congressional committee.
Just 400 people live in Kermit.
Nationally, opioids killed more than 33,000 people in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
That figure includes deaths from heroin, an illegal opioid.
But almost half involved a prescription opioid - that is, a painkiller available from a pharmacy with a note from a doctor.
So why does America - more than any country in the world - have an opioid problem?
There is more than one cause.
But these are some of the most important.
American doctors prescribe - a lot Unlike most European countries, the US does not have universal healthcare paid for by taxes.
Instead, Americans must get their own insurance - usually via an employer or the government.
"Most insurance, especially for poor people, won't pay for anything but a pill," says Professor Judith Feinberg from the West Virginia University School of Medicine.
"Say you have a patient that's 45 years old.
They have lower back pain, you examine them, they have a muscle spasm.
"Really the best thing is physical therapy, but no one will pay for that.
So doctors get very ready to pull out the prescription pad.
"Even if the insurance covers physical therapy, you probably need prior authorisation (from the insurer) - which is a lot of time and paperwork."
The CDC says opioid prescriptions have fallen by 18% from their peak in 2010.
But the total is still three times higher than in 1999.
'I saw this drug on TV' The US and New Zealand are the only countries that allow prescription drugs to be advertised on television.
According to the research firm Kantar, spending on advertising by pharmaceutical companies in the US reached $6.4 billion in 2016 - a rise of 64% since 2012.
None of the 10 most-advertised brands in 2016 was an opioid.
But mass-marketing of drugs has an effect, says Professor Feinberg.
"As a clinician, people will come and say 'I saw this on TV - can you give me this drug'.
"Sometimes they were so confused, they were already on the drug - they were using the brand name, where I used the generic name."
In 2015, the American Medical Association called for a ban on adverts for prescription drugs.
It didn't happen.
Three months later, the extent of America's opioid culture was seen at half-time of the Superbowl - the country's most expensive advertising slot.
A 60-second ad was devoted to opioid-induced constipation.
The advert - paid for by AstraZeneca - advised sufferers to visit their doctor and "ask about prescription treatment options".
President Obama's chief of staff was not impressed.
Gifts to doctors In the US, it is common for drug companies to court doctors, in an effort to promote their products.
"When you're a doctor in the US, these detailing people (salespeople) come in from the industry," says Professor Keith Humphreys from Stanford University.
"They are invariably smooth, friendly, attractive, sharply dressed, adorable, they're giving out gifts to everybody.
They host dinners, they sponsor conferences, they sponsor junkets.
"That is going to affect prescribing."
For the past four years, the US government has published the amounts paid by drug and device companies to doctors and teaching hospitals.
The total in 2016 was more than $8bn.
More than 630,000 physicians had payment records.
For example, Purdue Pharma - which makes OxyContin, a popular opioid painkiller - made almost 80,000 transactions in 2016, worth more than $7m in total.
In 2016, a study looked at the link between doctors, the free meals they received from drug companies, and the medication they prescribed.
The study found receiving free meals was "associated with an increased rate of prescribing the promoted brand-name medication".
Pharmaceutical companies say their reps are merely sharing information with doctors.
But Professor Humphreys says there is a "corrupting" influence.
"We need a pharma industry, it's not that it's wrong," he says.
"But you can't let the fox guard the hen house.
"I would create completely clear blue water between the people that manufacture drugs and all the training and operation of the healthcare system."
Pharmaceutical companies also spend money on health care workers and organisations in other countries.
In the UK in 2016, companies gave 116m ($153m) to health workers and organisations for non-research and development in 2016.
But, although the UK figure is 7% higher than in 2015, it is less than 2% of the amount paid in the US.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The grandparents' burden: 'We don't resent the kids - but life's hard' Poor training Dr Richard Frank is professor of health economics at Harvard Business School, and served in the Health Department from 2009 to 2016, during President Obama's administration.
He thinks medical training in the US has not been good enough.
"Physicians have received almost no training in pain management," he says.
"Until recently they have been under some pretty important misconceptions about how addictive various products are."
He adds: "A couple of years ago I testified before congress when I was in government.
One of the representatives, before going into congress, was a thoracic surgeon.
"He noted that he had gotten almost no training in pain management - and what he had learned came entirely from the nursing staff he worked with."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The heroin-ravaged city in West Virginia fighting back against drug companies Dr Frank says medical training isn't the only reason for America's opioid problem.
"There's plenty of blame to go round," he says.
But his criticism is echoed by Professor Judith Feinberg.
"Doctors didn't learn anything about addiction at medical school," she says.
"That is now changing, but everyone who's a doctor already, didn't learn anything.
I learned about opioid drugs in the part of pharmacology where we learned about anaesthesia.
"Probably the whole topic of anaesthesia-like drugs was two hours.
People don't have much knowledge about opioids.
There was no curriculum that includes addiction."
Bad science?
In 1980, Dr Hershel Jick wrote a short letter to the New England Journal of Medicine.
It said that "despite widespread use of narcotic drugs in hospitals, the development of addiction is rare in medical patients with no history of addiction".
The claim has been debunked, and the letter now carries an online warning note.
But Dr Jick's letter had a big impact.
This year, Canadian researchers said the letter had been cited 600 times - usually to claim opioids weren't addictive.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "We're going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis" In the late 1990s the Veterans Health Administration - which runs healthcare for military veterans - pushed for pain to be recognised as the "fifth vital sign".
This gave pain equal status with blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature.
Then in 2001, the Joint Commission - which certifies almost 21,000 US health organisations and programmes - established standards for pain assessment and treatment.
In 2016, the JC released a statement that claimed that "everyone is looking for someone to blame" for the opioid problem.
It insisted that its 2001 standards did not "require the use of drugs to manage a patient's pain".
But Professor Feinberg says the VHA and JC's moves meant doctors were under pressure to prescribe strong painkillers - such as opioids - when they may not have been necessary.
"By the time you reach middle age, it's a rare person who doesn't ache somewhere," she says.
She adds that - in a country where patients rate their doctors, and low ratings can affect doctors' earnings - the score can be influenced by whether patients receive opioids.
A culture of medication Some Americans, says Professor Keith Humphreys from Stanford University, believe that life is "fixable".
"I'm 51," he says.
"If I go to an American doctor and say 'Hey - I ran the marathon I used to run when I was 30, now I'm all sore, fix me', my doctor will probably try to fix me.
"If you do that in France the doctor would say 'It's life, have a glass of wine - what do you want from me?'"
In 2016, a study compared how Japanese and American doctors prescribed opioids.
It found that Japanese doctors treated acute pain with opioids in 47% of cases - compared to 97% in the US.
"There is obviously a willingness, and a habit, of giving opioid pain relief that is not shared elsewhere," says Professor Feinberg.
"Other countries deal with pain in much healthier ways."
Get our morning briefing direct to your inbox, each weekday morning
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The solar suitcase was the brainchild of obstetrician Dr Laura Stachel and husband Hal Aronson, co-founders of We Care Solar Hari Sunar is a 24 year-old mum whose second child is due in a few days.
She walked from her home in the remote Nepalese village Pandavkhani for her final antenatal check up at her local birthing centre through shuddering thunder, a drenching rainstorm and one of the village's frequent power cuts.
These power cuts can last up to two weeks and used to cause the birthing centre significant problems.
But now it has its own power solution.
The light in the birthing centre stays on and she smiles.
"I am really happy," the young mum says.
"Because we have a solar light at the birthing centre."
That light is powered by a bright yellow suitcase bolted to the delivery room wall.
This is a solar suitcase.
Image caption Hari Sunar's final antenatal check at Pandavkhani health post in Nepal Connected to a solar panel on the roof, the device is a miniature power station that provides light, heat and battery charging and a baby monitor.
Life saving For local midwife, Hima Shirish, the solar suitcase has been a lifesaver.
She was determined find a solar solution for her health centre's energy problems.
A charity called One-Heart Worldwide sourced the solar suitcase and installed it in Pandavkhani in 2014.
Since then there have been no maternal or baby deaths here.
"Pregnant mothers used to be afraid of the dark when they came to give birth at the health post," Hima says.
Image caption Midwife Hima Shirish switches on the solar suitcase to power life-saving medical equipment "They feared losing their babies.
But now the fear is gone and they are relieved that they are going to have a baby using the solar light."
Off-grid solution The solar suitcase is the brainchild of California-based obstetrician-gynaecologist Dr Laura Stachel of We Care Solar.
While in Nigeria in 2008, she witnessed complications and even deaths when babies were delivered at night without reliable light or power.
Dr Stachel devised a suitcase-sized, off-grid, solar electric system with her husband, solar engineer, Hal Aronson.
The prototype was so successful in Nigeria, they decided to bring the innovation to clinics and health stations in other countries with high rates of maternal and new-born baby mortality.
Earthquake challenge In Nepal, the 2015 earthquake destroyed many of its hospitals and left most of the remaining facilities without reliable power.
Weighing just 16kg (35lbs) solar suitcases were ideal for deployment over tough terrain.
They provided life-saving power to makeshift medical and birthing tents in the immediate aftermath of the quake.
The BBC's Innovators series reveals innovative solutions to major challenges across South Asia.
Ever heard of the concept of "jugaad"?
It's a Hindi term meaning cheap innovation.
If you have created a life hack or innovation that you are proud of, or spotted one while out and about on your travels, then share your picture with us by emailing yourpics@bbc.co.uk, use the hashtags #Jugaad and #BBCInnovators and share your picture with @BBCWorldService, or upload your submission here.
Learn more about BBC Innovators.
But, even without such natural disasters, Nepal is a long way from being able to generate the electricity its people need.
"There are a lot of maternity or small clinics in rural areas where they have no electricity at all."
Up to a third of rural areas have no reliable power, says Raj Kumar Thapa, managing director of Solar Solutions Private Limited.
Government schemes to increase small-scale power generation using solar, wind or hydro have had limited success, he says, because it is difficult for private companies to install and maintain systems in remote areas while still making a profit.
"So as long as the users are provided with proper training on the operation of the system I think there is a bigger role to play for solar energy especially on a charitable basis in Nepal."
Before the birthing centre was built in Pandavkhani in 2013, most babies were delivered at home, sometimes by torchlight or in total darkness.
Image copyright We Care Solar Image caption The 16kg solar suitcase was light enough to be deployed to remote earthquake zones in Nepal In difficult cases, mothers in labour would be taken on a 65km (40-mile) mountainous trek over mud and rocks to the hospital in the nearest town, Baglung.
"Some babies were in the wrong position and we did not have the equipment to help them," Hima recalls.
"Mothers used to die from haemorrhaging."
Now Hima and her staff are also able to charge their mobile phones, another vital piece of kit in this remote part of the world.
"Sometimes the power cuts can last for 15 days," Hima explains.
"We used to be completely out of contact because we could not charge our mobile phones."
Mrs Sunar is just one of 175 mothers who have already given birth at the centre at least once.
As she waits to deliver her second child, she is reassured by her experience during the birth of her daughter.
"When I was in labour with my first child I arrived at the health post and the light had just been cut.
But the health worker said they had a solar suitcase so I didn't need to worry."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Karen shares her thoughts about abortion One in three women will have an abortion in their lifetime, yet it is rarely talked about.
For some, making the decision can be traumatic and have a long-lasting effect.
For others, it is an empowering, life-changing choice.
You have been sharing your experiences of abortion with us 50 years after the 1967 Abortion Act was passed.
'I felt relieved, buoyant and really happy' Louise in London: "When I was 23 I found out I was pregnant.
I have never regretted having an abortion.
It helped cement my views on not wanting children.
"At first I put my lack of period down to stress.
It felt like I had really bad PMT.
Then one day at work I had to lie on the floor because I was so tired.
I wondered what was wrong with me, and then the penny dropped.
"I took a pregnancy test in my lunch hour.
As soon as I saw the positive result I remember violently shaking.
I wanted to laugh and cry at the same time.
"A colleague who'd been trying to get pregnant was beaming when I told her.
When I said it wasn't a good thing for me, she was wonderful.
She just gave me a hug.
"My partner left me to deal with everything on my own.
We never had a proper conversation about the abortion.
My closest friends were supportive.
"My GP was matter-of-fact about it.
I had two phone interviews with nurses before I went ahead.
At no point did they ask me if I thought I was doing the right thing.
I was certain.
The procedure was excruciatingly painful because I chose not to have an anaesthetic, but it was brief.
"When I left, the stress I'd been feeling in the run-up to the procedure was gone.
I felt relieved, buoyant and really happy."
'Abortion changed our lives' Jess is 24 and had an abortion last year.
She said she really wants to be a mum one day, but it wasn't the right time for her to have a baby.
Bronwen also had an abortion as a young woman in the 1970s.
She said it was "a horrible situation" but after the procedure she felt a "huge sense of relief".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bronwen and Jess have had abortions, 40 years apart 'It broke my heart' Beth (not her real name) lives in England: "I was 17 when I got pregnant and I had an abortion in February.
"I'm pregnant again now and this time I'm going to keep it and I'm excited about it.
"It was one Christmas, everyone was drinking and I just kept being sick.
I thought it was because we were drinking but someone joked that I was pregnant and then I found out I was.
"My boyfriend didn't really say anything about it and let me make the decision about what to do.
My mum was very relaxed and calm and said I should do what I wanted to do.
"But a lot of people kept telling me that I was too young and not ready to have a baby.
I felt very pressured into having an abortion.
It broke my heart.
"I had a breakdown soon afterwards because I was so upset.
I felt I'd made the wrong decision but I couldn't do anything about it.
"My doctor gave me medication and counselling.
I have already had depression and anxiety but this just made it worse.
"Now that I'm pregnant again, my mum and my boyfriend think I should make up my own mind.
"My baby is due in April and I'm really looking forward to it."
'There needs to be education that abortion is OK' Harriet in South West England: "It was a bad experience but you learn from these things.
"I was 20 when I had an abortion.
"When I see my friends' kids or nephews I think that I could have had a three-month-old of my own now.
"When I first found out I was pregnant I was happy and very protective - I thought this is my baby and no one can take it away.
"My best friend's mum offered to help me and said that I was part of their family but I wanted my own family to say something like that.
"I didn't have much choice.
My dad said it was up to me but he couldn't support me financially.
It was true, he was just being honest.
I felt it was selfish for me to have a child.
A child should have the best upbringing possible.
"The father didn't want anything to do with it.
I feel angry at him for putting me in the position he did.
It was like I was forced into a corner and not able to have this baby because I couldn't afford it.
"It was very upsetting waking up from the anaesthetic.
I was over three months so had to have a surgical procedure.
It was awful.
I woke up wanting to know what had happened to my body, but also not wanting to know.
"I was crying all the time and now I feel this is what I've done to my first child.
"The NHS gave me lots of support and lots of time to reconsider.
There needs to be education that abortion is OK and it's a woman's choice but there also has to be more support.
"There is so much stigma attached to it."
Advice and information about abortion Marie Stopes UK Life British Pregnancy Advisory Service Brook Sexual health charity FPA Produced by Annie Flury and Sherie Ryder
Image copyright Rena Miras Image caption "When I had my third child I knew my family was complete and I wanted to help another couple," said Rena Miras When Sophie Sulehria and husband Jonny Baker shared their struggle with IVF many readers got in touch with their own experiences.
Here are some of their stories.
I had IVF for a couple I'll never meet Image copyright Rena Mira Image caption Rena Miras getting ready to have her eggs harvested "I had struggled to conceive our first child and my first pregnancy was an ectopic," said Rena Miras.
"So I feel so lucky that eight years later, I have three wonderful children.
I wanted to give something back and help a couple have a baby."
The teacher, from Sutton Coldfield, near Birmingham, said she contacted an organisation that matches families with egg donors and underwent numerous tests and counselling to prepare her.
"In January, I started injecting [IVF drugs] and 10 days later I had egg retrieval," the mum-of-three said.
"They managed to get 19 eggs, all of which are for my couple if they want siblings in the future.
"Egg donation is anonymous until the child turns 16 and they can then find out information about me.
"I cried so much when I found out my couple were pregnant with a girl and they are due near Christmas.
"This was not and never will be my baby.
I helped a couple have their baby and the happiness I got, and am still getting from this, I can't even describe."
IVF led to the end of my marriage Image copyright Maggie Joslin Image caption Maggie Joslin and daughter Georgia who was conceived using IVF Hairdresser Maggie Joslin suffered with severe endometriosis after the birth of her first daughter.
She turned to IVF to help conceive another child.
"I was quite driven to have [another] baby but my ex-husband felt we already had one daughter," says Ms Joslin, 56, from North Bradley in Wiltshire.
"I was quite ill afterwards and also suffered from depression and he couldn't cope.
"It was gruelling emotionally and physically and it led to the end of my marriage.
"I was in hospital for nine weeks after giving birth and have been left with all sorts of health problems.
"I was very lucky to have a beautiful baby girl called Georgia.
I say she cost me as much as small car but she's worth every penny."
In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) An egg is removed from the woman's ovaries and fertilised with sperm in a laboratory The fertilised egg is then returned to the woman's womb to develop IVF worked for the first time on 10 November 1977.
On 25 July 1978, the world's first IVF baby, Louise Brown, was born On average, IVF fails 70% of the time The highest success rates are for women under 35, one-third of treatment cycles are successful On average, it takes almost four and a half years to conceive with IVF Source: Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority/Fertility Network UK We went to Greece for our baby Athena Image copyright Chris Hayler Image caption Chris and Stacy Hayter say they look forward to telling daughter Athena her Grecian name was inspired by the country where they had IVF "My partner Stacy and I had to have IVF after discovering she had polycystic ovary syndrome," said Chris Hayter, from Yeovil in Somerset.
"After two rounds of IVF and four frozen cycles we were left heartbroken that we still did not have the baby we so badly wanted.
"We had one last roll of the dice.
We could either have one cycle at a top clinic in Harley Street or look elsewhere."
After researching clinics in London and Greece the couple decided to travel abroad.
"Their success rate was so much higher and not only that but the money would provide us with two full cycles and cover us living in Greece for a month," the 34-year-old said.
"We went through the first cycle and finally got the positive we were looking for.
We now have a beautiful 18-month-old daughter who we have called Athena.
"Our life has changed so much and we owe it all to the clinic."
Read more IVF was an emotional rollercoaster Image copyright Matt Dunne Image caption Nikki and Matt Dunne now have two sons through adoption "My wife Nikki and I funded two rounds of IVF in 2009 after we had trouble conceiving," said Matt Dunne, 40, from York.
"We agreed we would not do more than two rounds as we had heard horror stories of people continuously trying and spending fortunes on it.
"Our first round was a positive experience and we were extremely hopeful.
When it didn't work it felt horrendous, like we had lost something.
"However, the second time we had zero expectations and it was an awful experience.
When it didn't work we didn't even shed a tear and we were glad it was over.
"We tried adoption and now have two wonderful boys who we are so lucky to have.
"We have a number of friends for whom IVF has worked and others who, like us, it hasn't and the emotional rollercoaster is so painful and traumatic.
"The mental support needed is completely underplayed and often people are woefully under-prepared for what they are about to undertake."
Adoption was the best decision ever Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About 5,500 children are adopted every year in the UK "After four devastating failed attempts at IVF over about six years my husband and I decided to go down the adoption route," said Katie, whose name has been changed.
"It was the best decision ever.
We adopted a little girl at the age of 15 months, she is now eight years old and is a dream come true.
"I honestly feel like I gave birth to her but just can't remember that part.
I couldn't love her any more if I tried.
IVF is so painful and expensive.
"My husband has two children from a previous marriage so we did not receive any free treatments, which I don't agree with.
"I had never had children so there should at least have been a contribution."
The NHS is under unprecedented pressure.
Rising numbers of patients need hospital care - whether in an accident and emergency department, for cancer treatment or for planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements.
For each there are strict targets local services are expected to meet across the UK.
But what are the chances of being seen in time where you live?
Use our interactive tracker to find out.
Sorry, your browser is unable to display this content.
Please upgrade to a more recent browser.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search Inspection rating: 1.
A&E Target hit Target not hit 2.
Cancer care Target hit Target not hit 3.
Planned ops & care Target hit Target not hit Figures are assessed against targets before rounding Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
If you can't see the tracker, click or tap here.
Waits for cancer care, A&E and ops worsen How the NHS Tracker works This guide uses the latest published data on performance against three key NHS waiting-time measures: A&E treatment cancer care planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements This data is currently published either monthly or quarterly depending on where you live in the UK, and there are differences between how the targets are measured in each part of the UK.
See below for data sources.
The A&E target The way the A&E target is measured is almost identical.
In each case services across the UK are given four hours in which to treat and discharge or admit or transfer a patient.
They are all expected to do that in 95% of cases, although ultimately Scotland wants it services to get to 98% once 95% is achieved.
There are also slight differences in the way the start time is measured.
The cancer target There are similarities in the way cancer care is measured.
Each expects patients to be treated within 62 days of an urgent referral.
In Scotland this can be following a GP or A&E referral or following a screening test.
Elsewhere it is broken down individually by referral route.
So for the rest of the UK the BBC has chosen GP referral as the area to focus on as this is the most common route.
Again the thresholds services are expected to achieve vary.
The planned operations and care target The one that varies the most is for planned hospital care, which is also known as non-emergency treatment.
In England, Wales and Scotland the target measures the point at which you get a referral from your GP to the point when your treatment starts - in effect the whole patient journey.
In Scotland and England services have 18 weeks, in Wales it is 26 weeks.
Meanwhile, in Northern Ireland there are a range of targets for different parts of the patient journey.
The BBC has chosen the last part, from when the decision is taken to admit the patient for treatment to when that treatment starts.
It therefore does not include the tests and appointments that follow a GP referral, which can take weeks or even months.
Services in Northern Ireland have 13 weeks to achieve this target.
The thresholds vary too.
None is expected to achieve these goals 100% of the time.
In Northern Ireland services have to achieve the target in 55% of cases, whereas in Wales it is 95%, in England 92%, and in Scotland 90%.
How local is defined In England data is provided down to individual hospital trust level, some of these run more than one hospital.
The BBC has excluded specialist trusts for cancer, children's care, women's services and orthopaedic treatment and instead focused on the 135 general hospital trusts - what most people would consider their local service.
Elsewhere performance is broken down to health board level, known as health and care trusts in Northern Ireland.
They are in charge of services for a region or large city and often run more than one hospital.
We have chosen these boards because while some data is provided down to individual hospital level it is not done across all three targets.
How far back performance is tracked The BBC has tracked back performance to the point at which the latest target was set or to when the records allow.
When a target has been missed for five years, we have just labelled it as that.
When targets have been hit more recently, we have provided the month they were last hit.
There are only two targets where it has not been possible to go back five years: in Scotland for A&E as the target threshold was reduced from 98% to 95% in October 2014 in Northern Ireland for planned operations and care because its 13-week target threshold of 55% was set only in April 2016 The full list of dates from which the performance of local services is available are: For England: A&E: June 2010 Cancer: January 2009 Planned operations: April 2012 For Northern Ireland: A&E: April 2008 Cancer: April 2009 Planned operations: April-June 2016 For Scotland: A&E: October 2014 Cancer: January 2012 Planned operations: January 2011 For Wales: A&E: October 2009 Cancer: October-December 2009 Planned operations: September 2011 Research by the BBC data team, Ransome Mpini, John Walton, Christine Jeavans, Nick Triggle and William Dahlgreen.
Design by Sumi Senthinathan.
Development by Chris Ashton, Evisa Terziu, Becky Rush and Alvin Ourrad.
Data sources
Hospital services are facing mounting pressure.
Staff shortages, rising demand and a squeeze on budgets mean waiting times are rising in many places.
And while the health service still sees most patients quickly - whether they turn up at an accident and emergency unit, need cancer treatment or have to have an operation - growing numbers are having to wait longer than they should.
So what is it like for those caught up in the system?
'I waited so long I gave up and spent most of my life savings' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Christine Moon, pictured here with her partner, Geoff, waited for months for a coronary bypass on the NHS Christine Moon, 66, was on holiday in Bali in 2015 when she started feeling chest pains.
When she returned to her home in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, she went to see her GP and ended up in hospital having all number of tests on heart.
"Eventually, they said, 'I'm very sorry, but we've decided you have a 90% block in your coronary artery,'" she told BBC News.
This was in August last year.
She then waited until November to see a consultant, who said she needed a coronary bypass but there would be an additional 18-week wait.
So, 18 weeks later, she rang the hospital.
"I was told they were way behind and they had absolutely no idea where I was on the waiting list," Ms Moon told BBC News.
"No-one at the hospital could tell me when I was likely to have my operation."
Every week, patients in more critical need of a bypass were being referred to the hospital, effectively bumping her further down the queue, she said.
"I couldn't do any housework, I couldn't do stuff that I normally did.
My symptoms were getting worse, but I wasn't going to have a heart attack."
In April this year, 32 weeks after being diagnosed, she gave up on waiting and paid 16,000 to have the operation privately.
"I had to think long and hard about it, but it was really hanging over me," Ms Moon told the BBC.
"I was more and more depressed, and just not able to get an answer out of anyone."
Having the operation had given her "bags of energy" and her life back, she said.
But, she is angry and has spent much of her savings.
Ms Moon told the BBC: "Eighteen weeks seems to be this magic number they come out with that is just lies.
"Would I still be on a waiting list if I had not gone privately?
I may well have been."
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
'Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Holly has had many complex health conditions since she was a child Holly Wilson was nine years old when she started seeing doctors on a regular basis.
She had a condition where her white blood cells infiltrated her bowel, causing inflammation and pain.
Since then, the 22 year-old, from Chichester, has been in and out of hospital.
"The list is endless," she said, of the number of medical conditions that cause her day-to-day pain.
Her entire body is affected, including her connective tissue, joints and gut, and once she had a cyst on her ovary "the size of a grapefruit".
"At one point, I was in hospital 30 times in a year," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"There are a lot of problems - I'm very, very complicated.
I'm always known as the difficult, complex patient."
She has noticed waiting times increase, and recently had to wait more than 10 hours for a medical slip to give to her employer to allow her to return to work.
Her most recent medical issue is a fast heart rate and palpitations.
Doctors are trying to diagnose what is causing it, but it can take up to 18 months between being referred for tests and getting the results.
"The long wait for this diagnosis - it's a lot of not really knowing, which makes it stressful," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes."
"They're trying to see so many people in such a short amount of time."
But Ms Wilson's three folders of medical history do not make this easy.
"Doctors look at all these notes, and they're just too much for one person to take them in," she said.
"I don't feel the notes are being read or paid attention to as much as they should be."
Ms Wilson doesn't want to "bash the NHS".
"They have done a lot for me.
Without them I wouldn't be alive," she said.
"It's just frustrating as I have been in and out of hospital since I was very small and I have noticed the change."
'My wait was so long I launched a formal complaint' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Andy Goble waited almost a year for an operation that would fuse his talonavicular joint Andy Goble, 48, had painful arthritis in his feet.
He had one foot operated on and then, a couple of years later, in August 2016, doctors said they needed to operate on the other.
"The idea of the operation is to fuse two bones in the foot to stop them grinding together and stop the pain," he told the BBC.
The condition means he struggles to walk any great distance and lives in continual pain.
Even though he works from his home, in Southend-on-Sea, the condition has affected his work as a web designer.
"I am self-employed and find it impossible to work all day," he said.
"I am also unable to drive much of a distance if I need to visit clients.
"This is starting to cause me financial problems."
The father of two has also had to take painkillers, which tire him out.
He waited an "absolute age" to receive a date for the operation, which was then cancelled a week later.
And in May, after many phone calls, he decided to launch a formal complaint.
"Then, all of a sudden, everyone jumps and gets involved," Mr Goble told the BBC.
The hospital had "bent over backwards" to get the surgery done, he said, scheduling operations "at weird and wonderful times", with his taking place on a Sunday morning 15 weeks ago.
He can now walk again, but his foot remains very painful as it recovers.
"Because it's not life threatening - it's just pain-relief surgery - you come bottom of the list," he said.
"It's always the lowest priority."
"There is knock-on pain to other joints, such as the knee, hip and back.
So, while you're waiting, the condition gets worse and affects your life more and more."
'I waited almost six weeks for an urgent appointment when I had late-stage cancer' It was February 2014 when Susan Down, now 65, first thought something was wrong.
"It was quite sinister what I found, the lump," she told the BBC.
"I'd had it for quite a few weeks, and it was getting worse."
She saw a GP, who gave her creams for piles.
A couple of weeks later, when things hadn't improved, the GP gave her a referral for an emergency appointment.
Despite it being deemed urgent, her local hospital wasn't as quick to respond as she had expected.
"I was quite anxious.
I kept calling the hospital," Ms Down told the BBC.
Five and a half weeks later, she got an appointment.
"Then they were running around like headless chickens," she said, giving her six different tests over the next fortnight.
Her daughters and partner went with her to the appointment.
She was told she had stage-four anal cancer and that her tumour was 2.5cm (1in).
"It hadn't metastasised, but it was very big and pushing it's way to the front," Ms Down told the BBC.
"If it had gotten right through to the front, I would've been poisoned."
Her diagnosis caused her to retire from her job, as a support worker for adults with learning disabilities.
It took a couple of months before she was fitted with a stoma, and then she had to wait a couple more months before she could get radiotherapy.
"The doctor said, 'Lets get on with it or else you will die,'" Ms Down told the BBC.
The radiotherapy machine at her local hospital was not appropriate for her so she had to be treated in a specialist hospital in Hertfordshire, a two-hour drive from her home in Kent.
She had six weeks of radiotherapy followed by two weeks of chemotherapy.
"At first they couldn't say it had shrunk, because it was so big," Ms Down told the BBC.
"But after a few months they said it as going in the right direction.
"Looking back I think, That was awful.'"
Now, Ms Down spends half her week looking after her one-year-old granddaughter, Charlotte.
She appears to be clear of cancer, but has long-term problems from the treatment.
Image copyright BARCROFT PRODUCTIONS/BBC Image caption Artwork: The impact hit with the energy equivalent to 10 billion Hiroshima bombs Scientists say they now have a much clearer picture of the climate catastrophe that followed the asteroid impact on Earth 66 million years ago.
The event is blamed for the demise of three-quarters of plant and animal species, including the dinosaurs.
The researchers' investigations suggest the impact threw more than 300 billion tonnes of sulphur into the atmosphere.
This would have dropped temperatures globally below freezing for several years.
Ocean temperatures could have been affected for centuries.
The abrupt change explains why so many species struggled to survive.
"We always thought there was this global winter but with these new, tighter constraints, we can be much more sure about what happened," Prof Joanna Morgan, from Imperial College London, told BBC News.
The new assessment is reported in the journal Geophysical Research Letters.
Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption The drill project is revealing new insights on one of the most astonishing events in Earth history The UK geophysicist was the co-lead investigator on the 2016 project to drill into what remains of the impactor's crater under the Gulf of Mexico.
She and colleagues spent several weeks retrieving the rock samples that would allow them to reconstruct precisely how the Earth reacted to being punched by a high-velocity space object.
Their study suggests the asteroid approached the surface from the north-east, striking what was then a shallow sea at an oblique angle of 60 degrees.
Roughly 12km wide and moving at about 18km/s, the stony impactor instantly excavated and vaporised thousands of billions of tonnes of rock.
This material included a lot of sulphur-containing minerals such as gypsum and anhydrite, but also carbonates which yielded carbon dioxide.
The team's calculations estimate the quantities ejected upwards at high speed into the upper atmosphere included 325 gigatonnes of sulphur (give or take 130Gt) and perhaps 425Gt of carbon dioxide (plus or minus 160Gt).
The CO2 would eventually have a longer-term warming effect, but the release of so much sulphur, combined with soot and dust, would have had an immediate and very severe cooling effect.
Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption Prof Morgan pictured with some of the rock samples drilled from beneath the Gulf of Mexico An independent group earlier this year used a global climate model to simulate what would happen if 100Gt of sulphur and 1,400Gt of carbon dioxide were ejected as a result of the impact.
This research, led by Julia Brugger from the University of Potsdam, Germany, found global annual mean surface air temperatures would decrease by at least 26C, with three to 16 years spent at subzero conditions.
"Julia's inputs in the earlier study were conservative on the sulphur.
But we now have improved numbers," explained Prof Morgan.
"We now know, for example, the direction and angle of impact, so we know which rocks were hit.
And that allows us to calibrate the generation of gases much better.
If Julia got that level of cooling on 100Gt of sulphur, it must have been much more severe given what we understand now."
The generation of what has become known as the Chicxulub Crater was an astonishing event.
The initial hole punched in the Earth would have been about 30km deep and 80-100km across.
Unstable, and under the pull of gravity, the sides of this depression would then have collapsed inwards.
At the same time, the centre of the bowl likely rebounded, briefly lifting rock higher than the Himalayas, before also falling down to cover the inward-rushing sides of the initial hole.
And although this violent reconfiguration of the Earth's crust took just minutes to complete, its consequences led to the fifth great mass extinction on our planet.
Chicxulub Crater - The impact that changed life on Earth Image copyright NASA Image caption The outer rim (white arc) of the crater lies under the Yucatan Peninsula itself, but the inner peak ring is best accessed offshore A 12km-wide object dug a hole in Earth's crust 100km across and 30km deep This bowl then collapsed, leaving a crater 200km across and a few km deep The crater's centre rebounded and collapsed again, producing an inner ring Today, much of the crater is buried offshore, under 600m of sediments On land, it is covered by limestone, but its rim is traced by an arc of sinkholes Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption Mexico's famous sinkholes (cenotes) have formed in weakened limestone overlying the crater The project to drill into Chicxulub Crater was conducted by the European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling (ECORD) as part of the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP).
The expedition was also supported by the International Continental Scientific Drilling Program (ICDP).
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A rapid move to renewable energy is key to closing the emissions gap, says the UN In its annual review, the UN says the gap between carbon cutting plans and the reductions required to keep temperature rises below 2 degrees Celsius is "alarmingly high".
Pledges made so far cover only one-third of the cuts needed by 2030 to keep below that goal, the review warns.
Even if all the promises are kept, temperatures might still rise by 3 degrees by 2100.
However, cost-effective options are available that can close the gap.
The UN has published an annual analysis of emissions every year since 2010.
This year's instalment re-iterates the point that current pledges are insufficient to keep within the temperature limits agreed in the Paris climate pact.
Emissions from human activities involving burning fossil fuels have stalled since 2014, caused by a reduction in coal use in China and the US, as well as the rapid rise of renewable energy sources.
Despite this slowdown, the World Meteorological Organization warned on Monday that concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere were at a record high.
The new emissions gap report finds that global greenhouse emissions by 2020 "are likely to be at the high end of the range" consistent with keeping temperature rises below 2 degrees or 1.5C.
By 2030 the UN says that the global scale of emissions needed to keep within the 2-degree path should not exceed 42 gigatonnes of CO2-equivalent.
Based on the promises made, this report projects a gap of 11 to 13 gigatonnes, while for the 1.5-degree target, the gap is 16 to 19 gigatonnes.
"The Paris agreement boosted climate action, but momentum is clearly faltering," said Dr Edgar E Gutirrez-Espeleta, Costa Rica's minister for environment and president of the 2017 UN Environment Assembly.
"We face a stark choice: up our ambition, or suffer the consequences."
Ominously, the report warns that if the emissions gap is not closed by 2030 then "it is extremely unlikely that the goal of holding global warming to well below 2 degrees C can still be reached".
The report suggests that signatories of the Paris accord must significantly increase their ambitions in the new and updated national plans that will have to be submitted by 2020.
The authors also say that the private sector and cities are not doing enough.
The report points out that the world's 100 largest emitting, publicly traded companies account for a quarter of global greenhouse emissions.
However, the UN says there are some relatively cheap options that can be taken up that have the potential to radically change the picture.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Global coal reserves will have to stay in the ground to meet global temperature targets They say that solar, wind, efficient appliances, efficient passenger cars, planting more trees and preventing deforestation would more than cover the emissions gap.
The recommended actions in these areas would have a modest or net-negative cost says the report and could shave 22 gigtonnes of carbon equivalent by 2030.
"One year after the Paris agreement entered into force, we still find ourselves in a situation where we are not doing nearly enough to save hundreds of millions of people from a miserable future," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment.
"This is unacceptable.
If we invest in the right technologies, ensuring that the private sector is involved, we can still meet the promise we made to our children to protect their future.
But we have to get on the case now."
If the Paris targets are to be reached then coal use for energy must stop the report warns.
Some 80-90% of reserves must remain in the ground.
This compares to around 35% for oil and 50% for gas reserves.
In terms of which countries as doing their fair share, the UN report says China, the EU, India and Japan are on track to meet their 2020 pledges.
Should the US follow through on its promise to leave the Paris pact, the report states that the picture will become bleaker.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook
Image copyright BAS Image caption Scientists had been keen to return to year-round operations The British Antarctic Survey (BAS) will once again close its Halley station at the end of the coming Southern Hemisphere summer.
The base sits on the floating Brunt Ice Shelf, which is currently being incised by two large developing cracks.
BAS withdrew its staff from Halley this past winter because of uncertainty over how these fissures would evolve.
The survey has now confirmed it will do the same again when the approaching summer season comes to an end.
"What we are witnessing is the power and unpredictability of nature," said BAS director Prof Dame Jane Francis.
"The safety of our staff is our priority in these circumstances.
Our Antarctic summer research operation will continue as planned, and we are confident of mounting a fast uplift of personnel should fracturing of the ice shelf occur.
"However, because access to the station by ship or aircraft is extremely difficult during the winter months of 24-hour darkness, extremely low temperatures and the frozen sea, we will once again take the precaution of shutting down the station before the 2018 Antarctic winter (March - November) begins."
BAS staff will fly into Halley this week to open it up.
One of their key tasks in the next few months will be to install automated experiments that can run in winter temperatures of -50C, and cope with snow and high winds.
The UK has had a permanent presence on the Brunt Ice Shelf since 1956.
Together with the Rothera base on the Antarctic Peninsula, Halley spearheads British activity on the White Continent.
The station gathers important weather and climate data, and it played a critical role in the research that identified the ozone "hole" in 1985.
In recent years, Halley has also become a major centre for studying solar activity and the impacts this can have on Earth.
But its position on a 150m-thick mobile platform of ice has always had a bearing on its operations.
Image copyright BAS/P.BUCKTROUT Image caption Halley VI's move was made possible by a hydraulic leg and ski system In the past, as the shelf has moved seaward to calve icebergs, the buildings that make up the base have either been abandoned or torn down.
New structures have then been built "upstream".
The latest incarnation of the station, Halley VI, is somewhat different in that it incorporates legs and skis that allow it periodically to be towed to a new location.
Its first big move took place in February, to get the base behind a large chasm that had started opening again after more than 30 years of dormancy.
But it was a timely decision because another crack (known as Halloween crack) had also begun moving across the ice.
And both fissures, which threaten at some point to spawn colossal icebergs, have continued to propagate through the winter.
Image caption Scientists use ground sensors and satellites to monitor the cracks In a report published this month in the journal The Cryosphere, BAS scientists said the future behaviour of the Brunt shelf now depended on how the two cracks interacted with a series of bumps on the seafloor known as the McDonald rumples.
These are a pinning point for the shelf and act to buttress it.
If calving results in a substantial loss of ice around the rumples then the whole shelf will speed up.
A similar event in the early 1970s led to a two-fold increase in flow velocity.
The early operations team going into Halley this week will be followed by a larger group of staff on the Royal Research Ship Ernest Shackleton, which will come in from Cape Town and moor up against the ice shelf to unload supplies.
BAS director of science Prof David Vaughan said researchers had already planned for the possibility of another winter closure, and would set up a kerosene-fuelled generator to power automated instruments.
"It is, I should stress, at this stage just a prototype power system," he told BBC News.
"For it to keep running at -50C with nobody around to chip the ice off it or keep the snow away from it will be a significant challenge.
"But if it works and the instruments attached to it keep working, then we will collect several of the data streams that would otherwise have been lost, including the ozone measurements."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption BBC Horizon: Halley VI is one of the most remote scientific research centres in the world Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
What do the farmers out in the field, in the dairy and in the milking parlour think about Brexit?
No-one knows what's around the corner for the dairy industry.
Specific negotiations over a future trade deal haven't even started.
Some experts predict oblivion; others see opportunity.
So let's start with what we do know: the state of the industry 20 years ago, and what it's like today.
Image caption Currently the EU is UK dairy's biggest trading partner, with 80 per cent of exports going there.
The number of dairy farmers has shrunk dramatically: In 1996 there were around 35,000.
Now there are around 13,000 - a drop of almost two-thirds.
Farms are getting bigger: The average herd size was 75 cows and now it's 140.
And as for the cost of a pint: back in 1996 it was 36 pence, now it's 43 pence - and many farmers say it's too low.
So how do those working in the industry feel about what the next 20 years may hold?
Image caption James and Rhiannan feel that Brexit has given them - and their son Ethan - the chance of a more secure future.
James and Rhiannan Lomas have a dairy farm of around 200 cows in Cheshire.
They almost went out of business two years ago because of the collapse in the milk price.
But now they are part of a small number of farms starting to export liquid milk (as opposed to powdered or products such as cheese) to Qatar.
The Middle East nation was left without milk almost overnight after a blockade imposed by Saudi Arabia and its allies.
Mr Lomas says: "It's amazing.
Every day we thought of giving it all up.
But hopefully now Brexit will improve our outlook and open up a lot of markets - if the politicians get it right."
He adds that there have definitely been some dark times.
"Hopefully it will give us a chance to make us a more of a secure and better future.
Certainly the fluctuation of the dairy business will always be there, but the ability to change markets might give us the chance to go elsewhere."
Ms Lomas explains: "It makes you feel a lot more positive for us."
Looking down at her son Ethan, she adds: "And for him."
China exports Andrew Henderson is the man who secured the deal with a hypermarket chain in Qatar.
He runs a dairy called Nemi, also based in Cheshire.
It bottles milk from farmers in the surrounding counties and could soon be the first in the UK to export fresh milk to China.
These cows are given an enriched feed so they produce milk high in selenium, which can be in short supply in the Chinese diet.
A supermarket there has just placed an order.
Image caption Brand GB: A prototype of the bottle that could carry the first British fresh milk to China.
Note the gold Houses of Parliament and British flag.
"Brexit is having a very positive effect - we have farmers who are getting a much better milk price and we also have more interest from countries inside Europe and outside Europe for fresh British milk.
We are trying to supply that need."
He says the Chinese are interested in British milk because they see it as "pure".
They also want to know exactly which farm the product is coming from.
"We were in China in June and we were sitting with some highly decorated officials from the Chinese government and they made a point of saying it's very easy to do a deal with one country - but very difficult to do a deal with 27."
Would this be happening without the Brexit vote?
"I believe not.
There was no will from the major European cooperatives and organisations to deliver our fresh milk to China as they are already within those markets with dried milk and other products from Europe," says Mr Henderson.
His business partner is Mark Langslow, from County Milk Products.
"Regarding Brexit, I think we've made the right decision.
I think it makes us want to stand on our own two feet, and forces us to stand on our own two feet."
Image caption Dairy farms are closing because they can't find able staff to take on the roles available.
However not too far away, near Uttoxeter in Staffordshire, David Brookes has a dairy herd of 180 cows.
He's a member of the West Midlands Dairy Board.
He relies on his daughter to help with the business and talks of what experts have referred to as the "shocking crisis" in the dairy labour industry.
"There's only around 1% on jobseekers allowance in Staffordshire.
Whether it's the butchery side of things and processing meat or whether it's processing dairy products we have become reliant on a migrant labour force, mainly from Eastern Europe," he says.
"We need the skilled labour.
And at the moment they are not coming over."
He says that the devaluation of the pound is largely to blame, but also the uncertainty surrounding Brexit.
"One of the problems is the classification of 'labour'.
Because the government is very keen to get a lot of skilled labour.
A lot of our processing workers (such as those that operate milking equipment) are skilled, but their skills are not clearly defined as skilled under government guidelines," Mr Brookes explains.
He believes that if restrictions are imposed "it could be very difficult".
Further south, in Wiltshire, Jenny Quick helps to run a small family dairy herd.
"People may tell you their view," she says, "But no one knows.
We just have no idea yet."
Follow Claire on Twitter.
Image copyright SAMS UHI Image caption Herring are among the cold water species predicted to vanish from Scotland's west coast Cod, herring and haddock could migrate away from Scotland's west coast waters because of warming sea temperatures, according to researchers.
Scientists at the Scottish Association for Marine Science (Sams) predict the cold water species will vanish from the west coast by the year 2100.
The researchers suggest the fish are already nearing "edge of their temperature tolerance range".
However, they add that global warming will see other species replace them.
The Scottish government said it was following scientific advice on how to support Scotland's fishing industry.
Cod, herring and haddock are commercially important species to Scotland.
The researchers at Sams, which is near Oban and part of the University of the Highlands and Islands, warn that climate change could lead to the fish moving away to colder waters further north.
'Sustainable fisheries' But over the forthcoming decades these species would "gradually be replaced by more abundant communities" of saithe, hake and whiting, the scientists said.
They said that from 1985 to 2013 the population of saithe and hake had increased four-fold off Scotland's west coast.
Sams research has been published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cod could migrate to colder waters further north, say scientists The paper's lead author, marine ecologist Dr Natalia Serpetti, said: "These results highlight the importance of considering environmental change, as well as fishing quotas, to achieve sustainable fisheries management at an ecosystem level.
"We initially tested the impact of current advised fishing quotas, along with predator/prey interactions, within the ecosystem.
"Cod, whiting and herring stocks, that historically showed declining trends due to high fisheries exploitation and predation, recovered under a sustainable fishery management.
"However, we subsequently tested the impact of rising temperature under Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) climate change scenarios, while keeping fishing rates consistent with current advised maximum sustainable yields, and found that there would be a collapse of cold water species stocks."
'Stocks collapse' She added: "Our results showed that warmer climate could jeopardise sustainable fishery management: rising temperature showed strong negative impact on cold water species such as grey seals, cod, haddock and herring, which all declined by 2100 under the worst case climate warming scenario.
"Even under the best case climate change scenario, cod and herring stocks were predicted to collapse off Scotland's west coast."
Dr Serpetti's research updated an existing marine model of the west coast of Scotland ecosystem, situated in the north-east Atlantic from the coastline to the edge of the continental shelf.
Her model looked at how rising temperatures would affect 41 groups of species, from top predators such as whales and seals to many fish species and animals such as crabs and snails living on the sea floor.
The research is part of the Marine Ecosystem Research Programme, funded by the Natural Environment Research Council and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
The Scottish government said it recognised that climate change was "a major threat" to Scotland's marine ecosystems and was following scientific advice to support a sustainable fishing industry.
A spokesperson said: "Scotland is recognised as being at the forefront of the global fight against climate change and continues to lead the UK in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
"To continue this progress, our Climate Change Plan and Energy Strategy will include the bold new commitments for low-carbon transport, infrastructure and energy efficiency that we set out in the Programme for Government, policies aimed at driving down emissions by 66% by 2032."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Emissions from human activities have levelled off but concentrations in the atmosphere continue to grow Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016, according to the World Meteorological Organization (WMO).
Last year's increase was 50% higher than the average of the past 10 years.
Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Nio weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800,000 years.
Scientists say this risks making global temperature targets largely unattainable.
This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO is based on measurements taken in 51 countries.
Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide.
The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's "sinks", which include the oceans and the biosphere.
Climate change: a guide A brief history of Earth's CO2 Global Change Calculator 2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million, up from 400ppm in 2015.
"It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network," Dr Oksana Tarasova, chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme, told BBC News.
"The largest increase was in the previous El Nio, in 1997-1998, and it was 2.7ppm; and now it is 3.3ppm.
It is also 50% higher than the average of the last 10 years."
El Nio impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees.
Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research, but according to Dr Tarasova, it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries.
Over the past 70 years, says the report, the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age.
Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential, according to the study, to "initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions".
Image copyright Anthony Dubber Image caption The British Antarctic Survey Halley base was one of the stations where atmospheric measurements were made The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40% increase in total radiative forcing.
That's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases.
"Geological-wise, it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat," said Dr Tarasova.
"The changes will not take 10,000 years, like they used to take before; they will happen fast.
We don't have the knowledge of the system in this state; that is a bit worrisome!"
According to experts, the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago, in the mid-Pliocene Epoch.
The climate then was 2-3C warmer, and sea levels were 10-20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets.
Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Droughts related to El Nio, such as this one in Colombia, limited the ability of plants and trees to soak up carbon "The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme - double the growth rate in the 1990-2000 decade," Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London, UK, told BBC News.
"It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels.
There are signs this is beginning to happen, but so far the air is not yet recording the change."
Another concern in the report is the continuing, mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere, which were also larger than the average over the past 10 years.
Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle, where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources.
Image copyright WMO Image caption Scientists handling air samples at the Cape Grim monitoring station in Australia "The rapid increase in methane since 2007, especially in 2014, 2015, and 2016, is different.
This was not expected in the Paris agreement.
Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub-tropics.
The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels.
We do not understand why methane is rising.
It may be a climate change feedback.
It is very worrying."
The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact are quite negative, say observers.
"The numbers don't lie.
We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment.
"We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge.
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency."
The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks, in Bonn.
Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal, negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook
Image copyright Cambridge University/Stephen Hawking Image caption Stephen Hawking's handwriting can be seen on the document Stephen Hawking's PhD thesis was accessed more than two million times within days of it being made available to the public, it has been revealed.
Prof Hawking's 1966 work proved so popular on the day of its release it crashed the publications section of Cambridge University's website.
More than 500,000 people have also tried to download the paper, titled "Properties of expanding universes".
Dr Arthur Smith, from the university, called the figures "monumental".
Image copyright Graham CopeKoga Image caption Professor Hawking is still working at Cambridge University at the age of 75 "This is far and away the most accessed item we have in the university's Apollo repository," Dr Smith, deputy head of scholarly communication, said.
"I'd hazard a guess that Prof Hawking's PhD thesis is also the most accessed item from any research repository ever.
We've never seen numbers like this before."
Factfile: Stephen Hawking Born 8 January 1942 in Oxford, England Earned place at Oxford University to read natural science in 1959, before studying for his PhD at Cambridge By 1963, was diagnosed with motor neurone disease and given two years to live Outlined his theory that black holes emit "Hawking radiation" in 1974 Published his book A Brief History of Time in 1988, which has sold more than 10 million copies His life story was the subject of the 2014 film The Theory of Everything, starring Eddie Redmayne Prof Hawking wrote the 134-page document as a 24-year-old postgraduate student while studying at Trinity Hall, Cambridge.
The astrophysicist, who has been at Cambridge University since 1962, would later go on to write A Brief History of Time, one of the most influential scientific works ever.
Since it went live at 00:01 BST on Monday, the PhD has been accessed about two million times by about 800,000 unique browsers "from every corner of the globe", according to the university.
The next most read PhD thesis has received just 7,960 downloads in 2017.
Image copyright Cambridge University/Stephen Hawking Image caption The opening page of Stephen Hawking's PhD, when he was a 24-year-old studying at Trinity Hall Previously, to read Hawking's PhD in full, people had to pay 65 to the university library to scan a copy or physically go to the library to read it.
Cambridge University hopes to encourage its other former academics to make their work available to the public, like Prof Hawking has.
Dr Smith added: "Locking knowledge and information behind closed doors benefits no-one."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Species like chimpanzees are seeing large reductions in numbers A UN-backed wildlife conference held in the Philippines has voted for additional protections for a list of 33 endangered species including chimpanzees, leopards and giraffes.
Whale sharks, the world's largest fish, were also included on the list.
The six-day long Convention of Migratory Species (CMS) concluded on Saturday, demanding better protections for species that cross country borders.
The group's executive secretary said "everybody has to pitch in" to efforts.
"It has helped to convey the message that the future of migratory wildlife is integral to our own future and that we all have the responsibility to act," Bradney Chamber said.
Governments also made commitments to co-operate on reducing the negative impacts of marine debris, noise pollution and climate change on migratory species.
Image copyright AFP/GETTY Image caption Visitors can swim with whale sharks in the Philippines as part of an eco-tourism initiative More than 1,000 delegates from 129 countries debated species' protection at the 12th conference of its kind, backed by the United Nations Environment Programme.
China is still not part of the delegation, but organisers said the country had made some advances on animal protection, such as committing to shut-down the ivory trade and banning the serving of endangered species, such as shark fin soup, at government events.
Hosts the Philippines lobbied for the inclusion of whale sharks, which have become a tourist attraction for the nation.
Three other shark species were also included in the list.
Ten species of vultures were also singled out for special protection, alongside well-known African mammals deemed to be in danger.
Giraffes are on decline on the continent, with only 90,000 thought to be left in the wild.
Lesser-known species were also singled out for protection - including the Gobi Bear found in the Gobi desert in Mongolia and China.
Organisers said only 45 of them remain in the wild.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Computer scientists have developed AI algorithms smart enough to crack Captcha tests Computer scientists have developed artificial intelligence that can outsmart the Captcha website security check system.
Captcha challenges people to prove they are human by recognising combinations of letters and numbers that machines would struggle to complete correctly.
Researchers developed an algorithm that imitates how the human brain responds to these visual clues.
The neural network could identify letters and numbers from their shapes.
The research, conducted by Vicarious - a Californian artificial intelligence firm funded by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg - is published in the journal Science.
What is Captcha?
The Captcha test, which means the "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart", was developed in the late 1990s to prevent people from using automated bots to set up fake accounts on websites.
When logging into a website, users prove that they are human by solving visual puzzles, which requires identifying letters, digits, symbols or objects that have been distorted or animated in some way.
Computers usually struggle to pass such tests, and Google says that its reCaptcha test is so complicated that even humans can only solve it 87% of the time.
However, researchers from Vicarious claim that their computer algorithm can pick out distorted letters and digits from images.
Neural networks To get computers to recognise images, computer scientists usually use neural networks, which are computer systems containing a collection of interconnected units called artificial neurons, trained to solve complex problems.
A neural network contains hundreds of layers, inspired by the human brain, and each layer examines a different part of the problem.
Eventually, the answer from all the layers is combined together to produce one final result.
However, neural networks have to be painstakingly trained using thousands of images that have been pre-labelled by humans, which makes it a very arduous task.
The team from Vicarious developed Recursive Cortical Network (RCN), a software which mimics actual processes in the human brain while requiring less computing power than a neural network.
The human brain has the ability to identify objects even if they are obscured by other objects, by recognising shapes and textures.
Vicarious has been developing algorithms for RCN that aim to identify objects by analysing pixels in an image to see if they match the outline of an object.
Captcha attacks In 2013, Vicarious announced that it had cracked text-based Captcha tests used by Google, Yahoo, PayPal and Captcha.com with a 90% accuracy.
Since then, Captcha designers have made their tests more difficult to beat, but the researchers said in their new paper that the software was now able to pass Google's reCaptcha test 66.6% of the time.
The RCN software was also able to solve reCaptacha tests from Captcha generator BotDetect at a 64.4% success rate, Yahoo Captchas at a 57.4% success rate and PayPal at a 57.1% success rate.
Image copyright Vicarious / Science Image caption The computer algorithm could crack modern Captcha tests with success rates of more than 50% "We're not seeing attacks on Captcha at the moment, but within three or four months, whatever the researchers have developed will become mainstream, so Captcha's days are numbered," Simon Edwards, a cyber-security architect for data cyber-security firm Trend Micro Europe, told the BBC.
"The very nature of big data analysis and machine learning is that if you give it enough data to play with, it will eventually work out most things."
Mr Edwards said that typically within two months of security flaws being discovered, have-a-go hackers will start attacking every publicly-visible web server they can find, and so it is likely that Captcha tests on websites will soon be under siege.
"The technology has been around for a long time - there needs to be a better version of Captcha," he said.
"In my mind, the best form of authentication is two-factor.
It's the only real way of getting around these problems."
Image copyright Robert Nicholls Image caption Artwork: Sinosauropteryx probably lived in open environments, under constant threat of predation A dinosaur from China sported a "bandit mask" pattern in the feathers on its face, scientists have said.
Researchers came to their conclusion after studying three well-preserved fossil specimens of the extinct creature, called Sinosauropteryx.
They were able to discern the dinosaur's colour patterns, showing that it had a banded tail and "counter-shading" - where animals are dark on top and lighter on their underside.
The study appears in Current Biology.
The bandit mask pattern is seen in numerous animals today, from mammals - such as raccoons and badgers - to birds, such as the nuthatch.
"This is the first time it's been seen in a dinosaur and, to my knowledge, any extinct animal that shows colour bands," co-author Fiann Smithwick, from Bristol University, told BBC News.
Masked avengers?
There are a variety of ideas about why animals carry the bandit mask pattern.
And the reasons might differ between individual species.
"In raccoons and badgers, it's an advertisement of the fact that they're aggressive," said Dr Smithwick, adding: "If you're a predator and you mess with them, they're going to fight back."
"We think that's probably unlikely in Sinosauropteryx because there's no real anatomical evidence that it could have defended itself well.
It's a small dinosaur and quite gracile (lightly built).
"It would probably have been fast-moving, but in terms of a physical deterrent that you'd need to back up a signal like that, it doesn't really have one.
Image caption One of the specimens used in the study He added: "If you have a non-honest signal like that, you're generally found out pretty quickly in evolutionary terms."
Instead, the team thinks the bandit mask served a similar function to the one seen in modern birds - which makes sense given the evolutionary relationship between the two groups.
Scientists think one reason birds have it is to reduce glare from light reflected on feathers around the eye.
This might be particularly important in environments where there's lots of direct sunlight.
"The analogy is athletes who paint a dark stripe under their eyes... it's really beneficial for increasing your visual acuity," said Dr Smithwick.
But they might also camouflage the eyes, making them harder for predators to spot.
Photo inspection Sinosauropteryx is known to have lived between 133 and 120 million years ago in north-eastern China.
It was a small feathered dinosaur characterised by a long tail and short arms.
The longest specimen is about a metre (three-and-a-half feet) in length.
"One of these fossils was looked at about seven years ago, by a team that found pigment preserved in the feathers - this was in the form of melanin.
This was a particular type of melanin that's known to give 'ginger' or 'rusty-brown' colours in living animals," he explained.
Only pigmented feathers were preserved by fossilisation.
So parts of the dinosaur's body where they were not found were presumed to be white in life.
Co-author Dr Jakob Vinther, also from Bristol University, travelled to China to take very high-resolution photos of the specimens.
Some of these were normally lit, but others were taken using cross-polarising filters on the light and the camera.
Image copyright Fiann Smithwick Image caption Artwork: The dinosaur had the longest tail of any known theropod dinosaur relative to its body length These filters reduce the glare that comes off the fossil under artificial light, allowing the scientists to see in detail where the dark-pigmented areas were.
"It essentially allowed us to map out the distribution of the light and dark plumage," said Dr Smithwick.
In addition to the bandit mask, the researchers identified counter-shading on the body and a banded tail.
These patterns can tell scientists lots about the animal, its behaviour, and habitat.
Counter-shading is a common form of camouflage present in modern animals.
It balances out the natural patterns of light and shade cast by sunlight, making the creature appear flatter against the background.
The particular way that the dinosaur was counter-shaded suggests Sinosauropteryx lived in open habitats, rather than dense forest.
Sinosauropteryx could not have held the long tail in a perfectly horizontal position for long periods, which may explain why it's banded rather than counter-shaded.
Follow Paul on Twitter.
Image copyright NRW Image caption Sand running spiders are found in only three places in Wales Action is needed to conserve Wales' rare spider species, including those which only live underground, a review has found.
Some of the 500 species of spiders that live in Wales are found almost nowhere else in the world, according to Natural Resources Wales (NRW).
They include cave spiders found in two places in south Wales and sand running spiders on beaches and sand dunes.
NRW said spiders were "crucial" to the environment.
The review, conducted by NRW in conjunction with the British Arachnological Society, found there were 654 different species of spider in the UK - with almost 500 found in Wales.
Of those, 18 species were critically endangered, with 84 species being endangered or vulnerable in Britain.
They include: The sand running spider, which is a master of camouflage, found at three locations in Wales, including sand dunes at Morfa Harlech in Gwynedd The cave dwelling spider, found at only two locations in south Wales, which spends its entire life underground The fen raft spider, found at Pant y Sais National Nature Reserve and Crymlyn Bog, Swansea - it is one of Britain's largest spiders, with females measuring 13-22mm and males 10-16mm Rhodri Dafydd, senior reserve manager for NRW, said of the sand running spider: "They're a fantastic looking thing.
They're one of the most camouflaged spiders we've got, it looks exactly like a piece of sand so we have our work cut out looking for it.
"Lots of spiders build webs to catch their prey, the sand running spider runs after its prey.
It's one of the hunting spiders.
"These sand dunes we've got in Wales now are some of the key habitats for them.
They require open sandy conditions where they can actively, visually hunt their prey.
They get rarer as the habitats get rarer."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Senior reserves manager for Morfa Harlech, Rhodri Dafydd said sand running spiders are 'very rare' Speaking about looking for the spiders, Richard Gallon from the British Arachnological Society said: "On a basic level you're on your hands and knees grubbing around through vegetation looking for them, but there are more technical means as well - we've got a vacuum sampler.
"It essentially sucks spiders up out of the vegetation so there's no damage to the habitat and you can sort through the spiders alive and then let them go afterwards."
Michael Howe, invertebrate ecologist for NRW, said: "Great Britain boasts a huge variety of species of spider.
"Spiders are crucial to the environment and this assessment highlights the need to take action to prevent further extinctions of our rarest species."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Bloodhound car is tested ahead of its 1,000mph record attempt The Bloodhound Super Sonic Car has conducted its first public runs.
Using just the thrust of its jet engine, the vehicle raced to 210mph (340km/h) down the runway at Newquay Airport in southwest England.
Ultimately, Bloodhound will be fitted with a rocket motor as well so that it can go 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
That will not happen for two to three years, but the Newquay tests have given the team confidence that the car can achieve its designed performance.
Driven by RAF Wing Commander Andy Green, Bloodhound SSC made two trips down Newquay's 1.7-mile (2.7km) runway.
Image copyright Getty Images Climb inside Andy Green's cockpit More than 3,000 VIPs and supporters club members were in attendance to see the Eurofighter EJ200 jet engine take the vehicle from a standing start to 200mph in about eight seconds.
As well as the ear-splitting noise, the crowd was treated to the bright glare of the engine on reheat.
"We did two back-to-back 200mph runs in a five-tonne car.
It felt like about eight seconds, which was what we were expecting," Wing Commander Green said on stepping out of the cockpit.
"It was a real hard work-out for the brakes.
Probably up to somewhere close to a thousand degrees, the front brakes were smoking furiously after the second run.
They just started to flicker with flame - very sort of Formula One, but in a proper high-speed car.
And that was exactly what we were hoping for," he told BBC News.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bloodhound: Numbers of the beast These "slow-speed" trials are really at the limit of what can be done here in the UK.
To go faster, Bloodhound will have to head abroad.
Next year, it hopes to be on Hakskeen Pan in Northern Cape, South Africa.
This dried-out lake bed is super-flat and extends for 12 miles (19km), providing ample space to get up to some very high speeds and then slow and stop safely.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Bloodhound still awaits its rocket motor which will go in the hole below the jet engine Testing in Newquay these past few weeks makes the team believe the car can attain 650mph (1,050km/h) with just the EJ200.
That is not enough to break the world land speed record (763mph/1,227km/h), but it would take the vehicle into a performance region where engineers would learn a lot more about its capabilities.
At over 400mph, the wheels can no longer turn as fast as the car moves and act more like the rudders on a boat.
And at 650mph, some of the airflows over Bloodhound's body would approach the sound barrier.
This is all knowledge needed to go 800mph in 2019, and then up to 1,000mph in 2020 - when the rocket technology becomes available.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Meet Ron Ayers.
the 85-year-old aerodynamicist behind the Bloodhound car This is currently being developed by the Norwegian aerospace and defence company Nammo.
The Scandinavian firm expects to have two versions available for Bloodhound.
The first - a so-called monopropellant motor - should provide sufficient additional thrust to set a new land speed record.
The second - what is termed a hybrid motor - will be even more powerful and will be incorporated into Bloodhound following some aerodynamic upgrades to its rear end.
"The total thrust we think we need is about 20 tonnes.
So that's a thrust-to-weight ratio of about two-and-a-half.
The car when we're breaking records will weigh about eight tonnes," said Bloodhound technical director, Mark Chapman.
One other significant change to the car by then could be the introduction of a major electric component.
The rocket will need oxidiser pushed through it and at the moment the motor destined to drive the pump is a V8 from a Jaguar sports car.
But such have been the advances in batteries and capacitors in recent years, the team now thinks these technologies could take over the role of the internal combustion engine.
The swap might also give more flexibility to engineers as they look to redistribute weight around the car as it targets higher and higher speeds.
Image copyright Getty Images Two more days of public running lie ahead.
One is on Saturday, for which a few tickets remain.
The other is on Monday, organised with Cornwall County Council and aimed at local secondary schools.
Education is a primary motivation for the Bloodhound project - to inspire children in their study of STEM subjects.
Jess Herbert is a product of this initiative.
She won an apprenticeship with Rolls-Royce after Bloodhound got her interested in engineering, and even acts now as one of the project's education ambassadors.
"The outreach team - they go out to schools and do workshops and presentations," she explained.
"Recently at Rolls-Royce, we ran a 'bring your daughter to work day', where we built rocket-powered cars inspired by Bloodhound.
And it was incredible; they loved it."
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright ARTHUR DURBAND Image caption The skull is thought to be about 6,000 years old An ancient human skull discovered in Papua New Guinea is likely to have belonged to the world's oldest-known tsunami victim, scientists say.
The skull was discovered in 1929 near the town of Aitape and incorrectly attributed to the Homo erectus species, an ancestor of modern humans.
However, scientists now say the area was once a coastal lagoon that was hit by a tsunami about 6,000 years ago.
They believe the skull belonged to a person who died in the tsunami.
The discovery came after the international team compared sediments from the area with soil from a nearby region hit by a devastating tsunami in 1998.
"While the bones had been well studied, little attention had previously been paid to the sediments where they were unearthed," said first author Prof James Goff, from the University of New South Wales.
The "geographical similarities" in the sediments showed that humans had experienced tsunamis in the area for thousands of years, he said.
"We conclude that this person who died there so long ago is probably the oldest-known tsunami victim in the world," said Prof Goff.
Image copyright Ethan Cochrane Image caption The discovery was made near the town of Aitape, in Papua New Guinea The scientists said it was also possible that the person had died and been buried just before the tsunami happened.
The research involved studying the grain size and composition of the sediments.
Among them were microscopic organisms from the ocean, similar to ones found after the 1998 tsunami which killed more than 2,000 people.
The team also performed radiocarbon dating, a method used to accurately determine the age of artefacts.
Researchers said the findings, published in the journal PLOS One, raise questions about whether other archaeological discoveries in coastal areas should be re-evaluated.
Image copyright Getty Images Scientists have demonstrated an "incredibly powerful" ability to manipulate the building blocks of life in two separate studies.
One altered the order of atoms in DNA to rewrite the human genetic code and the instructions for life.
The other edited RNA, which is a chemical cousin of DNA and unlocks the information in the genetic code.
The studies - which could eventually treat diseases - have been described as clever, important and exciting.
Cystic fibrosis, inherited blindness and other diseases caused by a single typo in the genetic code could ultimately be prevented or treated with such approaches.
Both studies were performed at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard.
Base editing The first, published in the journal Nature, developed tools called base editors.
DNA is built out of the four bases: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
If a single one of them is in the wrong place, it can cause disease.
Base editors alter the molecular structure of one base to convert it into another.
Researchers can now manipulate the four bases.
And the team used base editing to correct an inherited disease that leads to dangerously high levels of iron in the blood.
Prof David Liu of the Broad Institute said: "We are hard at work trying to translate base editing technology into human therapeutics."
However, he admits there are still issues around safety and implementation: "Having a machine that can make the change you want to make is only the start.
You still need to do all this other work, but having the machine really helps."
RNA The second study, published in the journal Science, focused on RNA, another of the molecules essential for life.
DNA is the master copy of the genetic code, but in order for a cell to use the genetic instructions, it must first create an RNA copy.
It is like going to a library where you cannot read any of the books, but can only use photocopies.
The researchers used their RNA approach to correct an inherited form of anaemia in human cells.
Feng Zhang - also of the Broad Institute - said: "The ability to correct disease-causing mutations is one of the primary goals of genome editing.
"This new ability to edit RNA opens up more potential opportunities to... treat many diseases, in almost any kind of cell."
All of the experiments were on human cells growing in the laboratory.
Dr Helen O'Neill, from UCL, said: "This is an exciting week for genetic research.
"These papers highlight the fast pace of the field and the continuous improvements being made in genome editing, bringing it closer and closer to the clinic."
Scientific advances in genetic engineering are taking place at an incredible pace.
And the same technologies work on plants, animals and micro-organisms too, posing questions for areas like agriculture.
Dr Sarah Chan, a bioethicist at the University of Edinburgh, said we can no longer pretend the technology is too dangerous to contemplate.
She told the BBC: "We can't hide any more.
"The science is moving fast in the sense it is becoming less risky, more certain, more precise and more effective.
"It is absolutely past time for us to engage more widely with publics on the issue of gene editing."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption The little holes trap the water when the sea retreats Mini rock pools are being created by scientists trying to protect sea life from the boom in manmade sea defences.
Aberystwyth University researchers have drilled holes the size of a family baked bean can into a breakwater made of smooth granite blocks.
The blocks had attracted few intertidal creatures.
But the new holes were swiftly colonised by fish, anemones and important reef-building honeycomb worms.
The scientists hope that the thousands of miles of manmade sea walls under construction to hold back sea levels will incorporate wildlife-friendly features like this.
They have also designed an experimental form of concrete, dubbed Reefcrete.
The hope is that this material will attract creatures to colonise sea walls.
Conventional sea walls are often inhospitable for sea life because they are smooth; they don't trap water at low tide (unlike a normal rocky shore).
They are often also too alkaline.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption Drilling artificial rockpools A simple idea The Reefcrete is made with less cement than usual.
It is held together by hemp fibres which act in a similar way to steel re-enforcing bars in buildings.
Tests so far have shown that Reefcrete encourages more seaweed to grow than regular sea walls.
The seaweed provides a home for a greater variety of animals.
Research is continuing to see how the hemp fibres stand up to the test of time.
Another form of Reefcrete uses waste shells from a local seafood shelling factory.
Discarded shell are classed as waste and must be disposed of in landfill or burned.
The scientific team suggests they could be incorporated into sea walls as a binding material instead.
The shells would create a rougher surface more suitable for sea life.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption The rockpool project was initiated by PhD student Ally Evans Whilst the Reefcrete tests continue, the clear success story so far has been the holes in the rocks - a project begun three-and-a-half years ago by a PhD student, Ally Evans.
She told BBC News: "I'm really happy with the outcomes of this research.
It shows that even simple things like drilling holes in boulders can make a difference for marine life."
Her supervisor, Dr Pippa Moore, added: "There is a real global issue of governments creating sea defences, sea walls and other coastal infrastructure that are less good for wildlife than the nature they are replacing.
"We wanted to see if you changed the complexity and increased the number of habitats on this boulder whether that would increase the number of plants and animals that could survive on it.
"It's definitely worked.
What happens is that these rocks are covered at high tide and the little holes trap the water when the sea retreats.
It's incredibly simple - and innovative.
"Just by creating an area where water is retained you can make it more like a rocky shore and less like an artificial structure."
Dr Moore has been discussing the findings with the firm proposing the Swansea Bay Tidal Lagoon scheme.
"We don't just do this for science's sake," she said.
"We want to implement this in structures that are being built.
We've been talking to companies - and the idea seems to be catching on."
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright Dan Kitwood Image caption Former Chancellor Lord Lawson's claims on climate change were made on BBC Radio 4's Today programme The BBC should have challenged the views of climate sceptic Lord Lawson in an interview in August, the complaints unit for the corporation has ruled.
The ex-chancellor claimed in an interview with the Today programme that "official figures" showed average world temperatures had "slightly declined".
This view, shown to be false by the Met Office, was not challenged on air.
The BBC admitted it had breached its "guidelines on accuracy and impartiality".
Conservative peer Lord Lawson's appearance on Radio 4's flagship Today programme sparked a number of complaints from listeners.
He had been invited on to discuss the latest film on climate change by former US Vice President Al Gore.
During the interview, Lord Lawson said "official figures" showed that "during this past 10 years, if anything... average world temperature has slightly declined".
He also claimed the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) had confirmed there had not been an increase in extreme weather events for the last 10 years.
Dr Peter Stott, of the Met Office, came on the programme the following day to confirm that Lord Lawson's statistics, which he did not cite at the time, were incorrect.
Dr Stott also said the IPCC has clearly indicated an increase in extreme weather events across the globe were linked to human use of fossil fuels.
The Global Warming Policy Foundation, a campaign group chaired by Lord Lawson, later confirmed his statistics were "erroneous".
The BBC's media editor Amol Rajan said the Today programme had a remit to offer dissenting opinions, aimed at challenging lazy thinking and consensus views.
But he said the BBC's complaints department ruled that a lack of scrutiny of Lord Lawson's claims meant the interview fell short of editorial standards.
It ruled that the peer's statements "were, at the least, contestable and should have been challenged".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lord Lawson's claims about climate change are "simply not true", says the Met Office's Peter Stott A paper by Skeptical Science claims that 97% of scientists across the globe believe climate change is caused by humans.
In 2014 the BBC Trust stated the corporation has "a duty to reflect the weight of scientific agreement but it should also reflect the existence of critical views appropriately".
Image copyright NASA US astronaut Paul Weitz, who helped save a Nasa space station after it was damaged during launch, has died aged 85.
Mr Weitz, who died at a retirement home in Flagstaff, Arizona, also served as the first commander of the space shuttle Challenger.
He was a naval aviator before joining Nasa in 1966.
He was the pilot on the first mission to Skylab, the US space station which orbited Earth from 1973 to 1979.
The orbiting laboratory had been launched without crew on 14 May 1973.
But a shield to protect the station from collisions with small meteorites had torn loose during lift-off.
Image copyright NASA Image caption Skylab was America's first and only space station Image copyright NASA Image caption A replacement sunshield for Skylab is sewn together in Houston Image copyright NASA Image caption Weitz mans the control and display console of the Apollo Telescope Mount (ATM) on Skylab in 1973 The shield also protected Skylab against extremes of temperature, and without it, the station began to overheat.
Mr Weitz and his fellow crew members Pete Conrad and Joseph Kerwin were supposed to launch on 15 May.
But Nasa delayed the flight so that the crew could practice repairs on the ground.
The astronauts eventually launched on 25 May and approached Skylab in their Apollo command module.
Positioning their spacecraft near a jammed solar panel on Skylab, Weitz opened the Apollo module's airlock and extended a 3m (10ft)-long pole designed to free the component.
'Dicey times' He tugged hard at the solar panel, while Joe Kerwin held him by the ankles.
"We thought maybe we'd just break it loose.
So we got down near the end of the solar array and I got a hold of it with the shepherd's crook," Mr Weitz said in an interview with Nasa in 2000.
"But what we really hadn't thought about was, in heaving on it, trying to break the thing free, what I was doing, in effect, I was pulling the command module... in toward [Skylab]."
"Also, surprising in a totally weightless environment, I was moving [Skylab] some, too, because we could see its thrusters firing to maintain its attitude...
So it made for some dicey times."
It was clear that the array wasn't going to budge, so the astronauts went back inside the command module.
Flying Challenger Image copyright NASA Image caption The crew of STS-6, the first Challenger shuttle flight, pose for a photo.
Commander Paul Weitz is seated second from the left Image copyright NASA Image caption The astronauts deployed a satellite from Challenger and carried out a spacewalk during the five-day mission After several failed attempts to dock with the command module, the astronauts finally entered Skylab and successfully deployed a replacement sunshade to lower temperatures inside the lab.
Weitz's second flight was in April 1983 as the first commander of the space shuttle Challenger.
He was then at the relatively advanced age (in those days) of 51.
During their five-day mission, the four crew members successfully deployed a satellite from Challenger and carried out a spacewalk.
Just three years later, the shuttle was destroyed in an accident on lift-off which killed all seven astronauts on board.
If the Apollo programme had not been cancelled in the early seventies, Mr Weitz might have flown to the Moon - possibly on Apollo 20.
Paul J Weitz was born on 25 July 1932 in Erie, Pennsylvania.
Follow Paul Rincon on Twitter.
Image copyright Philip Koch Image caption The instrument was once used by mariners to measure the altitude of the Sun during their voyages An artefact excavated from a shipwreck off the coast of Oman has been found to be the oldest known example of a type of navigational tool.
Marine archaeologists say the object is an astrolabe, an instrument once used by mariners to measure the altitude of the Sun during their voyages.
It is believed to date from between 1495 and 1500.
The item was recovered from a Portuguese explorer which sank during a storm in the Indian Ocean in 1503.
The boat was called the Esmeralda and was part of a fleet led by Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama, the first person to sail directly from Europe to India.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Divers uncover 500-year-old Vasco da Gama fleet treasure David Mearns, from Blue Water Recovery, who led the excavation and is the author of The Shipwreck Hunter, told the BBC: "It's a great privilege to find something so rare, something so historically important, something that will be studied by the archaeological community and fills in a gap."
The astrolabe was discovered by Mr Mearns in 2014, and was one of nearly 3,000 artefacts recovered during a series of dives.
The bronze disc measures 17.5cm in diameter and is less than 2mm thick.
"It was like nothing else we had seen and I immediately knew it was something very important because you could see it had these two emblems on it," said Mr Mearns.
"One I recognised immediately as a Portuguese coat of arms... and another which we later discovered was the personal emblem of Don Manuel I, the King of Portugal at the time."
The excavation team believed the object was an astrolabe, but they could not see any navigational markings on it.
However, a later analysis uncovered its hidden details.
Laser scanning work carried out by scientists at the University of Warwick revealed etches around the edge of the disc, each separated by five degrees.
Image caption The University of Warwick used laser scans to uncover etches on the astrolabe, which helped navigators work out the height of the sun This would have allowed mariners to measure the height of the sun above the horizon at noon to determine their location so they could find their way on the high seas.
Mariners' astrolabes are relatively rare, and this is only the 108th to be confirmed catalogued.
It is also the earliest known example by several decades.
Mr Mearns said: "We know it had to have been made before 1502, because that's when the ship left Lisbon and Dom Manuel didn't become King until 1495, and this astrolabe wouldn't have carried the emblem of the King unless he was King.
"I believe it's probably fair to say it dates roughly to between 1495 to 1500.
Exactly what year we don't know - but it is in that narrow period."
He added: "It rolls back this history by at least 30 years - it adds to evolution, it adds to the history, and hopefully astrolabes from this period can be found."
Follow Rebecca Morelle on Twitter.
Image copyright JAGO-TEAM/GEOMAR Image caption Cold water corals should be more resilient All sea life will be affected because carbon dioxide emissions from modern society are making the oceans more acidic, a major new report will say.
The eight-year study from more than 250 scientists finds that infant sea creatures will be especially harmed.
This means the number of baby cod growing to adulthood could fall to a quarter or even a 12th of today's numbers, the researchers suggest.
The assessment comes from the BIOACID project, which is led from Germany.
A brochure summarising the main outcomes will be presented to climate negotiators at their annual meeting, which this year is taking place in Bonn in November.
The Biological Impacts of Ocean Acidification report authors say some creatures may benefit directly from the chemical changes - but even these could still be adversely affected indirectly by shifts in the whole food web.
What is more, the research shows that changes through acidification will be made worse by climate change, pollution, coastal development, over-fishing and agricultural fertilisers.
Ocean acidification is happening because as CO2 from fossil fuels dissolves in seawater, it produces carbonic acid and this lowers the pH of the water.
Image copyright Maike Nicolai/GEOMAR Image caption Mesocosms ("giant test tubes") allow scientists to study acidification effects on real-world organisms Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the average pH of global ocean surface waters have fallen from pH 8.2 to 8.1.
This represents an increase in acidity of about 26%.
The study's lead author is Prof Ulf Riebesell from the GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research in Kiel.
He is a world authority on the topic and has typically communicated cautiously about the effects of acidification.
He told BBC News: "Acidification affects marine life across all groups, although to different degrees.
"Warm-water corals are generally more sensitive than cold-water corals.
Clams and snails are more sensitive than crustaceans.
"And we found that early life stages are generally more affected than adult organisms.
"But even if an organism isn't directly harmed by acidification it may be affected indirectly through changes in its habitat or changes in the food web.
"At the end of the day, these changes will affect the many services the ocean provides to us."
On the agenda Since 2009, scientists working under the BIOACID programme have studied how marine creatures are affected by acidification during different life stages; how these reactions reverberate through the marine food web; and whether the challenges can be mitigated by evolutionary adaptation.
Some research was done in the lab but other studies were conducted in the North Sea, the Baltic, the Arctic, and Papua New Guinea.
A synthesis of more than 350 publications on the effects of ocean acidification - which will be given to climate delegates at next month's summit - reveals that almost half of the marine animal species tested reacted negatively to already moderate increases in seawater CO2 concentrations.
Early life stages were affected in Atlantic cod, blue mussels, starfish, sea urchins and sea butterflies.
But an experiment with barnacles showed they were not sensitive to acidification.
And some plants - like algae which use carbon for photosynthesis - may even benefit.
Image copyright MAREK MIS/SPL Image caption Organisms that use calcium carbonate to build their bodies will likely struggle Dr Carol Turley, an ocean acidification expert from Plymouth Marine Labs in the UK described the BIOACID research as enormously important.
She told BBC News: "It's contributed enormous insights into the impacts that acidification can have on a wide range of marine organisms from microbes to fish.
"It's also explored how in combination with ocean warming and other stressors it might play out at the ecosystem level and affect human society.
"On the lead-up to the UN climate change negotiations in Bonn this November it is clear that the ocean and its ecosystems should not be ignored."
The conference is being held in Germany but it is being chaired by Fiji, which wants delegates to give due prominence to the effects of CO2 on the ocean.
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright Courtesy G Prasad Image caption This is the first time an ichthyosaur fossil has been discovered in India Scientists in India have discovered a 152 million-year-old fossil of an ichthyosaur - an extinct marine reptile - in the western state of Gujarat.
This is the first time an ichthyosaur fossil has been discovered in India.
The fossil was found inside rocks from the Mesozoic Era, which ran between 252 and 66 million years ago, in the Kutch desert.
Prof Guntupalli VR Prasad, who led the study, said the 5.5m (18ft) specimen was almost complete.
Only parts of the skull and tail bones were found to be missing.
The findings have been published in the Plos One science journal.
"This is a remarkable discovery not only because it is the first Jurassic ichthyosaur record from India, but also it throws light on the evolution and diversity of ichthyosaurs in the Indo-Madagascan region and India's biological connectivity with other continents in the Jurassic," Mr Prasad said.
The team, which comprised scientists from India and Germany, believes the newly discovered specimen can be identified with Ophthalmosauridae, a family of ichthyosaurs that lived in the oceans between 165 and 90 million years ago.
Ichthyosaurs Image copyright James McKay Often misidentified as "swimming dinosaurs", they first appeared in the early Triassic period (251 million to 199 million years ago) The name means fish-lizard, although the creature has been classified as a reptile since the mid-19th Century Its length ranged from 1m to 14m - although the average length was 2m to 3m The creature was noted for its sharp, robust teeth.
Ichthyosaurs became extinct around 90 million years ago.
Source: Encyclopaedia of Paleontology.
A statement from the team said the identification of the new specimen may further throw light on whether there was any marine connection between India and South America about 150 million years ago.
An examination of the teeth of the fossil suggests that it was a top-tier predator in its ecosystem, it added.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Nicaragua has been described as a "renewable energy paradise" Nicaragua has signed the Paris climate agreement, meaning that the US and Syria are the only two countries not to be giving the accord their support.
The deal unites the world's nations in tackling climate change.
Nicaragua refused to sign it last year, arguing that it did not go far enough to tackle the problem.
In June President Donald Trump said the US would withdraw from the deal, but the rules of the agreement state that this cannot be done until 2020.
The president said it was part of his "solemn duty to protect America" and he would seek a new deal that would not disadvantage US businesses.
Scientists point out that work to implement the Paris accord must be stepped up if it is to have any chance of success.
The agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Highly sought-after Nicaraguan coffee is thought to be particularly susceptible to changes in weather patterns Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega indicated last week that he would sign the accord.
"It is time for Nicaragua to sign the Paris Agreement," Mr Ortega said on the official July 19 website.
"Scientists from more developed countries, scientists working at Nasa, European scientists, everyone agrees that we must stop the process that is leading to the destruction of the planet," he said.
Mr Ortega's government had previously argued that the accord did not put sufficient onus on wealthy countries to tackle climate change and was not ambitious enough in its objectives.
Nicaragua has no oil and vigorously pursues green energy policies - more than 50% of its electricity is produced by geothermic, wind, solar, biomass and wave power.
It is a country that is believed to be especially at risk from climate change.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega wants tough action to combat global warming The World Bank described the central American country as "a renewable energy paradise" in 2013.
President Trump has argued that the Paris agreement would hobble, disadvantage and impoverish the US, to the benefit of other nations.
He claimed in June that the accord would cost the US 6.5 million jobs and $3tn (2.2tn) in lost GDP - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably.
However, the US more recently has hinted that it may shift its position on withdrawing from the deal.
Historically, the US, Europe, and China account for almost half of the world's carbon emissions.
Syria is thought not to have signed the deal because it has been preoccupied by its civil war.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Losses of rare insects are well documented, but there is little research on insects as a whole It's known as the windscreen phenomenon.
When you stop your car after a drive, there seem to be far fewer squashed insects than there used to be.
Scientists have long suspected that insects are in dramatic decline, but new evidence confirms this.
Research at more than 60 protected areas in Germany suggests flying insects have declined by more than 75% over almost 30 years.
And the causes are unknown.
"This confirms what everybody's been having as a gut feeling - the windscreen phenomenon where you squash fewer bugs as the decades go by," said Caspar Hallmann of Radboud University in The Netherlands.
"This is the first study that looked into the total biomass of flying insects and it confirms our worries.''
The study is based on measurements of the biomass of all insects trapped at 63 nature protection areas in Germany over 27 years since 1989.
The data includes thousands of different insects, such as bees, butterflies and moths.
Scientists say the dramatic decline was seen regardless of habitat, land use and the weather, leaving them at a loss to explain what was behind it.
They stressed the importance of adopting measures known to be beneficial for insects, including strips of flowers around farmland and minimising the effects of intensive agriculture.
And they said there was an urgent need to uncover the causes and extent of the decline in all airborne insects.
"We don't know exactly what the causes are,'' said Hans de Kroon, also of Radboud University, who supervised the research.
''This study shows how important it is to have good monitoring programmes and we need more research right now to look into those causes - so, that has really high priority.''
The finding was even more worrying given that it was happening in nature reserves, which are meant to protect insects and other living species, the researchers said.
''In the modern agricultural landscape, for insects it's a hostile environment, it's a desert, if not worse,'' said Dr de Kroon.
''And the decline there has been well documented.
The big surprise is that it is also happening in adjacent nature reserves.''
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Insects provide vital services like pollination The loss of insects has far-reaching consequences for entire ecosystems.
Insects provide a food source for many birds, amphibians, bats and reptiles, while plants rely on insects for pollination.
The decline is more severe than found in previous studies.
A survey of insects at four sites in the UK between 1973 and 2002 found losses at one of the four sites only.
Dr Lynn Dicks, from the University of East Anglia, UK, who is not connected with the study, said the paper provides new evidence for "an alarming decline" that many entomologists have suspected for some time.
"If total flying insect biomass is genuinely declining at this rate (around 6% per year), it is extremely concerning," she said.
"Flying insects have really important ecological functions, for which their numbers matter a lot."
The research is published in the journal Plos One.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images Climate change has been described as one of the biggest problems faced by humankind.
Carbon dioxide is is the primary driver of global warming.
Prof Joanna Haigh from Imperial College London explains why this gas has played a crucial role in shaping the Earth's climate.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) has been present in the atmosphere since the Earth condensed from a ball of hot gases following its formation from the explosion of a huge star about five billion years ago.
At that time the atmosphere was mainly composed of nitrogen, CO2 and water vapour, which seeped through cracks in the solid surface.
A very similar composition emerges from volcanic eruptions today.
As the planet cooled further some of the water vapour condensed out to form oceans and they dissolved a portion of the CO2 but it was still present in the atmosphere in large amounts.
Tomorrow's World What is climate change?
The first life forms to evolve on Earth were microbes which could survive in this primordial atmosphere but about 2.5 billion years ago, plants developed the ability to photosynthesise, creating glucose and oxygen from CO2 and water in the presence of light from the Sun.
This had a transformative impact on the atmosphere: as life developed, CO2 was consumed so that by around 20 million years ago its concentration was down to below 300 molecules in every one million molecules of air (or 300 parts per million - ppm).
Image copyright SPL Image caption Artwork: As life developed on Earth, carbon dioxide levels plummeted Life on Earth has evolved under these conditions - note that humans did not appear until about 200,000 years ago - and atmospheric CO2 has not exceed that concentration until the industrial revolution brought with it massive emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels: coal and oil.
CO2 plays an important role in climate because it is one of the atmospheric "greenhouse" gases (GHGs) which keep the Earth's surface about 33 degrees warmer than the -18C temperature it would be at were they not present.
They do this by being fairly transparent to the Sun's rays, allowing them through to warm the surface, but then absorbing the radiant heat that the surface emits, so trapping it and enhancing the warming.
In the present climate the most effective GHGs are water vapour, which is responsible for about two-thirds of the total warming, and CO2 which accounts for about one quarter.
Other gases, including methane, make up the remainder.
The atmospheric concentration of water vapour is less than 1% and, with CO2 making up only a few molecules in every ten thousand of air, it may be surprising that they can have such a significant impact on the surface temperature.
They are able to do this, however, because the structure of their molecules makes them especially effective at absorbing heat radiation while the major atmospheric gases, nitrogen and oxygen, are essentially transparent to it.
Image copyright NOAA Image caption This air sampling station at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii recorded CO2 levels going past 400ppm The greenhouse effect means that as the atmospheric loading of GHGs increases the surface temperature of the Earth warms.
The overall increase in global temperature of about 1C over the past 150 years is almost entirely due to the human activities that have increasing amounts of atmospheric GHGs.
Most significantly, the concentration of CO2 has been rising exponentially (at a rate of about 0.17% per year) since the industrial revolution, due mainly to the combustion of fossil fuels but also to large-scale tropical deforestation which depletes the climate system's capacity for photosynthesis.
In 2015, it passed 400ppm, more than 40% higher than its pre-industrial value of 280ppm and a level that has not existed on Earth for several million years.
While the basic science of how GHGs warm the Earth is very well understood, there are complications.
The climate system responds in various ways which both enhance and ameliorate the effects of these gases.
For example, a warmer atmosphere can hold more water vapour (before it condenses out in clouds or rain) and because water vapour is a GHG, this increases the temperature rise.
Another example: as the oceans warm they are less able to hold CO2 so release it, again with the result the initial warming is enhanced.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Volcanoes can eject small particles into the upper part of the atmosphere The global temperature record over the past century does not show the same smooth increase presented by CO2 measurements because the climate is influenced by other factors than GHGs, arising from both natural and human sources.
Some particles released into the atmosphere by industrial activities reflect sunshine back to space, tending to cool the planet.
Similarly, large volcanic eruptions can eject small particles into the higher atmosphere, where they remain for up to about two years reducing the sunlight reaching the surface, and temporary dips in global temperature have indeed been measured following major volcanic events.
Changes in the energy emitted by the Sun also affect surface temperature, though measurements of the solar output show this effect to be small on human timescales.
Another important consideration in interpreting global temperatures is that the climate is inherently complex.
Energy moves between the atmosphere and oceans in natural fluctuations - an example being El Nio events.
This means that we cannot expect an immediate direct relationship between any influencing factor and surface temperature.
All these factors complicate the picture.
Nevertheless, it is indisputable that the global temperature rise over the past century is a result of human-produced GHGs, mainly CO2.
While, until the industrial revolution, the CO2 concentration has not exceeded the 280ppm value that last occurred several million years ago, it has gone through periods when it was considerably lower.
Notably, during the ice ages which have occurred roughly every 100,000 years over at least the past half million, drops in global temperature of perhaps 5C have been accompanied by reductions in CO2 concentration to less than 200ppm.
The ice ages, and associated warmer interglacial periods, are brought about by changes in the Earth's orbit around the Sun which take place on these long timescales.
The cooling in response to a decline in solar radiation reaching the Earth's surface results in a greater uptake of CO2 by the oceans and so further cooling due to a weakened greenhouse effect.
This is an entirely natural phenomenon and it is worth noting that such amplification of temperature fluctuations will occur in response to any initiating factor regardless of its source and including human-produced greenhouse gases.
The effects of increasing CO2 are not limited to an increase in air temperature.
As the oceans warm they are expanding so producing a rise in sea level, this being exacerbated by the melting of some of the ice present on land near the poles and in glaciers.
The warmer atmosphere holds more water vapour resulting in increased occurrences of heavy rainfall and flooding while changes in weather patterns are intensifying droughts in other regions.
If human emissions of GHGs into the atmosphere continue unabated then the global temperature will continue to rise and the associated weather impacts become ever more severe.
The UN climate conference in Paris in December 2015, at which 195 nations unanimously agreed on an aim to restrict the temperature rise to less than 2C, or preferably 1.5C, above the pre-industrial "baseline" was an extraordinary political achievement.
To achieve this, however, will require a complete cessation of global CO2 emissions by the second half of this century and, while the world considers how this might be achieved, the crossing of the 400ppm mark in CO2 concentration has been matched by a global warming of 1C.
Image copyright Brent Stirton/WPY Image caption Brent Stirton says the things he's seen have dented his faith in humanity A shocking image of environmental crime has been declared the top entry in this year's Wildlife Photographer of the Year (WPY) competition.
Taken by South African Brent Stirton, the picture shows the slumped form of a black rhino in Hluhluwe Imfolozi Game Reserve.
Poachers killed the animal at night, with a silencer, and then dehorned it.
Stirton took the photo as part of an investigation into the illegal trade in rhino products.
The photographer visited more than 30 such crime scenes in the course of his probe - experiences he said he found depressing.
"My first child is going to be born in February; I'm 48.
And I think I left it such a long time because I kind of lost faith in a lot of the work we see as photojournalists.
You lose faith in humanity to some extent."
Stirton, who collected his award at a gala dinner at London's Natural History Museum, believes this particular piece of butchery was probably carried out by local people, but working to order.
The usual practice is to sell the animal's two horns to a middleman.
This individual then smuggles the merchandise out of South Africa, most probably through Mozambique, to China or Vietnam.
In those Asian countries rhino horn has a street value higher than gold or cocaine.
The trade is driven by the misguided belief that horn - the same material as toenails - can cure everything from cancer to kidney stones.
Brent Stirton told BBC News: "For me to win this, for the jury to acknowledge this kind of picture - it's illustrative that we are living in a different time now, that this is a real issue.
The sixth age of extinction is a reality and rhinos are just one of many species that we are losing at a hugely accelerated rate and I am grateful that the jury would choose this image because it gives this issue another platform."
Image copyright Daniel Nelson/WPY Image caption Danil Nelson is named Young Wildlife Photographer of the Year for this gorilla scene Lewis Blackwell, the chair of judges for WPY, said the rhino image had had a searing impact on his panel: "People may be disgusted, they may be horrified - but it draws you in and you want to know more, you want to know the story behind it.
And you can't escape it; it confronts you with what's going on in the world."
The rather more peaceful image of a young western lowland gorilla feeding on breadfruit is the subject of the Young Wildlife Photographer of the Year winning entry.
This was taken by Danil Nelson from the Netherlands, who entered the picture in the 15-17-years-old category.
The gorilla is about nine years old and is called Caco by the trackers who took the young Dutchman to see the ape in Odzala National Park in the Republic of Congo.
Western lowland gorillas are critically endangered.
Their numbers are being denuded by illegal hunting for bushmeat, disease (notably the Ebola virus), and habitat loss (to mines and oilpalm plantations).
Danil, who is now 18, said he first became aware of WPY when he was six.
"It inspired me immediately, and since then my passions in life have revolved around wildlife, photography and conservation."
Some of the other WPY category winners Image copyright Peter Delaney/WPY This image is called Contemplation, taken by Peter Delaney (Ireland/South Africa).
It wins the Animal Portraits category.
It shows a resting chimpanzee on the forest floor in Uganda's Kibale National Park.
Peter is from County Wicklow but WPY inspired him to move to Africa to pursue his photography career.
Image copyright Justin Gilligan/WPY Crab surprise is the title of this picture from Justin Gilligan (Australia).
It claimed the Invertebrates category.
It shows an octopus choosing a meal in a field of giant spider crabs in Mercury Passage off the east coast of Tasmania.
Image copyright Tony Wu/WPY Tony Wu (US) calls this The giant gathering.
It is the Behaviour: Mammals winner.
Tony is a specialist in photographing sperm whales.
This huge gathering was captured off Sri Lanka's northeast coast.
Very rarely have such scenes been witnessed by cameras.
Image copyright Laurent Ballesta/WPY This unusual photo is titled The ice monster.
Laurent Ballesta (France) captured the scene in waters off East Antarctica, close to the French Dumont d'Urville scientific base.
It shows the underside of an iceberg.
It's actually a mosaic of many images stitched together.
It won the Earth's Environments category.
Image copyright Feelsion Palm-oil survivors is the work of Bertie Gekoski (UK/USA) - the winner of the Wildlife Photojournalist: Single image award.
It is taken in eastern Sabah, on the island of Borneo.
Three generations of Bornean elephants are seen moving across an oil-palm plantation being cleared for replanting.
The palm oil industry has reduced and fragmented the animals' habitat.
When the animals stray into plantations they often get shot or poisoned, says Bertie.
Image copyright Ekaterina Bee/WPY The grip of the gulls, taken by Ekaterina Bee from Italy.
Ekaterina is the winner in the 10 years and under category.
She got these herring gulls to play for her camera by throwing some bread for them.
Ekaterina is just five-and-a-half years old.
WPY is one of the most prestigious competitions of its type in world photography.
Started in 1964 by what has since become BBC Wildlife Magazine, it has grown in scale and this year accepted 48,000 entries from 92 countries.
The current competition is organised by London's Natural History Museum.
An exhibition of the best images opens at the South Kensington institution on Friday.
Next year's competition starts taking entries from Monday.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bloodhound's jet was designed to work in a fighter, not in a car A British team is developing a car that will be capable of reaching 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
Powered by a rocket bolted to a Eurofighter-Typhoon jet engine, the vehicle will first mount an assault on the world land speed record (763mph; 1,228km/h).
Bloodhound should start running on Hakskeen Pan in Northern Cape, South Africa, in 2019.
Bloodhound roared into life right on cue.
Several months ago, we committed to getting the car to Newquay Airport at the end of September, to start our "slow speed" (200 mph) UK runway tests.
Exactly as planned, at 17:20 local on 28 September, the car's EJ200 jet engine fired up for the first time.
Starting the jet engine on schedule is not the half of it, though.
Here's the huge surprise.
We got FULL REHEAT!
You can see a clip of the car's massive power at the top of this page.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Turns out the intake is big enough after all Reaching full power was completely unexpected, even by the Rolls-Royce team who came down to support our engine tests.
The static tie-down engine tests were designed to "characterise" the jet intake.
The intake is sized to provide the jet engine with just the right amount of air - at 850 mph.
When the car is stationary, or travelling very slowly (anything less than 100mph is "very slow"), there is no "ram effect" from the airflow, and the intake is too small to feed the jet engine with as much air as it would like.
As a result, we were pretty certain that the jet would be power-limited, probably quite severely, at slow speeds.
"Characterising" the intake was all about finding out just how much the engine would be limited.
When I pushed the throttle pedal down to its first detent, trying to select "max dry" power (full engine rpm), we were all expecting the engine to struggle and stop short.
I couldn't quite believe my eyes when the cockpit instruments showed full dry power.
Hardly daring to hope, I pushed the throttle through the detent to select minimum reheat and sure enough, it lit with no problem at all.
Maximum reheat?
Yes, that worked too.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Holding it still After shutting the car down, I climbed out to discuss the results with the rest of the team.
We've spent years discussing the effects of the expected power limits.
How would it affect our runway testing?
What speed can we reach in the UK?
How will it affect acceleration during record runs in South Africa?
We were so concerned about the possible limitations that we even designed the air intake with the option to fit "auxiliary intakes" if necessary.
If you look closely at the sides of the car, just behind the intake mouth, you'll see two large square hatches, where we can fit additional intake doors if required.
These are now redundant, which is great news.
One thing I can't describe to you is what full reheat sounded like outside the car, because I don't know.
In the cockpit, I can see the engine instruments showing the power setting, and I can feel the car straining against its 10-tonne-rated steel tie-down cables, but I can't feel or hear the reheat at all.
Outside the car it's a different matter.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Full power - cockpit view After the reheat runs, I asked Mark Elvin what it was like for the rest of the team.
Mark is our senior mechanical designer, with a background in both F1 and aerospace, so he's worked with some pretty impressive technology in the past.
Even he was struggling to find words for the shattering power of the EJ200.
After collecting his thoughts for a moment, he said: "It was just astonishing.
Simply astonishing."
Now that we've completed the static testing, we need to do some dynamic testing of the car - wheels, brakes, steering, etc - as we prepare for our first big public runs on 26th and 28 October (there are still a few tickets left if you want to come and join us!).
With this much power available, I have to confess to being both excited about the amazing performance on offer and a little nervous about controlling it.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Technology stamps This car is going to be seriously fast and I've got to learn to drive it in a small handful of tests, before our first big (and public) runs.
While we're getting the team and the car ready for our big show at the end of October, interest is growing everywhere.
A couple of weeks ago I was in the Isle of Man, for a Bloodhound day with the local schools, organised by Swagelok.
While the company is a huge multinational, the Isle of Man factory is very proud of its contribution to Bloodhound, as this is where some of the key components of our rocket system were designed and built.
As you can imagine, the island's school kids were hugely excited to hear all about the world's fastest car.
The Isle of Man post office has joined in the excitement, producing a commemorative set of Bloodhound stamps (joining other countries around the world who have celebrated the Land Speed Record with a set of stamps - did you know that Guinea-Bissau in West Africa has also produced some?
No, me neither).
One of the Isle of Man stamps is just a plain black silhouette of the Car, which looks a little boring until you rub it - after a few seconds, the thermochromic ink warms up and changes colour, revealing a cutaway diagram of the car.
I've never seen a stamp with technology built into it - buy one and try it!
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption A global Adventure It's not just youngsters in the Isle of Man that are getting excited.
I was amazed to find out this month that a school in rural Zambia has been studying Bloodhound and making their own rocket cars.
Our "Engineering Adventure" really is becoming a global event.
Bloodhound's long-term aim is to create an "adventure" that will inspire a generation.
It's a fact of life that we will only be able to measure our success after we've finished, but it's looking good so far.
It's been a great few weeks getting Bloodhound ready to run.
Keep watching the Bloodhound website, it won't be long before we're streaming live video and data from the most sophisticated Land Speed Record car ever made.
Video An elephant that found itself trapped in an agricultural well in Sri Lanka is free to roam again after a rescue operation.
Video The UK cities with atmospheres considered harmful by the World Health Organization are revealed in a new report by the Royal College of Physicians.
Video Dozens of octopuses have been witnessed crawling out of the sea on the Welsh coast.
Sea trip operator Brett Stones said more than 20 of the sea creatures were seen making their way on to the beach at New Quay in Ceredigion on Friday night.
Mr Stones, who runs SeaMor Dolphin Watching Boat Trips, caught one octopus on camera.
He told BBC Wales that he helped return a number of them to sea, but others were found dead on the sands on Saturday.
However, the reason behind why the octopuses would strand themselves on land remains a mystery.
Video Caimans are helped out of the mud in central Brazil, after getting stuck searching for relief from the prolonged drought.
Video World-renowned theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking thrilled fans with a talk on black holes at the University of Oxford.
The lecture on Friday evening was the first in a series named in honour of his long-time collaborator Roger Penrose.
The talk held at the Mathematical Institute was also streamed live around the world via the university's Facebook page.
Video Russia has tested several nuclear-capable missiles and released video of some of the launches.
President Vladimir Putin took part in the military training exercise, the Kremlin said.
Defence ministry video showed a Topol long-range missile, Tu-160 Blackjack bomber and Tu-95 Bear bomber.
Image copyright English Heritage/PA The "army of builders" of Stonehenge ate animals brought from as far away as the north east of Scotland, according to a new exhibition at the famous Neolithic site in Wiltshire.
Analysis of pig and cattle teeth has revealed some of the animals were from as far as 500 miles away.
The "Feast!
Food at Stonehenge" exhibition includes the skull of an aurochs, an extinct species of cattle.
It is aimed at allowing visitors to explore diet from 4,500 years ago.
Image copyright English Heritage/PA English Heritage historian Susan Greany said: "Our exhibition explores the important role feasts and food played at Stonehenge.
"Raising the ancient stones was an incredible feat but so too was feeding the army of builders.
"Our exhibition reveals just how this was done."
The displays reveal research and stories from a "feeding Stonehenge" project, which has been exploring the lives of the people who lived at the nearby settlement of Durrington Walls.
The researchers say thousands of discarded animal bones and teeth excavated at Durrington Walls suggest it was not a typical village but a site of major feasting and ceremony.
Image copyright Graeme Hunter Image caption The Vikings traded in red squirrel pelts and meat and the animals were sometimes kept as pets Red squirrels traded by Vikings could have brought leprosy to pre-medieval England, according to archaeologists.
Research has revealed that a pre-Norman skull found in Hoxne in Suffolk has a leprosy strain closely related to a type known to affect squirrels.
The strain has also been found in Medieval Scandinavian skeletons.
Cambridge University's Sarah Inskip said contact with the "highly-prized squirrel pelt and meat" traded by Vikings could have spread the disease.
Image copyright Sarah Inskip Image caption Hoxne woman's nasal spine was destroyed by the disease and damage to the skull suggests she would have had extensive facial lesions Radiocarbon dating revealed the woman's skull, which is held at Diss Museum in Norfolk, dates to between 885 and 1015 AD.
It has the same strain of leprosy as that identified in skeletal remains found in Medieval Denmark and Sweden.
The research, which has been published in the Journal of Medical Microbiology, cites a recent study demonstrating leprosy infection in red squirrels in Brownsea Island in Dorset.
DNA sequencing of the Mycobacterium Leprae strain found in the modern animals showed it was closed related to that found in the Hoxne skull.
The strain is found in nine-banded armadillos and has caused some human cases of leprosy in Florida.
Image copyright Peter Trimming/Flickr Image caption Leprosy affects squirrels in much the same way as humans - with lesions on muzzles, paws and ears Dr Inskip said: "That [leprosy] may also come from squirrels is an interesting idea."
King's Lynn and Yarmouth in Norfolk were "significant ports for fur imports" from Denmark and Sweden at this time, she added.
The animals were also sometimes kept as pets.
The leprosy strain has previously been found in the skeleton of a man from Great Chesterford near Cambridge, dating from 415 to 545 AD, suggesting it had persisted for hundreds of years in south east England.
Dr Inskip said: "This new evidence, coupled with the prevalence of leper hospitals in East Anglia from the 11th Century onwards, adds weight to the idea the disease was endemic in this region earlier than other parts of the country."
A year after the epic Planet Earth II, Sir David Attenborough is returning to our screens with a follow-up to 2001's Blue Planet.
No spoilers, but we've seen the first episode and as sequels go we can confirm it's better than Sex And The City 2.
We've also been to the press conference and spoken to some of the team behind the new series.
Here are 22 things you need to know about Blue Planet II - complete with behind-the-boat info and what you can expect from the first episode.
1.
Five babies were born to crew members in the time it took to film.
Blue Planet II involved "125 shoots, 6,000 hours filming underwater and 1,000 hours filming in submersibles", explains production manager Katie Hall.
But away from the shoots, she adds, it was also a busy time for the crew: "We had three weddings.
Four houses were bought.
Five babies.
Two babies on the way.
"That's what happens when you're filming for four years."
2.
"Oceans cover 70% of the surface of our planet, and yet they are still the least explored," says Sir David Attenborough in the opening sequence.
"Hidden beneath the waves, there are creatures beyond our imagination," he continues.
Roughly translated, we think he's saying: "Look, I know you might have seen Finding Dory multiple times but this is the real deal."
3.
Hans Zimmer is doing the music again.
It's bad news for Fifth Harmony fans as the soundtrack has already been sorted by composer and general legend Hans Zimmer.
"We actually put the music out to tender, we weren't sure who we wanted to do it," explains executive producer James Honeyborne.
"And although we loved Planet Earth II [which Zimmer also did the soundtrack for] we wanted to keep this feeling fresh.
"But Hans came to us with such an impassioned pitch as to why he wanted to do it, which was incredible."
4.
There will be seven episodes in the series.
And they're split into different habitats - like deep ocean, the coral reefs, the open ocean and the coastlines.
"Once you start dividing those up, you start to see where some of the stories would naturally fit," says James.
5.
We wouldn't fancy filling out the risk assessment form for this show.
"When we green light each shoot, we're constantly mitigating risk," says Katie.
"But bar a couple of earaches, a little bit of water at the bottom of a submersible, and one cameraman stubbed his finger, we were extraordinarily lucky.
"But the planning that goes into every single shoot, and managing the risk - whether that's financial risk or health and safety - you don't see any of that."
Shame.
6.
There's some serious drama in the opening episode.
Spoiler alert etc, etc.
In the opening episode, we meet some birds.
Who sometimes like to fly down to the ocean and chill out a bit on the surface.
Unfortunately for them, there's some rather hungry giant trevallies (ie big scary fish) lurking under the water.
And they have a particular taste for birds.
We won't give much more away, but it's safe to say you're about to see some snakes and iguanas-level drama go down.
7.
Fish are Facebook-friendly.
The trailer for the new series has already built up 43 million views on social media.
Which is all part of a new digital strategy this year, according to Tom McDonald, who is (deep breath) head of commissioning at the BBC's Natural History and Specialist Factual unit.
"One of the interesting things about Planet Earth II was that more people watched it than the X Factor results show when they were up against each other last year," he says.
"So if there is a younger audience out there that is going to consume natural history content, we should focus our digital strategy on them, which is what we've done this year."
8.
New technology was built to film the series.
"We built a huge piece of housing which we called the megadome which allowed us to slice the sea in half so you can see above and below at the same time," James says.
"We also built a tow-cam which can be pulled behind a boat which allowed us to travel with really fast-moving animals like dolphins and tuna."
9.
They've brought back those 'making of' segments at the end of the episodes.
Remember on Planet Earth II, you'd get 50 minutes worth of TV show, and then 10 minutes of how the episode you've just seen was shot?
Half the time, the "making of" bit was even more interesting and eventful than the show itself.
Well, they've brought that bit back - and this series will have a segment called Into The Blue at the end of each instalment.
10.
There's some stuff in the series that even Sir David Actual Attenborough didn't know about.
"When we first showed him some clips, he was like, 'Oh I didn't know this' and 'I didn't know that'," James says.
"Genuinely he was surprised.
It's always good if you can surprise David, it doesn't happen often."
11.
One Walrus has clearly been watching Titanic.
At one point in the first episode, a walrus tries to seek refuge from a preying polar bear on a floating iceberg.
Problem is, there are already some walruses (walri?)
on said berg.
Clearly, this walrus watched Titanic, and, like the rest of us, thought there was plenty of room for Kate Winslet to shift over and make room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that piece of wood.
Unfortunately, the extra weight of this particular walrus on this particular iceberg causes it to collapse, ruining the party for everybody (there's always one).
12.
Bottle-nosed dolphins are super-cute They just look so friendly don't they, you'd definitely go for a drink with one.
13.
Dolphins surf, Sir David explains, "to strengthen friendships, develop social skills, and for the sheer exhilaration of it".
Coincidentally, this is also why humans do karaoke.
14.
The show doesn't shy away from the impact of pollution.
"You can't go out there and make a series like this without seeing some really big issues unfolding in front of you," says James.
"You can go to the middle of the ocean and find plastics from many different continents coming together.
"The impact that has on the wildlife can be devastating."
In the show, we hear Sir David comment: "There are worrying signs that conditions in the oceans that have remained relatively stable for millennia, are changing radically."
15.
Warning: The first episode includes "mating".
In case you're planning to watch with your parents.
Fortunately, the mating involves this handsome chap.
16.
Some shots weren't filmed on location.
Earlier this week, The Guardian said some footage had been captured in "controlled laboratory conditions".
After the report was published, James explained the series was overwhelmingly shot on location, but in a few select instances, such as rock pools in the Coasts episode, labs were used.
"Filming in the wild would have been too disruptive for the wildlife," he said.
"It would have been impossible to film close-ups of this magical world, so we worked with scientists to accurately recreate a rock pool in the controlled conditions of the lab."
17.
It wasn't originally going to be called Blue Planet II.
"The series was commissioned as Oceans," explains Tom.
"It was a very easy commission, instinctively the channel understood it was a brilliant thing to do and it felt like it was the right time to go back to this habitat.
"It was never designed so that we'd have Planet Earth II last year and Blue Planet II this year, so now it looks like it was a brilliant strategy, but it wasn't exactly conceived that way."
18.
Tusk fish are determined little creatures.
There is one tusk fish who travels to the edge of the coral reef every morning, Sir David explains, looking for some breakfast.
While most of us would grab some Special K from the cupboard, this guy travels quite some distance in search of a small clam.
Using his mouth, he takes it back to his "kitchen" - which is essentially a massive rock, against which he starts bashing the clam repeatedly in order to crack it open.
"It's not easy when you have no hands," Sir David observes.
19.
Not all of the plans for the series came off.
"There were lots of shoots that failed, to put it bluntly," says Tom.
"The team set out to capture particular species, and when you watch this, I think James and his team make it look really easy.
"And when I think about the number of variables when it comes to filming in the ocean, I think it's remarkable what they were able to capture."
20.
In true W1A style, the show has led to more collaborative BBC working.
"Some of the new technologies that were invented specifically for this series are already being deployed by the Natural History Unit on future projects," says Tom.
James adds: "There was a sequence on The One Show last week about sturgeon [not Nicola], and they borrowed our probe lens, which is great - we built it, they were able to use it."
21.
There's going to be a podcast to accompany the series.
So make sure you're all caught-up on Serial.
22.
So...
Planet Earth II.
Blue Planet II.
What's next?
"We have a big landmark series for next year which is very different to Blue Planet II," says Tom.
"It's been announced already, it's called Dynasty, not to be confused with Carringtons and Colbys, so who knows if it will stay that title.
"But the premise of each film is we take one animal family and follow them for a number of years to see the ups and downs of their family lines.
"I'm already viewing episodes of it, and it's incredibly visceral.
It feels so different to this."
There's more.
"One other thing I'm really excited about is a series the NHU have made which is on in January called Animals With Cameras, a really simple proposition.
"We've built bespoke cameras for different species, that the animals wear, so we can see the world from an animal's point of view.
"There's meerkats in it," he adds.
"That's my innovation for 2018, more meerkats."
Blue Planet II begins on BBC One at 20:00 GMT on Sunday.
The series has been sold to more than 30 countries around the world.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Discovering the structure of DNA was a "big moment" in science In an essay for the BBC, Nobel Prize-winner and Royal Society President Sir Venki Ramakrishnan contemplates the nature of scientific discovery - how it has transformed our worldview in a short space of time, and why we need to be just as watchful today about the uses of research as we've ever been.
If we could miraculously transport even the smartest people from around 1900 to today's world, they would be simply astonished at how we now understand things that had puzzled humans for centuries.
Just over a hundred years ago, people had no idea how we inherit and pass on traits or how a single cell could grow into an organism.
They didn't know that atoms themselves had structure - the word itself means indivisible.
They didn't know that matter has very strange properties that defy common sense.
Or why there is gravity.
And they had no idea how things began, whether it was life on earth or the universe itself.
BBC Tomorrow's World These days because of fundamental discoveries we can answer or at least begin to answer those mysteries.
That has transformed the way we see the world and often our everyday lives.
Much of what we take for granted today is a result of an interplay of fundamental science and technology, with each driving the other forward.
Image copyright Royal Society Image caption Modern inventions often rely on discoveries that are a few hundred years old, says Venki Ramakrishnan Almost every modern invention has one or often many fundamental discoveries that make it possible.
Sometimes, these fundamental discoveries were hundreds of years old.
Neither jet engines nor rockets would be possible without a knowledge of Newton's laws of motion.
There are big moments in science, like the discovery of the structure of DNA that shift our perspectives.
But even that discovery was a milestone that built on work by Darwin and Mendel and presaged today's biotechnology where the entire DNA of a human being - the human genome - has been sequenced.
Global change calculator Image copyright MARK GARLICK/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Which groundbreaking discovery was uncovered in your life time?
Find out with the Tomorrow's World Global Change Calculator.
That in turn has given us the ability to figure out how things go wrong in genetic diseases and potentially how to fix them.
Scientists were recently able to modify the genes of a young girl to cure her cancer.
We are no longer a complete black box, although our complexity is such that we are only just beginning to understand how our genes regulate the body and how they interact with our environment.
Image copyright SPL Image caption We were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point Genetic technologies are likely to present society with some big questions about how we see ourselves and what we want to use our greater understanding and capability for.
That is also true of the Big Bang theory of how the Universe came into existence.
A hundred years ago mysteries such as how the Universe came to exist were, for many, firmly in the realms of faith.
Spurred on by the observation that the Universe is not constant, but galaxies are always expanding away from each other, we were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point.
This knowledge gives us insight into perhaps what is the biggest question of all - where did everything come from?
That insight makes our small blue dot seem increasingly small, yet our quest for knowledge of what is out there shows no signs of an inferiority complex.
Image copyright NASA Image caption Advances in space exploration have made us more inquisitive about the great unknown From the Apollo missions to the Cassini probe, the Hubble telescope to the search for gravitational waves and exoplanets - all of those breakthroughs seem to be making us more inquisitive about space.
Today, much of how we see the world is through an electronic screen.
Computers in all their many guises are sources of knowledge, but they are also increasingly how we present ourselves to the rest of the world, and how we interact with others.
Even a ubiquitous object like a smartphone depends on many fundamental discoveries.
Its powerful computer depends on integrated chips made up of transistors, whose discovery depended on an understanding of quantum mechanics.
The GPS in a smart phone depends on correcting the time from satellites using both the special and general theories of relativity - theories that people once thought would have no practical value.
I wonder how many understand all the discoveries that make the little box work.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Machines that learn have led to the first driverless cars Computers are also driving developments that will continue to challenge our view of the world.
Machines that learn are already among us and are changing the world in which we live.
They offer great potential in areas including healthcare and improving other public services, and may soon result in driverless cars and very sophisticated robots, but we need to make conscious decisions about how we want smart machines to allow humanity to flourish.
Discoveries themselves are morally neutral, but the use we make of them are not.
One discovery that shifted our view of the world in two distinctly divergent directions was nuclear fission.
Its discovery led to the development of the most destructive weapons known.
Some argue that the fear of destruction has been a powerful motivator for peace, but this is hardly a stable solution as can be seen with today's situation with North Korea.
On the other hand, nuclear fission also promised a reliable source of energy that was once optimistically predicted to be 'too cheap to meter'.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The fear of destruction may have acted as a deterrent once, but may not be a stable situation Science is the pursuit of knowledge about ourselves and the world around us.
That pursuit of knowledge has also shaped the way we view the world, as has the application of the knowledge.
It has transformed our lives, generally for the better.
We live nearly twice as long today as our ancestors did in 1900 and the quality of our lives is far better than it was then.
But the uses of science and technology are not shaped by science and scientists alone.
They depend on an interplay of cultural, economic and political factors.
Science is a triumph of human knowledge and we can all share in its excitement.
At the same time, understanding its many uses can help us be engaged in decisions that affect us all.
Image copyright china manned space engineering Image caption China's Tiangong I spacecraft is expected to fall to Earth soon China's Tiangong-1 space station is currently out of control and expected to fall back to Earth next year.
But not in the remote place where many other spacecraft end their days.
Explorers and adventurers often look for new places to conquer now that the highest peaks have been climbed, the poles reached and vast oceans and deserts crossed.
Some of these new places are called the poles of inaccessibility.
Two of them are particularly interesting.
One is called the continental pole of inaccessibility - it's the place on Earth furthest from the ocean.
There is some debate as to its exact position but it's considered by many to be near the so-called Dzungarian Gate - a mountain pass between China and Central Asia.
The equivalent point in the ocean - the place furthest away from land - lies in the South Pacific some 2,700km (1,680 miles) south of the Pitcairn Islands - somewhere in the no-man's land, or rather no-man's-sea, between Australia, New Zealand and South America.
This oceanic pole of inaccessibility is not only of interest to explorers, satellite operators are interested in it as well.
That's because most of the satellites placed in orbit around the Earth will eventually come down, but where?
Smaller satellites will burn up but pieces of the larger ones will survive to reach the Earth's surface.
To avoid crashing on a populated area they are brought down near the point of oceanic inaccessibility.
Scattered over an area of approximately 1,500 sq km (580 sq miles) on the ocean floor of this region is a graveyard of satellites.
At last count there were more than 260 of them, mostly Russian.
The wreckage of the Mir space station lies there.
It was launched in 1986 and was visited by many teams of cosmonauts and international visitors.
With a mass of 120 tonnes it was never going to burn up in the atmosphere, so it was ditched in the region in 2001 and was seen by some fishermen as a fragmenting mass of glowing debris racing across the sky.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A computer-simulated image of Mir's descent and break-up as it entered the Earth's atmosphere in 2001 Many times a year the supply module that goes to the International Space Station burns up in this region incinerating the station's waste.
No one is in any danger because of this controlled re-entry into our atmosphere.
The region is not fished because oceanic currents avoid the area and do not bring nutrients to it, making marine life scarce.
One future visitor to this desolate place will be the International Space Station.
Current plans are for it to be decommissioned in the next decade and it will have to be carefully brought down in the oceanic pole of inaccessibility.
With a mass of 450 tonnes - four times that of the Mir space station - it will make a spectacular sight.
Sometimes however, it's not possible to bring a satellite or space station down in the South Pacific if ground controllers have lost contact with it.
Image copyright NASA Image caption The Earth is surrounded by thousands of pieces of space junk (dots not to scale) Such a thing happened with the 36-tonne Salyut 7 space station in 1991 which came down in South America or the American Skylab that struck Australia in 1979.
No one on the ground was injured, or indeed as far as we know, ever has been hit by a piece of falling spacecraft debris.
We will face that problem again next year.
Between January and April the Chinese Tiangong-1 will come back to Earth.
It was launched in 2011 as China's first space station.
The following year it was visited by China's first female astronaut, Liu Yang.
Tiangong-1's orbit is decaying as it heads towards re-entry.
But Chinese engineers have lost control of it and cannot fire its thrusters to bring it down in the South Pacific.
Instead it will come down somewhere between 42.8 degrees north and south.
That's between the latitude of northern Spain and southern Australia, and we won't be able to be more precise than that until just a few hours before it burns up.
Tiangong-1 is one space station that probably won't join its companions in the remote South Pacific.
Dr David Whitehouse was the BBC's science correspondent from 1988 until 2006, and is a former science editor at the BBC News website.
Image copyright MIGUEL MEDINA Image caption For big labels, Milan's Fall fashion week is a major event in the calendar We continue to buy new clothes at an incredible rate.
How can manufacturers reduce fashion's environmental footprint?
According to the Valuing Our Clothes report analysing the contents of British wardrobes by the Waste Resources Action Programme (WRAP), we purchased 1,130,000 tonnes of new clothing last year in the UK.
Meanwhile, an estimated 30bn worth of our clothing hangs about gathering dust because we simply don't have time to wear it all or don't really like what we're buying.
This is the epoch of "fast fashion" - a rapid production system that promises quick turnaround of trends and low prices, with a supply chain that snakes through some of the lowest wage economies on Earth.
Fast fashion brands dominate not just high streets, but our wardrobes and represent the three trillion dollar global fashion industry's greatest success story.
But at what cost?
The environmental footprint of today's fashion industry is extraordinary, making it one of the top five most polluting industries on earth, alongside the petrochemical industry.
Many fashion industry insiders are seriously worried, not necessarily because they fret over greenhouse gases caused by the supply chain, but because there is now so much over-supply of fashion that it's becoming difficult to have a successful season - particularly as we now have 50 seasons rather than the traditional two of spring/summer and autumn/winter.
Some commentators refer to today's relentless cycle as a "supermarket of style".
Cause for optimism?
But according to fashion theory, there are 101 steps to producing a garment from processes such as dyeing and finishing to pressing the garment ready for retail.
If you're a pessimist that's 101 chances to introduce pollution, exploitation and planetary degradation.
If however you're an optimist, that's 101 opportunities to take the impact out of fashion!
So for a new episode of BBC Radio 4's Costing the Earth, I travelled to Milan Fashion week to meet some disruptors (and definitely optimists) who believe we are on the cusp of a green revolution that can turn the industry around.
At the Green Carpet Fashion Awards Italia, that took place at the famous La Scala opera theatre during Milan Fashion Week it was difficult not to be blinded by the super star wattage pacing the deliberately "green" carpet (manufactured from old fishing nets and carpets).
Image copyright Anne-Marie Bullock Image caption The Green Carpet Fashion Awards honour disruptors who try to reduce fashion's environmental footprint Image copyright Eco Age Image caption The awards were held in the magnificent La Scala opera house But among the stars - Gisele Bundchen, Naomi Campbell, Colin Firth, Giorgio Armani were all in attendance - were a number of eco innovation show stoppers.
One model wore an eye catching dress made from apple leather and creating by emerging designer, Matje Benedetti who explained how waste apple pulp from the apple industry is mixed with polyurethane to develop the fibre.
The inclusion of ecological innovative fibres at this level - awards on the night also went to Orange Fibre, a company spinning yarn from citrus waste - points to serious investment in revolutionary new materials.
Silky skills Case and point is provided by New York biotech start-up Modern Meadows.
Here biologists work alongside creative director, Suzanne Lee and fermentation engineers to bio-fabricate leather in the laboratory.
This research and development promises a future where cows will not be required for a handbag and where fashion design intersects with biology.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some in the fashion industry are looking at other options for producing fabrics Meanwhile, Californian start up Bolt Threads has raised millions of dollars to bring its brewed spider silk to market (Stella McCartney has designed with the material) and fashion entrepreneur Miroslava Duma recently launched a $50 million fund and accelerator dedicated to bringing new sustainable fibres and fabrics to market.
In many ways this fibre revolution is long overdue.
The fashion industry, for all its claims of being cutting edge, is remarkably conservative when it comes to fabrics.
Humanity is almost exclusive clothed in polyester and cotton fibres, both of which have shocking environmental profiles.
This also means that the last significant innovation in materials was polyester, circa 1943!
3D printing But what we're also seeing here are levels of and investment in disruptive technology and innovation that have previously been applied to the technology and transport sector, applied to fashion.
This is potentially a game changer.
However, we do still need to address the issue of our own over consumption, an area where we've made little headway.
But there's innovation here too: designer Danit Peleg 3D prints her collections and thinks in the foreseeable future we will be able to effectively design out shopping for fashion by 3D printing to order.
It's another innovation to get excited by and a disruption that could represent an enormous gift to the biosphere given the impact of our consumption.
But I'd have to concede it's early days for all of this innovation.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The evening was attended by a host of stars of the fashion industry So amid such headline-grabbing, tech-fuelled disruption is there a more immediate, human, low-tech answer right in front of us?
Psychologist Professor Carolyn Mair has observed that we're inclined to keep stuff circulating in our wardrobe to which we've attached a strong personal narrative.
Mair told me about her favourite example: "a pair of lucky pants".
Many people secretly own a pair to which they attach talismanic significance and they have huge longevity!
Behaviours like these can turn fashion green.
WRAP research shows that extending the life of clothes by an extra nine months of active use, in the UK, reduces the carbon, water and waste impacts of that garment by around 20-30%.
Standby then for a wardrobe future where you'll be able to access cutting edge bio-fabricated novel material that's been 3D printed in a pair of very lucky pants.
That's what I call fashion forward.
Costing the Earth is available now and on BBC Radio 4 on Thursday 11th Oct at 9pm
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Scientists are now developing an ultra-fast quantum internet that will be partly based on light Imagine super-fast computers that can solve problems much quicker than machines today.
These "quantum computers" are being developed in laboratories around the world.
But scientists have already taken the next step, and are thinking about a light-based quantum internet that will have to be just as fast.
It's not easy to develop technology for a device that hasn't technically been invented yet, but quantum communications is an attractive field of research because the technology will enable us to send messages that are much more secure.
There are several problems that will need to be solved in order to make a quantum internet possible: Getting quantum computers to talk to each other Making communications secure from hacking Transmitting messages over long distances without losing parts of the message; and Routing messages across a quantum network What is a quantum computer?
A quantum computer is a machine that is able to crack very tough computation problems with incredible speed - beyond that of today's "classical" computers.
In conventional computers, the unit of information is called a "bit" and can have a value of either 1 or 0.
But its equivalent in a quantum system - the qubit (quantum bit) - can be both 1 and 0 at the same time.
This phenomenon opens the door for multiple calculations to be performed simultaneously.
However, qubits need to be synchronised using a quantum effect known as entanglement, which Albert Einstein termed "spooky action at a distance".
There are four types of quantum computers currently being developed, which use: Light particles Trapped ions Superconducting qubits Nitrogen vacancy centres in diamonds Quantum computers will enable a multitude of useful applications, such as being able to model many variations of a chemical reaction to discover new medications; developing new imaging technologies for healthcare to better detect problems in the body; or to speed up how we design batteries, new materials and flexible electronics.
Pooling computing power Quantum computers might be more powerful than classical computers, but some applications will require even more computing power than one quantum computer can provide on its own.
If you can get quantum devices to talk to each other, then you could connect several quantum computers together and pool their power to form one huge quantum computer.
However, since there are four different types of quantum computers being built today, they won't be all be able to talk to each other without some help.
Some scientists favour a quantum internet based entirely on light particles (photons), while others believe that it would be easier to make quantum networks where light interacts with matter.
"Light is better for communications, but matter qubits are better for processing," Joseph Fitzsimons, a principal investigator at the National University of Singapore's Centre of Quantum Technologies tells the BBC.
"You need both to make the network work to establish error correction of the signal, but it can be difficult to make them interact."
It is very expensive and difficult to store all information in photons, Mr Fitzsimons says, because photons can't see each other and pass straight by, rather than bouncing off each other.
Instead, he believes it would be easier to use light for communications, while storing information using electrons or atoms (in matter).
Quantum encryption Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Quantum encryption will make communications much more secure One of the key applications of the quantum internet will be quantum key distribution (QKD), whereby a secret key is generated using a pair of entangled photons, and is then used to encrypt information in a way that is impossible for a quantum computer to crack.
This technology already exists, and was first demonstrated in space by a team of researchers from the National University of Singapore and the University of Strathclyde, UK, in December 2015.
But it's not just the encryption that we will need to build in order to secure our information in the quantum future.
Scientists are also working on "blind quantum computer protocols", because they allow the user to hide anything they want on a computer.
"You can write something, send it to a remote computer and the person who owns the computer can't tell anything about it at all except how long it took to run and how much memory it used," says Mr Fitzsimons.
"This is important because there likely won't be many quantum computers when they first appear, so people will want to remotely run programs on them, the way we do today in the cloud."
There are two different approaches to building quantum networks - a land-based network and a space-based network.
Both methods work well for sending regular bits of data across the internet today, but if we want to send data as qubits in the future, it is much more complicated.
To send particles of light (photons), we can use fibre optic cables in the ground.
However, the light signal deteriorates over long distances (a phenomenon known as "decoherence"), because fibre optics cables sometimes absorb photons.
It is possible to get around this by building "repeater stations" every 50km.
These would essentially be miniature quantum laboratories that would try to repair the signal before sending it on to the next node in the network.
But this system would come with its own complexities.
Land or space?
Image copyright Johannes Handsteiner / AW Image caption Artwork: a ground station beams a message contained in a light signal up to the Micius satellite Then there are space-based networks.
Let's say you want to send a message from the UK to a friend in Australia.
The light signal is beamed up from a ground station in the UK, to a satellite with a light source mounted on it.
The satellite sends the light signal to another satellite, which then beams the signal down to a ground station in Australia, and then the message can be transmitted over a ground-based quantum network or classical internet network to the other party.
"Because there's no air between the satellites, there's nothing to degrade the signal," says Dr Jamie Vicary, a senior research fellow at Oxford University's department of computer science and a member of the Networked Quantum Information Technologies Hub (NQIT).
"If we want to have a really global-scale quantum internet, it looks like a space-based solution is the only way that will work, but it's the most expensive."
Quantum teleportation via space has been conducted successfully, and scientists are currently vying to demonstrate longer and longer distances.
Scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences generated headlines in June when they succeeded in teleporting entangled photons between two towns in China located 1,200km apart.
They used a specially developed quantum satellite called Micius.
The same Chinese scientists recently topped their own record on 29 September, by demonstrating the world's first intercontinental video call protected by a quantum key with researchers at the Austrian Academy of Sciences - over a distance of 7,700km.
The call lasted for 20 minutes and the parties were able to exchange encrypted pictures of the Micius satellite and Austrian physicist Erwin Schrdinger.
Rupert Ursin, senior group leader at the Austrian Academy of Sciences' Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information believes the quantum internet will need land-based and space-based networks to operate in parallel.
"In the cities, we need a fibre network, but long haul connections will be covered by satellite links," he explains.
How does quantum key distribution work?
Image copyright AW Image caption The video call between Austrian and Chinese scientists on 29 September 2017 To understand how QKD works, let's go back to the video call made between the Austrian and Chinese scientists.
The Micius satellite used its light source to establish optical links with the ground stations in Austria and the ground stations in China.
It was then able to generate a quantum key.
The great thing about quantum encryption is you can detect whether someone has tried to intercept the message before it got to you, and how many people tried to access it.
Micius was able to tell that the encryption was secure and no one was eavesdropping on the video call.
It then gave the go ahead to encrypt the data using the secret key and transmit it over a public internet channel.
Routing messages Multiple groups of scientists are developing land-based networks by working on the technologies for quantum repeater stations, which are located every 50km, connected by fibre optic cables.
These repeater stations, also known as "quantum network nodes", will need to perform several actions in order to route, or direct, messages around the network.
First, each node needs to repair and boost the signal that was damaged from the previous 50km stretch of the network.
Imagine that you're using an old fax machine to send a one-page document to someone else, and each time you send the page, a different part of the message is missing, and the other party has to piece the message together from all the failed attempts.
This is similar to how a single message may have to be sent between different nodes on a quantum network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Fibre optic cables will be used for land-based quantum networks There will be many people on the network, all trying to talk to each other.
So the node, or repeater station, will also have to figure out how to distribute its available computing power in order to piece together all the messages being sent.
It will also have to send messages between the quantum internet and the classical internet.
The University of Delft is building a quantum network using nitrogen vacancies in diamonds, and it has so far shown the ability to store and distribute the links needed for quantum communications over quite large distances.
The University of Oxford and the University of Maryland are both currently building quantum computers that work in a similar way to a network.
Their quantum computers consist of trapped ion nodes that have been networked together to talk to each other.
The bigger the computer you want, the more nodes you have to add, but this type of quantum computer only transmits data over a short distance.
"We want to make them small so they can be well-protected from decoherence, but if they're small then they can't hold many qubits," says Dr Vicary.
"If we connect the nodes up in a network, then we can still have a quantum computer without being limited by the number of qubits, while still protecting the nodes."
Quantum memory The repeater station will also need to have a quantum memory chip.
The nodes create "links", which consist of entangled pairs of light particles.
These entangled pairs are prepared in advance.
While the node calculates the route across the network that the message will need to take, it needs to store the entangled pair of photons somewhere safe, so a quantum memory chip is needed.
It has to be able to store the photons for as long as possible.
Image copyright Stuart Hay, ANU Image caption Dr Rose Ahlefeldt and associate professor Matthew Sellars operate a high-resolution dye laser to study rare earth crystals at ANU Researchers from the Australian National University (ANU) have developed a telecom-compatible quantum memory chip using an erbium-doped crystal.
This device is able to store light in the right colour and it is able to do so for longer than one second, which is 10,000 times longer than all other attempts so far.
"The biggest challenge is now to demonstrate a quantum memory with a large data storage capacity," associate professor Matthew Sellars, program manager in the Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology (CQC2T) at ANU tells the BBC.
"It will be the memory's storage capacity that will limit the data transmission rate through the network.
"I think it will take about five years before the technology [for the quantum internet] is practical."
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Space exploration began with Sputnik's successful launch on 4 October, 1957 The launch of Sputnik, the first man-made satellite, 60 years ago kicked off the space race between the Soviet Union and America.
The satellite was a success not just in terms of scientific advancement but in terms of providing a propaganda opportunity for the socialist state.
Early reports detailed a wealth of technical information about the launch of the "Earth satellite", such was the general interest in it.
'Like a flashing spark' One news correspondent described seeing the satellite appear "like a flashing spark over the horizon" and the Communist Party's main newspaper, Pravda, wrote that "all the world heard the announcement of the launching of the artificial moon".
But reports by the state news agency Tass also mentioned its orbital velocity of about 8km a second, the fact that it was travelling at up to 900km above the surface of the earth, and that Sputnik was making one complete revolution in an hour and 35 minutes.
Image caption Sputnik was just 58cm in diameter and weighed 84kg Russian media also detailed the frequencies and wavelengths on which Sputnik was emitting regular beeps, saying its transmitters were powerful enough for amateur radio operators to be able to receive them.
Later, radio broadcasts to America touted the fact that the Soviet magazine Radio was offering "special prizes" for radio hams who submitted reports of the signals.
Special broadcasts listed the places and times the satellite was expected to pass over.
Image copyright BBC Monitoring Image caption BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service, recorded Soviet broadcasts about Sputnik's movements The day after its launch, Tass and Russian radio reported world reaction to it, noting how major media outlets like AFP, the Daily Mail and the BBC had reported it and how "some US radio stations interrupted their programmes in order to broadcast the satellite's signals".
'Victory for the Soviet order' On Soviet radio, various scientists, such as jet propulsion expert Professor Kirill Stanyukovich, called it "a great victory not only for Soviet science but also for the Soviet order".
"I think that the very fact that this has been achieved in our socialist country must not be regarded as mere chance," another academic told listeners.
"That we are not as rich as America is no secret to us.
Why then has it happened that we have been capable of solving these most advanced and difficult scientific and technical problems ahead of Americans?"
Several digs at America made their way into reports.
"For 40 years they closed their eyes to the enormous successes of Soviet industry and agriculture," one radio broadcast said.
"Now the most reactionary personalities in the USA are trying to raise some doubts about the tremendous value and great significance of this new success of Soviet science."
BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service which monitored Soviet broadcasts at the time, notes that "Leading officials were quoted by Tass as showing reluctance to accept the news; and Moscow radio told the home audience on the 7th that the United States Information Agency had adopted a policy of minimising the military and scientific significance of the achievement.
US scientists, on the other hand, were given as expressing pleased congratulations."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Komsomolskaya Pravda described Sputnik as "the victory of Soviet power" Influence in a different space Today, the name Sputnik is also associated with an international news agency, which has a presence on the web and radio, and is one of the main media outlets through which Russia influences global opinion.
Sputnik tends to seek audiences on the political margins - whether it's supporters of the Front National in France, or the Democrat Bernie Sanders in the US.
Its political stances include the idea that NATO is a menace to world peace, criticism of what it sees as US hegemony, and the general decadence of Western democracies and their institutions, especially in the face of the challenges posed by Islamist terrorism and migration into Europe.
Sputnik is still potent force for Russian influence, just in a different sort of space now.
See also: The team that tracked Sputnik - and the world's first intercontinental ballistic missile BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world.
You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook.
Image copyright Getty Images You can trace the extent of our reliance on air travel to many inventions.
The jet engine, perhaps, or the aeroplane itself.
But sometimes inventions need other inventions to unlock their full potential.
For the aviation industry, that story starts with the invention of the death ray, or at least an attempt to design a death ray, back in 1935.
Officials in the British Air Ministry were worried about falling behind Nazi Germany in the technological arms race.
The death ray idea intrigued them: they had been offering a 1,000 prize for anyone who could zap a sheep at a hundred paces.
So far, nobody had claimed it.
But should they fund more active research?
Was a death ray even possible?
Image copyright Sasha Image caption Harry Grindell Matthews claimed to have invented a death ray in 1923, but couldn't persuade the British government to buy it Unofficially, they sounded out Robert Watson Watt, of the Radio Research Station.
And he posed an abstract maths question to his colleague Skip Wilkins.
"Suppose, just suppose," said Watson Watt to Wilkins, "that you had eight pints of water, 1km [3,000ft] above the ground.
"And suppose that water was at 98F [37C], and you wanted to heat it to 105F.
"How much radio frequency power would you require, from a distance of 5km?"
Opportunity Skip Wilkins was no fool.
He knew that eight pints was the amount of blood in an adult human, 98F was normal body temperature and 105F was warm enough to kill you, or at least make you pass out, which - if you're behind the controls of an aeroplane - amounts to much the same thing.
So Wilkins and Watson Watt understood each other, and they quickly agreed the death ray was hopeless: it would take too much power.
But they also saw an opportunity.
Clearly, the ministry had some cash to spend on research.
Perhaps Watson Watt and Wilkins could propose some alternative way for them to spend it?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Robert Watson Watt played a key role in developing radar technology Wilkins pondered.
It might be possible, he suggested, to transmit radio waves and detect - from the echoes - the location of oncoming aircraft long before they could be seen.
Watson Watt dashed off a memo to the Air Ministry's newly formed Committee for the Scientific Survey of Air Defence.
Would they be interested in pursuing such an idea?
They would indeed.
What Skip Wilkins was describing became known as radar.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations that helped create the economic world.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
As Robert Buderi describes in his book The Invention That Changed the World, the Germans, the Japanese and the Americans all independently started work on it too.
Spectacular breakthrough But by 1940, it was the British who had made a spectacular breakthrough: the resonant cavity magnetron, a radar transmitter far more powerful than its predecessors.
Pounded by Nazi bombers, Britain's factories would struggle to put the device into production.
But America's factories could.
For months, British leaders plotted to use the magnetron as a bargaining chip for American secrets in other fields.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Prime Minister Winston Churchill decided Britain should share its radar research with the US Then Winston Churchill took power, and decided that desperate times called for desperate measures.
Nerve-wracking journey Britain would simply tell the Americans what they had, and ask for help.
So in August 1940, a Welsh physicist named Eddie Bowen endured a nerve-wracking journey with a black metal chest containing a dozen prototype magnetrons.
First, he took a black cab across London: the cabbie refused to let the clunky metal chest inside, so Bowen had to hope it wouldn't fall off the roof rack.
Then, he took a long train ride to Liverpool, sharing a compartment with a mysterious, sharply dressed, military-looking man who spent the entire journey ignoring the young scientist and silently reading a newspaper.
Then, he took a ship across the Atlantic.
What if it were hit by a German U-boat?
The Nazis couldn't be allowed to recover the magnetrons; two holes were drilled in the crate to make sure it would sink if the boat did.
But the boat didn't.
Image copyright MIT Museum Image caption MIT's Radiation Laboratory went on to spawn 10 Nobel laureates The magnetron stunned the Americans.
Their research was years off the pace.
President Roosevelt approved funds for a new laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - uniquely, for the American War effort, administered not by the military but a civilian agency.
Industry got involved: the very best American academics were headhunted to join Bowen and his British colleagues.
Patchy rollout By any measure, MIT's Radiation Laboratory - known as the Rad Lab - was a resounding success.
It spawned 10 Nobel laureates.
The radar it developed, detecting planes and submarines, helped to win the War.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Radar played a crucial role in helping Britain and her allies win World War Two But urgency in times of war can quickly be lost in times of peace.
It seems obvious that civilian aviation would need radar too, given how quickly it was expanding.
In 1945, at the War's end, US domestic airlines carried seven million passengers.
By 1955, this figure had risen to 38 million.
And the busier the skies, the more useful radar would be at preventing collisions.
But rollout was slow and patchy.
Some airports installed it; many didn't.
In most airspace, planes weren't tracked at all.
Pilots submitted their flight plans in advance, which should in theory ensure that no two planes were in the same place at the same time.
But avoiding collisions ultimately came down to a four-word protocol: "see and be seen".
Disastrous crash On 30 June 1956, two passenger flights departed Los Angeles Airport, three minutes apart: one was bound for Kansas City, one for Chicago.
Their planned flight paths intersected above the Grand Canyon, but at different heights.
Then thunderclouds developed.
One plane's captain radioed to ask permission to fly above the storm.
The air traffic controller cleared him to go to "1,000 on top" - 1,000ft above cloud cover.
See and be seen.
Nobody knows for sure what happened: planes then had no "black box" flight recorders, and there were no survivors.
At just before 10:31, air traffic control heard a garbled radio transmission: "Pull up!
We are going in..." Image copyright Alamy Image caption The 1956 crash was a watershed moment in the history of airline safety From the pattern of the wreckage, strewn for miles across the canyon floor, the planes seem to have approached each other at a 25-degree angle, presumably through a cloud.
Investigators speculated that both pilots had been distracted by trying to find gaps in the clouds, so passengers could enjoy the scenery.
Accidents happen.
The question is what risks we're willing to run for economic benefits.
More from Tim Harford: Why did we use leaded petrol for so long?
How the smartphone became so smart Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars How economics killed the antibiotic dream That question is becoming pertinent again with respect to crowded skies: many people have high hopes for unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones.
They're already being used for everything from film-making to crop-spraying.
Companies such as Amazon expect the skies of our cities soon to be buzzing with grocery deliveries.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There have been occasions of near misses between drones and other aircraft Civil aviation authorities are grappling with what to approve.
Drones have "sense-and-avoid" technology, and it's pretty good, but is it good enough?
The crash over the Grand Canyon certainly concentrated minds.
If technology existed to prevent things like this, shouldn't we make more effort to use it?
Within two years, what's now known as the Federal Aviation Administration was born in the United States.
And American skies today are about 20 times busier still.
The world's biggest airports now see planes taking off and landing at an average of nearly twice a minute.
Collisions are absurdly rare, no matter now cloudy the conditions.
That's thanks to many things, but it's largely thanks to radar.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Experts think Bali's Mount Agung could erupt for the first time since 1963 The lifespan of a volcano can be measured in millennia, and so waiting a few days for it to erupt may not sound too stressful.
But for the tens of thousands of Balinese people forced from their homes, the "imminent" danger that they have been living with for more than a week feels very real.
Ketut Seri says she has already lost track of time since arriving at one of the emergency shelters.
Sat surrounded by thin plastic bags stuffed with her children's clothes, she says she can't help but worry about what she's left behind.
"I wish I had brought my cooking utensils," she tells me, a sign that she expects to be here for the long haul.
Image caption More than 140,000 people like Ketut Seri and her family are in temporary shelters "I'm tired, I'm sad because I cannot work," she explains, "I cannot find any solution."
Her children chase a football around the concrete hall they have been living in alongside another 100 evacuees.
But Ketut's husband is absent after venturing back to their empty village to check on the animals.
He is not the only one taking that risk.
The fate of the cattle and chickens many had to leave behind in the hills weighs heavily on people's minds, and so some are crossing back and forth into the danger area every day to check on their well-being.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Surivivors of the 1963 eruption on the last time Mount Agung erupted According to the volcanologists monitoring Mount Agung, this situation could continue for weeks, maybe even months.
An eruption may not even happen, they simply don't know.
At the government observation base, senior seismologist Devy Kamil remains patient - despite the long queue of journalists who have been knocking on his door all week, hoping for some news.
"There are some examples where you have swarms of activity for as long as six years," he explains, "and it is not always ended by an eruption."
Image caption Hundreds of tremors have been detected since August When lava last flowed from Mount Agung in 1963, the measuring instruments they use today were not in place, and so it is impossible to know the signature behaviour of that shows an eruption is coming.
But while some here scrutinise every little piece of scientific data, others are waiting for spiritual signs.
At the Goa Lawah Hindu temple, daily prayers continue at the site of a cave that many Balinese believe is connected to the volcano's energy.
When I ask Iputi Juliad, one of the temple officials, what people are praying for, he says most just want good luck.
He sees the wait for news from Mount Agung as part of a much longer process.
"There is a circle of life, a circle of sacrifice" he explains.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The majority of Balinese people practise a distinct type of Hinduism associated with the island When I ask if the seismic activity is seen as a sign that the gods are angry, he is very careful in his reply.
"It is not a punishment, not a punishment," Mr Juliad repeats, anxious to move on from a sensitive subject.
Instead his focus is on the need to accept fate.
"Maybe an eruption, maybe not, nobody knows."
The uncertainty is having an impact on everyone on Bali, even if they haven't been evacuated.
The village of Rendang sits just outside the exclusion zone, and normally the market place would be bustling with the traders selling fruit, flowers and rice.
Image caption Business at Rendang market has plummeted since the volcano warnings were issued But according to stallholder Ketut Astiningsih, most people have stopped coming and her income has taken a massive hit.
"No one is shopping.
Before I could get 400,000 Rupiah ($30 USD) a day, now I can only earn 50,000 Rupiah ($3.7USD)" she explains.
So far the economic consequences for Bali's tourism industry have not been so grave.
At the hotels, the busloads of holidaymakers keep on coming, reassured it seems by the government's message that they will be kept well out of harm's way.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Tourism at most resorts has not been affected Of course every tourist has heard or read about the volcano, and many have been contacted by worried relatives back home.
But for most the only concern is whether an eruption would mean they could be marooned here.
As he sipped a beer on the beach at Sanur, Mathew Hunter from Cairns in Australia seemed pretty relaxed by that prospect.
"I could definitely do with a few more weeks here," he chuckles, before adding that he is far more concerned about the fate of the tens of thousands of evacuees in emergency shelters.
Like most people on Bali, he says he would like to see this waiting game with Mount Agung come to a swift but peaceful conclusion.
"I just hope it has a few little belly rumbles and then life goes on."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hannah Fry needs your smartphone and your help to run the project We seem to be suffering from a global amnesia.
Ask any passerby - as we did - What was the most catastrophic cause of death in the last 100 years?
and you receive the usual suspects: WWII, perhaps WWI.
There are also some less obvious replies: Chernobyl, the Boxing Day Tsunami, Hiroshima.
Very, very rarely will anyone say Spanish Flu, and yet that particular pandemic killed up to 100 million people.
There have been three others since then.
Even more astonishing is that the UK Government considers another flu pandemic so dangerous to our society that it tops the list of the newly updated National Risk Register for Civil Emergencies.
So its particularly timely that the BBC has just launched the BBC Pandemic App on the iOS App Store and Google Play.
This free app is part of the biggest experiment of its kind, a citizen science experiment that aims to spread a virtual pandemic - an outbreak of a simulated infectious disease around the entire country.
That may sound like an odd thing to want to do but, if successful, the BBC Pandemic could help save lives when not if the next lethal pandemic spreads across the world.
With international air travel at over four billion flights last year alone, stopping a flu pandemic taking hold is pretty much impossible nowadays, but the BBC Pandemic App will help a team of mathematical epidemiologists from the University of Cambridge and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine predict how a virus could spread across the UK and, crucially, test what might be done to slow it down.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Who knew flu could be such a big killer?
The problem with pandemic flu viruses is that they emerge unannounced, unlike the seasonal flu we experience every winter.
Seasonal flu can be deadly too and the warning signs from Australia show that this year could be a bad one, but at least we get a heads-up from our southern neighbours several months in advance.
This gives the critical time necessary to get a vaccine tailor-made and manufactured in sufficient volume to vaccinate key workers and those most vulnerable.
But, every now and again, the animal world creates a strain of the flu virus that humans have never seen before - we have little protection from our immune system, or enough time to make a vaccine before the virus has started to spread.
The 2009 pandemic was commonly known as swine flu because the human virus contained genes from a pig flu virus.
The devastating Spanish Flu pandemic was caused by a virus that seems to have emerged from birds.
Planning for another pandemic is the best defence we have until vaccine technology manages to catch up.
And thats where everyone in the UK can help, by downloading the BBC Pandemic App.
Once downloaded, users will be asked basic questions like age and employment status.
Then the app will track users approximate position every hour for just 24 hours - but the GPS will only be within the nearest square kilometre.
Privacy as well as data protection is taken very seriously by the team.
At the end of the 24 hours, there are a few questions about the kind of face-to-face contacts the users made in that time.
And thats it.
Simple but enough to provide real data the researchers can use to help predict the spread of a real outbreak.
The challenge is they would like 10,000 UK-wide to download the app and join in.
This has never been done before so anyone taking part will be participating in ground-breaking research.
The results will be shown in the BBC Pandemic documentary on BBC Four next year, presented by UCL mathematician Dr Hannah Fry and emergency medic Dr Javid Abdelmoneim.
To download the app go to the App Store or Google Play and search for BBC Pandemic.
There's much more information on the BBC Pandemic webpage.
And, for those people who don't have a smartphone, there will shortly be a questionnaire on the webpage so that everyone can join in.
Image copyright Getty Images The US solar industry has seen dramatic growth in the past few years, but a request for a rare trade action has led to a fierce fight over the future of the industry - and one that wouldn't exist without the presidency of Donald Trump.
Phil Brodhagen runs a solar installation company in Colorado Springs, and his customers - local homeowners and businesses in a military-friendly town - love American-made products.
Until they see the price.
"They want to go solar, but they do have a limit on how much they can spend."
he says.
"They'd love an American product, but if they can't afford it, they'll either not get a system at all, or go for the cheaper one."
Brodhagen is one of hundreds of business owners across the US paying very close attention to a case in front of the US International Trade Commission.
And he's worried about the outcome.
"It will hurt this industry," he says.
"It's going to be me laying off people as well as everyone else."
On Friday, the commission is expected to rule on whether imported solar products have seriously injured US solar product manufacturers, enough to impose higher tariffs on imports worldwide.
The petition was brought by two solar manufacturers who are based in the US, but owned by overseas companies.
Suniva and SolarWorld have argued their financial troubles - as well as a series of other US solar manufacturer bankruptcies - are due to a massive oversupply of solar cells and panels imported from overseas, primarily from Chinese companies.
Image copyright Getty Images They point to dozens of US companies like theirs that have gone out of business since 2012.
"Quite simply, we need the commission's help to save solar manufacturing in the United States," Juergen Stein, chief executive of SolarWorld Americans told the commission in August.
But SolarWorld and Suniva find themselves fiercely opposed by much of the solar industry in the US, including the largest trade group, the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA).
SEIA has argued increasing the prices of panels through tariffs will set back the solar industry for years, hurting companies that buy and install solar panels, or make solar-related products.
The trade group estimates a loss of as many as 88,000 jobs, or a third of the current solar work force, if Suniva and SolarWorld's requests come to pass.
The group accuses the two companies of using the rare trade action to save themselves, at the expense of the rest of the industry.
What's at stake?
For both sides, the immediate future of the fast-growing solar industry in America.
Bret Sowers, a utility-scale solar farm developer, calls the trade case an "eminent threat" to his business.
Projects like his are reliant on how low a price per watt cost they can offer utility firms.
Their competition is not just other solar firms, but coal and wind, natural gas and nuclear energy.
New solar capacity doubled between 2015 and 2016 and such large-scale projects drove more than half the growth.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption An employee makes a final inspection on panels during a tour of an REC solar panel manufacturing plant in Singapore "We have close to $2bn in investment we've planned across the southeast," he says, based on prices continuing their downward trend.
If he can't deliver the prices he expected, those solar farms won't be built.
"That's hundreds of construction jobs gone," he says, and layoffs at his company.
Sowers is specifically frustrated because US plants at SolarWorld and Suniva were not building the larger, 72-cell panels at the kind of scale his projects need.
"The two dots don't really connect.
They were making cars and I'm buying trucks - and now they're claiming the trucks are hurting the cars."
James Marlow, who runs a similar Georgia company, is frustrated with the petition, even though he just finished a project with Suniva panels.
"They used to be the home town team," he says of the firm, originally spun out from Georgia Tech and headquartered in the state.
In 2015, in an effort to expand, a Hong Kong-based energy firm purchased more than half the company, but Suniva filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, and weeks later, brought the trade petition.
SolarWorld, whose parent company also filed for insolvency in Germany, joined the petition shortly thereafter.
Marlow says he supports bringing back manufacturing to America, but thinks that means a whole set of policies to deal with what's a "drastically larger" issue.
"It's why most of our clothes are made in Asia and why this cell phone I'm talking to you on made in Asia - it's not just one action."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A stretch of road has been paved with solar PV (photovoltaic) panels in France.
He attended the 15 August arguments in front of the trade commission on the case and said interest was intense.
There were two overflow rooms for people to listen.
An official told him they hadn't seen that many people come to hear a case since NAFTA.
If the trade commission finds in favour of the manufacturers, it can make recommendations, but it is up to the president to decide.
And President Trump is eager to impose tariffs, especially in an industry in which he could be seen to be tough on Chinese manufacturing.
He reportedly has said "I want someone to bring me some tariffs" because "China is laughing at us".
Image copyright Getty Images Once the trade commission makes its initial ruling, it will have several more weeks to make a recommendation to Trump.
The president then can decide to take the recommendation or not.
Solarworld had earlier successes with two requests for increased tariffs on Chinese manufacturers for similar unfair trade practice accusations.
But that wasn't enough, says Tim Brightbill, a lawyer representing SolarWorld, because Chinese firms shifted production to other countries to get around the tariffs.
He also claims the potential job loss numbers are overblown.
"These predictions were made before when SolarWorld brought actions against China, that somehow jobs would be lost.
But the opposite happened," Brightbill says.
The situation is especially odd considering both SolarWorld and Suniva are owned by parent companies that could be harmed by the tariff.
Brightbill says "it just shows that SolarWorld is committed to manufacturing here," even if it involves putting a tariff on a German-produced panel.
They may not be alone.
While the US solar industry is holding its breath, foreign manufacturers are starting to think about setting up shop in the US, especially if the commission recommends a broad tariff.
Both sides see the dispute as a turning point for the industry - and both think the president should be on their side.
"If the Trump administration wants to create jobs," James Marlow says.
"They should join with the solar industry."
The question for President Trump will be - which part?
Image copyright Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Image caption Crick's lecture was said to have altered the logic of biology Sixty years ago this week, one of the greatest British scientists, Francis Crick, gave a lecture in London in which he accurately predicted how genes work, setting the course for the genetic revolution we are now living through.
Here, evolutionary biologist Professor Matthew Cobb from Manchester University unpicks the predictions that set a new course for how we understand the very stuff we are made from.
In one lecture, it has been said that Francis Crick "permanently altered the logic of biology".
Only four years earlier, he and the young American Jim Watson had solved the double helix structure of DNA, using data gathered by Rosalind Franklin.
Aged 41, Crick was still five years away from winning the Nobel Prize for this work, but he had a reputation as a powerful and profound thinker.
He gave his lecture - "On protein synthesis" - at University College London for the Society for Experimental Biology.
In it, Crick spoke about how genes do what they do.
At the time, this subject was still very murky - some scientists were not even convinced that genes were made of DNA.
But Crick delivered four predictions about genes - and their link to the proteins that build our bodies.
In each of these ideas, he was right.
Cracking the code Image copyright Science Photo Library Crick started with the main thing that genes do: they control the production of proteins.
The problem Crick explored was that the DNA in a gene is simply a chemical code - a string of something called bases - A, C, T, G. Crick had to explain how the cell could get from this one-dimensional sequence of bases in DNA to the complex three-dimensional structures of proteins.
Even more puzzling was the fact that proteins can fold themselves into nearly any shape.
Crick's answer was simple: the order of bases in the gene - what he called "genetic information" - corresponded to the order of the amino acids that make up each protein, and nothing more.
There was no structural information about the protein that was encoded in the gene, he claimed.
He called this the sequence hypothesis.
Somehow, the cell "read" the information in the gene and assembled the amino acids together like beads on a string.
The resulting protein folded itself - spontaneously - into its final 3-D structure.
We still cannot easily predict the structure of a protein from the order of its amino acids, but Crick's sequence hypothesis holds good.
Central dogma To explain how exactly cells assemble proteins, Crick predicted there must be some small molecules - he called these "adaptors" - that could recognise each of the 20 different amino acids in the body, and would bring them to where they could be turned into a protein in the right order.
As Crick gave his talk in London this molecule was being identified in an American laboratory.
It is now called transfer RNA.
It is the biological messenger that reads and "translates" the genetic code in the cell's protein-building factory.
Image copyright Wellcome Library, London Image caption Crick drew a diagram to explain the flow of information from DNA to proteins The most controversial and influential part of the lecture though was what was called the central dogma.
Crick explained that as proteins are synthesised, information is taken from the DNA molecule, first into an RNA molecule, and is then used to make a protein.
Before the lecture, he drew a little diagram to explain what he meant.
The arrows show what Crick called the flow of information going from DNA to RNA to protein.
DNA and RNA could also copy themselves, so there are also arrows going from DNA to DNA and from RNA to RNA.
Because the experimental data were not clear, Crick accepted that it might just be possible that DNA could directly lead to the production of proteins, so he drew an arrow there, too (this is not in fact the case).
The most important point was that, as Crick put it, once the information had gone from DNA into a protein, it could not get back into your DNA.
There was no biochemical route for a protein to change your DNA sequence.
Crick thought it might be possible for information to go from RNA to DNA, and this later turned out to be the case, when it was discovered that some RNA viruses can get into our DNA.
But the route from protein to DNA is impossible.
This central dogma emphasises that our DNA sequence cannot be changed by our proteins, or by how they are changed by experience.
Over the last 60 years this has proved to be correct.
Despite the excitement about what is called epigenetics, which explains how genes can be turned on and off by the environment, this never leads to a change in our actual DNA sequence.
Crick's dogma was absolutely right.
Crick later cheerfully admitted that when he coined the phrase, he didn't know what a dogma was.
What he really meant was that it was a basic assumption about how genes worked.
Whatever its name, it still guides scientists today.
Crick's final brilliant prediction was to suggest that in the future biologists would use sequence data to understand evolution, by comparing the sequences of different species.
In 1957, when Crick was speaking, protein sequences were known from only five species, while DNA sequencing was science fiction and 20 years in the future.
But this is exactly what happened, and we can now understand how organisms evolved in unprecedented detail, by comparing their sequences, just as Crick suggested.
Crick's lecture, which was published the following year, continues to be read and cited by scientists all over the world.
It is a monument of clear and penetrating thinking by one of the 20th century's greatest minds.
In all his key predictions, Francis Crick was right, and he did indeed change the logic of biology.
Professor Matthew Cobb is a zoologist, historian and author based at Manchester University
