LOS ANGELES (AP) Kenley Jansen blew a 94 mph pitch past Carlos Beltran to wrap up a six-out save Tuesday night, and Dodger Stadium roared with equal elements excitement and anticipation.
This World Series is just too good to go anything less than seven games.
The Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros will play for a championship in Chavez Ravine on Wednesday night, wrapping up two outstanding seasons in Game 7 -- the biggest stage in North American team sports.
Two 100-win teams will play a winner-take-all finale to the baseball season for the first time since 1931.
"This is a great series," said Houston's George Springer, who hit his fourth homer of the Series on Tuesday.
"I know we lost (Game 6), but this is awesome."
For the fourth time in seven years, the Fall Classic is going to Game 7.
It's the 39th time since baseball went to a best-of-seven World Series format, and the first time it has happened in back-to-back seasons since 2001-02.
"I think you dream about that as a kid," said Dodgers outfielder Joc Pederson, whose third homer in four games powered Los Angeles past Houston in Game 6.
"I think it's going to be big for all of us to just remember it's still a baseball game.
You've got to slow it down.
Still play the same way that we've been playing all year that got us to here."
Game 5 was a fascinating spectacle in Houston, a 13-12 win in 10 innings that put the Astros on the brink of their first championship.
Game 6 merely was superbly played, with Los Angeles calmly snatching a crisp 3-1 victory from the edge of defeat.
The Dodgers and Astros have played one of the most memorable postseason series in recent history -- and now they even get the chance to top the finale of last year's World Series.
Just a year ago, the Chicago Cubs ended their 108-year championship drought with a 10-inning thriller in Game 7.
Chicago got extra-inning RBIs from MVP Ben Zobrist and Miguel Montero in a landmark victory over the Cleveland Indians, whose own drought reached 68 years last fall.
Another significant drought will end at Dodger Stadium, which has never hosted a World Series Game 7 in its storied history.
The Astros haven't won a title in 56 seasons of existence, while the Dodgers haven't raised the trophy in 29 years.
"This series has been back and forth," Houston manager A.J.
Hinch said.
"Two incredible teams trying to get to the finish line.
And so now, obviously, it's good for our sport.
Necessarily bad for us, because we wanted to win (Game 6).
Both teams will be ready to play with about as much energy as you could possibly imagine in Game 7."
The Astros, who began life as the Houston Colt .45s, had only reached one World Series and never won a game in the Fall Classic until this year.
They have moved to the brink of reversing a curse of sorts leveled in 2014 by the noted jinx artists at Sports Illustrated, who put them on the cover as "Your 2017 World Series Champs" in a story about the franchise's rebuilding project.
The Dodgers won one World Series in Brooklyn and five more on the West Coast between 1959 and 1988, but hadn't returned to the World Series since.
With the majors' highest payroll and innovative manager Dave Roberts directing a mix of veteran stars and young talent, the Dodgers have returned to championship contention with five straight NL West titles -- but the group has never been this close to winning it all.
Los Angeles will attempt to become the 23rd team to rally from a 3-2 deficit to win the World Series.
The Dodgers have never accomplished the feat in six previous tries, but they haven't been in this situation since 1978.
After leading the majors with 104 wins during the regular season, the Dodgers have home-field advantage in Game 7 -- but only because of a change in baseball's new labor contract.
The winning league in the All-Star Game was given home-field advantage in the World Series from 2003-16 before the change.
Without it, Game 7 would have been in Houston due to the AL's 2-1 victory in 10 innings over the NL in July.
"The home-field advantage, having the last at-bat, it's definitely huge," Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner said.
"Especially in this series, you see how many times it's gone back and forth.
So to be able to have that last at-bat is huge."
The Game 7 matchup of starting pitchers appears to favor the Dodgers -- but only to people who didn't watch Game 3.
Yu Darvish, the Japanese star acquired by Los Angeles from Texas at the July 31 trade deadline, will be looking for redemption after turning in the shortest start of his big league career in Houston last week.
With his famed slider doing almost nothing, he couldn't get through the second inning of Game 3, giving up six hits and four runs while getting only five outs.
"If it was the regular season, I probably would have kept going," Darvish said through a translator Tuesday.
"I wouldn't say it was the worst outing I ever had.
I can't pay that much attention to what happened last time.
Just focus on (Wednesday's) outing and have a good game."
The Astros will counter with All-Star Lance McCullers Jr., whose victory in Game 3 was his first win in 12 appearances since June.
But McCullers has been in solid form in his last two appearances, including his outstanding four-inning save in Game 7 of the AL Championship Series against the New York Yankees.
After Game 6, McCullers spent about 10 minutes long-tossing in the right-field corner at Dodger Stadium, keeping his arm loose for plenty of his signature curveballs in the big finale.
"I was hot and ready to go (in Game 6), if the situation came up where they needed me," he said.
Both starters will have plenty of help at the first sign of trouble, however.
Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw expects to pitch as a reliever in Game 7 after a short Game 5 start on Sunday.
Alex Wood, the 16-game winner who pitched one-hit ball into the sixth inning of Game 4 last Saturday, will also be ready to go.
And closer Kenley Jansen, who picked up a smooth six-out save in Game 6, is eager to get on the mound one last time.
"I'm not trying to be a hero or anything, but there's no tomorrow," Jansen said.
"You've got to go out there and fight."
The entire Houston pitching staff will be available behind McCullers, including Dallas Keuchel and possibly even Game 6 starter Justin Verlander.
"I think all of our guys are going to have the adrenaline on their side," Hinch said.
"They're all going to be ready to pitch.
How we use them, how much we use them -- we'll get to the field, they'll do their throwing program.
If it's one pitch or 100 pitches, I think we're going to have to have all hands on deck."
CLEVELAND (AP) -- Clock management hurt the Browns again.
And this time, it cost them a quarterback.
Failing to get the necessary paperwork to the NFL offices by Wednesday's 4 p.m. trade deadline, Cleveland's proposed deal to get Cincinnati quarterback AJ McCarron fell apart in the final minutes, the latest misstep for a team unable to solve its quarterback riddle.
The teams had an agreement in place, sending McCarron to Cleveland for draft picks, but the required documentation -- paperwork signed by both clubs -- arrived in New York too late, said league spokesman Brian McCarthy.
He did not provide any further detail about why the transaction wasn't finalized.
The Browns have spent much of the past two decades in a failed search to find their franchise quarterback.
McCarron might not have been that answer either, but the 27-year-old could have provided leadership and another option while the team develops rookie DeShone Kizer, who has had an uneven first seven starts.
The administrative glitch comes one day after the New England Patriots traded Jimmy Garoppolo -- a quarterback on Cleveland's radar for months -- to the San Francisco 49ers for a 2018 second-round pick.
The Browns, who have three second-round picks in next year's draft, had previous discussions about Garoppolo but were unable to strike a deal.
On top of that, Browns fans have had to watch Carson Wentz and Deshaun Watson, two players the team could have drafted in the past two years, excel in Philadelphia and Houston, respectively, while Cleveland has gone 0-8 this season and 1-23 under coach Hue Jackson.
Jackson's history with McCarron is what drew the Browns toward the Bengals backup, who made three starts, including one in the playoffs, when Andy Dalton was injured in 2015.
McCarron could have helped the Browns plug the gap while Kizer develops or until the team drafts another QB.
The 6-foot-3, 220-pound McCarron has completed 66 percent of his passes for 854 yards with six touchdowns and two interceptions with Cincinnati.
Jackson's future in Cleveland is uncertain as he Browns enter their bye week winless at the season's halfway point for the second year in a row.
He has been criticized for his handling of Kizer, who has been benched three times, as well as some head-scratching decisions during games.
Cleveland's front office, led by Sashi Brown, is also under pressure as a plan to turn around the team has shown minimal progress.
Browns owners Dee and Jimmy Haslam have professed patience, but it will be tested by the group's inability to complete even a basic trade.
TV: FOX Sports Florida TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 7:30 p.m.
The Memphis Grizzlies will look to bounce back from their first home loss of the season and cap a four-game homestand on a positive note when they host the Orlando Magic on Wednesday night.
The Grizzlies opened 4-0 at home and was 5-1 overall before getting surprised by the Charlotte Hornets 104-99 on Monday night.
Poor shooting doomed Memphis against Charlotte, with the Grizzlies making just 34.3 percent of their shots overall and 22.9 percent from beyond the 3-point arc.
Orlando Magic on FOX Sports Florida Usually reliable Mike Conley and Marc Gasol both had off nights, combining to miss 25 of their 33 shots and 13 of their 15 3-point attempts.
They totaled 26 points.
"Everything went wrong at the same time," Memphis coach David Fizdale said of the shooting failures.
"It just seemed like we couldn't make a layup when we had an open layup.
When we had open threes, we couldn't make open threes."
Orlando, which had lost at Charlotte on Sunday night, rebounded with a 115-99 win at New Orleans on Monday.
The Memphis visit caps a three-game trip.
Backup Magic big man Marreese Speights (18 points) stunned the Pelicans with six 3-pointers off the bench to key the Monday win.
In his first six games this season, Speights attempted nine 3-pointers, hitting three.
"When you see a guy come in and make every shot, you feel like it's your night," said Magic small forward Evan Fournier, who had 20 points in the win.
"So we're like, 'OK, we're not going to lose this game.'"
The teams have split their two-game season series each of the past two seasons, with all wins coming at home.
The Magic has lost nine straight at Memphis dating back to 2008.
Both teams sought to pick up the pace offensively this season.
The results couldn't be more different.
The Magic has undergone a remarkable transformation from a team that was 27th in the NBA in scoring last year at 101.1 points per game to the league's second-highest-scoring club this season at 116.9.
The league's third-worst shooting team a year ago is now the third-best at 48.7 percent, and the league's second-worst at shooting 3-pointers is now the best at 44.1 percent.
Fournier and Aaron Gordon have led the charge.
Fournier has made 54.5 percent of his shots overall and 55.6 percent of his threes; Gordon has shot 54.9 percent overall and 59.1 percent from long distance.
Gordon made only 28.8 percent of his 3-point tries last season.
The Magic has improved its pace-of-play rating from 96.8 a year ago, the 12th fastest in the league, to 104.2, currently the third best.
Memphis' attempt to play at a faster pace, meanwhile, coincidentally has made the club better on defense.
The Grizzlies rank third in the league in defensive scoring average (95.6) and first in field-goal percentage allowed (.399) one year after those numbers were 100.0 and .443, respectively.
Memphis' pace-of-play rating this season is 95.1, still the third slowest in the league, but slightly faster than last year's 92.3.
TV: FOX Sports Sun TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 7 p.m. MIAMI -- Both of Dwyane Wade's previous employers are struggling.
The Miami Heat, who drafted Wade and helped him become a three-time NBA champion, are 2-4 and have lost three games in a row.
The Chicago Bulls, who visit the Heat on Wednesday night, are 1-4.
The Bulls signed Wade as a free agent, but he lasted just one season before taking a buyout and bolting to the Cleveland Cavaliers.
Miami Heat on FOX Sports Sun Miami is hoping to get center Hassan Whiteside back in the lineup.
After posting 26 points and 22 rebounds in Miami's season-opener, he has missed five consecutive games due to a bruised left knee.
"I don't have a determination on when he will be ready," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said of Whiteside, who took part in halfcourt drills in practice on Tuesday.
"He's getting better.
He's working.
I want to see him pushing himself, and I want to make sure there is no pain."
Miami's pain, in terms of its losing streak, has a lot to do with three-point shooting and turnovers.
In Monday's loss to the Minnesota Timberwolves, Miami turned the ball over a season-high 24 times and shot just 7 of 27 on three-pointers.
But Chicago hasn't been much better in either category.
In fact, both the Heat (31.9 percent) and the Bulls (32.1 percent) are among the five worst teams in the league in three-point accuracy.
On turnovers, Chicago is 20th in the league at 15.8 per game, and Miami is tied for 22nd at 16.3.
Part of Chicago's problem is that it hasn't found a consistent, quality point guard.
Last season, they shuffled through four starters at the position -- Rajon Rondo, Michael Carter-Williams, Isaiah Canaan and Jerian Grant.
This season, Grant seems set to lose the job to Kris Dunn, who was acquired by the Bulls in the trade that sent Jimmy Butler to Minnesota.
Grant is averaging 9.0 points, 6.6 assists and 2.0 turnovers in 30.6 minutes per game.
Dunn made his Bulls debut on Saturday in a 101-69 blowout loss to the Oklahoma City Thunder and had five points, three assists and four turnovers in 22 minutes.
Dunn also had three steals, a sign of his aggressive mentality on defense.
"Kris is a very good player," Grant told The Chicago Tribune.
"I think that pushes us both to be better players."
Rookie forward Lauri Markkanen, the seventh overall pick in the 2017 draft, has given Chicago a boost by averaging 15.6 points and a team-high 9.6 rebounds.
He is second on the team in scoring and in effective shooting, a statistic that takes into account three-pointers.
The Bulls are trying to find more shots within their offense for Markkanen.
"He has a toughness streak to him," Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg said of Markkanen.
"We do need to add more actions for him."
On the Miami side, point guard Goran Dragic missed Tuesday's practice due to an illness.
And reserve shooting guard Wayne Ellington, who is probably the Heat's best marksman, is also battling a cold.
He played just four minutes on Monday.
Both are expected to play on Wednesday.
New York City Marathon officials said Tuesday they were postponing some media events Wednesday in the wake of a terror attack in Lower Manhattan that left at least eight people dead, but had no plans to alter Sundays race.
"With respect to the victims, their families, and our city agency partners, we will be postponing our ceremonial Blue Line Painting and Faces of the Marathon media events originally scheduled for Wednesday,'' the New York Road Runners, the group that hosts the event, said in a statement.
The New York Road Runners said in an earlier statement that it would consider enhancing security for the event, but was confident it had enough security measures in place for participants to run safely.
Runners who planned to participate in the race said the terror attack was not going to deter them from something for which they have trained all year.
Harbert Okuti, a Ugandan runner, told USA Today that he hoped the marathon woukd help takes people's minds off the terror attack.
"It's so sad to see something like this happen in New York City, but we live in an open society and people are capable of anything," he said.
"But we have to be strong and not let them prevent us from who we are as human beings.
George Gerbacia, from Yonkers, N.Y., told the newspaper said he had a lot of confidence in law enforcement to stop anything from happening.
Theyre trained for this.
They know what theyre doing.
It's the old cliche, what are we going to do, stop our lives?
It's a horrible situation, and I feel for the innocent people slaughtered today.
As far as Sunday is concerned, we'll be there, Gerbacia said.
Some 50,000 runners are expected to enter Sundays race, according to ESPN.
The event starts on Staten Island and winds through Manhattan from the Queensboro Bridge, miles from Tuesdays attack.
The New York City Marathon began in 1970.
The event was canceled in 2012 in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, which displaced many residents of the region and left others without electricity or water for days.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
2017 FOX News Network, LLC.
All rights reserved.
All market data delayed 20 minutes.
LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Kenley Jansen looked like his All-Star self.
The Dodgers closer got redemption by earning a six-out save Tuesday night, helping Los Angeles beat the Astros 3-1 to force a Game 7 in the World Series.
"I'm not trying to be a hero or anything, but there's no tomorrow," he said.
"You've got to go out there and fight."
Jansen had a blown save and a loss earlier in the Series when he hardly resembled the NL's top reliever.
He tied for the league lead with 41 saves and led the majors with a 97.6 save percentage.
His 109 strikeouts ranked second in the NL among relievers.
"He's the best closer in baseball," starter Rich Hill said.
"To see him coming out of the bullpen for the eighth, everybody was really excited."
Manager Dave Roberts had said before Game 6 that Jansen would probably only be used for three outs.
Of course, Roberts also said he wanted Hill "to go as long as he can."
Roberts yanked the left-hander after 4 2/3 innings.
Jansen stuck around.
He got three outs on seven pitches in the eighth, retiring Carlos Correa, Yuli Gurriel and Brian McCann, who struck out.
Then he had a lengthy wait on the bench while the Dodgers sent five batters to the plate in the bottom of the eighth.
"When I called on him in the eighth, I wasn't certain," Roberts said.
"I just knew that part of the order, I just wanted him to attack those guys.
And if he wasn't as efficient in the eighth, then I would have been put in a difficult situation."
Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw was stretching in the bullpen during the long half inning, but Roberts never called his number.
Instead, the crowd of 54,128 stood and cheered as Jansen returned for the ninth.
Marwin Gonzalez -- who hit a tying homer off Jansen in Game 2 -- popped up to first base before Jansen struck out former Dodger Josh Reddick and pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran to end it.
Three up, three down -- again.
Six outs on just 19 pitches.
"Very efficient," Roberts said.
Jansen yelled and embraced catcher Austin Barnes as "I Love L.A." blared.
From his seats near the field, Dodgers great Sandy Koufax applauded.
He won Los Angeles' previous Game 7 with a three-hit shutout to beat the Twins in 1965.
Game 7 is Wednesday night at Dodger Stadium, where the home team has a chance to win its first championship since 1988.
It's exactly what Jansen and third baseman Justin Turner sought when they returned to the Dodgers as free agents last offseason.
"It's awesome," Jansen said.
"We're ready for it, confident, and we're going to try to do everything to stay focused."
Jansen was automatic while the Dodgers piled up 104 victories in the regular season.
It made his implosion in Game 5 on Sunday a real stunner.
He entered in the bottom of the ninth, after the Dodgers scored three times in the top of the inning to tie it 12-12.
He got the game to extras, but hit McCann with a two-out pitch in the 10th before walking George Springer.
Alex Bregman then delivered a game-ending single.
The Dodgers weren't likely to win the Series if Jansen failed to rebound.
He's back, and so is LA's shot at a seventh title.
11 View Gallery Mark D. Smith-USA TODAY Sports | Mark D. Smith
LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Lance McCullers Jr. headed into Game 6 of the World Series not knowing whether he would be attempting to close out a championship on Tuesday night or starting Game 7 on Wednesday.
Several hours later, McCullers learned he will be on the mound for the biggest game in Astros history.
The right-hander with one victory since June will start the World Series decider, manager A.J.
Hinch announced after Los Angeles forced the seventh game with a cool 3-1 victory in Game 6.
"I knew (starting Game 7) was a possibility coming into the series," McCullers said.
"A.J.
scheduled me for (Game 3) coming in for a reason.
I think they have a lot of confidence in me.
This series was destined to go seven pretty much the whole time.
I think we have two great teams here.
I just have to stick with my game plan and execute a little bit better than last time in certain spots, and just be a competitor out there."
McCullers won't be alone in Game 7: The entire Houston pitching staff will be available behind him, including Dallas Keuchel and possibly even Game 6 starter Justin Verlander.
"I think all of our guys are going to have the adrenaline on their side," Hinch said.
"They're all going to be ready to pitch.
How we use them, how much we use them -- we'll get to the field.
They'll do their throwing program.
If it's one pitch or a hundred pitches, I think we're going to have to have all hands on deck."
But McCullers seems suited to handle the spotlight that has been thrust upon him by the Dodgers, who will counter with star Yu Darvish.
McCullers has already been a resilient contributor to the Astros' remarkable season, and they need him one more time.
"I think the guys know in the clubhouse that I go out there and I'm not going to hold anything back," McCullers said.
"I think they understand that I'm willing to give everything I have for the guys behind me."
While Keuchel and Verlander have formed a dynamic one-two punch at the top of Houston's rotation, McCullers has been a steady young contributor as the No.
3 starter.
After an All-Star first half of the regular season and a winless second half, the 24-year-old with the nasty curve has slotted comfortably into the Astros' playoff plans.
After Game 6, McCullers spent about 10 minutes long-tossing in the right field corner at Dodger Stadium, keeping his arm loose for the big finale.
"I was hot and ready to go (in Game 6), if the situation came up where they needed me," McCullers said.
And if the Astros manage to claim the first championship in their 56-year history at Dodger Stadium, McCullers has already played a role.
McCullers won Game 3 of the World Series, pitching four-hit ball into the sixth inning of Houston's 5-3 victory.
He showed tenacity in the third inning of that game when he walked the bases loaded, but yielded just one run after getting a double-play groundout by Corey Seager and another groundout by Justin Turner.
"I learned I wasn't very sharp," McCullers said of Game 3.
"I knew that early, though.
So I knew it was going to be a grind for me pretty much the whole outing, which it was.
This is a very good hitting team.
They're patient, but yet they'll make you pay for mistakes."
Six days before that, McCullers pitched four stellar innings of relief to earn the save in Game 7 of the AL Championship Series, holding the Yankees scoreless while combining with starter Charlie Morton on a three-hitter.
McCullers ended that game with 24 consecutive curveballs, flummoxing the Yankees' final six batters exclusively with the nasty breaking ball that is his best pitch and one of the majors' most dangerous curves.
McCullers also pitched six innings of two-hit ball against the Yankees in Game 4 of the ALCS.
He has a 2.95 ERA in four postseason appearances, combining with Morton to add depth behind the Astros' top two starters.
McCullers showed even more resilience during an up-and-down regular season.
He made his first AL All-Star team after going 7-2 with 106 strikeouts in the first half -- but he didn't win again after June 24, pitching poorly in July and sitting out much of August and September with injuries before returning for the final week.
His victory over the Dodgers in Game 3 was his first win in his last 12 appearances.
While McCullers goes for his second World Series victory, Darvish will be seeking redemption for a rough Game 3 start.
The Dodgers' prized late-season acquisition couldn't get through the second inning for the first time in his big-league career, giving up six hits and four runs while getting only five outs.
Darvish's famed slider wasn't working, and he didn't come through at the most important point for his new team.
Darvish hasn't pitched at Dodger Stadium since Sept. 25.
"If it was the regular season, I probably would have kept going" in Game 3, Darvish said through a translator Tuesday.
"I wouldn't say it was the worst outing I ever had.
I can't pay that much attention to what happened last time.
Just focus on (Wednesday's) outing and have a good game."
NEW YORK (AP) -- A couple of games played during week two of the season had a major effect on the first College Football Playoff rankings.
Georgia, Alabama, Notre Dame and Clemson were the top four teams in the selection committee's initial top 25 released Tuesday night.
Oklahoma, Ohio State and Penn State were next as the committee members let head-to-head results and strength of schedule be their guide.
The final rankings that will determine the participants in the College Football Playoff semifinals come out Dec. 3.
Georgia and Alabama, Southeastern Conference rivals, are both 8-0 and have been dominating their competition.
The Bulldogs' one close game was at Notre Dame in September, a 20-19 victory.
11 View Gallery Mark D. Smith-USA TODAY Sports | Mark D. Smith Committee chairman Kirby Hocutt, the athletic director for Texas Tech, said the Bulldogs had a slight edge over the Crimson Tide because of its victory against the Irish on Sept. 9.
The Fighting Irish (7-1) have not lost since, including blowouts of Michigan State (24th), Southern California (17th) and North Carolina State (20th).
Hocutt noted those three victories against teams in the committee's top 25, along with the close lose to Georgia as the reason for the Irish being the highest ranked in a group of one-loss teams from three to seven.
"The teams ranked three through seven are very evenly matched," Hocutt said.
On the same night Georgia beat Notre Dame, Oklahoma went to Columbus, Ohio, and beat the Buckeyes 31-16.
"For the teams five through seven, their head-to-head results were very important to the committee," Hocutt said.
Ohio State (7-1) rallied to beat Penn State (7-1) last Saturday, 39-38.
In the AP Top 25, Ohio State was No.
3, Penn State No.
7 and Oklahoma was No.
8.
Those rankings had some Sooners wondering if the committee would do something similar.
They were happy to find out that was not the case.
"We all just watched it as a team just now," Oklahoma linebacker Ogbonnia Okoronkwo said.
"We were all just jumping around yelling.
Everybody's hungry.
We feel like our foot's in the door, so we want to go ahead and make it happen."
Clemson (7-1), the defending national champion, and Alabama have been ranked in the initial top four of the by the selection committee each of the last three seasons.
The Tigers and Tide played for the last two national titles, with each winning one.
Over the first three seasons of the playoff, a total of five teams have been ranked in the top four of the initial ranking and gone on to reach the semifinals: Florida State (which was second) in 2014; Clemson (first) and Alabama (fourth) in 2015; and Alabama (first) and Clemson (second) in 2016.
The rest of the top 10 was TCU at eight, followed by unbeatens Wisconsin and Miami.
Hocutt pointed to strength of schedule as the problem for the Badgers, who were ranked fourth in the latest AP Top 25, and Hurricanes.
The strongest team Wisconsin has defeated is Northwestern (5-3) and Miami has only two victories against teams with winning record, Hocutt noted.
-- -- WHAT WE LEARNED: GOOD WINS BAD LOSS, STILL: Clemson's six victories against teams with winning records, including Virginia Tech (13th) and Auburn (14th) outweighed a loss on the road to a Syracuse team that is 4-4.
That's been a fairly consistent trend in the short history of the selection committee.
The members tend not to get too caught up in the notion of a bad loss.
Hocutt also noted that Clemson playing the second half without injured quarterback Kelly Bryant factored into its loss.
He also said that Alabama got credit for beating Florida State to start the season when the Seminoles had their starting quarterback Deondre Francois for most of the game.
-- -- PAC-12 IS IN TROUBLE: Washington is the highest ranked of the Pac-12 teams at No.
12.
The Huskies are the only team left in the conference with a chance to win the league at 12-1, but their position behind a plethora of teams with one loss means they'll need a good deal of help.
On the bright side, plenty of those teams in front of the Huskies have to play each other.
-- -- IT MIGHT NOT BE JUST THE PAC-12 IN TROUBLE: The top four includes teams from only two of Power Five conferences, and if Georgia, Alabama and Notre Dame keep winning it very well could stay that way.
The Bulldogs and Tide eventually would play each other in the SEC championship game, but if both arrive 12-0 in Atlanta, and the independent Irish finish 11-1, the Big Ten, Big 12, Atlantic Coast Conference and Pac-12 could be vying for one spot.
Dave Roberts was going to stick to the script no matter what.
Now the Dodgers have a shot at a Hollywood ending never before seen in the history of Dodger Stadium.
One game, winner take all.
Just how it should be, because this World Series has been way too much fun not to go to Game 7.
Two nights earlier, the Astros and Dodgers clubbed each other's pitchers for more than five hours in one of the most exhilarating and exhausting World Series games you'll ever see.
On Tuesday night, they engaged in a pitching duel that ended with the great Sandy Koufax applauding from his seat near the field as the Dodgers forced a seventh game with a 3-1 win .
Now they'll be at home for a Game 7 for the first time since the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles 59 years ago.
"Two incredible teams, trying to get to the finish line," Astros manager A.J.
Hinch said.
Cue the celebrities and all the wannabes.
Because Dodger Stadium will be the place to see and be seen Wednesday night when Yu Darvish takes the mound against Lance McCullers Jr. with the World Series trophy going to the winner.
"Never been a part of a Game 7," Roberts said.
"So this is when you're a young kid and you're kind of trying to play through all the heroes and heroics and talking about a Game 7 in the World Series, and here we are.
I know that we are happy to be at home."
Relieved might be the better word for it in the elimination game.
Justin Verlander was dominating and the Dodgers were trailing 1-0 before they scraped together a pair of runs in the sixth inning and never looked back, much to the delight of the delirious crowd.
They won largely because they're a very good team, the best in baseball during the regular season.
They also won because their manager didn't veer from the script that got them there, even if a game earlier it all seemed to go awry.
Let Chris Taylor hit away with runners on first and second in the sixth when the situation screamed sacrifice bunt?
Sure, the Dodgers have been doing the same thing all year.
Put Joc Pederson in the middle of everything when he had only two hits in September before being sent down to the minor leagues to find his swing?
Well, it did pay off with a home run -- his third of this World Series -- to give the Dodgers a cushion they badly needed.
Trot Kenley Jansen out for yet another six-out save opportunity when he failed to get six outs in both Game 2 and Game 5?
Of course, because that's the way Roberts and the rest of the Dodgers brain trust had it already drawn up.
"He put us in a position where you could entertain him going out there for the ninth," Roberts said.
"When I used him, when I called on him in the eighth, I wasn't certain.
I just knew that part of the order, I just wanted him to attack those guys."
Attack Jansen did, using only seven pitches to get through a perfect eighth.
And when he set down the side in the ninth there was a big sigh of relief from the dugout that might have been heard over the huge roar in the stands.
"We all have each other's backs," Pederson said.
"You've been watching the Series, it's been quite hectic, emotionally draining, mentally, physically, everything you could think of.
And we stick together."
If the Dodgers prevail, though, it may come down to gut instinct as much as the analytics the team prides itself on.
Putting Pederson on the roster was as much a gut call as it gets, gambling on a player who had such huge holes in his swing that the Dodgers traded for Curtis Granderson to take his place in August.
All Pederson has done is show great plate discipline and great emotion to get the team where it is.
Keep this up another game and he could be looking at one of the most unlikely MVP awards ever.
Pederson screamed and pointed to the dugout as he rounded third in the seventh when his opposite field home run made it 3-1.
Afterward, he sat next to his brother, Chance, who has Down syndrome and participated in the Dodger opening ceremony before Game 1.
"He keeps me humble and just makes me realize that it's just a baseball game and there's a lot more to life," Pederson said.
"And he always has a smile on his face, even through stressful situations.
So, yeah, I'm thankful to have him in my life."
11 View Gallery Mark D. Smith-USA TODAY Sports | Mark D. Smith
LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Joc Pederson sliced a drive over the left-field wall, pounded his chest and danced around the bases, taking as many twists and turns as this World Series itself.
Of course, the Los Angeles Dodgers forced the Houston Astros to Game 7.
Chris Taylor hit a tying double off Justin Verlander during a two-run rally in the sixth inning, Corey Seager followed with a go-ahead sacrifice fly and the Dodgers beat the Astros 3-1 on Tuesday night to push this dramatic Fall Classic to the ultimate game.
Pederson homered in the seventh against Joe Musgrove, connecting off the right-hander for the second time in three games and making it a record 24 long balls that have been hit in this Series.
Pederson pranced all the way to the plate, pointing at the Dodgers' dugout and rubbing his thumbs and index fingers together to indicate what a money shot it was.
"You kind of black out in a situation like that.
So I'm going to have to re-watch it to see what I did," Pederson said.
It was the third home run of the Series for Pederson, who was demoted to the minors from mid-August until early September, then left off the NL Division Series roster.
He had hit just one previous big league opposite-field homer this season, and teammates offered to pay him to go the other way.
"People are trying to get me encouraged to using the whole field," he said.
"I'm not very good at it."
Yu Darvish starts Wednesday for the Dodgers, trying to win their first title since 1988, and Los Angeles ace Clayton Kershaw will be ready in the bullpen after getting knocked out in the fifth inning of Game 5.
"I can give you 27 innings," Kershaw said.
"I'll be ready to go, whatever they need."
Lance McCullers Jr. gets the ball for the Astros in the first World Series Game 7 ever at Dodger Stadium.
Darvish was chased in the second inning of Game 2, when McCullers pitched Houston to a 5-3 victory.
"You've got two teams with a bunch of dogs in the clubhouse.
No one is afraid," McCullers said.
Two nights after a 13-12, 10-inning slugfest under the roof at Minute Maid Park, pitching dominated.
George Springer's third-inning home run against starter Rich Hill had given a 1-0 lead to Verlander and the Astros, trying for the first championship in their 56-season history.
On Halloween night, a title for a team with orange in its colors seemed appropriate.
But it served only to set up the 10th blown lead of the Series, the fifth by Houston, as Verlander fell to 9-1 with the Astros.
Dodgers relievers combined for 4 1/3 scoreless innings.
Brandon Morrow retired Alex Bregman on a grounder to strand the bases loaded in the fifth, winner Tony Watson got Marwin Gonzalez to fly out with two on and two outs in the sixth, and Kenta Maeda escaped two-on trouble in the seventh when third baseman Justin Turner gloved Jose Altuve's grounder and made a short-hop throw that first baseman Cody Bellinger scooped just in time.
After wasting a ninth-inning lead in Game 2 and losing Game 5, Kenley Jansen retired six straight batters (on 19 pitches) for the save and ended it by striking out 40-year-old pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran.
This will be the third World Series Game 7 in four years.
The road team has won the last two after home teams had won every one since 1979.
Ten of the last 12 teams that won Game 6 to force a seventh game also won the title, but the Dodgers lost the previous six World Series in which they trailed 3-2.
They have won just one of their six championships at home, in 1963.
A heat wave over and the skies overcast, the temperature dropped to 67 degrees at game time from 103 for last week's opener, and there was a slight drizzle in the middle innings.
Los Angelenos with a laid-back reputation were on their feet for two-strike counts against Astros batters, a wave in Pantone 294 -- also known as Dodger blue.
"We feed off the crowd, for sure," Taylor said.
"We feel we have a huge home-field advantage."
Yuli Gurriel, who made a racist gesture toward Darvish in Game 3, was booed loudly during introductions and each time he batted, and Hill stepped off the rubber to allow the crowd extra time to jeer.
Verlander has 11 postseason wins but dropped to 0-4 in the Series with Detroit and Houston, which acquired him from the Tigers on Aug. 31 to win on nights like this.
He allowed just one baserunner before Austin Barnes singled leading off the sixth.
Verlander bounced a pitch that hit Chase Utley on the front of his right foot, and Taylor sent a 97 mph fastball down the right-field line as Barnes came home.
Seager followed with a sacrifice fly to the warning track, a ball that likely would have landed in the pavilion in last week's hot air.
Verlander prevented more damage when Turner fouled out and the right-hander fanned Bellinger, who struck out four times for the second time in the Series.
Springer homered for the third straight game and fourth time in the Series, one shy of the record set by Reggie Jackson in 1977 and matched by Utley in 2009.
Brian McCann singled leading off the fifth and Gonzalez doubled past Turner and down the left-field line.
Hill struck out Josh Reddick and Verlander, and Springer was intentionally walked to load the bases.
Morrow relieved as the crowd booed manager Dave Roberts' decision, and Hill slapped at four cups of liquid in the dugout, sending them spraying against the wall "With Verlander on the mound, that was going to be the game," Roberts said.
Appearing in his sixth straight Series game, Morrow got Bregman to ground to shortstop on his second pitch.
Watson walked Reddick leading off the seventh, Evan Gattis pinch hit for Verlander and Maeda relieved.
Gattis bounced to shortstop, just beating Utley's throw from second to avoid a double play.
Springer reached on an infield single that bounced off Seager's glove at shortstop and into left field, and Bregman's fly to deep center allowed pinch-runner Derek Fisher to tag up and advance to third, bringing up Altuve.
Walking down the dugout steps after his groundout, Altuve slammed his helmet.
"The pick is big," Hinch said.
Attention quickly turned to Wednesday.
"I think it seems fitting," Roberts said.
"These two teams mirror one another."
Pederson sat in the interview room with his older brother, Champ, who has Down Syndrome.
"I have a feeling that everything is possible," Champ said.
"I'm not going to say they have it, but I'm just going to say they will find a way."
MILWAUKEE (AP) -- Paul George scored 20 points, and the Oklahoma City Thunder dominated the paint during a 16-0 run to take control early in a 110-91 win over the Milwaukee Bucks on Tuesday night.
Russell Westbrook had 12 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists, while Carmelo Anthony scored eight of his 17 points in the pivotal first quarter.
Oklahoma City went from down four to a 20-8 lead on George's jumper with 4:16 left in the first.
It was essentially over from there, especially with the way Westbrook kept finding driving lanes.
The reigning MVP dished off to Steven Adams in the paint when he wasn't taking it to the hoop himself.
Adams finished with 14 points and 11 rebounds.
Jerami Grant added 17 points off the bench for the Thunder.
Milwaukee's Giannis Antetokounmpo had 28 points on 9-of-14 shooting.
But the NBA's scoring leader spent much of the first quarter on the bench with two fouls, and the Bucks struggled from the 3-point line, opening 1 of 14.
No other Buck scored in double figures.
The star-laden Thunder taught a lesson to the up-and-coming Bucks, who hope to contend in the Eastern Conference.
TIP-INS Thunder: George, Anthony, Adams and Westbrook combined for 48 first-half points.
The quartet alone outscored the Bucks in the half, who trailed 60-42 at halftime.
Among the star trio of Anthony, George and Westbrook, Anthony was the last to leave the floor for the night, playing until there were 6 minutes left in the game with the Thunder leading by 23.
Bucks: The team had trouble getting anything going offensively with Antetokounmpo in foul trouble.
Tony Snell and Thon Maker hit back-to-back 3s late in the first half to end the 1-of-14 stretch.
Milwaukee finished 9 of 30 for the night from behind the arc.
C Greg Monroe's inside presence was missed.
The veteran is out for at least another 12 days with a strained left calf.
The 6-foot-11 Monroe helps open up the floor with his ability to score in the lane.
UP NEXT Thunder: Host the Boston Celtics on Friday.
Bucks: Visit the Charlotte Hornets on Wednesday.
36 View Gallery Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports | Jerome Miron
TCU's undefeated season disappeared in swath of offensive ineptitude in a 14-7 loss at then-No.
25 Iowa State last week.
But it would be foolish to count out the No.
10 Horned Frogs from the playoff picture.
While TCU struggled on offense against the Cyclones, especially in the red zone in the second half, it played well enough on defense to beat any of the opponents on the four-game final stretch of the regular season.
That stretch begins Saturday when the Horned Frogs (7-1, 4-1 Big 12) host Texas (4-4, 3-2) at Amon Carter Stadium in Fort Worth.
An appearance in the Big 12 title game is still in the offing for TCU, which would be a big step up for a team that was 6-7 in 2016 and picked in the preseason to finish fifth in the league.
Entering play on Saturday, TCU, Oklahoma, Oklahoma State and Iowa State are tied atop the Big 12 standings.
It's a sprint to the finish, and the first two to the tape get to go to the Big 12 championship game in Arlington, Texas.
"We've got goals that we're climbing to get," TCU cornerback Jeff Gladney said.
"We're just looking up, never looking down.
Everything we need to get is up."
The Horned Frogs' defense allowed no points in the second half against Iowa State and surrendered just 40 yards.
"The guys did a better job of tackling, and we defended the pass," coach Gary Patterson said.
"We started doing what we said we had to do.
We contested shots."
TCU quarterback Kenny Hill had by far his worst game of the season in the loss to Iowa State, passing for just 125 yards, throwing two interceptions and fumbling in the red zone.
Hill had not thrown an interception in more than 100 pass attempts entering the game.
Kyle Hicks and Darius Anderson were the lone bright spots on offense against Iowa State, as the dynamic running back duo combined for 175 yards on 24 carries.
"Everybody's struggled throwing the football against Iowa State," Patterson said Monday during the Big 12 coaches conference call with reporters.
"Bottom line to it, we need to put Kenny in better situations.
We didn't find ways to win.
It wasn't so much Kenny's deal as everybody's.
I think you can put the load on everybody."
The continuing rise in confidence for the Longhorns comes on the heels of a 38-7 win at Baylor last Saturday.
Before then, Texas had played five games in which the opponent was ranked at the time or has since been ranked.
Texas won just two of those games, against Kansas State and Iowa State, but lost the other three (at USC, vs. Oklahoma in Dallas, and at home against Oklahoma State) by a combined 11 points.
"Our guys are very confident with where we're at," coach Tom Herman said Monday at his weekly media availability.
"They're very confident in the lessons we've learned in even the close ones against the teams from Oklahoma."
Freshman quarterback Sam Ehlinger, who has started five of Texas' eight games, has been cleared from concussion protocol and has resumed practicing with the team.
Herman said Monday he has no intention of announcing in advance if Ehlinger or sophomore Shane Buechele, who started at quarterback last week and led the Longhorns to victory, would be the first one behind center on Saturday against TCU.
"Probably the only silver lining to having those guys banged up and both of them having played very well at times is that we don't have to name a starting quarterback," Herman said.
"Unless college football has gone to the NFL, we don't have to say anything about our depth chart.
By Wednesday or Thursday we probably should know internally, but that's for (TCU) to figure out."
Texas leads the series between the teams 62-24-1.
TCU has won the last three, one shy of its longest win streak from 1935-38.
The teams have been playing since 1897 and squared off every year from 1927 to 1995, the last season of the Southwest Conference.
They played a nonconference game in 2007 in Austin, won 34-13 by Texas.
In Big 12 meetings, TCU is 4-1.
TCU's 50-7 victory two years ago in Fort Worth marked its series-high point total.
In the last three meetings, TCU has outscored Texas 129-26.
NEW YORK (AP) -- The union for NFL players has turned to a federal appeals court in its quest to let Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott play Sunday at home against Kansas City as he fights his six-game suspension over domestic violence allegations.
Union lawyers say Elliott's suspension should be delayed until the 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals considers the issue.
League lawyers had no immediate comment.
The NFL Players Association first asked U.S. District Judge Katherine Polk Failla to suspend her Monday ruling reinstating the suspension during an appeal.
But she refused Tuesday, so the file was moved to the appeals court.
The 22-year-old Elliott was suspended in August after the league investigated several alleged physical confrontations in the summer of 2016 with his then-girlfriend.
The union told Failla that she erred by ruling that the NFL's claims were supported by federal labor law because the league followed the collective bargaining agreement in suspending Elliott.
Lawyers for the NFLPA said Failla was the first judge ever to have "concluded that professional athletes with short career spans do not face irreparable harm" when suspensions are enforced before appeals options have been exhausted.
The judge had concluded that some of the reasons for Elliott's claim that he'll suffer irreparable harm during a suspension were "far too speculative" given all the variables, including the Cowboys' overall offensive performance, his opponents' defensive showing and Elliott's health.
The union also said Failla made erroneous legal conclusions that deserve review by a three-judge appeals panel, particularly after an "unjust and fundamentally unfair arbitration."
If Failla's ruling is not blocked, Elliott will not be eligible to return until the team's final three games, starting Dec. 17 at Oakland.
The Cowboys (4-3), defending NFC East champions, are in second place in the division.
Earlier in October, a federal appeals court threw out a Texas court's injunction and ordered the dismissal of Elliott's lawsuit there.
Before ruling, Failla heard arguments Monday at a hearing attended by Elliott, a day after last year's NFL rushing leader ran for 150 yards and two touchdowns in a 33-19 victory over Washington.
Failla had based some of her rulings on the NFL's successful appeal in the same jurisdiction in the Deflategate case that ended with New England quarterback Tom Brady serving a four-game suspension.
-- -- Dixon reported from Dallas.
Joc Pederson sliced a drive over the left-field wall, pounded his chest and danced around the bases, taking as many twists and turns as this World Series itself.
Of course, the Los Angeles Dodgers forced the Houston Astros to Game 7.
Chris Taylor hit a tying double off Justin Verlander during a two-run rally in the sixth inning, Corey Seager followed with a go-ahead sacrifice fly and the Dodgers beat the Astros 3-1 on Tuesday night to push this dramatic World Series to the ultimate game.
Pederson homered in the seventh against Joe Musgrove, connecting off the right-hander for the second time in three games for the record 24th long ball of this Series.
Pederson pranced all the way to the plate, pointing at the Dodgers' dugout and rubbing his thumbs and index fingers together to indicate what a money shot it was.
Yu Darvish starts Wednesday for the Dodgers, trying to win their first title since 1988, and Lance McCullers Jr. for the Astros in the first World Series Game 7 ever at Dodger Stadium.
Darvish was chased in the second inning of Game 2, when McCullers pitched Houston to a 5-3 victory.
George Springer's third-inning home run against starter Rich Hill had given a 1-0 lead to Verlander and the Astros, trying for the first title in their 56-season history.
On Halloween night, a championship for a team with orange in its colors seemed appropriate.
But it served only to set up the 10th blown lead of the Series, the fifth by Houston, as Verlander fell to 9-1 with Houston.
Dodgers relievers combined for 4 1/3 scoreless innings.
Brandon Morrow retired Alex Bregman on a grounder to strand the bases loaded in the fifth, winner Tony Watson got Marwin Gonzalez to fly out with two on and two outs in the sixth, and Kenta Maeda escaped two-on trouble in the seventh when third baseman Justin Turner gloved Jose Altuve's grounder and threw a one-hop throw that first baseman Cody Bellinger scooped just in time.
After wasting a ninth-inning lead in Game 2 and losing Game 5, Kenley Jansen retired six straight batters for the save and ended by striking out 40-year-old pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran.
This will be the third World Series Game 7 in four years.
Ten of the last 12 teams that won Game 6 to force a seventh game also won the title, but the Dodgers lost the previous six World Series in which they trailed 3-2.
They have won just one of their six championships at home, in 1963.
A heat wave over, the temperature dropped to 67 degrees at game time from 103 for last week's opener.
The San Gabriel Mountains were occluded by heavy clouds.
Los Angelenos with a laid-back reputation were more energetic and on their feet for two-strike counts against Astros batters, a wave in Pantone 294 also known as Dodger blue.
Stadium organist Dieter Ruehle greeted the Astros with "Hotel California" for the start of batting practice, but there was an un-LA-like drizzle in the middle innings.
Yuli Gurriel, who made a racist gesture toward Darvish in Game 3, was booed loudly during introductions and each time he batted, Verlander has 11 postseason wins but dropped to 0-4 in the Series with Detroit and Houston, which acquired him from the Tigers on Aug. 31 to win on nights like this.
The 2011 AL MVP and Cy Young Award winner, Verlander allowed just one baserunner before Austin Barnes singled leading off the sixth.
Verlander bounced a pitch that hit Chase Utley on the front of his right foot, and Taylor sent a 97 mph fastball down the right-field line as Barnes came home.
Seager followed with a sacrifice fly to the right-field warning track, a ball that likely would have landed in the pavilion in last week's hot air.
Verlander prevented more damage when Turner fouled out and the right-hander fanned Bellinger, who struck out four times for the second time in the Series.
Springer homered for the third straight game and fourth time in the Series, one shy of the record set by Reggie Jackson in 1977 and matched by Chase Utley in 2009.
While it silenced the Dodger Stadium crowd, Astros fans erupted at a watch party in Minute Maid Park.
Los Angeles has allowed home runs in all 14 of its postseason games.
Brian McCann singled leading off the fifth and Gonzalez doubled past Turner and down the left-field line.
Hill struck out Josh Reddick and Verlander, and Springer was intentionally walked to load the bases.
Morrow relieved as the crowd booed manager Dave Roberts' decision, and Hill slapped at four cups of liquid in the dugout, sending them spraying against the wall.
Appearing in his sixth straight Series game, Morrow got Bregman to ground to shortstop on his second pitch.
Watson walked Reddick leading off the seventh, Evan Gattis pinch hit for Verlander and Maeda relieved.
Gattis bounced to shortstop, just beating Utley's throw from second to avoid a double play.
Springer reached on an infield single that bounced off Seager's glove at shortstop and into left field, and Bregman's fly to deep center allowed pinch-runner Derek Fisher to tag up and advance to third, bringing up Altuve.
Walking down the dugout steps after his groundout, Altuve slammed his helmet.
DETROIT -- Anthony Mantha scored his team-leading fifth goal and Dylan Larkin added a goal and an assist as the Detroit Red Wings beat the Arizona Coyotes 5-3 on Tuesday night.
Knowing the Coyotes (1-11-1) had played the night before in Philadelphia, where they won in overtime for their first victory of the season, the Red Wings applied the pressure early.
They fired the first eight shots on goal and scored twice before the game was three minutes old.
Gustav Nyquist intercepted a clearing attempt by Arizona defenseman Alex Goligoski and threaded a shot through traffic that beat goalie Scott Wedgewood at 1:31 of the first period.
Detroit made it 2-0 at 2:37 when Luke Glendening snapped a high wrist shot past Wedgewood on the blocker side.
The Coyotes got on the board 11:36 into the second when Jason Demers took a feed from Clayton Keller and his point shot eluded a partially screened Jimmy Howard.
But the Red Wings didn't allow the Coyotes a chance to start feeling good.
Mantha made it 3-1 at 13:03, chipping a pass from Andreas Athanasiou behind Wedgewood.
Detroit increased its advantage to 4-1 in the final minute of the second when Larkin's backhand pass deflected off the stick of Coyotes defenseman Luke Schenn and over Wedgewood's shoulder at 19:03.
The Coyotes capitalized early in the third when Nick Cousins lifted a backhand past Howard at the two-minute mark.
They pulled within a goal at 16:43 when Keller's shot deflected off Howard's stick.
Darren Helm scored into an empty Coyotes net at 18:34 to close out the scoring.
NOTES:After wearing No.
40 in his debut Monday for the Coyotes, Wedgewood opted to switch to No.
31.
D Niklas Hjalmarsson was out for the Coyotes with a lower-body injury sustained Monday at Philadelphia.
.
Detroit D Danny DeKeyser (sprained ankle) missed his 10th straight game.
UP NEXT Coyotes: Host the Buffalo Sabres on Thursday, their first home game since Oct. 21.
NEW YORK (AP) -- Georgia, Alabama, Notre Dame and Clemson are the top four teams in the first College Football Playoff rankings of the season.
Oklahoma and Ohio State were the next two in the selection committee's initial top 25, released Tuesday night.
The final rankings that will determine the participants in the College Football Playoff semifinals come out Dec. 3.
Georgia and Alabama, Southeastern Conference rivals, are both undefeated and have been dominating their competition.
The Bulldogs' one close game was at Notre Dame in September, a 20-19 victory.
The Fighting Irish (7-1) have not lost since, including blowouts of Michigan State, Southern California and North Carolina State.
Clemson (7-1), the defending national champion, and Alabama have been ranked in the initial top four of the by the selection committee each of the last three seasons.
The Tigers and Tide played for the last two national titles, with each winning one.
Over the first three seasons of the playoff, a total of five teams have been ranked in the top four of the initial ranking and gone on to reach the semifinals: Florida State (which was second) in 2014; Clemson (first) and Alabama (fourth) in 2015; and Alabama (first) and Clemson (second) in 2016.
The rest of the top 10 was Penn State in seventh, followed by TCU.
No.
9 Wisconsin and No.
10 Miami are both undefeated but with no marquee victories.
The UCF Knights, also undefeated, checked in at No.
18.
The first College Football Playoff rankings of the 2017 season released on Tuesday night to the typical fanfare or dismay of various schools and fan bases around the country.
Undefeated Georgia took the No.
1 spot followed by unblemished national powerhouse Alabama and one-loss team Notre Dame.
Barring any half-member claims on the Fighting Irish, the Atlantic Coast Conference enters the mix in the fourthspot nationally underlining the conferences precarious place in the championship chase with six weeks remaining.
Dabo Swinneys one-loss Clemson Tigers, the defending champions, hold down the rankings No.
4 position.
Fellow league members Miami (No.
10), Virginia Tech (No.
13) and NC State (No.
20) round out the ACCs contenders.
Though far removed from panic mode, particularly in a college football season in which six previous top-10 teams have fallen in the last three weeks alone, the ACC hasquickly become a two- or three-team race with little margin for error.
Thanks to Atlantic division chaos, exemplified by the 7-9 combined record of Florida State and Louisville, Notre Dame handing NC State its second loss of the season, Clemsons loss to Syracuse and Miami and Virginia Techs lack of a single win against a current AP top-25 team, the ACCs path to the playoff looks narrow at the moment and this weekend poses significant risk to the leagues chances.
The Clemson-NC State and Miami-Virginia Tech showdowns on Saturday are (obviously) crucial to the ACCs endgame of repeating as national champs.Future upsets and national upheaval could shift the tides down the stretch, but a one-loss Clemson or undefeated Miami could be the ACCs only probable shots at reaching the four-team bracket.
Every ACC school to appear in top 4 of initial CFP Rankings has gone on to make the playoff (Florida State in 2014 & Clemson in 2015 & 16).
pic.twitter.com/ooxHlVsIT1 ESPN Stats & Info (@ESPNStatsInfo) October 31, 2017 If Clemson wins out its resume would be highlighted by true road wins over NC State and Virginia Tech, a victory over Auburn and, in all likelihood, an ACC Championship win over either Miami or Virginia Tech.
The Tigers already own six wins over FPI top-40 teams.
Miamis resume-builders line the road ahead with Virginia Tech, Notre Dame and (likely) Clemson in the conference title game, but given the Hurricanes' strength of schedule and lackluster efforts against lesser teams to date it will probably need to be an undefeated run.
Still,an undefeated Miami willmake the final four, meaning Mark Richt's team remains in control of its fatedespite playing with fire beating four unranked teams by 18 points combined throughout the month of October.
The Hokies, sitting at 13th, will be intriguing if they hit their stride and finish the campaign with wins over West Virginia, Miami and redemption in the ACC Championship, but Justin Fuente & Co. will likely need help beyond taking out the two ACC league members ranked ahead of them.
It is worth mentioning that the initial College Football Playoff rankings in previous years have not functionedas crystal-ball predictions.
In twoof the first three seasons, teams outside the initial top 15 made the final field: 2014 Ohio State and 2015 Oklahoma.
And last season's Penn State team jumped from No.
12 to being the final cut by the playoff committee.
Still,with this weekend pitting the ACC's four ranked teams against oneother, a separation (or elimination) Saturday awaits for the league.
Professional athletes are really just big kids in a lot of ways.
Anaheim Ducks center Ryan Kesler proved that at practice on Tuesday.
Excuse me, was there a big yellow bird on this ice?
@Ryan_Kesler just took #HockeyHalloween to a whole new level!
pic.twitter.com/VbEiotq7ib Anaheim Ducks (@AnaheimDucks) October 31, 2017 To our knowledge, Seasame Street's Big Bird is not a duck.
But Big Bird does have feathers and so do ducks, so make of that what you will.
Either way, it's a good bit of hockey fun on Halloween from Kesler, who has been known to enjoy a good joke.
Like when he dressed as a fan for a Ducks preseason game:
TEMPE, Ariz. -- Arizona State guard Kobi Justice often found himself in the post trying to guard much larger players, sometimes even 7-footers.
The scrappy 6-foot-5 guard took every challenge head on and often on the head -- in the form of an elbow -- without ever backing down.
"Hopefully those days are gone," Justice said.
"But I'll do it if that's what they need me to do."
He shouldn't.
After two seasons of playing primarily guard-heavy small ball, Arizona State coach Bobby Hurley now has some big guys to throw into the mix this year.
The Sun Devils will still rely heavily on their trio of senior guards, but the frontcourt will be bigger and more talented, allowing Hurley multiple lineup and style options.
"We played small-ball most of last season and certainly we can do that some this season," Hurley said.
"But this season we have the depth and the players in the front court where we can play multiple different ways."
At Arizona State's core will be Justice, Tra Holder and Shannon Evans, senior guards who have a knack for knowing what the other two are going to do without having to say it.
Holder has developed into a steady floor leader who can score, Evans can fill it up in bunches when he's on and Justice can do just about anything, knocking down 3-pointers, flipping behind-the-back passes and guarding whomever Hurley tells him to.
Now those three will have some big-guy help.
Romello White, a redshirt last season, has good size (6-foot-8, 220 pounds), an ability to finish at the rim and a relentless nature.
Forward Vitaliy Shibel returns after missing last season with a torn ACL and Spanish big man Ramon Villa should take the next step after playing 33 games last season.
De'Quon Lake, a junior college transfer, is long, athletic and should help protect the rim.
Freshman Kimani Lawrence, a top recruit, will add depth and versatility as will former Ohio State forward Mickey Mitchell after he sits out the first eight games under NCAA transfer rules.
The Sun Devils will be bigger, stronger, more versatile and could push for an NCAA Tournament berth in their third season under Hurley, something that didn't seem to be a real possibility heading into the past two seasons.
A few more things to look for from Arizona State in 2017-18: ROUGH ROMELLO: White should give Arizona State a dose of nastiness it hasn't had in recent years.
The relentless forward doesn't have an off button and should help the Sun Devils inside at both ends.
White is excellent finishing at the rim rolling off of ball screens, can hit the mid-range jumper and never gives up on a rebound.
REMY AT THE POINT: Holder has run the Sun Devils well in his time in Tempe, but now he should get some help from top recruit Remy Martin.
The quick 6-foot guard can run the team when Holder is out or allow him to slide over to shooting guard.
Martin also is a tenacious defender and should have an impact on that end of the floor immediately.
EUROPEAN TRIP: Arizona State got a head start on the season with a trip to Rome and Barcelona this summer.
The Sun Devils played three games and were allowed extra practices for the trip, giving the team an early chance to bond and get a feel for one another.
Teams that take these once-every-four-years trips often get the season off to a good start, so don't be surprised if it works for the Sun Devils, too.
TRANSFER IMPACT: While the trend in college basketball is to add graduate transfers who can play immediately, Hurley took the old-school route by adding three players who will have to sit out a season.
But those three players should make the Sun Devils better by making practices nearly as competitive as the games.
San Diego State transfer Zylan Cheatham and former Kansas player Carlton Bragg will work to make Arizona State's big men better and former Cleveland State guard Rob Edwards will push the Sun Devils' guards.
Kenley Jansen, the previously impervious closer whom the Astros had rallied against to win twice in this series, pitched the final two innings to nail down the victory.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Now, a World Series that seemingly has had everything scintillating comebacks, mind-numbing heat, an offensive gesture and a record number of home runs will have a seventh game.
The Dodgers will pitch Yu Darvish, and the Astros will go with Lance McCullers Jr. on the mound.
Knowing its going to seven games is appropriate, said Justin Turner, the Dodgers third baseman with a red gorse bush of a beard.
Photo If the Astros are away from the comforts of home for the decisive game, they can at least draw confidence from their postseason experience: They clinched the division series at Fenway Park in Boston and defeated the Yankees in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series.
You dream about these moments as a kid, Astros third baseman Alex Bregman said.
I know everyone in here is super excited to be part of it.
Were going to go out there and empty the tank.
For a good portion of Tuesday night, it didnt seem like such high drama would be required.
George Springer quieted the crowd with a solo homer to right field with two out in the third inning, which seemed as if it might be enough for Verlander, who was at his big-game best, keeping the Dodgers scoreless for five innings.
It was the type of performance the Astros had in mind when they acquired him from the Detroit Tigers just before midnight on Aug. 31 the deadline for playoff eligibility.
Verlander had twice pitched a shutout in a decisive Game 5 in a division series (both times against the Oakland Athletics), and he kept the Astros alive in the A.L.C.S.
last month with a dominant performance against the Yankees in Game 6.
He was 9-0 in an Astros uniform entering Tuesday, and the team had won all 10 games in which he had pitched.
Theres something different when you put a major piece like that in your clubhouse, Astros Manager A. J. Hinch said before the game.
And I think his presence alone gave guys hope and belief that things were going to be good for us.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story By the time the Dodgers came to bat in the bottom of the sixth, still trailing by 1-0, they had struck out eight times, often overmatched by upper-90s fastballs at the top of the strike zone.
But Austin Barnes led off with a single and Chase Utley who was 0 for 14 in the postseason entering Tuesday was hit on the foot by a slider that bounced.
Photo After the game, Verlander reiterated comments that have been made by several pitchers in this series, saying that the baseballs were particularly slick.
That was in the back of my mind Im not gonna lie, said Verlander, who added that when he picked up a ball he felt like he was going to throw it to the backstop.
Im not going to throw a slider thats just kind of spinning in the middle of the plate for him to hit a double on.
I just kind of yanked it in.
With two runners on, Chris Taylor then fought off a 1-2 fastball that was in on his hands and swatted the 97 miles-per-hour pitch over the head of Houston first baseman Yuli Gurriel, who was booed lustily every time he came to the plate over his racist gesture in Game 3.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The flare double tied the score at 1-1 and sent Utley to third.
And there was still no one out.
Corey Seager followed with a deep drive to right field that brought the crowd to its feet, but the cool air the first-pitch temperature was 36 degrees colder than it was in Game 1 held the ball up enough for Josh Reddick to catch it near the wall.
Still, it was a sacrifice fly that gave the Dodgers a 2-1 lead and moved Taylor to third.
Verlander gathered himself and retired Turner on a pop-up, then struck out Cody Bellinger to keep the Astros within a run.
The Astros, who squandered good chances in the fifth and sixth Brandon Morrow retired Bregman on a grounder with the bases loaded in the fifth and Utley leapt near second base to snag Marwin Gonzalezs liner with two on to end the sixth could not deliver in the seventh either.
With Kenta Maeda facing Jose Altuve who had greeted him with a three-run home run in Game 5 with runners at first and third, Altuve grounded to Turner, who rushed his throw as the speedy Altuve tore down the line.
But Bellinger stretched and dug out the throw on one hop an instant before Altuve reached the bag.
Photo In my mind, I think every ball is going to go in the dirt until its not, Bellinger said.
So when the ball is in the dirt, it doesnt catch me by surprise and Im ready for it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Dodgers could breathe a sigh of relief, and an inning later they could exhale and laugh as Pederson gave them a 3-1 lead and embarked on his giddy romp around the bases.
Thats just Joc, Bellinger said.
He does the craziest stuff on his home runs and that was a huge one.
If he hits big home runs like that, he can do whatever he wants.
Pederson waved his arms to the right-field pavilion as he reached second, pounded his chest as he approached third, jumped and tried to high five the third-base coach Chris Woodward and then turned toward the third-base dugout and rubbed his fingers together in a money gesture.
It seemed Pederson had remembered a bet with someone in the dugout before he went up to hit.
I was curious who it was, Seager said.
Was it Turner?
Maybe, Turner said with a smile.
For Pederson, there was something more to his trot than a cash reward.
Demoted to the minor leagues in August and left off the division series playoff roster, Pederson has made the most of his opportunity.
It was his third home run in the World Series.
Emotions run high, Pederson said in the interview room alongside his older brother Champ, who has Down syndrome.
You kind of black out in a situation like that, so Im going to have to rewatch it to see what I did.
What he did was leave another indelible moment on a series that will have to make room for at least one more on Wednesday night.
Top 3rd: Springer gives Astros the lead.
Rich Hill was cruising, having retired seven consecutive batters.
But with two outs in the third, he made a mistake on a pitch to George Springer, and the poorly-located fastball was deposited into the stands in right to give the Astros a 1-0 lead.
Hill got out of the inning when Alex Bregman grounded out to short, but Hill has made the mistake of giving Justin Verlander a run to work with.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Waldstein: With Springers home run, these teams have now hit 23, extending the World Series record.
It was also the 16th to either break a tie or give the team a lead.
Heres an interesting tidbit about all the home runs in Game 5.
The Astros had 5.
The only other teams to do that in the World Series were the 1989 Athletics and the 1928 Yankees.
Babe Ruth hit 3 in Game 4 of 28 and Lou Gehrig and Cedric Durst each hit one.
(The Big Three, right?)
Bottom 3rd: Verlander notches his fifth strikeout.
It was a remarkably quiet inning for Justin Verlander.
Austin Barnes grounded out to second, Rich Hill struck out on a foul-tip into Brian McCanns mitt, and Chris Taylor watched strike three sail right by him to end the inning.
Verlander now has five strikeouts, but has seen his pitch-count creep up to 43.
Waldstein: Justin Verlander is looking good so far, especially with that called third strike breaking ball to Joc Pederson in the second inning.
If he is getting that pitch over for strikes, he will be hard to beat.
Incredible to believe, but Verlander is searching for his first World Series win.
He is 0-3 in three World Series appearances, two for the Tigers.
His earned run average in those games is 6.43.
He looks better than that tonight.
Top 4th: Hill settles in after giving up home run.
With the exception of the solo homer he allowed in the third inning, Rich Hill has matched Justin Verlander.
It was more of the same in the fourth.
He retired Jose Altuve on a grounder to short, got Carlos Correa to fly out to center, and after Yulieski Gurriel was once again greeted with heavy booing, Hill got him to fly out to right to end the inning.
Photo Bottom 4th: Verlander mows down Dodgers big hitters.
Through four innings it is almost surprising that the Dodgers have a hit.
Justin Verlander continued to dominate, retiring Corey Seager on a fly to left and then fooling Justin Turner on a cutter for strike three.
With two outs, Verlander got his seventh strikeout of the game when Cody Bellinger swung right through a fastball to end the inning.
Waldstein: Verlander looks really sharp, as expected.
He gets Justin Turner on a 92 miles-per-hour cutter and then gets Cody Bellinger on a 97 miles-per-hour fastball perfectly located up and in.
He is pitching without the same kind of safety net that Rich Hill is.
That is because the Astros are really out of good options in the bullpen.
Everyone is either worn out or ineffective, or both.
The supposed closer, Ken Giles, may not even pitch any more because he has been so bad.
Keep in mind that before the game, Astros manager A.J.
Hinch said that he would do whatever is necessary to win tonight, including possibly using Lance McCullers to close it out.
I think if you complicate it and try to manage two games at once, youll find yourself having two games, he said.
Photo Top 5th: Dodgers go to bullpen early ... again.
Brandon Morrow, who has pitched in each game of the World Series, was called on once again because Rich Hill had loaded the bases with two outs.
The Dodgers setup man, who faltered badly in Game 5, got out of the inning when Alex Bregman grounded out to short to end what looked like a Houston rally.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brian McCann led off the inning with a single to right and went to third when Marwin Gonzalez doubled past a diving Alex Bregman.
Hill chose to pitch to Josh Reddick despite first base being open and the pitcher being on deck, and was rewarded for it when Reddick struck out.
Justin Verlander also struck out, and after George Springer was intentionally walked to load the bases, Hills night was over.
With Los Angeles into its bullpen for the remainder of the game, Hills final line was 4 2/3 innings, four hits and one run.
He struck out five and walked one.
He threw just 58 pitches.
Waldstein: Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts did what he has been consistently doing with Rich Hill, pulling him before the third time through the Dodgers batting order.
Hill did his job, keeping the Dodgers in the game.
The fans did not like it when Hill came out, but it worked to perfection.
Brandon Morrow, who looked completely gassed in Game 5, came in with the bases loaded and got the Astros out of the jam.
Bottom 5th: Verlander gets eighth strikeout.
Justin Verlander is still working with a one-run lead, but he continues to cruise.
In the fifth he needed just one pitch to retire Yasiel Puig on a fly ball to right, threw three pitches to Joc Pederson, getting him to fly out to left, and then battled a bit with Logan Forsythe before striking him out on seven pitches to end the inning.
Verlander has eight strikeouts on 69 pitches.
He has the endurance to throw 120 or more if the Astros can avoid a situation where they need to pinch-hit for him.
Photo Top 6th: Dodgers bullpen gets out of another jam.
Brandon Morrow has been almost comically overused, with tonight representing the relievers 13th postseason appearance this year the record is 14, which was set by Paul Assenmacher of the Cleveland Indians in 1997.
He was not perfect, allowing a two-out single to Yulieski Gurriel, but pressed into duty for his sixth World Series game this year, he got three critical outs for Los Angeles.
Tony Watson took over for him after Gurriels hit, and immediately hit Brian McCann with a pitch.
But he finished off the inning without allowing a run, getting Marwin Gonzalez to line out to second, erasing the two base runners.
Photo Bottom 6th: Dodgers find Verlanders number.
Justin Verlander got himself into trouble and the Astros are now trailing 2-1.
Austin Barnes stroked a leadoff single into left, which brought up pinch-hitter Chase Utley.
Despite Utley being 0 for 14 in this years postseason, Verlander pitched him very carefully before hitting him with a pitch.
That brought up Chris Taylor, who lined a double into to right, bringing Barnes home and tying the game 1-1.
With runners on second and third, Corey Seager hit a long fly to right that seemed as if it might leave the park, but eventually ended up as a sacrifice fly when the ball landed in Josh Reddicks glove and Utley scored.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Verlander stopped the bleeding by getting a foul-out from Justin Turner and a strikeout from Cody Bellinger, but he will be done with six innings of work because he is due up second in the next inning.
Photo Waldstein: Justin Verlander will not do a Josh Beckett in Game 6.
He is out of the game for pinch-hitter Evan Gattis in the top of the 7th.
What an interesting inning.
Verlander certainly looked like he had reached his limit.
Even the first out Corey Seagers sacrifice fly ball to right was hit hard enough to have been a home run in Yankee Stadium, anyway.
Although Verlander walked off without the chance to get his first World Series win in three separate trips to the Fall Classic, he did well to limit the damage when the Astros had already evened the score and had runners at second and third with no out.
Now this game is all about the bullpens, and the Dodgers have the marginal advantage.
Photo Top 7th: Astros threaten, but come up short.
The Astros got the situation they wanted, with Jose Altuve at the plate with a runner in scoring position, but the Dodgers got out of the inning unscathed, maintaining their 2-1 lead.
Josh Reddick walked to lead things off, which brought up the pitchers spot, and Justin Verlander was removed for a pinch-hitter.
Kenta Maeda came on in relief to face Evan Gattis, and induced a force-out at second.
George Springer singled, at which point Houston replaced Gattis on the bases with Derek Fisher, and the speedy pinch-runner advanced to third on a flyout to center by Alex Bregman.
With runners on the corners and two outs, Altuve came up, and was hacking away from the first pitch, but he ended up grounding out to third to end the inning, with the throw just barely beating him at first.
Walstein: The Dodgers are doing a great job on Jose Altuve and Calros Correa, who are a combined 0 for 7.
Astros manager A.J.
Hinch waited to pinch run for Evan Gattis until Gattis reached second base, which is often done by managers.
But if he had immediately sent Derek Fisher in to run after Gattis reached first on a fielders choice, he might have made it to third base on George Springers single, which got past Corey Seager at shortstop and dribbled into left field.
It would have been close, but if a runner did make it there, he definitely would have scored on Bregmans deep fly ball out.
Would have, could have.
Photo Bottom 7th: Pederson goes deep.
Joe Musgrove was given the unenviable task of coming in for Justin Verlander.
The right-hander retired Yasiel Puig on a pop-out to short, but Joc Pederson, who has been on fire recently, crushed a 1-2 fastball for an opposite-field home run that increased the Dodgers lead to 3-1.
Musgrove recovered to retire pinch-hitter Andre Ethier on a fly to left and he struck out Austin Barnes to end the inning, but the Dodgers will be handing the game over to Kenley Jansen for a six-out save, and he has a two-run cushion to work with.
Waldstein: Wow, that was some home run trot by Joc Pederson.
I dont recall seeing a player skip down the third base line pointing to his dugout in the 7th inning.
It looked like something out of the movie Major League.
More important, his home run gives Kenley Jansen a cushion.
Remember, Jansen blew the save in Game 2 in his second inning of work and took the loss in Game 5 when he gave up a run, also in his second inning of work.
And the Astros dont ever concede.
Then again, neither do the Dodgers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Top 8th: Jansen gets three easy outs.
Kenley Jansen is halfway through a six-out save.
He got Carlos Correa to fly out to left, got Yulieski Gurriel to pop out to first and then struck out Brian McCann to end the inning.
Los Angeles will now try to add some insurance to their two-run lead.
Bottom 8th: No more insurance runs for the Dodgers.
A two-run lead will have to suffice for the Dodgers.
Charlie Culberson led off the inning against Luke Gregerson with a single to left, and he advanced to second on a groundout by Chris Taylor.
Corey Seager worked a full-count, but struck out on a slider that cut in on him.
With a man on base, Justin Turner walked, which ended Gregersons day.
Francisco Liriano came in to face Cody Bellinger, and the 12-year veteran, who was making his first career World Series appearance, struck out the rookie slugger in a grueling 9-pitch at-bat.
The Dodgers are three outs from forcing a Game 7.
Photo Top 9th: Jansen closes the door on Astros.
Kenley Jansen had a long wait between innings, but the Dodgers closer was just as dominant in the ninth, shutting the door on the Astros and securing a six-out save.
He started things off by getting Marwin Gonzalez to pop out to first.
He then took care of things himself, striking out Josh Reddick and pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran to end the game, needing just 19 pitches to complete two innings of work.
What gave Georgia a very slight edge over Alabama this week in the eyes of the selection committee were really the two top-25 wins that Georgia has, over Mississippi State but specifically over No.
3 Notre Dame, the committee chairman Kirby Hocutt, who is also Texas Techs athletic director, said on a call with reporters.
Photo Alabama hosts No.
19 Louisiana State (6-2) on Saturday night.
Georgias next game is at home against South Carolina (6-2) on Saturday.
Notre Dame is coming off a 4-8 season that made many suspect Coach Brian Kelly was not long for South Bend.
But the Irish have fought back, and they have the genuine honor of the seasons best loss: a 20-19 defeat at home to Georgia in the second weekend of the season.
Still on the docket are No.
10 Miami (7-0) and No.
21 Stanford (6-2).
As an independent program in football, Notre Dames lack of a conference championship game could prove an obstacle to its playoff hopes, as other contenders will most likely have a 13th game to make a final statement to the committee.
Clemson lost the two-time Heisman Trophy finalist and current Houston Texans quarterback Deshaun Watson, but it still has managed wins over two ranked opponents, No.
13 Virginia Tech (7-1) and No.
14 Auburn (6-2).
Oklahoma edged Ohio State for the fifth spot by virtue of its early season win over the Buckeyes.
But with the Heisman contender J.T.
Barrett at quarterback, Ohio State in turn has recovered to win six straight games, and last Saturday the Buckeyes rallied from an 18-point deficit to beat No.
7 Penn State (7-1) in Columbus.
Oklahomas victory over Ohio State and Ohio States win over Penn State were important to us, Hocutt said, pointing to the head-to-head metric that is among several the committee is directed to consider.
Photo Last season, Penn State beat Ohio State and won the Big Ten title, however, its record hurt by early-season losses, it watched helplessly as the Buckeyes sailed into the playoff anyway.
It probably will take another Ohio State loss for Penn State to return the favor this season; the best candidate is the Buckeyes traditional regular-season closer at Michigan (6-2).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Oklahoma has its own Heisman contender and a two-time Heisman finalist in quarterback Baker Mayfield, and it sustained its only loss against frisky Iowa State (6-2), ranked 15th.
The Sooners biggest remaining tests come Saturday at No.
11 Oklahoma State (7-1) and the following week against No.
8 Texas Christian (7-1).
With Oklahoma (Big 12), Ohio State (Big Ten) and No.
12 Washington (Pacific-12) outside the top four, were the playoff held today it would exclude three of the so-called Power 5 conferences.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Huskies (7-1), who made last years playoff, still have two ranked opponents, Stanford and No.
25 Washington State (7-2), on their schedule, as well as a potential matchup against No.
17 Southern California (7-2) in the conference title game.
The three other undefeated playoff-eligible teams are No.
9 Wisconsin (8-0), Miami and No.
18 Central Florida (7-0).
The former two have played softer schedules although the Badgers are easily the team that the committee considered most differently than A.P.
voters, who on Sunday ranked them 4th.
If either of the first two wins out, it will play tough competition in a major-conference championship game, where a win may assure a playoff slot.
Central Florida, of the American Athletic Conference, has a narrower path to the bracket.
There is still time for seeming long shots to make it into the playoff, though.
At this point in 2015, the eventual semifinalist Oklahoma was No.
15, while in the committees first rankings in 2014, Ohio State was 16th and went on to win the title.
In that vein, Porzingis has challenges ahead, not the least of which will be staying healthy and upbeat if the losses should mount.
But at 22, and having promised in three languages (Latvian, Spanish and English) at 19 that he was no soft, shy European, he has gracefully embraced his promotion.
As Porzingis drained free throws to seal a game the Knicks dominated except for one horrific third-quarter stretch, I mentioned to someone sitting next to me at the Garden that Porzingiss willingness to blow off an exit meeting with Phil Jackson last April, when Jackson still ran the team, was actually an example of a precocious young star showing conviction.
People said he should have told Phil what he was upset about directly, but he was sending a message to ownership that he wasnt going to accept the chaotic way the franchise was being run, I said.
Even if his people put him up to it.
The guy introduced himself as Dan Rohme of the agency ASA Sports or as he said, one of Kristapss people.
Oops.
For what its worth, he didnt bother to correct me.
Mission accomplished.
Jackson took the bait, commenced fielding trade offers for Porzingis and was soon posting on Twitter a selfie of his unemployed bare feet from his Montana retreat.
The unofficial Friends of Anthony association will point out that he was routinely targeted for not sharing the ball enough while Porzingis will get a pass for his own high-volume shooting.
In the six games to date this season, while averaging 29.3 points, he has all of 5 assists.
Photo The crucial difference is in the approach.
While he obviously feels free to launch from far and away, occasionally too soon, Porzingis gets most of his shots within the flow of an offense.
He is also demonstrating a greater comfort closer to the basket catching, turning and daring a player several inches smaller to block his shot.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As Rohme said, wait until his slender legs fill out and allow Porzingis, at 7 feet 3 inches, to better fend off the more brutish post defenders.
While Porzingis isnt opening eyes with his passing the way Nikola Jokic, Denvers 6-10 Serbian stud, has since becoming the hub of the Nuggets offense, hes not exactly inhibiting teammates from getting theirs.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The explosive and somewhat erratic Tim Hardaway Jr. put up 34 points on Sunday night when the Knicks stunned LeBron Inc. in Cleveland and he had a flurry of 13 points in the fourth quarter against the Nuggets.
Enes Kanter, the 25-year-old low-post Turkish terror, has been getting plenty of touches.
Jarrett Jack, the journeyman point guard whose insertion into the starting lineup helped stop the bleeding, is a competent shotmaker.
But for all the players acquired or retained around Porzingis, none figure into a potentially enhanced Knicks future quite like the 19-year-old Ntilikina, selected eighth in the 2017 draft.
He was also Jacksons final transaction before owner James Dolan wisely addressed Porzingiss unhappiness by eliminating Jacksons stubbornness.
Having watched the Knicks beat the Nets last Friday night at the Garden in a seat behind the home teams bench, what struck me about Ntilikina was how he plays with his eyes literally open wide though not in stage fright.
He may not be as audacious a rookie as Porzingis was, but nor is he averse to being bold in moments.
Ntilikina made several passes bounce passes for the purists left among us against the Nets in transition that, more even than Porzingis, roused the Garden in the way that only visionary ball-sharing can.
Ntilikina was injured during summer league and for most of training camp so, who knew?
In the Knicks pregame locker room Monday night, Kanter said he did.
Let me tell you something, his vision is probably one of the top 10 in the N.B.A.
right now, he told me.
Really?
Yes.
His vision is unbelievable.
Hes going to be special.
He is also rookie raw, with nine turnovers to go with 10 assists, including an embarrassing strip while dribbling the ball up court against Denvers Will Barton.
Lets also note that Kanter was hyping Porzingis for the N.B.A.
Most Valuable Player Award on Monday night, suggesting that three straight wins, with Houston in town on Wednesday night, have been intoxicating, if not mind-altering.
Then again, along with excellent court vision, Ntilikina is 6-5 with long limbs that foretell an ability for the Knicks to finally address a ruinous lack of defensive pressure at the point of attack.
Kanter, too, should know transcendent potential when he sees it, having shared much court time at his last stop in Oklahoma City with Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It would be cruelly unfair to expect or predict that level of greatness on anyone.
But given early evidence of a tandem that will give the Knicks a real foundation, why not at least begin the anthem of hope with, O say, can you see?
As Major League Baseballs postseason is nearing the biggest celebration of all the Houston Astros need one more victory to win the World Series, the Dodgers need two it seems appropriate to ask: Where does this ritual come from?
Great question, but I have no idea, said Cubs reliever Pedro Strop, who celebrated a lot last year when his team snapped a 108-year drought and finally won the Series.
He was speaking during a slippery and sticky moment this month after the Cubs beat the Washington Nationals in a five-game division series.
Its been like this for years, he added.
Its actually really fun.
Its like its raining and youre running around to avoid getting wet.
Few, if any, sports seem to celebrate achievements as much as baseball teams do.
In the other major professional sports leagues in North America, teams do not usually pop the corks until they win an actual championship.
Photo But that may be because other major sports do not play nearly as many games as baseball teams do.
The 162-game regular season in baseball is twice as voluminous as the seasons in the N.B.A.
and the N.H.L., and has about 10 times as many games as the N.F.L.
season.
So if a team clinches a playoff spot during the season even if it is just the right to play in the win-or-go-home wild-card game it is usually reason enough to break open the champagne and beer.
I always think its silly to do it celebrating a division or getting the wild card, McCarthy said.
But then I thought about that.
You might never get back there.
If thats the only time when youre first up, why not?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story If a major league team clinches a wild-card spot, wins the wild-card game, captures a division series and the league championship series, and then prevails in the World Series, that means five raucous, alcohol-filled celebrations in perhaps five or six weeks time.
Four of them could occur within the span of three weeks in the postseason.
Its extreme to go from nothing to four celebrations if you win, said Los Angeles outfielder Curtis Granderson, who has reached the World Series three times in his career with the Dodgers, Tigers and Mets.
Its always been interesting to me.
Baseball championship celebrations involving champagne and beer have their roots in amateur baseball, dating back to the 19th century, according to research by John Thorn, the official historian of Major League Baseball.
In the 20th century, there are instances of rambunctious festivities that go back to at least the 1940s.
One involved the Brooklyn Dodgers, who in 1941 won their first National League pennant in 21 years.
The clinching victory came against the Braves in Boston.
Afterward, Larry McPhail, the Dodgers president, arranged for champagne to be stocked on the train for the teams ride back to New York.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
By the time the train reached its destination, the Dodgers were hilarious and the train was a wreck, according to a newspaper account of their arrival.
One of the Dodgers coaches, Chuck Dressen, had his shirt ripped off in the merriment, the article said.
Two players, Pee Wee Reese and Pete Reiser, prowled up and down the aisles squirting everybody with champagne.
Alcohol was also part of the postgame celebration after the legendary home run that Bobby Thomson hit in 1951 to allow the New York Giants to snatch the pennant from the Dodgers.
And after the Dodgers won the 1956 N.L.
pennant, their celebration was described as such in The New York Times: Beer and champagne were being poured over the heads and into the hip pockets of those who still had uniforms on.
Photo The celebrations have continued since then, but with various twists.
Many players now use goggles, regardless of what Kershaw thinks.
Not surprisingly, the New Era Cap Company, which makes the official caps for Major League Baseball, is now in the goggle business, too.
One goggle-wearer is Josh Reddick, the Astros right fielder, who is notorious for his champagne-drenched reveling while wearing only stars-and-stripes briefs.
He does not care if he looks ridiculous.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I love it, he said in an interview last week.
For as long as I can remember, this is the way its been, so thats what Im accustomed to and Ive gotten used to.
So I dont look at it from that perspective, like it being awkward, but its just what Ive known and look forward to as a player.
Major League Baseball has tried to curb over-the-top celebrations with periodic guidelines concerning such things as the quantity of alcohol available or transportation provided for players and staff.
Some players and baseball executives acknowledge they have not really thought about alternative ways to whoop it up.
Karim Garcia, a retired outfielder from Mexico who spent parts of 10 seasons in the major leagues, said he was surprised when he first took part in a division-clinching celebration with the Dodgers in 1995.
As it does now, most of the alcohol, including some expensive champagne, ended up on the floor or sprayed on the ceiling, and went unconsumed.
It was a great experience, and then you realize: Why are you spraying and wasting it?
Better to drink it, he said.
We probably should have just sprayed beer.
Its just one of those traditions thats been around awhile and you just follow it.
I think its the only place that we do it like this.
After winning titles in Mexican League baseball, Garcia said, his teams celebrated only with beer because it was cheaper.
Astros reliever Tyler Clippard, a veteran of 11 major league seasons, said: It is weird.
But what else would you do?
In the Indy 500, they drink milk.
Thats way weirder.
What should you do?
Spray orange juice?
Farhan Zaidi, the Dodgers general manager, said spraying so much beer and champagne was probably not the greatest bang-for-the-buck expense that we have as an organization, but its a tradition and this sport is full of it.
If the celebration for winning different rounds of the playoffs was an elaborate high five, thats what everybody would do and then go home, he added.
Its just what people have always done.
But if aliens landed from another planet and saw this, they would think it was pretty bizarre.
Almost every team, though, saw the value of a player like that, a squad member capable of adapting to any and every position.
They had their own place in soccers lexicon: the prosaic utility player in English, and the more poetic tuttofare (does everything) in Italian, or todoterreno (all terrain) in Spanish.
Photo At Alex Fergusons Manchester United, the likes of Phil Neville, Park Ji-Sung and John OShea filled the role of utility players.
Ferguson deemed the latter to be of such importance in the clubs 2008-09 season that at one point he anointed him a contender for player of the year in England.
The great Liverpool side of the late 1980s boasted Steve Nicol; the Ajax team that swept through Europe in the 1990s could call on Ronald de Boer.
To a manager, versatility was an asset; to a player, it was an advantage.
Steve Watson, who played in every outfield position for both Newcastle United and Everton, knew his flexibility made him ideal cover as a substitute, but always felt it gave him a much better opportunity of getting into the team.
In recent years, however, utility seemed to have fallen out of fashion.
When clubs can name at least seven substitutes, rather than three, for every game, managers had no need to reserve a space on the bench for someone who could cover anywhere.
As squads grew, too, managers learned to favor expertise.
Most elite teams employ two specialists for every position, with those positions ever more tightly defined.
Few would expect an attacking midfielder to slot into a holding role, much less play at fullback.
In many ways, Jos Mourinho encapsulates this thinking.
In the spring of 2016, when he agreed to replace Louis van Gaal at Manchester United, Mourinho commanded the clubs executive vice chairman, Ed Woodward, to sign four players, each of them designated a specific role: Paul Pogba, Eric Bailly, Henrikh Mkhitaryan and Zlatan Ibrahimovic.
As you know, especially the ones with more vision, I am a manager that likes specialists, Mourinho explained at the time.
I am clear with my approach and model of players.
At most, he said, he likes one or two multifunctional players, because you always need someone that can give you a hand.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In such an environment, then, it should be no surprise that players are increasingly keen to define themselves as specialists.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, for example, cited a desire to play in his favored central midfield role when he joined Liverpool, and Aaron Ramsey made the same request to Arsne Wenger, the Arsenal manager, with more success.
Some guys, they only want to play in one position, Guardiola, now the Manchester City manager, said recently.
They say that they are not comfortable in another one.
Soccer, it seems, no longer has much room, or much appetite, for the jacks-of-all-trades.
Guardiola, however, was speaking immediately after his team had beaten Chelsea at Stamford Bridge, thanks in no small part to the performance of Fabian Delph who has spent much of his career as a midfield player at left back.
He showed us, Guardiola said.
Its not easy when a manager gives you an opportunity to play in a position youve never played before, so it means a lot.
Im so happy for him.
It is the same across Manchester at United, where Mourinho, for all his professed preference for specialists, is enjoying no little success with Antonio Valencia and Ashley Young, brought up as wingers, as his two fullbacks.
At Liverpool, midfielder James Milner was deputized as a left back for much of last season.
It is not just fullbacks, though.
At Barcelona, Javier Mascherano, a defensive midfielder for Argentina, plays in central defense, while Sergi Roberto has won praise for his ability to fill as many as eight positions.
Photo Bayern Munich uses Javi Martnez as a defender and a midfielder, while Guardiolas intervention ensured Philipp Lahm was reimagined as a midfielder rather than a defender in the final years before his retirement.
David Alaba is most often used as a left back but can play across the midfield, too.
In attack, if anything, versatility is even more of a prerequisite, among both the elite and the lesser lights.
When Stoke City signed Eric-Maxim Choupo-Moting this summer, it was his ability to play across the front line that persuaded the Stoke manager, Mark Hughes, to make his move.
He had specifically commissioned his scouting team to find a forward comfortable in several roles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To some, in fact, soccer is moving beyond the traditional, tight definitions of positions.
Modern systems and tactics demand that players fill any number of roles during any given game, shifting between duties as the situation demands.
Who even decides the positions?
Jurgen Klopp, the Liverpool manager, said.
If you are a left back, maybe you started as a left winger.
A central defender might have started as a No.
6.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
We play sometimes with wingers, but really only when we defend.
It is quite fluid.
I am not interested in positions: only when we are defending, and in terms of the distances between players.
It is much the same message many young players are given during their education.
There are different, and continually evolving, systems and styles at the highest level, said Joel Waldron, the manager of Evertons youth academy, among the most prolific in England.
We feel it is important that we develop players who are tactically flexible.
That process involves playing young prospects in as many positions as possible: not just within games, Waldron said, but during coaching sessions designed to expose them to a variety of selected positional roles and responsibilities, and in the classroom, too.
As the boys get older, we supplement their learning with video sessions, Waldron said.
There is an element of pragmatism behind all this; as Waldron noted, many of his graduates will make their debuts in unfavored and occasionally unfamiliar positions.
But mostly it is a philosophical choice.
Its important we have a curriculum that is conducive to developing players who understand the breadth of roles they may be asked to fulfill at first-team level, he said.
Though understanding a wide range of roles must not be to the detriment of being outstanding at some or all of them.
That was Enriques secret, of course: He was a master of every position he played, not simply a place-filler.
It is the model, more and more, that all teams are trying to follow in an age when fluidity is paramount, when managers require players who can adapt to any system they choose.
They need players who can play anywhere, who can do anything.
Soccer has not outgrown utility players.
It needs them more than ever.
Photo Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliotts last bid to stave off a six-game suspension was denied on Tuesday when a federal judge in New York declined to block his ban while he appealed the case.
The decision, which blocked an emergency motion for an injunction for Elliotts suspension, was made by Judge Katherine Polk Failla of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Judge Failla had ruled on Monday that the N.F.L.
had the right to suspend Elliott after accusations of domestic violence made by a former girlfriend in July 2016.
Elliott was not arrested or charged by prosecutors, but the N.F.L.
used statements by the woman, along with photos of the injuries he is accused of inflicting upon her, to justify the six-game suspension.
Six games is the baseline punishment for a player who is involved in a domestic violence case for the first time.
The players union on Tuesday also filed an appeal of the ban in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, but that may take weeks or even months to process.
Thus Elliott will begin serving the suspension starting Sunday, when Dallas is scheduled to host the Kansas City Chiefs.
No one here has anointed Wentz as an amalgam of Andrew Luck and Brett Favre, or petitioned to rename the state as Wentzylvania, or pricing flights to Minneapolis site of a certain big game that rhymes with Grouper Roll for early February.
Nah, nothing like that.
Witness the power of Wentz, whose development in his second season has accelerated the Eagles revival.
His obliviousness to the mounting attention, not just Hasselbecks second act in broadcasting is what can sustain it.
I dont want to say robotic, right tackle Lane Johnson said, but hes just consistent really, really consistent.
Before Sunday, when Philadelphia kept the San Francisco 49ers winless by bludgeoning them, 33-10, under steady rain at Lincoln Financial Field, Wentz had thrown at least three touchdown passes in each of his last three games.
He mustered only two in what he called a sluggish performance against San Francisco, running his season total to 19, staying on pace to shatter the franchises season record of 32.
Sonny Jurgensen set the mark in 1961, and the Eagles have had some pretty fair quarterbacks since then: Ron Jaworski, Randall Cunningham and, best of them all, Donovan McNabb, who in his prime with rare exceptions afforded the Eagles at least one certainty heading into every game: that they would have the advantage at quarterback.
Wentz has not earned that distinction yet, but the Eagles are enamored with how quickly he seems to be getting there.
In truth, they are enamored with most things now, from their win-loss record to their red-zone efficiency (68 percent) to their ferocious defense, which sacked 49ers quarterback C. J. Beathard four times, hit him 12 more, and also forced a three-and-out or a turnover on eight of San Franciscos 14 possessions.
On one of those takeaways, Jalen Mills returned an interception 37 yards for a touchdown.
Photo If youre enjoying your first real dominant season as a team, no ones going to show up on Sunday and take it for granted, defensive end Chris Long said.
We havent been here before, so lets build on it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Eagles joy ride in this muddled N.F.C., where the Los Angeles Rams and Minnesota Vikings are soaring and the Atlanta Falcons and Dallas Cowboys are sagging, has been tempered by several injuries: linebacker Jordan Hicks, running back Darren Sproles and the All-Pro left tackle Jason Peters are all done for the season.
Philadelphias defense, which entered Sunday as the leagues stingiest against the run, is capable of continuing to mitigate these absences.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
So is Wentz.
In discussing Wentz, Hasselbeck recalled a spirited conversation he had with his ESPN colleague, the Hall of Fame quarterback Steve Young.
Hasselbeck has come to espouse Youngs evaluation of quarterbacks: How a quarterback fares between the 20-yard lines doesnt matter.
You earn your money on third down and then the red zone, Hasselbeck said.
On third down, this team is relying on you to be this amazing marinara sauce on yesterdays pasta.
Guess what, we dont have a good answer.
Heres the answer: You make a perfect throw.
Through Week 8, Philadelphia ranks second in third-down conversion rate (47.8) in large part because of Wentzs improved precision his placement in tight spaces, in particular but also because of his ability to prolong plays with his elusiveness, whether by finding open receivers when coverages break down or scrambling to extend the drive.
His eight touchdown tosses and 118.8 passer rating on third down lead the N.F.L., according to the sports data service Sportradar.
In the red zone, his 13 touchdowns including a 1-yarder to Zach Ertz, his favorite target, on Sunday also lead the league.
The Eagles demonstrated conviction in moving up to draft Wentz with the No.
2 pick in 2016.
Their trade partner, the Cleveland Browns, did not think Wentz would be a top-20 N.F.L.
quarterback.
In a somewhat related note, the Browns are 1-26 in their last 27 games.
(Should we mention that on draft night this year Cleveland traded the No.
12 pick to the Houston Texans, who selected Deshaun Watson, who as a rookie has thrown 19 touchdowns in seven games?
No?
O.K.)
All told, though, the Eagles talent on offense at the time of the 2016 draft was comparable to that of Clevelands, maybe even worse.
They responded by surrounding Wentz with better players, adding running back LeGarrette Blount and receivers Torrey Smith and Alshon Jeffery, who contorted to catch a jump ball along the sideline Sunday that turned into a 53-yard touchdown.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Wentz has also benefited from a full off-season of preparation within Coach Doug Pedersons system.
Remember: Just 14 months ago, before being elevated after Philadelphia shipped Sam Bradford to Minnesota, Wentz ranked behind Chase Daniel on the depth chart.
A career understudy, Pederson became so adept at decoding defenses from the sideline, Hasselbeck said, that Brett Favre dubbed him The Front Doctor.
From backing up Favre and also Dan Marino, Steve Bono and Jim McMahon Pederson said he had observed how they communicated with coaches, talking about play calls and game situations.
Pederson welcomes that continuing dialogue with Wentz, who carries enough influence and has engendered enough trust that not only can he recommend plays from his time at North Dakota State he said he had to call there to get the film but execute them for touchdowns, as he did on a madcap third-down throw to Corey Clement last week against Washington.
The Eagles victory Sunday lacked such scintillating moments.
The weather was ugly, at times the play was, too, and some of Wentzs poor throws he missed an open Jeffery in the end zone could have prompted the fatalists in the crowd to lapse into that familiar emotion roused whenever something good happens in Philadelphia sports: enthusiasm tinged by the resignation that Wentz will soon be walking beneath a plummeting piano.
Eight games in, seven victories, one piano.
The good news for Wentz, and the Eagles, is that if another does fall, he probably wouldnt even realize it.
In short, VSiN wants to be the CNBC for gamblers.
It may be a niche market, but it is a booming one perhaps on the verge of exploding.
Here in Nevada, sports betting is a nearly $5 billion a year industry.
In December, the United States Supreme Court will hear arguments on whether to strike down a federal ban on betting amateur or professional games except in the four states that already have operations.
The case was brought by the state of New Jersey, but more than a dozen other states have introduced legislation legalizing the activity in pursuit of what law enforcement and industry experts say is the $150 billion that is wagered annually with illegal or offshore bookmakers.
In betting parlance, the over/under on sports betting becoming legal is three years.
Musburger, who long has liked to wager a few bucks on games, takes the under.
You are not stopping gambling, he said.
Learn to live with it and move on.
It was Brian Musburger, Brents nephew, who first envisioned a gambling network after overhearing a conversation between his uncle and Vacarro.
He was an agent alongside his father, Todd, who had clients like Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers Coach Phil Jackson.
I was with him and a fly-on-the-wall in this conversation where Jimmy told Brent that he had gotten a phone call from a trainer of a team who told them that one of its stars had to have his ankles taped and wouldnt be very mobile, said Musburger.
So Jimmy adjusted the point spread.
While the networks and ESPN fill their sports broadcasts with features or opinion and fantasy draft shows, the younger Musburger targeted an underserved audience.
If you could bring people into the conversation that happens behind the scenes in the sports books, you have a different kind of sports talk, Musburger said.
This is the nerve center.
Their livelihood depends on getting credible information.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brent Musburger knew his way around Las Vegas and the people that made it work.
One of them was Mike Gaughan, the owner of the South Point.
Photo He saw a promotional opportunity and agreed to host VSiN.
He built them a more than $1 million state of the art studio.
The terms?
VSiN agreed to pay him $1 annually for five years.
Brian knew that his uncle was winding down a nearly 50-year broadcast career.
Unc, I need you, he told Brent.. On Jan. 25, Musburger announced his retirement from ESPN.
Six days later, he called his last college basketball game, a Kentucky game at Rupp Arena.
Less than two weeks later, he christened VSiN by anchoring a pregame show for Super Bowl LI.
I couldnt leave the booth and not do anything Arlene would have killed me, Musburger said, referring to his wife of 54 years.
Musburgers day often ends here at a lounge across from the fishbowl studio.
He fishes free drink vouchers from a battered briefcase and returns from the bar with a handful of Bud Lights.
VSiN is a growing, but frugal operation: The network was launched with more than $1.6 million of mostly Musburgers and friends money.
With more than 80 hours of broadcast time to fill, VSiN leans on bookmakers from around town as well as reporters and analysts from various news organizations.
There are remote look-ins and interviews from the other casinos.
The network is simulcast on SiriusXM radio, and VSiN is producing short form videos for yahoo.com.
It has launched a subscription digital magazine chock-full of stats and do-it-yourself handicapping methods with more specialized products N.B.A.
packets, for example in the pipeline.
It has attracted 1.4 million unique visitors (predominately male and affluent) who watch for an average of 26 minutes.
Photo Brian Musburger is raising an additional $10 million and says VSiN will grow tenfold on all platforms by the end of 2018.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Richard Greenfield, a media analyst at BTIG Research, says the momentum Netflix has gained shows that information and entertainment is moving from a linear broadcast model to a streaming one.
Consumers are thirsty for more and more high quality content on streaming video content to watch on any device when and wherever you want, Greenfield said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
For now, however, the dulcet tones and informed sometimes hot opinions of a soon-to-be-inducted Hall of Fame broadcaster remain VSiNs most valuable asset.
Last month, he threw cold water on hosannas offered to Tony Romo, the former Dallas quarterback and now television analyst, who recently garnered praise for his ability to predict upcoming plays.
Tony, get off it.
First of all, youre intruding on your play-by-play man Jim Nantz, whos just trying to give us the scene, he said on his show.
and the more years you spend away from the league, youre going to know less and less about the personnel thats out on the field.
So Im blowing a stop the hype right now.
Do not get him started on the hypocrisy of the N.F.L.
when it comes on its stance against sports betting.
He notes that two venerable owners, Art Rooney of the Pittsburgh Steelers and Tim Mara of the New York Giants, were close friends as well as gamblers, proud ones.
Photo The N.F.L.
injury report became a staple of the league in 1947 when then commissioner Bert Bell learned of a bribe attempt on two players and realized that gambling on football was not going to go away.
Musburger says the N.F.L.
should drop its opposition to gambling and start addressing more pressing problems like anthem protests and players head injuries, which are contributing to lower television ratings and a decline in participation in youth football.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They are trying to figure out how to make money off it, said Musburger.
Otherwise, why would they vote 31 to 1 to move the Oakland Raiders here unless they understood where it all was going?
Musburgers veiled gambling references prompted viewers suspicions that he bet on games that he announced.
After all, the name of his show, My Guys in the Desert, came from a phrase he uttered often to signal this was what his bookmaker friends here were thinking about the upcoming game.
Musburger said that he did only once long ago on a Lakers game.
When Kurt Rambis scored a late basket to make Musburger a loser, he said he felt like any other gambler watching a game because he had a few bucks on it rather than the broadcaster who will be inducted in the Sports Broadcasting Hall of Fame in December.
Although VSiN personalities do not give out picks, Musburger put up $1,500 to play in the Westgate SuperContest, which attracts thousands of accomplished gamblers in search of nearly $5 million in prize money divided among the top 50 finishers.
So far, he is above .500 and still in the hunt for a cash prize.
Now about his You are looking live ... catch phrase that was born as a service to his friends here in the desert.
Throughout the run of N.F.L.
Today, there was no Weather Channel or cellphones to check conditions, so Musburger came up with the idea of a live shot that not only served as a tease to the coming games but might move a gambling line.
Lets face it gambling is the foundation of the N.F.L, and every other sports popularity, said Musburger.
Its more fun to watch the game if you have a few bucks on it and in this day and age of information, its time to bring it in out of the dark.
Gamblers are smart people.
Lets treat them like it.
Now, another Series between two desperate teams has gone all the way.
The Dodgers are seeking their first World Series title in 29 years, and the Astros an expansion team in 1962 their first ever.
Im sure M.L.B.
is probably sitting back and kicking their feet up, said the Dodgers third baseman, Justin Turner.
Counting the money?
a reporter asked.
Im not going to say that, but definitely enjoying it, Turner said, laughing.
And knowing that its going to Game 7 is appropriate, with these two teams.
This is the first season that baseball has awarded home-field advantage in the World Series to the team with the better record.
The Dodgers earned the right to be the host by leading the majors in victories with 104, the most in their six decades in Los Angeles.
But the Astros were not far behind, with 101 wins, making this a particularly high-powered matchup.
Photo To find the last time a World Series between 100-win teams stretched to Game 7, you have to reach back to 1931, when the St. Louis Cardinals thwarted the Philadelphia Athletics attempt at a third consecutive championship.
It was so long ago that the winning pitcher, the 38-year-old Burleigh Grimes, threw spitballs.
The pitch had been banned for years, but since Grimes had already been throwing it, he was allowed to continue.
In this World Series, according to Verlander and others, the balls arrive pre-slicked.
He insisted again after Game 6 that the World Series baseballs were slippery, making it hard for a pitcher to pull down on the slider for a reliable late slash.
That could partly explain the power surge that has helped make this World Series memorable though not every game has been a slugfest.
Indeed, Game 6 mirrored the opener: a 3-1 Dodgers victory, with the starter allowing a solo homer and Kenley Jansen perfect at the end.
In Game 1, Clayton Kershaw worked seven innings for the win, but on Tuesday, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts pulled Rich Hill in the fifth, before he could face a batter for the third time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Robertss aggressive bullpen usage, a reflection of the teams analytically minded front office, has lent another intriguing sidebar to this World Series, with fans not even waiting to second-guess.
They booed Roberts when he called for the bullpen in Game 6, and Hill knocked over a few cups of water in the dugout.
But the Dodgers relievers were superb, after looking hopelessly trapped in a Houston funhouse in Game 5 on Sunday.
That game had ended up 13-12, a score so odd for a baseball game that it had not happened anywhere in the majors in almost three years.
The Astros won on a single by Alex Bregman, but the game included seven homers, a total exceeded only once in World Series history by the eight homers in Game 2 of this very series, a 7-6 Astros victory here.
Just when I thought I could describe Game 2 as my favorite game of all-time, I think Game 5 exceeded that and more, Astros Manager A.J.
Hinch said on Sunday.
Its hard to put into words all the twists and turns.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Reggie Jackson thought of a few.
During Game 5, when the Astros Jose Altuve crushed a game-tying homer, Jackson the Hall of Famer and two-time World Series most valuable player texted the Astros owner, Jim Crane.
Altuve, the best player in the game, read the message.
Says who?
Says Mr. October.
Altuves homer came on the first at-bat after Kershaw was pulled.
The Dodgers had given Kershaw leads of 4-0 and 7-4, and with a chance to send his team back home with a lead, Kershaw fizzled.
He is expected to be ready to pitch in relief in Game 7, which would echo the signature performance of one of his rivals in the National League West.
That performance, by San Franciscos Madison Bumgarner, came in 2014 and kicked off this stretch of three Game 7s in four years.
Pitching on just two days of rest after throwing a shutout, Bumgarner blanked the Royals for the final five innings of Game 7, stranding the tying run on third base at the end.
Photo The Royals followed up the next year by beating the Mets, coming back in all four victories of an entertaining five-game World Series.
It was the first championship for the Royals in 30 years and, of course, they were happy to wrap it up when they did, despite leaving two games not played.
In their clubhouse after Game 6 on Tuesday, the Astros were hardly despondent, and seemed energized by the chance to play one more game.
Yes, they had been leading on Tuesday heading into the bottom of the sixth, but in a World Series like this, 12 outs are a lot to assume.
Verlander had allowed just one hit through five innings, but did not feel close to victory with a tenuous 1-0 lead.
Absolutely not, he said.
Not the way these games have gone, not the way these guys lineup is.
If we could have squeaked across a run or two more, I maybe would have changed my mentality.
But Ive played this game too long.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He has played it in the majors since 2005, all with the Detroit Tigers until a trade to Houston in August.
Verlander helped lead the Tigers to the World Series in 2006, when he lost the first and last games to St. Louis.
He made it back in 2012, but got flattened by the Giants Pablo Sandoval in the opener of a forgettable sweep.
Those were two of the 10 World Series between 1998 and 2013 that lasted only four or five games.
A few moments stood out in that time, of course; Carlos Correa, the Astros shortstop, cited two of the best when asked for his favorite memories as a fan.
Luis Gonzalez off the Yankees and David Freese off the Rangers, Correa said, referring to the Arizona Diamondbacks Gonzalez, who had the winning hit in Game 7 in 2001, and the St. Louis Cardinals Freese, who homered to win Game 6 in 2011 to set up a Game 7.
Those were two of the previous 38 best-of-seven World Series that extended to the final game.
And before now, just one other World Series had followed the pattern of the home team winning Games 1, 3, 5 and 6 and losing Games 2 and 4: the spellbinding clash in 1975 between the Boston Red Sox and the Cincinnati Reds, who won Game 7 at Fenway Park.
This World Series, with the same kind of rapid momentum shifts, now needs only an ending, with the Dodgers Yu Darvish facing the Astros Lance McCullers Jr., but virtually every pitcher ready to relieve.
None of the 50 active players in this drama have taken part in a Game 7 of the World Series.
Yet they have spent their lives waiting.
Its just the best way you can finish a season, winning Game 7 of the World Series, Correa said.
Thats what you envision as a little kid.
Photo Paris St.-Germain and Bayern Munich were the first teams to clinch a spot in the Champions League knockout rounds after the group rivals both won Tuesday to advance with two games left.
P.S.G.
routed Anderlecht, 5-0 with defender Layvin Kurzawa scoring three times to outshine Neymar and Bayern won 2-1 at Celtic.
Manchester United, like P.S.G., won a fourth straight game, but beating Benfica by 2-0 was not yet enough to ensure advancement out of Group A. Roma started early, scoring after 40 seconds in a 3-0 win against Chelsea, helping the Italian team to take the top spot in Group C from Chelsea.
Atltico Madrid is still winless after being held 1-1 by visiting Qarabag.
Barcelona and Juventus both drew away from home to maintain their steady progress in Group D.
Relying on young players has been part of Ray Sheros plan since he arrived as general manager in May 2015.
The team was coming off its worst record (32-36-14) in 26 years.
The longtime general manager of the Pittsburgh Penguins, Shero had also spent time in the front offices of the Senators and the Nashville Predators in the early years of those franchises.
He believed that building through the draft was a smart and cost-effective way for the Devils to help turn things around.
The Devils had nine picks in the 2016 draft and 11 this year.
With the No.
1 pick in June, they chose Hischier over Nolan Patrick, another center, who went second to the Philadelphia Flyers.
Shero did not promise Hischier that he would play in the N.H.L.
this season, but his performance in training camp and preseason games convinced the team that he was ready to contribute.
Centers Travis Zajac, who is out several months after having surgery in August on a torn left pectoral muscle, and Brian Boyle, who received a leukemia diagnosis in September, are missing the start the season.
That gave Hischier the opportunity to center the first line.
He has a point in only four of 10 games, but he has been solid in the defensive end and shown flashes of a player that the Devils could build around for years to come.
Photo Everything is a step higher, said Hischier, a Switzerland native, who had 86 points in 57 games in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League last season.
I probably still need a little bit of time for adjusting to the game, but I like high-intense games.
Unlike Hischier, Bratt was not highly touted and did not sign an entry-level deal with the Devils until May, 11 months after they selected him with the 162nd pick in the 2016 draft.
Only 5 feet 10 inches and 175 pounds, Bratt split time last season between a junior league team and second-tier professional team in his native Sweden.
.
Bratt was expected to play in the junior Ontario Hockey League this season.
But after performing well during a prospects game in Buffalo in September and in training camp, he made the Devils opening-night roster.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
If we thought Jesper would be this good, we wouldve taken him a lot earlier than the sixth round, Shero said.
He added: He got off to a great start scoring goals, but thats going to cool off at some point.
But hes got a back-up game.
Hes an excellent penalty-killer.
Hes very good without the puck.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Shero had been tracking Butcher for years.
He had seen Butcher play for the United States National Team Development Program and in the world junior championship.
Butcher won the Hobey Baker Award last season for college hockeys top player.
The Colorado Avalanche had selected Butcher in the fifth round of the 2013 draft and held his rights until Aug. 15.
That day, soon after Butcher decided to become a free agent instead of signing with the Avalanche, the Devils contacted Butchers agent.
He signed with the Devils later that month.
It has not taken long for Butcher to display his playmaking skills.
He set a franchise record for points in a debut when he had three assists in the Devils season-opening victory over the Avalanche.
Entering Tuesdays games, he is first among rookies and seventh in the N.H.L.
with 11 assists.
So far, Butcher, Bratt and Hischier are proving they belong in the N.H.L.
With the Devils also getting contributions from center Pavel Zacha, 20, left wing Miles Wood, 22, and defenseman Steven Santini, 22, the franchise could be in the early stages of a renaissance.
There will be bumps along the road, but its more of a longer, big-picture thing, Shero said.
Those are the types of guys you want to build around because of what they bring both on and off the ice.
On Sunday, when the Los Angeles Dodgers called yet again for Morrow in Game 5, he served up four runs, including two homers, in just six weary pitches.
His stuff was missing the mystical quality all pitches need: life.
Thats like the last 1 percent of what you can get on the ball, kind of like the life on your arm translates out and through the baseball, Morrow said in the Dodgers somber clubhouse at Minute Maid Park after Game 5 ended in a 13-12 crusher won by the Astros in 10 innings.
Even though I felt good, I guess I just didnt have as much life in my arm as I was hoping.
As the rehab pitching coordinator for the Toronto Blue Jays, Knowles is especially familiar with Morrows arm.
When Knowles coached the Blue Jays Class A team in Dunedin, Fla., Morrow made annual visits while recovering from injuries each season from 2011 through 2014.
Along the way, Morrow said, he came to learn Knowles claim to fame.
Knowles came to respect Morrows determination to overcome injuries and manage Type 1 diabetes to fashion a productive major league career.
He had a lot of injuries when he was a starter with the Blue Jays, but it looks like hes found his niche, Knowles said.
He always threw hard.
I wouldnt have thought hed be able to go two or three days in a row, but obviously thats not a problem.
It had not been a problem when Knowles spoke, just before Game 5.
By then, Morrow had thrown more than 12 postseason innings, with a 1.46 earned run average, as the primary setup man for Kenley Jansen.
But Game 5 was Morrows 12th outing in the Dodgers 13 postseason games, and by the time he was done, an 8-7 Los Angeles lead had become an 11-8 deficit after a homer by George Springer, a single by Bregman, a double by Jose Altuve and another homer by Carlos Correa.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dave Roberts, the Dodgers manager, had said before Game 5 that while Morrow was available, he hoped not to use him.
But Clayton Kershaw could not survive the fifth inning, and Roberts deployed Kenta Maeda and Tony Watson to get through the sixth.
He still had four other relievers besides Jansen for the seventh, but Morrow had sent word from the bullpen insisting he was ready.
When I saw where the game was at in the 7th, I was getting loose and I was feeling O.K., Morrow said.
Probably selfish on my part to call down and push to let them know Im ready and want to get in.
They had a plan were obviously very plan-oriented and try to stick to that and I made them deviate away.
Roberts called it a credit to him that Morrow asked to pitch, and said it would have been hard to turn him down.
Morrow, who signed a minor-league contract in January for just $1.125 million, had a 2.06 e.r.a.
.
with no home runs allowed over 45 games this season, averaging more than five and a half strikeouts per walk.
He was very good in spring training, Roberts said.
You see the plus, plus velocity, and you always think, in a shorter stint, will his stuff play up?
So he really embraced coming out of the pen this year, and he did that for our Triple-A club.
Morrow, who had pitched a decade with Seattle, Toronto and San Diego, yearned for the intensity that comes with the major leagues.
But he had pitched just 18 games for the Padres last season after shoulder surgery in 2015 had ended his career as a starter.
I was obviously hoping to get a major league deal, said Morrow, who had a 1.69 e.r.a.
in 18 games for San Diego.
I thought I threw the ball really well, but the swing-and-miss stuff wasnt there, and the velocity wasnt quite back all the way.
Picking up the ball this year, though, something was different, like I knew I was stronger, ready to go.
I felt like myself again.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Morrow has always had the stuff to dominate.
Seattle drafted him fifth over all in 2006, out of the University of California, passing on Andrew Miller and three future Cy Young Award winners Kershaw, Tim Lincecum and Max Scherzer who went in the next six picks.
The Mariners never found a steady role for Morrow.
Traded to Toronto in December 2009, he periodically flourished as a starter, and lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning in 2010, finishing with a 137-pitch, 17-strikeout one-hitter.
In 2012, he threw three shutouts through the first week in June.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then an oblique injury cost him more than two months.
Forearm problems and a torn tendon in his hand hampered him in other seasons.
No wonder, then, that with good health this season, Morrow has been eager to contribute as much as possible.
Knowles can relate.
In 1972, he was an eight-year major leaguer on an Oakland team bound for the World Series but a broken thumb in late September ended his season.
The next year, the As won a five-game American League Championship Series without using Knowles at all.
I just wanted to get into a World Series game; everybody dreams of that, Knowles said.
I was just thanking God I got into the first game, and I happened to get the save.
In that game, against the Mets, Knowles relieved closer Rollie Fingers with one out and one on in the ninth inning, protecting a 2-1 lead.
The Mets had announced the left-handed Rusty Staub as a pinch-hitter against the right-handed Fingers, a future Hall of Famer.
But when Oakland Manager Dick Williams called for the left-handed Knowles, the Mets manager, Yogi Berra, countered with a righty, Jim Beauchamp.
Knowles retired Beauchamp on an infield pop, and then got the left-handed Wayne Garrett to fly out to end the game.
From there, Williams just kept calling for Knowles, who had 12 days of rest from the end of the regular season to the start of the World Series.
He collected five outs in Game 2, and then faced 15 batters across the next three games at Shea Stadium.
Facing elimination at home in Game 6, Williams used Knowles to replace another future Hall of Famer, Catfish Hunter, with a 2-0 lead, one out and one on in the eighth inning.
Garrett and Felix Millan singled, cutting the lead to a run, but Knowles recovered to strike out Staub.
Yogi Berra said that was the biggest out of the series, Knowles said.
It took giving up back-to-back hits for that to happen, so it wasnt ideal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Fingers got the final four outs of Game 6, and on the morning of Game 7, Knowles learned that no pitcher had ever worked all seven games of a World Series.
He knew he might have a chance to be the first, but it almost never came.
Fingers entered Game 7 with one out in the sixth, and held a 5-1 lead with two outs in the ninth.
But when first baseman Gene Tenace booted a grounder by Ed Kranepool, scoring a run, the left-handed Garrett came to the plate as the potential tying run.
Knowles got his turn, retiring Garrett on a pop fly to short for the final out.
I told Dick Williams after Game 7, Youre the dumbest manager I ever played for you took out Rollie Fingers and you brought me in!
Knowles said.
But he played everything by the book, and it worked out.
Knowles and Garrett are friends now; both live in Florida, and they sometimes golf together.
Every time he sees him, Knowles said, he reminds Garrett of that final out which he got without even using his left-on-left advantage.
I threw him three Nolan Ryan fastballs, Knowles said, laughing.
I pitched all seven games and I think I threw only one slider all series.
I was having trouble with it, so I junked it.
I was not a power guy, but I had movement.
All pitchers learn to improvise when their best weapons betray them, and Morrow could not do it in Game 5.
But on Tuesday he helped get the World Series to Game 7, where he could a record.
You just try to dig inside, Morrow said, and pull everything out that youve got.
Garoppolo, a second-round pick in 2014, is in the final year of his contract.
By acquiring him now, San Francisco gets a head start on negotiating a long-term deal to keep him or can use the franchise tag on him in free agency.
Garoppolo started in place of a suspended Tom Brady at the start of the 2016 season.
He completed 42 of 59 passes for 496 yards, four touchdowns and no interceptions and won both games.
He was hurt in the second quarter of his second start and has thrown only four passes since then.
I have a tremendous amount of respect for Jimmy, Patriots Coach Bill Belichick said.
I couldnt ask for him to give us any more than hes given us.
The 49ers are getting a good player, and theyre getting a good person and theyre getting a great teammate.
And theyre getting a good quarterback.
And Jimmys getting a good coach.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
His career is moving forward.
Hes a talented individual.
He was a great person to coach.
I met with him weekly, and again I have a tremendous amount of respect for him.
But as his career moves forward we have to look to our team, both this year and beyond.
The Niners hope Garoppolo can be the quarterback to lead the franchise out of its recent cycle of losing that started when Jim Harbaugh was let go as coach after the 2014 season.
San Francisco won seven games the past two years with Colin Kaepernick and Blaine Gabbert sharing quarterback duties.
The 49ers are off to the worst start in franchise history this season, Shanahans first year at the helm.
the veteran Brian Hoyer, who also began his career as Bradys backup in New England, started the first six games, and the third-round rookie C.J.
Beathard has struggled as the starter the past two weeks behind a patchwork offensive line.
Beathard has completed only 52.7 percent of his passes in his limited time, averaging 5.9 yards per attempt with two touchdowns, three interceptions and a 65.2 passer rating.
He has been sacked 11 times on his 110 pass attempts and hit several others, with the Niners injury-riddled line giving him little time to succeed.
Garoppolo is the second backup quarterback to be traded by the Patriots this season.
They dealt Jacoby Brissett to Indianapolis last month for receiver Phillip Dorsett.
New England now has no backup on the roster for the 40-year-old Brady, and no quarterback of the future for whenever Brady decides to retire.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We had probably had, in my opinion, the best quarterback situation in the league for the last, call it two and a half years, Belichick said.
Its just not sustainable given the way that things are set up.
Its definitely not something that we wanted to walk away from and I felt like we rode it out as long as we could.
We, over a period of time, explored every option possible to try and sustain it.
But at this point felt like we had to make a decision.
Advertisement Life as a Runway What 8 Golfers and Fans Wore to the Presidents Cup This years Presidents Cup, which pits male golfers from the United States against some of the worlds best players, took place Sept. 28 at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, N.J. With spectators gathered, top American players including Rickie Fowler and Phil Mickelson managed to retain their trophy against opponents including Indias Anirban Lahiri.
Yes, it was a sea of polo shirts and khakis, but not all polo shirts are equal.
Heres a sampling of what golfers and their fans wore.
Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Harrison Mercado Occupation : Personal trainer at Equinox and life coach Age : 28 Lets just say you are very vibrant today.
Thats my go-to.
I literally love to stand out.
I like to be anything but the norm, and bright colors are my go-to.
Lets talk about your socks.
Marvin the Martian is one of the original Looney Tunes.
Where did you find those?
Youd have to ask my sister.
She buys all my socks.
Thats adorable.
What about your shorts?
Shorts are Calvin Klein, the shirt is from here.
One of my clients is a member.
He saw this shirt and said, This is you.
When you do life coaching, do you tell people to dress to stand out?
No.
Well, if they want to, yeah.
Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Rickie Fowler Occupation : Professional golfer Age : 28 What do you think of the uniform?
I definitely like the navy and gray.
I think theyve done a good job with the fit.
Everyone has their own shoes.
You do the Pumas?
I do the Puma.
There are guys who do FootJoy, Under Armor, Nike.
Everything across the board.
Thats our own little flair.
Did you change your pumas between the course and now?
Yes, the shoes for the course are only for the course.
These are street shoes.
Thats a great belt.
I had to switch out for the American flag belt buckle.
I feel really completed today.
Image A golfer in the Presidents Cup tees off.
Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Image Spectators watched from the sidelines.
Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Jonathan Fair Occupation : Architect Age : 28 You came from Chicago for this?
My girlfriend got me the ticket.
What a nice present.
You must really like golf.
I do.
Ive been playing for a while.
My look has evolved from the big fluffy polo shirt and slacks.
Im pretty relaxed today.
I flirted around with the international teams color from a few years back.
You look like you work out.
I try.
Is your polo shirt small, or is it that you have big arms?
This is a medium, so Im hoping it looks a little smaller.
It looks great.
You look like a G.I.
Joe.
You look very strong.
Thank you.
Express has these.
Its just a cotton blend.
Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Chuck Garris Occupation : Tax attorney Age : 65 Are you into America?
I am.
Tell me about your outfit.
We havent been to a Presidents Cup, but weve gone to Ryder Cups before so I am used to the Europeans really dressing for the occasion.
So I started Googling.
What does one Google?
I was looking primarily for the shoes, and then I just matched the rest up.
I typed in flag shoes.
They were perfect.
And how did you choose your shorts?
I started with the shoes, then got the socks.
And these are just white normal shorts.
Would you wear this when youre playing golf?
I might wear the socks.
But you have to wear a collared shirt.
Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Anirban Lahiri Occupation : Professional golfer Age : 30 What do you think of the uniform Lacoste provided?
I think its nice.
Our flag is yellow and teal.
Thats why were wearing a lot of teal and matching it up with yellow jumpers to have that distinct look.
What do you normally play in?
I wear Cherv, which is an Italian company, so very much Italian style: shorter sleeves and a lot of really high-tech materials.
Tell me about your shoes Shoes are something thats very much a part of our gear, its almost like our equipment.
I wear FootJoys.
The DryJoys.
I wear orthotics so I need a shoe with a little more support What do you think of the course?
Theres all this wind.
It a tough day to be out there, but its the same for everyone.
So its going to be a mental battle as much as a physical one.
Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Joshua Carney Occupation : Real estate Age : 35 You went with shorts.
Its going to be hot.
Were approaching 80 degrees.
These are Reiss.
Is there a rule with golf and how long the shorts need to be?
I honestly wouldnt know.
Im not a golfer.
The polo shirt is that an everyday thing for you?
I usually dress like this.
I like to dress well.
And youre doing the sweater around your neck.
That was a mistake.
It was cold this morning.
Tell me about your wrist wear.
The watch is IWC Schaffhausen.
And the beaded bracelet I got on the subway.
Ten bucks.
Image Golfers practiced on the 27th hole, overlooking downtown Manhattan.
Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Leo Geng Occupation : A senior executive at iQIYI (The Netflix of China) Age : Undisclosed Why did you go with those shoes?
Because the grass is very soft and the shoes have a tread on them.
Are they Gucci?
Yes.
Where did you get your blazer?
I think its Korean.
Whats on your hat?
Its Ultra China.
Its an electronic musical festival.
Are you an EDM fan?
Yes!
Is this what you wear to play golf?
No, not really.
Image Credit Vincent Tullo for The New York Times Thomas Welling Occupation : Lawyer Age : 37 Real men wear pink.
Yes.
I also have two daughters.
I end up wearing a lot of pink.
Basic khakis the uniform today.
I dont know where these are from.
I should mention that Im dressed by my wife.
She gets all credit.
They just appear in your closet.
She gives me clothes.
I try them on.
If they fit, I give a thumbs up.
The cigar.
Is it a golf thing or an everyday thing?
Golf thing.
Very manly.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook ( Styles and Modern Love ), Twitter ( Styles , Fashion and Weddings ) and Instagram .
Correction : An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of a participant in the Presidents Cup.
He is Mike Weir, not Bob.
The article also misstated his role in the tournament.
He was a captain's assistant, not a player.
Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D 10 of the New York edition with the headline: A Gallery of Colors Sign up for the Open Thread Newsletter A look from across the New York Times at the forces that shape the dress codes we share, with Vanessa Friedman as your personal shopper.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
The Eagles (7-1) have the fifth-ranked run offense and have won six straight games.
Coach Doug Pederson wasnt sure the team needed any help.
It has to be the right fit, Pederson said Monday.
It cant just be anybody.
From my standpoint, you dont want to disrupt the chemistry that is going on in the dressing room right now.
Those guys are playing with a lot of confidence and theyre rallying around each other so it would have to be a pretty special fit to make it work.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ajayi fits the special category despite his inconsistent season.
He had 122 yards rushing in Week 2 and 130 in Week 6.
Last year, Ajayi was lauded for his durability and ability to break tackles.
He helped the Dolphins reach the playoffs for the first time since 2008, and joined O.J.
Simpson, Earl Campbell and Tiki Barber as the only players to rush for 200 yards three times in a season.
The London-born Ajayi wasnt drafted until the fifth round in 2015 because of a knee issue, but he has averaged 18 carries a game the past two seasons and has made 19 consecutive starts.
Ajayi has been held out of practice a lot this year to protect his knees, and the Dolphins may have doubts about his longevity.
The Dolphins (4-3) needed a shake-up.
Theyre in the playoff race even though they rank last in the N.F.L.
in points and yards.
With Ajayi gone, Damien Williams and Kenyan Drake are expected to share duties at running back Sunday against Oakland.
The Eagles have to make a roster spot for Ajayi.
Wendell Smallwood, Corey Clement and Kenjon Barner are the other running backs on the roster.
They lost Darren Sproles for the season in Week 3.
The British pop singer, who has a new album, tried to come out on his own terms.
But now hes listening.
Heres what you need to know to start your day.
We look at the Russia investigation, internet giants hearings on Capitol Hill, and the terrorist attack in Lower Manhattan.
Get a weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.
A hard-working waitress wonders if shell ever be able leave her small town and get a higher education.
The answer is yes!
And the secret is a list.
Unlike past models, Apples first premium iPhone will probably be particularly hard to get and it might not even be right for you.
The admissions process is an attempt to measure the unmeasurable: you.
No, it isnt fair, and likely never will be.
Basic errors were to blame for two collisions between Navy ships and Pacific vessels earlier this year, the Navys top officer said.
In an era of bigger squads and multimillion-dollar specialists, Champions League managers are rediscovering the value of a pro who can play multiple positions.
Physical activity made all the difference to participants who managed to keep the pounds from returning, a new study finds.
Mr. Murphy, the Democratic candidate for governor of New Jersey, spent many years at Goldman Sachs and four years as German ambassador.
But he rarely discusses either.
Morning Briefing: Australia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Australia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Asia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Asia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Europe Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Europe.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians, delivered weekday mornings.
Photo Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliotts last bid to stave off a six-game suspension was denied on Tuesday when a federal judge in New York declined to block his ban while he appealed the case.
The decision, which blocked an emergency motion for an injunction for Elliotts suspension, was made by Judge Katherine Polk Failla of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Judge Failla had ruled on Monday that the N.F.L.
had the right to suspend Elliott after accusations of domestic violence made by a former girlfriend in July 2016.
Elliott was not arrested or charged by prosecutors, but the N.F.L.
used statements by the woman, along with photos of the injuries he is accused of inflicting upon her, to justify the six-game suspension.
Six games is the baseline punishment for a player who is involved in a domestic violence case for the first time.
The players union on Tuesday also filed an appeal of the ban in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, but that may take weeks or even months to process.
Thus Elliott will begin serving the suspension starting Sunday, when Dallas is scheduled to host the Kansas City Chiefs.
Garoppolo, a second-round pick in 2014, is in the final year of his contract.
By acquiring him now, San Francisco gets a head start on negotiating a long-term deal to keep him or can use the franchise tag on him in free agency.
Garoppolo started in place of a suspended Tom Brady at the start of the 2016 season.
He completed 42 of 59 passes for 496 yards, four touchdowns and no interceptions and won both games.
He was hurt in the second quarter of his second start and has thrown only four passes since then.
I have a tremendous amount of respect for Jimmy, Patriots Coach Bill Belichick said.
I couldnt ask for him to give us any more than hes given us.
The 49ers are getting a good player, and theyre getting a good person and theyre getting a great teammate.
And theyre getting a good quarterback.
And Jimmys getting a good coach.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
His career is moving forward.
Hes a talented individual.
He was a great person to coach.
I met with him weekly, and again I have a tremendous amount of respect for him.
But as his career moves forward we have to look to our team, both this year and beyond.
The Niners hope Garoppolo can be the quarterback to lead the franchise out of its recent cycle of losing that started when Jim Harbaugh was let go as coach after the 2014 season.
San Francisco won seven games the past two years with Colin Kaepernick and Blaine Gabbert sharing quarterback duties.
The 49ers are off to the worst start in franchise history this season, Shanahans first year at the helm.
the veteran Brian Hoyer, who also began his career as Bradys backup in New England, started the first six games, and the third-round rookie C.J.
Beathard has struggled as the starter the past two weeks behind a patchwork offensive line.
Beathard has completed only 52.7 percent of his passes in his limited time, averaging 5.9 yards per attempt with two touchdowns, three interceptions and a 65.2 passer rating.
He has been sacked 11 times on his 110 pass attempts and hit several others, with the Niners injury-riddled line giving him little time to succeed.
Garoppolo is the second backup quarterback to be traded by the Patriots this season.
They dealt Jacoby Brissett to Indianapolis last month for receiver Phillip Dorsett.
New England now has no backup on the roster for the 40-year-old Brady, and no quarterback of the future for whenever Brady decides to retire.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We had probably had, in my opinion, the best quarterback situation in the league for the last, call it two and a half years, Belichick said.
Its just not sustainable given the way that things are set up.
Its definitely not something that we wanted to walk away from and I felt like we rode it out as long as we could.
We, over a period of time, explored every option possible to try and sustain it.
But at this point felt like we had to make a decision.
The Eagles (7-1) have the fifth-ranked run offense and have won six straight games.
Coach Doug Pederson wasnt sure the team needed any help.
It has to be the right fit, Pederson said Monday.
It cant just be anybody.
From my standpoint, you dont want to disrupt the chemistry that is going on in the dressing room right now.
Those guys are playing with a lot of confidence and theyre rallying around each other so it would have to be a pretty special fit to make it work.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ajayi fits the special category despite his inconsistent season.
He had 122 yards rushing in Week 2 and 130 in Week 6.
Last year, Ajayi was lauded for his durability and ability to break tackles.
He helped the Dolphins reach the playoffs for the first time since 2008, and joined O.J.
Simpson, Earl Campbell and Tiki Barber as the only players to rush for 200 yards three times in a season.
The London-born Ajayi wasnt drafted until the fifth round in 2015 because of a knee issue, but he has averaged 18 carries a game the past two seasons and has made 19 consecutive starts.
Ajayi has been held out of practice a lot this year to protect his knees, and the Dolphins may have doubts about his longevity.
The Dolphins (4-3) needed a shake-up.
Theyre in the playoff race even though they rank last in the N.F.L.
in points and yards.
With Ajayi gone, Damien Williams and Kenyan Drake are expected to share duties at running back Sunday against Oakland.
The Eagles have to make a roster spot for Ajayi.
Wendell Smallwood, Corey Clement and Kenjon Barner are the other running backs on the roster.
They lost Darren Sproles for the season in Week 3.
In short, VSiN wants to be the CNBC for gamblers.
It may be a niche market, but it is a booming one perhaps on the verge of exploding.
Here in Nevada, sports betting is a nearly $5 billion a year industry.
In December, the United States Supreme Court will hear arguments on whether to strike down a federal ban on betting amateur or professional games except in the four states that already have operations.
The case was brought by the state of New Jersey, but more than a dozen other states have introduced legislation legalizing the activity in pursuit of what law enforcement and industry experts say is the $150 billion that is wagered annually with illegal or offshore bookmakers.
In betting parlance, the over/under on sports betting becoming legal is three years.
Musburger, who long has liked to wager a few bucks on games, takes the under.
You are not stopping gambling, he said.
Learn to live with it and move on.
It was Brian Musburger, Brents nephew, who first envisioned a gambling network after overhearing a conversation between his uncle and Vacarro.
He was an agent alongside his father, Todd, who had clients like Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers Coach Phil Jackson.
I was with him and a fly-on-the-wall in this conversation where Jimmy told Brent that he had gotten a phone call from a trainer of a team who told them that one of its stars had to have his ankles taped and wouldnt be very mobile, said Musburger.
So Jimmy adjusted the point spread.
While the networks and ESPN fill their sports broadcasts with features or opinion and fantasy draft shows, the younger Musburger targeted an underserved audience.
If you could bring people into the conversation that happens behind the scenes in the sports books, you have a different kind of sports talk, Musburger said.
This is the nerve center.
Their livelihood depends on getting credible information.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brent Musburger knew his way around Las Vegas and the people that made it work.
One of them was Mike Gaughan, the owner of the South Point.
Photo He saw a promotional opportunity and agreed to host VSiN.
He built them a more than $1 million state of the art studio.
The terms?
VSiN agreed to pay him $1 annually for five years.
Brian knew that his uncle was winding down a nearly 50-year broadcast career.
Unc, I need you, he told Brent.. On Jan. 25, Musburger announced his retirement from ESPN.
Six days later, he called his last college basketball game, a Kentucky game at Rupp Arena.
Less than two weeks later, he christened VSiN by anchoring a pregame show for Super Bowl LI.
I couldnt leave the booth and not do anything Arlene would have killed me, Musburger said, referring to his wife of 54 years.
Musburgers day often ends here at a lounge across from the fishbowl studio.
He fishes free drink vouchers from a battered briefcase and returns from the bar with a handful of Bud Lights.
VSiN is a growing, but frugal operation: The network was launched with more than $1.6 million of mostly Musburgers and friends money.
With more than 80 hours of broadcast time to fill, VSiN leans on bookmakers from around town as well as reporters and analysts from various news organizations.
There are remote look-ins and interviews from the other casinos.
The network is simulcast on SiriusXM radio, and VSiN is producing short form videos for yahoo.com.
It has launched a subscription digital magazine chock-full of stats and do-it-yourself handicapping methods with more specialized products N.B.A.
packets, for example in the pipeline.
It has attracted 1.4 million unique visitors (predominately male and affluent) who watch for an average of 26 minutes.
Photo Brian Musburger is raising an additional $10 million and says VSiN will grow tenfold on all platforms by the end of 2018.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Richard Greenfield, a media analyst at BTIG Research, says the momentum Netflix has gained shows that information and entertainment is moving from a linear broadcast model to a streaming one.
Consumers are thirsty for more and more high quality content on streaming video content to watch on any device when and wherever you want, Greenfield said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
For now, however, the dulcet tones and informed sometimes hot opinions of a soon-to-be-inducted Hall of Fame broadcaster remain VSiNs most valuable asset.
Last month, he threw cold water on hosannas offered to Tony Romo, the former Dallas quarterback and now television analyst, who recently garnered praise for his ability to predict upcoming plays.
Tony, get off it.
First of all, youre intruding on your play-by-play man Jim Nantz, whos just trying to give us the scene, he said on his show.
and the more years you spend away from the league, youre going to know less and less about the personnel thats out on the field.
So Im blowing a stop the hype right now.
Do not get him started on the hypocrisy of the N.F.L.
when it comes on its stance against sports betting.
He notes that two venerable owners, Art Rooney of the Pittsburgh Steelers and Tim Mara of the New York Giants, were close friends as well as gamblers, proud ones.
Photo The N.F.L.
injury report became a staple of the league in 1947 when then commissioner Bert Bell learned of a bribe attempt on two players and realized that gambling on football was not going to go away.
Musburger says the N.F.L.
should drop its opposition to gambling and start addressing more pressing problems like anthem protests and players head injuries, which are contributing to lower television ratings and a decline in participation in youth football.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They are trying to figure out how to make money off it, said Musburger.
Otherwise, why would they vote 31 to 1 to move the Oakland Raiders here unless they understood where it all was going?
Musburgers veiled gambling references prompted viewers suspicions that he bet on games that he announced.
After all, the name of his show, My Guys in the Desert, came from a phrase he uttered often to signal this was what his bookmaker friends here were thinking about the upcoming game.
Musburger said that he did only once long ago on a Lakers game.
When Kurt Rambis scored a late basket to make Musburger a loser, he said he felt like any other gambler watching a game because he had a few bucks on it rather than the broadcaster who will be inducted in the Sports Broadcasting Hall of Fame in December.
Although VSiN personalities do not give out picks, Musburger put up $1,500 to play in the Westgate SuperContest, which attracts thousands of accomplished gamblers in search of nearly $5 million in prize money divided among the top 50 finishers.
So far, he is above .500 and still in the hunt for a cash prize.
Now about his You are looking live ... catch phrase that was born as a service to his friends here in the desert.
Throughout the run of N.F.L.
Today, there was no Weather Channel or cellphones to check conditions, so Musburger came up with the idea of a live shot that not only served as a tease to the coming games but might move a gambling line.
Lets face it gambling is the foundation of the N.F.L, and every other sports popularity, said Musburger.
Its more fun to watch the game if you have a few bucks on it and in this day and age of information, its time to bring it in out of the dark.
Gamblers are smart people.
Lets treat them like it.
Judge Faillas ruling stated that the N.F.L.s arbitrator had given Elliott ample opportunity to challenge the decision and that the N.F.L.P.A.
has failed to demonstrate a substantial question warranting the extraordinary remedy of injunctive relief or a balance of hardships that decidedly weighs in its favor.
The next step would most likely be for Elliott and the players union to appeal the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and ask for Judge Faillas ruling to be stayed until he can receive a hearing from that court.
Cowboys Coach Jason Garrett held his weekly news conference earlier Monday and said that the team would not have a comment after the ruling, but he acknowledged that the Cowboys had planned for all eventualities.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
We have some veteran running backs, he said.
We have some depth at that position.
Its not like were just living this day and we dont think about the future at all you have to do that.
I think you build your team that way at all positions.
Elliott began the season with the suspension hanging over his head, and initially it seemed to be affecting him.
He had just 277 rushing yards through the first four games, and the Cowboys were 2-2 after ending last season 13-3.
He seemed to rediscover his form in a Week 5 loss to Green Bay, and in the past two weeks he exploded for 297 rushing yards and five touchdowns total, re-establishing himself as the centerpiece of the teams offense and leading the Cowboys back over .500.
His absence, if he is not able to further delay the suspension, would drastically affect his teams playoff hopes.
Elliotts challenge of the suspension, which has come through legal action by the players association, rested on the argument that the investigation and appeal had been unfair to him.
A federal judge in Texas agreed with that notion, issuing an injunction in early September that blocked the suspension from starting.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit threw out that injunction this month in a 2-1 ruling, saying that the lawsuit on Elliotts behalf was premature because all the procedures available under the leagues collective bargaining agreement had yet to be exhausted.
The district court had issued a temporary restraining order on Oct. 19 to give Judge Failla time to set a hearing date, but with her decision on Monday, Elliott is quickly running out of options before the N.F.L.
is able to enforce the suspension.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dallas is scheduled to host the Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday, and if Elliott is not available the team will turn to the veteran backups Darren McFadden and Alfred Morris.
Miller underwent urgent vascular surgery in New Orleans to repair a torn popliteal artery, which is near the knee, according to a statement by the team.
The operation was described as successful by the Bears on Monday.
There was no immediate word on Millers future in the sport.
Social media accounts of the Bears and their players filled up with messages of concern and support.
The injury was severe enough that some wondered if amputation had been an option.
While the team did not say if amputation was considered, Coach John Fox told reporters on Monday that the possibility had occurred to him.
I think thats always a concern, Fox said.
Our medical people did a great job as far as getting him there.
They realized the problem immediately.
Knee injuries are fairly common in the N.F.L., but the immediate and severe consequences of Millers were shocking to many of his teammates.
I didnt really want to believe it.
I couldnt believe it, wide receiver Tre McBride told reporters after being briefed on the situation.
I didnt realize that that was even a possible consequence of having a dislocated knee.
For now, Miller will not be traveling because of concerns that flying could cause complications with his recovery.
Miller, 33, had been the Bears top tight end this season with 20 catches for 236 yards, playing all eight games.
He has faced injury issues throughout his career: He missed all of the 2012 season with a calf injury, did not play in 2013 after sustaining a concussion during preseason, and sat out the 2014 season with a foot injury.
Fox told the assembled reporters on Monday that Millers spirits had remained high, and that he pretty much wanted his touchdown back.
The Jets (3-5) had their chances.
After taking a 7-0 lead on McCowns 20-yard pass to Eric Tomlinson on their opening series, they recovered a botched snap by Matt Ryan at the Falcons 34.
Three plays netted 6 yards, and a 46-yard field goal attempt by Chandler Catanzaro was wide right.
That was one of two misses by Catanzaro, and after each, Ryan led Atlanta to a touchdown, the second coming on a go-ahead 8-yard pass to Mohamed Sanu with 12 minutes 22 seconds to play.
The Falcons (4-3) did not trail again, outscoring the Jets by 12-3 in the second half.
Theres no excuse, Catanzaro said.
My teammates are counting on me to put it through the two yellow pipes, and I didnt do that today.
Not only did Catanzaro cost his team 6 points, returner Jeremy Kerley muffed a punt at the Jets 15 with 6:42 to play.
That allowed Atlanta to extend its lead to the final 5-point margin.
It sailed a little bit, said the usually sure-handed Kerley.
It was wet, raining, and the ball was more slippery than I thought it was.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Coach Todd Bowles said the Jets played hard, for the most part.
Its disappointing not to win, Bowles said.
Its disappointing we didnt close it out.
Too many mistakes in the fourth quarter.
Cant happen.
Cant put the ball on the ground.
Cant have timely mistakes.
Everybody has to play their brand of ball.
Hard enough, not good enough.
What happened Sunday is nothing new.
The Jets blew an early 14-0 lead against New England here two weeks ago, then squandered a 28-14 fourth-quarter lead in a 31-28 loss to the Dolphins in Miami.
Linebacker Demario Davis said the circumstances have been different in each game.
I dont think you can look at it and say its that simple, that it is the same thing over and over and over, he said.
We just have to find a way to make those big plays, whether its defense, whether its offense, whether its special teams, or whatever the case.
We have to find a way to make those plays down the stretch.
Running back Matt Forte went in another direction, saying that the Jets offensive coordinator, John Morton, got away from the game plan by not sticking with the running game more with the rain falling so hard.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Im surprised by that, Forte said after the Jets rushed 22 times for 43 yards.
We knew the weather was going to be like this, and then it continued to rain the entire game.
He went on: It should have been one person getting 20 carries, or something like that.
However, that is part of learning for the Jets.
They were 5-11 last season and were generally thought to be one of the leagues worst teams coming into the season.
Its been tough, said receiver Robby Anderson, who had six catches for a career-best 104 yards and a touchdown.
Weve been right there.
Were just not finishing it out, so its been tough, honestly.
Its just growing pains, so were going to get over this hump.
The Saints (5-2), meanwhile, have won five consecutive games.
The winning streak for the Vikings (6-2) is at four games, and the dominant Eagles (7-1) have won six in a row.
The Rams (5-2) had a bye Sunday, but they have won their past two games and have scored 74 more points than they have given up, which is the second-best point differential in the N.F.L.
(The Eagles are at plus 76.)
Theres also something fresh and invigorating about the four upstarts that have climbed atop the N.F.C.s four divisions.
Were having fun and not listening to people telling us what were not supposed to be able to do, Minnesotas Case Keenum, a backup quarterback, said after the Vikings 33-16 victory over Cleveland (0-8) on Sunday.
Weve got a lot of weapons, and were cutting it loose.
Cutting it loose?
Sounds like a mantra for the quartet trying to crash the N.F.C.
playoff party.
There are some common threads to the successful paths these teams have followed.
Combined, they are 11-3 on the road, which may be the best measuring stick for excellence in the N.F.L.
Also, the Vikings, the Rams, the Eagles and the Saints have defenses that disrupt opposing offenses and distract opposing quarterbacks, something that was on display in Sundays games.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Consider, for example, that New Orleans won Sunday without Drew Brees, the starting quarterback, throwing a touchdown pass, which had not happened in eight seasons.
The Saints stellar running back, Mark Ingram, nearly gave the game away to the Chicago Bears twice with fumbles in the fourth quarter, but Ingrams defensive teammates bailed him out each time.
There have not been many games in recent years when the New Orleans defense outshined the offense.
But except for one 50-yard carry by Chicago running back Jordan Howard, the Saints held the powerful Howard to 2.36 yards per carry.
The Vikings were trailing Cleveland at halftime and led by only a touchdown entering the fourth quarter.
Then Minnesotas front seven sacked Browns quarterback DeShone Kizer three times in the next three Cleveland possessions, and Keenum deftly led the Vikings to a runaway victory.
As for the Eagles, even when not playing their best and that was the case in a 33-10 romp over the San Francisco 49ers (0-8) on Sunday they still make winning look easy.
Having a defense that held the 49ers to 238 yards and sacked the quarterback four times helps considerably.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Eagles are living a charmed existence so far.
As quarterback Carson Wentz said: Being 7-1?
Its a good place to be.
Granted, some of the current N.F.C.
division leaders have not yet weathered the more challenging portions of their schedules.
Then again, as teams that did not make the playoffs a year ago, they generally have less arduous schedules than those of teams that bulled their way into last years postseason.
Its called the spoils of parity.
But as the N.F.L.
schedule rounds the halfway pole and churns toward a still distant finish line, there are new contenders, a couple of surprising, conspicuous laggards and some struggling old powerhouses desperately trying to catch up.
Which may not be as new and startling as it may seem.
Last season, two-thirds of the teams that qualified for the N.F.C.
postseason (Giants, Lions, Falcons and Cowboys) had not been in the playoffs during the previous season.
This year may produce the same kind of turnover.
No one here has anointed Wentz as an amalgam of Andrew Luck and Brett Favre, or petitioned to rename the state as Wentzylvania, or pricing flights to Minneapolis site of a certain big game that rhymes with Grouper Roll for early February.
Nah, nothing like that.
Witness the power of Wentz, whose development in his second season has accelerated the Eagles revival.
His obliviousness to the mounting attention, not just Hasselbecks second act in broadcasting is what can sustain it.
I dont want to say robotic, right tackle Lane Johnson said, but hes just consistent really, really consistent.
Before Sunday, when Philadelphia kept the San Francisco 49ers winless by bludgeoning them, 33-10, under steady rain at Lincoln Financial Field, Wentz had thrown at least three touchdown passes in each of his last three games.
He mustered only two in what he called a sluggish performance against San Francisco, running his season total to 19, staying on pace to shatter the franchises season record of 32.
Sonny Jurgensen set the mark in 1961, and the Eagles have had some pretty fair quarterbacks since then: Ron Jaworski, Randall Cunningham and, best of them all, Donovan McNabb, who in his prime with rare exceptions afforded the Eagles at least one certainty heading into every game: that they would have the advantage at quarterback.
Wentz has not earned that distinction yet, but the Eagles are enamored with how quickly he seems to be getting there.
In truth, they are enamored with most things now, from their win-loss record to their red-zone efficiency (68 percent) to their ferocious defense, which sacked 49ers quarterback C. J. Beathard four times, hit him 12 more, and also forced a three-and-out or a turnover on eight of San Franciscos 14 possessions.
On one of those takeaways, Jalen Mills returned an interception 37 yards for a touchdown.
Photo If youre enjoying your first real dominant season as a team, no ones going to show up on Sunday and take it for granted, defensive end Chris Long said.
We havent been here before, so lets build on it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Eagles joy ride in this muddled N.F.C., where the Los Angeles Rams and Minnesota Vikings are soaring and the Atlanta Falcons and Dallas Cowboys are sagging, has been tempered by several injuries: linebacker Jordan Hicks, running back Darren Sproles and the All-Pro left tackle Jason Peters are all done for the season.
Philadelphias defense, which entered Sunday as the leagues stingiest against the run, is capable of continuing to mitigate these absences.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
So is Wentz.
In discussing Wentz, Hasselbeck recalled a spirited conversation he had with his ESPN colleague, the Hall of Fame quarterback Steve Young.
Hasselbeck has come to espouse Youngs evaluation of quarterbacks: How a quarterback fares between the 20-yard lines doesnt matter.
You earn your money on third down and then the red zone, Hasselbeck said.
On third down, this team is relying on you to be this amazing marinara sauce on yesterdays pasta.
Guess what, we dont have a good answer.
Heres the answer: You make a perfect throw.
Through Week 8, Philadelphia ranks second in third-down conversion rate (47.8) in large part because of Wentzs improved precision his placement in tight spaces, in particular but also because of his ability to prolong plays with his elusiveness, whether by finding open receivers when coverages break down or scrambling to extend the drive.
His eight touchdown tosses and 118.8 passer rating on third down lead the N.F.L., according to the sports data service Sportradar.
In the red zone, his 13 touchdowns including a 1-yarder to Zach Ertz, his favorite target, on Sunday also lead the league.
The Eagles demonstrated conviction in moving up to draft Wentz with the No.
2 pick in 2016.
Their trade partner, the Cleveland Browns, did not think Wentz would be a top-20 N.F.L.
quarterback.
In a somewhat related note, the Browns are 1-26 in their last 27 games.
(Should we mention that on draft night this year Cleveland traded the No.
12 pick to the Houston Texans, who selected Deshaun Watson, who as a rookie has thrown 19 touchdowns in seven games?
No?
O.K.)
All told, though, the Eagles talent on offense at the time of the 2016 draft was comparable to that of Clevelands, maybe even worse.
They responded by surrounding Wentz with better players, adding running back LeGarrette Blount and receivers Torrey Smith and Alshon Jeffery, who contorted to catch a jump ball along the sideline Sunday that turned into a 53-yard touchdown.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Wentz has also benefited from a full off-season of preparation within Coach Doug Pedersons system.
Remember: Just 14 months ago, before being elevated after Philadelphia shipped Sam Bradford to Minnesota, Wentz ranked behind Chase Daniel on the depth chart.
A career understudy, Pederson became so adept at decoding defenses from the sideline, Hasselbeck said, that Brett Favre dubbed him The Front Doctor.
From backing up Favre and also Dan Marino, Steve Bono and Jim McMahon Pederson said he had observed how they communicated with coaches, talking about play calls and game situations.
Pederson welcomes that continuing dialogue with Wentz, who carries enough influence and has engendered enough trust that not only can he recommend plays from his time at North Dakota State he said he had to call there to get the film but execute them for touchdowns, as he did on a madcap third-down throw to Corey Clement last week against Washington.
The Eagles victory Sunday lacked such scintillating moments.
The weather was ugly, at times the play was, too, and some of Wentzs poor throws he missed an open Jeffery in the end zone could have prompted the fatalists in the crowd to lapse into that familiar emotion roused whenever something good happens in Philadelphia sports: enthusiasm tinged by the resignation that Wentz will soon be walking beneath a plummeting piano.
Eight games in, seven victories, one piano.
The good news for Wentz, and the Eagles, is that if another does fall, he probably wouldnt even realize it.
The 2008 Detroit Lions might have some company.
Both the Cleveland Browns and the San Francisco 49ers reached the seasons midpoint with 0-8 records, and neither team has seemed to show much improvement along the way.
They have a chance of joining those 2008 Lions as the N.F.L.s only 0-16 teams, though three other teams since 1944 have finished seasons winless in fewer games.
Texans kneel during anthem to protest owners inmates remark.
In what is sure to reinvigorate the debate about N.F.L.
players protesting or demonstrating during the playing of the national anthem, an overwhelming majority of the Houston Texans players knelt during the playing of the song.
Coming into the game, the Texans had been widely expected to engage in a mass demonstration after their owner, Bob McNair, was quoted as saying we cant have the inmates running the prison.
McNair apologized to the players for the comment, and subsequently claimed he had actually been discussing the relationship between team owners and the league office led by Commissioner Roger Goodell, but players were unconvinced of his sincerity and several discussed potential plans for how to handle the anthem on Sunday.
DeAndre Hopkins and DOnta Foreman reportedly walked out of the teams practice on Friday after hearing of the remarks.
CBS, which was broadcasting a golf event until 4 p.m. Eastern, did not air the anthem.
Pictures and video showed more than 40 members of the team kneeling, with only a few standing.
On Friday, Texans offensive lineman Duane Brown told reporters the team would respond to McNairs words.
I think it was ignorant, Brown said.
I think it was embarrassing.
I think it angered a lot of players, including myself.
We put our bodies and minds on the line every time we step on that field, and to use an analogy of inmates in prison, thats disrespectful.
Thats how I feel about it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On the opposite sideline Sunday, several members of the Seattle Seahawks sat on the bench during the anthem, including Michael Bennett, Sheldon Richardson and Cliff Avril.
Linebacker Michael Wilhoite again took a knee.
- Want exclusive sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of New York Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
- Photo Seahawks score last in back-and-forth battle with Texans.
Distinguishing between the rookie quarterback on one side from the Super Bowl winner on the other was difficult all game, but it was veteran Russell Wilson, not Deshaun Watson, who walked away with a win.
In an entertaining shootout, the Seattle Seahawks beat the Houston Texans, 41-38.
Watson set a tone for the game early with a soaring 59-yard touchdown pass to Will Fuller on the games opening drive in which the speedy young wide receiver simply outran the entire Seattle defense.
He would continue to be aggressive throughout the game, not letting Seattles vaunted secondary, or his three interceptions, change his approach.
But despite becoming the first quarterback to have 400 passing yards, 50 rushing yards, and four passing touchdowns in the same game, Watson found himself a hard-luck loser thanks to Wilsons late-game heroics and a few of his own mistakes.
Wilson ended up completing 26 of 41 passes for 452 yards and four touchdowns, the last of which was an 18-yarder to Jimmy Graham with 21 seconds left that gave the Seahawks the victory.
Seattle looked like it would lose when Wilson was intercepted with just under three minutes left in the game.
In the end, it was a handful of rookie mistakes by Watson that provided the scoring difference, as he was intercepted three times, with Richard Sherman accounting for two and Earl Thomas taking his back 78 yards for a touchdown.
But even in the loss, the rookie proved he belongs in the N.F.L.
and that his prolific passing in the last few weeks was not a case of picking on bad teams.
Seattle will have another tough test next week when the Washington Redskins come to town, but their 5-2 record has them tied with the Los Angeles Rams for the best record in the N.F.C.
West.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Cowboys feed Elliott the ball, and run away from Redskins.
Ezekiel Elliott ran for 150 yards and two touchdowns and the Dallas Cowboys took advantage of a blocked field goal return and three turnovers to beat the Washington Redskins 33-19 Sunday and move into sole possession of second place in the N.F.C.
East.
Playing in a driving rainstorm that made it difficult to hold onto the ball, let alone throw it, Dak Prescott completed 14 of his 22 passes for 143 yards as Dallas (4-3) heeded the message on Elliotts cleats to Feed Zeke.
With another hearing on his N.F.L.
suspension coming Monday, Elliott carried the ball 33 times, scored twice for the second consecutive game and surpassed 100 yards for the third in a row.
The game turned in the second quarter when Dallas Tyrone Crawford blocked Nick Roses field goal attempt and Orlando Scandrick returned it 86 yards to set up a 1-yard Elliott TD run two plays later.
Instead of the Redskins (3-4) leading 16-7, the Cowboys went up 14-13 and never trailed again.
Associated Press Photo Patriots take advantage of Chargers miscue.
New Englands offense sputtered some on Sunday, but they got some help from the Chargers in a 21-13 victory.
It was a day of stalled out drives and costly penalties for both teams, but the key play for the Patriots came early in the second quarter when Ryan Allens punt was muffed by Travis Benjamin of the Chargers inside Los Angeles 10-yard line.
Hoping to get something started in a 7-7 game, Benjamin recovered the ball and tried to cut back through his own teams end zone to find room for a return, but he was tracked down by the Patriots gunners and crushed to the ground for a safety.
The Patriots got a field goal after the free kick, and the five-point surge gave New England a lead they would never surrender.
Tom Brady moved the ball with ease for most of the game, completing 32 of 47 passes for 333 yards, but other than a first-quarter touchdown pass to Rob Gronkowski, New Englands offense had to settle for four field goals and four punts.
In a game where the Patriots offense could not finish drives, their much-maligned passing defense did a solid job of containing Philip Rivers and the Chargers.
New England opened the season allowing 300 or more passing yards to each quarterback they faced in the first six weeks, but now have had their secondary play a big part in consecutive wins.
Rivers completed 17 of 30 passes for 212 yards and one touchdown.
The Chargers best play of the game came on an 87-yard touchdown run by Melvin Gordon early in the first quarter, which tied the Chargers franchise record for longest run.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
New England improved to 6-2 and will now have a bye-week before traveling to Denver to face the Broncos on Nov. 12.
The Chargers, who came into the game on a three-game winning streak, fell to 3-5 and will also have a bye-week before facing off against the Jacksonville Jaguars.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Philadelphia Eagles are 7-1 after crushing the 49ers.
The Philadelphia Eagles got off to a slow start, punting on six of the teams first eight possessions, but they found their offense and crushed the San Francisco 49ers 33-10.
The game was hardly competitive, as the Eagles, playing at home, improved to an N.F.L.-best 7-1 without a hint of a comeback from a 49ers team that fell to 0-8 for the first time in franchise history.
In familiar fashion, Carson Wentz was efficient and occasionally electric, completing two touchdown passes, one of which went for 53 yards to Alshon Jeffrey.
It was Wentzs fifth touchdown pass of 50 or more yards this season and he finished the day with a modest 211 yards thanks to the lopsided score.
C.J.
Beathard was not able to keep up, completing just 17 of 36 passes for 167 yards.
He had one touchdown and two interceptions, one of which was returned for a touchdown, as he dealt with four sacks and 12 quarterback hits.
Philadelphia will stay at home to face the Denver Broncos next week, while the 49ers will try to find their first win in a home game against the Arizona Cardinals.
Niners continue their national anthem protests.
Seven members of the San Francisco 49ers knelt during the national anthem before the game against the Philadelphia Eagles.
Eric Reid, Marquise Goodwin, Eli Harold and Adrian Colbert were among those kneeling.
On the opposite sideline, Eagles safety Malcolm Jenkins raised his fist during the song.
Photo Around the N.F.L.
: Jets blow another late lead.
The story is getting old fast with the Jets.
Take the lead, carry it into the fourth quarter and lose the game.
It happened for the third straight time Sunday as the Jets dropped a 25-20 decision to the error-prone Atlanta Falcons in a game played in a heavy rain that led to fumbles, dropped passes and a lot of empty seats at MetLife Stadium.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Instead of the Patriots and Dolphins rallying, this time it was a Falcons team that had lost three straight.
Man, its really tough.
Just go look at the tape and see.
Frustrating, said Jets quarterback Josh McCown, who was 26 of 33 for 257 yards and two touchdowns.
You go out there and battle, battle the elements and move the football well at times and get in the end zone.
The Jets, McCown said, need to figure out what the heck were doing in the second half thats not allowing us to play the same way.
Bills beat Raiders: Rookie linebacker Matt Milano scored on a 40-yard fumble return on a rain-slick field, and the Buffalo Bills forced four turnovers in beating the Oakland Raiders 34-14 on Sunday.
Tyrod Taylor threw a 6-yard touchdown pass to Andre Holmes and also scored on a 1-yard run for Buffalo.
LeSean McCoy had a season-best 151 yards rushing and also scored on a 48-yard run.
AP Saints top Bears: Drew Brees completed 23 of 28 passes for 299 yards against a Bears defense that ranked sixth against the pass, and the New Orleans Saints beat Chicago 20-12 Sunday for their fifth straight win.
Running backs Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara each ran for touchdowns for New Orleans (5-2).
Ingram finished with 99 yards from scrimmage, including 75 on the ground, but his two late fumbles kept the Bears in the game into the final minutes.
Kamara had 76 yards from scrimmage 48 receiving.
AP Panthers defense stops Bucs: Cam Newton threw for 154 yards and one touchdown and Carolinas defense didnt allow a TD for the second straight week, helping the Panthers snap a two-game losing streak with a 17-3 victory over the struggling Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday.
Newton rebounded from a subpar performance in a 14-point road loss to the Chicago Bears, leading a 17-play, 82-yard TD drive that consumed more eight minutes of the opening quarter, then completed three passes to Christian McCaffrey to set up a field goal for a 10-0 halftime lead.
AP Advertisement Continue reading the main story Browns still winless: The Cleveland Browns took the lead three different times in their London matchup against the Minnesota Vikings Sunay morning, but after a field goal in the third quarter briefly put them up 16-15, they were scoreless the rest of the way, eventually losing 33-16.
At 0-8, the Browns have hit the seasons midpoint without a win, and now have a bye-week to game plan for their Nov. 12 matchup against Detroit.
The Vikings, on the other hand, go into their bye-week with four consecutive wins and an N.F.C.
North-leading record of 6-2.
Photo The Battle-Scarred West Wing Veteran Scripting the N.F.L.s Anthem Message.
In the late 1990s, when the Clinton White House was under siege amid revelations of the presidents affair with Monica Lewinsky and efforts by Congress to impeach him, it fell on Joe Lockhart, then the White House spokesman, day after day to defend his boss.
But unlike many of his predecessors, he did not just take his marching orders.
In countless meetings with the president and his advisers, Lockhart helped shape the message he would convey, and he aggressively pressed it to reporters.
Last year, Lockhart took his pugnacious style to another embattled institution, the National Football League.
Read Ken Belsons story on Lockhart here.
It is a curious career moment for a man who cut his teeth on the campaign trail and spent part of his post-White House days working for corporate titans like Oracle and Facebook.
But, as Sosnik and others who know him attest, Lockhart is a wartime general, not a peacetime general for institutions facing conflict.
Thats not to say the troops are always in agreement.
In interviews with about a dozen league and team executives all of whom refused to speak on the record several owners seemed pleased with his approach to addressing the anthem controversy, which was to strive for a way for the N.F.L.
to appear patriotic while respectful of its players who were kneeling to raise awareness of racism and police brutality toward African-Americans.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
But there has been friction.
Some owners were upset with a comment by Lockhart a few days after President Trump criticized the league and its players over the kneeling during the anthem.
Lockhart told reporters that talking about police brutality is what real locker room talk is.
The statement was viewed as a flagrant jab at the president, who had dismissed as locker room banter comments he made about forcing himself on women, heard in a video leaked during the campaign.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In a meeting at N.F.L.
headquarters the next day, the Dallas Cowboys owner, Jerry Jones, and the Washington Redskins owner, Dan Snyder, confronted Lockhart to tell him that his remarks would inflame an already fiery issue.
Lockhart confirmed the exchange, which was first reported by ESPN, but said his goal was to react quickly and forcefully, not to craft the perfect rejoinder.
In interviews, several owners, team executives and league officials said that Lockhart had helped amplify the leagues message, even if they questioned whether more could have been done to anticipate problems before they turned into crises.
The attacks by the president, though, were so unusual that you cant dump this at his feet, one team executive said of Lockhart.
Lockhart said that he understood why the owners were frustrated, but that his job was to keep pushing the leagues view, and pushing back at those who opposed it.
Thats why they allow me to sit up there and promote it and defend the narrative that football is a great game, brings great values and its a great business, he said.
The owners criticism, he said, is just part of the job.
Given the continuing heated debate inside the league on the issue, there is from time to time speculation on whether Lockhart is long for the job.
But if there is a movement to oust him, it is a quiet one.
At events like the Super Bowl, Lockhart is often within arms reach of the leagues commissioner, Roger Goodell, the pair a study in contrasts.
Goodell is tall, athletic and prim.
Lockhart is slumped, stocky and tousled.
He was so used to the casual dress style in Silicon Valley that he reluctantly resumed wearing neckties when he joined the button-down N.F.L.
Unlike his boss, who has worked more than four decades at the league office, Lockhart has thinner links to football.
Growing up in Rockland County, northwest of New York City, he rooted for Joe Namath and the Jets, he said, but colleagues remember him more as a baseball fan, with a picture of the 1986 Mets hanging in his West Wing office.
In high school, he played basketball, not football.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On Sundays during the season, if Lockhart is not at a stadium, he typically watches games in his Manhattan apartment with his two young children, whom he had with his second wife, Giovanna Gray, a former aide to Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York.
(His first marriage, to the television journalist Laura Logan, ended in divorce.)
His political genes developed early.
Dinnertime conversation growing up was more likely to be about politics and journalism than sports.
His parents worked in television, and his father was a longtime producer at NBC News.
Every four years, the Lockhart family spent the summer wherever the presidential conventions were being held.
His skills in choppy political waters have been put to the test in the month since Trump lashed out at players who did not stand for the national anthem.
From the start of the crisis in late September, Lockhart used tactics he had honed in Washington.
He has pushed the leagues case by reaching out to reporters with statements and near-daily conference calls.
Through his bidding, the league has publicized positive things that the players are doing in their communities, promoted the idea that the players and owners are united (despite evidence on the field to the contrary), and tried to avoid addressing the presidents remarks directly.
Photo Some of the tone and messaging of the leagues statements, which Lockhart helped craft, have also been in line with a Democratic progressive, a point some owners, a group that includes several staunch supporters of the president, have not missed.
They seemed to seek a third way, a famously Clintonian way of compromise.
The leagues initial 87-word statement, issued the day after the president first attacked the league, came after Goodell, Lockhart and other league executives called owners to sound them out.
Most N.F.L.
statements are bland, but this one was notable for its directness as well as for what it left out.
Goodells statement did not explicitly defend the players right to protest during the anthem, or even mention racism, the core issue that started the sitting and kneeling demonstrations last season, but it included an unusually strong rebuttal to the president.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, it said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Many owners, including several who are donors to Democratic causes, soon followed with similar statements of their own.
But other owners issued statements lamenting the leagues getting pulled into political debates.
After weeks of back and forth, and owners flirting with requiring players to stand, fewer players are kneeling during the anthem.
Lockhart has kept his assertive posture.
In a talk with reporters, he was asked about the president, who said the N.F.L.
should force all players to stand for the anthem.
Hes exercising his freedom to speak, and Im exercising my freedom not to react, Lockhart replied dryly.
As the N.F.L.
and social media have grown, the league has become a lightning rod for a host of social issues, including bullying and domestic violence, that stretch its capacity to control the narrative.
Lockhart began advising the league as a consultant in 2014, after video surfaced showing the former running back Ray Rice knocking out his fiance in an elevator.
When Lockharts predecessor, Paul Hicks, left the N.F.L.
at the end of 2015, he was a logical replacement.
Lockhart was interested in returning to New York and, he said, taking on a complex challenge to make the N.F.L.
more fleet-footed and assured in responding to controversy.
(It is unclear what he is paid, but according to N.F.L.
tax filings, Hicks earned $1.5 million in his last year at the league.)
Lockhart, who worked on political campaigns dating to Jimmy Carters re-election bid in 1980, has quickly changed the metabolism in the leagues communications office.
When The New York Times published an article last year that compared the N.F.L.s approach to the concussion crisis to tactics used by the tobacco industry, Lockhart issued a long and detailed rebuttal, and said the league would consider taking legal action.
(None has been taken.)
Some reporters are not buying what it is being pushed.
Jim Trotter, the president of the Pro Football Writers of America, took exception to Lockharts assertion that the league had tried to become more transparent.
Lockharts conference calls were initially not open to all writers, and Goodell and other top executives have not been made available, Trotter said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theres no question they have been more proactive, and thats part of Joe Lockharts approach to it, Trotter said.
They will respond to things quicker than in the past.
Does that mean its accurate?
No, but its their opinion.
Still, to a certain extent, he is still seen as a political animal, and a few owners, who by and large lean right, have questioned whether a lifelong Democrat like Lockhart (who sold his house in Washington to former President Barack Obama) is the best person to speak on behalf of the league.
Lockhart said his politics had little to do with his job.
My work is about making sure that people understand what it is were doing, why that is and what impact it is having, he said.
Thats devoid of a political agenda.
It doesnt mean I dont have political views.
But my overriding view when I come to work is, Whats good for the N.F.L.
?
Players across the N.F.L.
have reacted strongly to McNairs inmates remark, some of them suggesting they would never play for the Texans.
The conflict came at a critical time for the N.F.L., which has been in talks with players to address some of the concerns that led them to abstain from standing for the anthem, including racial injustice and, more specifically, the treatment of African-Americans by the police and the criminal justice system.
A handful of owners and players have met in recent weeks to see if the league can help support the players in their causes.
Under withering criticism from President Trump and from many fans, the owners are also eager for the players to consistently stand during the anthem.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
The players and owners may meet again Monday or Tuesday, but there has been confusion about the location, the agenda and whether Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who last season started the practice of not standing for the anthem, will attend.
Kaepernicks lawyer said Saturday that Kaepernick had not received an invitation to the meeting.
Its obvious that Colin is being invoked for purposes other than playing football, the lawyer, Mark Geragos, said in an interview.
Everyone seems to have an agenda other than putting Colin on the football field.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Officials at the N.F.L.
said it was up to the players to invite him.
Earlier this week the players union, which is helping coordinate the meeting, did not appear to be sure it would take place and had not firmed up a guest list.
On Saturday, Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Malcolm Jenkins, who has been active in the talks, invited McNair, Commissioner Roger Goodell and Kaepernick to meet in Philadelphia, according to ESPN.
Eric Reid, a safety on the 49ers who knelt with Kaepernick during the anthem last season, and has also participated in talks with the league, was also confused by Jenkinss invitation because he, too, was unaware of any meeting in Philadelphia.
Im not sure why a press release was sent out saying theres a meeting when theres no confirmation the N.F.L.
would attend the meeting, Reid said.
There needs to be better communication.
Kaepernicks attendance would be noteworthy.
Now a free agent, he has been unable to secure a new contract from another team.
This month, he filed a grievance in which he claimed the owners had colluded to keep him out of the league.
Photo Houston Texans owner Bob McNair apologized on Friday for a remark he made last week about inmates running the prison if N.F.L.
owners allowed players to continue to sit or kneel during the national anthem, but the apology appears to have done little to appease his own players.
McNair made the comment among a handful of other owners who were together at a New York hotel after a meeting with about a dozen players, many of them African-Americans who have demonstrated during the anthem to highlight a lack of attention to racial oppression.
The players and owners were seeking common ground on the issue when they met at the N.F.L.
headquarters in Manhattan.
When a group of owners later discussed whether the league ought to clamp down on the protests, McNair suggested it should, because we cant have the inmates running the prison.
The comment, which ESPN reported, was taken as insensitive and demeaning to the players.
I never meant to offend anyone, and I was not referring to our players, McNair said in a statement on Friday.
I used a figure of speech that was never intended to be taken literally.
I would never characterize our players or our league that way, and I apologize to anyone who was offended by it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Some players on the Texans, though, were having a hard time accepting McNairs apology.
They considered walking out of practice on Friday, and one player, DeAndre Hopkins, did not attend, according to The Houston Chronicle.
Detroits defense is not nearly as crisp as Pittsburghs, but it can be just as opportunistic.
If Roethlisberger is at all careless with his passes, Detroit will make him pay for it.
Golden Tates being limited, or possibly inactive, with a sprained AC joint takes some jolt out of the Lions offense, but this should be a close game.
Pick: Steelers 49ers at Eagles, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Eagles by 13 The 49ers (0-7) are very bad.
The Eagles (6-1) are very good.
It is not hard to predict that Philadelphia will take care of business at home against a winless opponent, but a spread of 13 points is demanding a blowout, and San Franciscos plucky young defense may be up to the task of preventing that from happening.
As good as the Eagles have been, they have kept things close in four of their six wins, and they have little reason to try to run up the score against an overmatched opponent.
Pick: 49ers Texans at Seahawks, 4:05 p.m., CBS Line: Seahawks by 5.5 Thanks to the emergence of Deshaun Watson, the Texans (3-3) have averaged 39.3 points a game over the last four weeks.
The hype has been deafening, but in reality, he has yet to face a very challenging defense.
That ends this week, as the Seahawks (4-2) are the type of team that has the combination of talent and veteran know-how to truly mess with a rookie quarterbacks mind.
A victory might be too much to ask for, but Watson is talented enough to keep things close, making a 5.5-point spread a bit too generous.
Pick: Texans Cowboys at Redskins, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: Cowboys by 2 This game could be Ezekiel Elliotts last one for quite some time, as he has a court hearing on Monday that could determine the fate of his six-game suspension.
Elliott seemed to be buckling under the weight of the looming punishment at the start of the season, but he has looked like his old self in the last two weeks, and it is no coincidence that the Cowboys (3-3) have righted the ship along the way.
At a glance, the Redskins (3-3) seem to have a good run defense, but they have allowed so few yards because teams have chosen not to run against them, which wont be the case with Dallas in town.
Pick: Cowboys Second-Tier Matchups Photo Bears at Saints, 1 p.m. Fox Line: Saints by 9 Relying on your teams defense to do all the scoring is not a sustainable strategy in the N.F.L., but that is what has been working for the Bears (3-4) in the Mitchell Trubisky era.
The rookie quarterback has done almost nothing notable, averaging 116 passing yards per game, but has a 2-1 record despite having thrown just two touchdown passes in a three-game stretch in which his teams defense scored three.
The Saints (4-2) are a tough team to play defense against, especially at home, but if Chicagos surge on that side of the ball has not been a mirage, it should be able to beat a 9-point spread.
Pick: Bears Raiders at Bills, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bills by 2.5 There is nothing like crushing a well-regarded division rival to lift the spirits of a flailing team, and the Raiders (3-4) did just that with a come-from-behind win against Kansas City.
Derek Carr returned to his 2016 form just in time to lead a game-winning drive.
Unfortunately for Carr, the Bills (4-2) have a habit of making opponents miserable, and they can likely gut out an ugly win.
With Marshawn Lynch suspended, Oakland will have a hard time controlling the clock.
Pick: Bills Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Chargers at Patriots, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Patriots by 7 This game will serve as an indication of whether the Patriots (5-2) fixed their problems in the secondary last week, or if Atlanta simply was not good enough to take advantage of New Englands biggest weakness.
Philip Rivers does not have the same confidence problems that the Falcons have been dealing with, so he will probably challenge New England early and often.
If this game were in Los Angeles, the Chargers (3-4) would stand a better chance, but the Patriots are incredibly tough to beat at home.
Pick: Patriots Panthers at Buccaneers, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Buccaneers by 2.5 Cam Newton has had two brutal games in a row.
He has completed just 57 percent of his passes, and his five interceptions matched his total from the first five games combined.
But watching the Panthers (4-3), it is easy to feel sorry for Newton as he is brutalized on play after play.
Even the successful plays many of which have come with Newton running rather than passing end with big hits.
The big quarterback rarely has extended stretches of ineffectiveness, and an important division game against the equally-struggling Buccaneers (2-4) should bring out the best in him.
Pick: Panthers Advertisement Continue reading the main story Bottom-Tier Games Photo Dolphins at Ravens, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday), CBS and NFL Network Line: Ravens by 3 Cameron Wake, a defensive end for the Dolphins (4-2), managed to sum up Thursday Night Football in one convenient quotation.
He told reporters this week: To be very honest, nobody is going to be ready the way they like to be.
Theyll be as ready as you can be on Thursday night.
With Matt Moore expected to start for the injured Jay Cutler, Miamis offense will run through the teams running back, Jay Ajayi, and that spells trouble for the Ravens (3-4), as they are ranked last in rushing yards allowed per game.
Pick: Dolphins Vikings vs. Browns at London, 9:30 a.m., NFL Network Line: Vikings by 9.5 The Browns (0-7) will play their first game without tackle Joe Thomas since 2006, so Spencer Drango, a second-year player out of Baylor, will be protecting DeShone Kizers blind side against a Minnesota defense that is tied for sixth in sacks, with 21.
It is understandable for the Vikings (5-2) to be road favorites in the neutral site of Londons Twickenham Stadium, but a spread of nearly 10 points is a lot to ask for from an underwhelming Minnesota offense.
Pick: Browns Falcons at Jets, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Falcons by 5 The Jets (3-4) followed a three-game winning streak with consecutive losses, but they played well in both games and lost them by a combined 10 points.
They go into every game with a talent deficit, but Coach Todd Bowles has had them focused and prepared each week.
There is no reason the Falcons (3-3) shouldnt mop the floor with them based on personnel, but the same thing was true in their recent losses to Miami and Buffalo.
Unless the team has figured out what has been holding its offense back, this game could be close.
Pick: Jets Colts at Bengals, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bengals by 10.5 Jacoby Brissett endured a beating last week that few other quarterbacks have.
He was sacked or hit on 31 of his teams 67 plays, and the Colts (2-5) spent the week arguing about whether it was appropriate for T. Y. Hilton, a wide receiver, to blame his teams offensive line for the blowout loss.
The Bengals (2-4) do not have the players to replicate Jacksonvilles savagery, but they will try.
A point spread of 10.5 points is enormous, but the Colts have lost by more than that in three of the last five weeks, with the other two games being wins against the two worst teams in the N.F.L.
Pick: Bengals Mondays Matchup Broncos at Chiefs, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Chiefs by 7 The Broncos (3-3) scored 42 points in Week 2, and in the four games since, they have also scored 42 points combined.
The Chiefs (5-2) are a division rival that not only has more talent than Denver, and home-field advantage, but also the motivation of having lost two close games in a row after a 5-0 start.
Denvers defense can probably limit Alex Smith and the Chiefs to a few touchdowns and a bunch of field goals, but that should be plenty to outscore Trevor Siemian and the Denver offense.
Pick: Chiefs.
Carson Wentz (PHI vs. 49ers) Few have ever doubted Wentzs potential, but even fewer expected him to be among the best fantasy quarterbacks so far this season.
He has 11 passing touchdowns over his last three games, and only four interceptions on the season.
His 21.7 F.P.P.G.
is fourth best for his position, and this week he takes on the 49ers, who have yielded 24.0 F.P.P.G.
to quarterbacks over the last five weeks and the second most total on the season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Also consider: Andy Dalton (CIN vs. Colts) Running Back LeGarrette Blount (PHI vs. 49ers) It has not always been pretty for Blount this season, particularly last week, when it took him 14 carries to earn 29 rushing yards.
But he has been a borderline RB2/Flex option when you look at his entire season, averaging 8.3 F.P.P.G., good for 25th among running backs.
He should be a very solid RB2 this week against the 49ers, who are even worse against opposing running backs than they are against quarterbacks.
Eight backs have topped 10 fantasy points against them in seven games, and theyve given up a shocking 26.4 F.P.P.G.
to the position this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Melvin Gordon (LAC at Patriots) He has looked like the RB1 that fantasy owners drafted him as for most of this season: His total of 14.9 F.P.P.G.
is sixth best among running backs.
He had only two poor performances, including last weeks against the Broncos (4.4 fantasy points).
He should get back on track in a big way against the Patriots, who have not only allowed the fourth most rushing yards, but also the second most receiving yards, to running backs, and 20.4 F.P.P.G.
to the position.
Also consider: Jay Ajayi (MIA vs.
Jets) Wide Receiver Kelvin Benjamin (CAR at Buccaneers) After a rocky start, Benjamin has been the eighth best fantasy receiver over the last four weeks (9.7 F.P.P.G.
), even with last weeks rough game against the Bears (three catches for 65 yards).
The Buccaneers offer an excellent opportunity for Benjamin to right the ship, as six receivers have topped 10 fantasy points in their six games played.
Over all, their 28.4 F.P.P.G.
yielded to the receiver position is the second most.
If youre still not convinced, Benjamin will line up opposite to cornerback Robert McClain, who is the lowest rated player of the teams entire starting defense, according to ProFootballFocus.com.
Demaryius Thomas (DEN at Chiefs) If any player is due to score a touchdown this week, it is Thomas, who has gone 12 consecutive games without one, dating to last season.
But he is still averaging 8.4 targets per game this season, and his teammate Emmanuel Sanders might miss a second game in a row with an ankle injury.
The Chiefs, despite the presence of the star cornerback Marcus Peters, have allowed the most fantasy points to the position in 2017 (30.4 F.P.P.G.)
Also consider: Keenan Allen (LAC at Patriots); Nelson Agholor (PHI vs. 49ers) Tight End Jason Witten (DAL vs. Redskins) With six teams on a bye this week, Witten makes for an excellent streaming option against the Redskins, who have allowed a touchdown to the position in three of the last four games and the second most F.P.P.G.
(11.7) over all.
Witten has quietly been one of the better fantasy tight ends this season, with his 7.4 F.P.P.G.
the eighth best so far this season.
Also consider: Kyle Rudolph (MIN at Browns) Defense/Special Teams MIN at Browns; NO vs. Bears Kicker Jake Elliott (PHI vs. 49ers); Steven Hauschka (BUF vs. OAK).
Now, another Series between two desperate teams has gone all the way.
The Dodgers are seeking their first World Series title in 29 years, and the Astros an expansion team in 1962 their first ever.
Im sure M.L.B.
is probably sitting back and kicking their feet up, said the Dodgers third baseman, Justin Turner.
Counting the money?
a reporter asked.
Im not going to say that, but definitely enjoying it, Turner said, laughing.
And knowing that its going to Game 7 is appropriate, with these two teams.
This is the first season that baseball has awarded home-field advantage in the World Series to the team with the better record.
The Dodgers earned the right to be the host by leading the majors in victories with 104, the most in their six decades in Los Angeles.
But the Astros were not far behind, with 101 wins, making this a particularly high-powered matchup.
Photo To find the last time a World Series between 100-win teams stretched to Game 7, you have to reach back to 1931, when the St. Louis Cardinals thwarted the Philadelphia Athletics attempt at a third consecutive championship.
It was so long ago that the winning pitcher, the 38-year-old Burleigh Grimes, threw spitballs.
The pitch had been banned for years, but since Grimes had already been throwing it, he was allowed to continue.
In this World Series, according to Verlander and others, the balls arrive pre-slicked.
He insisted again after Game 6 that the World Series baseballs were slippery, making it hard for a pitcher to pull down on the slider for a reliable late slash.
That could partly explain the power surge that has helped make this World Series memorable though not every game has been a slugfest.
Indeed, Game 6 mirrored the opener: a 3-1 Dodgers victory, with the starter allowing a solo homer and Kenley Jansen perfect at the end.
In Game 1, Clayton Kershaw worked seven innings for the win, but on Tuesday, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts pulled Rich Hill in the fifth, before he could face a batter for the third time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Robertss aggressive bullpen usage, a reflection of the teams analytically minded front office, has lent another intriguing sidebar to this World Series, with fans not even waiting to second-guess.
They booed Roberts when he called for the bullpen in Game 6, and Hill knocked over a few cups of water in the dugout.
But the Dodgers relievers were superb, after looking hopelessly trapped in a Houston funhouse in Game 5 on Sunday.
That game had ended up 13-12, a score so odd for a baseball game that it had not happened anywhere in the majors in almost three years.
The Astros won on a single by Alex Bregman, but the game included seven homers, a total exceeded only once in World Series history by the eight homers in Game 2 of this very series, a 7-6 Astros victory here.
Just when I thought I could describe Game 2 as my favorite game of all-time, I think Game 5 exceeded that and more, Astros Manager A.J.
Hinch said on Sunday.
Its hard to put into words all the twists and turns.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Reggie Jackson thought of a few.
During Game 5, when the Astros Jose Altuve crushed a game-tying homer, Jackson the Hall of Famer and two-time World Series most valuable player texted the Astros owner, Jim Crane.
Altuve, the best player in the game, read the message.
Says who?
Says Mr. October.
Altuves homer came on the first at-bat after Kershaw was pulled.
The Dodgers had given Kershaw leads of 4-0 and 7-4, and with a chance to send his team back home with a lead, Kershaw fizzled.
He is expected to be ready to pitch in relief in Game 7, which would echo the signature performance of one of his rivals in the National League West.
That performance, by San Franciscos Madison Bumgarner, came in 2014 and kicked off this stretch of three Game 7s in four years.
Pitching on just two days of rest after throwing a shutout, Bumgarner blanked the Royals for the final five innings of Game 7, stranding the tying run on third base at the end.
Photo The Royals followed up the next year by beating the Mets, coming back in all four victories of an entertaining five-game World Series.
It was the first championship for the Royals in 30 years and, of course, they were happy to wrap it up when they did, despite leaving two games not played.
In their clubhouse after Game 6 on Tuesday, the Astros were hardly despondent, and seemed energized by the chance to play one more game.
Yes, they had been leading on Tuesday heading into the bottom of the sixth, but in a World Series like this, 12 outs are a lot to assume.
Verlander had allowed just one hit through five innings, but did not feel close to victory with a tenuous 1-0 lead.
Absolutely not, he said.
Not the way these games have gone, not the way these guys lineup is.
If we could have squeaked across a run or two more, I maybe would have changed my mentality.
But Ive played this game too long.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He has played it in the majors since 2005, all with the Detroit Tigers until a trade to Houston in August.
Verlander helped lead the Tigers to the World Series in 2006, when he lost the first and last games to St. Louis.
He made it back in 2012, but got flattened by the Giants Pablo Sandoval in the opener of a forgettable sweep.
Those were two of the 10 World Series between 1998 and 2013 that lasted only four or five games.
A few moments stood out in that time, of course; Carlos Correa, the Astros shortstop, cited two of the best when asked for his favorite memories as a fan.
Luis Gonzalez off the Yankees and David Freese off the Rangers, Correa said, referring to the Arizona Diamondbacks Gonzalez, who had the winning hit in Game 7 in 2001, and the St. Louis Cardinals Freese, who homered to win Game 6 in 2011 to set up a Game 7.
Those were two of the previous 38 best-of-seven World Series that extended to the final game.
And before now, just one other World Series had followed the pattern of the home team winning Games 1, 3, 5 and 6 and losing Games 2 and 4: the spellbinding clash in 1975 between the Boston Red Sox and the Cincinnati Reds, who won Game 7 at Fenway Park.
This World Series, with the same kind of rapid momentum shifts, now needs only an ending, with the Dodgers Yu Darvish facing the Astros Lance McCullers Jr., but virtually every pitcher ready to relieve.
None of the 50 active players in this drama have taken part in a Game 7 of the World Series.
Yet they have spent their lives waiting.
Its just the best way you can finish a season, winning Game 7 of the World Series, Correa said.
Thats what you envision as a little kid.
Top 3rd: Springer gives Astros the lead.
Rich Hill was cruising, having retired seven consecutive batters.
But with two outs in the third, he made a mistake on a pitch to George Springer, and the poorly-located fastball was deposited into the stands in right to give the Astros a 1-0 lead.
Hill got out of the inning when Alex Bregman grounded out to short, but Hill has made the mistake of giving Justin Verlander a run to work with.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Waldstein: With Springers home run, these teams have now hit 23, extending the World Series record.
It was also the 16th to either break a tie or give the team a lead.
Heres an interesting tidbit about all the home runs in Game 5.
The Astros had 5.
The only other teams to do that in the World Series were the 1989 Athletics and the 1928 Yankees.
Babe Ruth hit 3 in Game 4 of 28 and Lou Gehrig and Cedric Durst each hit one.
(The Big Three, right?)
Bottom 3rd: Verlander notches his fifth strikeout.
It was a remarkably quiet inning for Justin Verlander.
Austin Barnes grounded out to second, Rich Hill struck out on a foul-tip into Brian McCanns mitt, and Chris Taylor watched strike three sail right by him to end the inning.
Verlander now has five strikeouts, but has seen his pitch-count creep up to 43.
Waldstein: Justin Verlander is looking good so far, especially with that called third strike breaking ball to Joc Pederson in the second inning.
If he is getting that pitch over for strikes, he will be hard to beat.
Incredible to believe, but Verlander is searching for his first World Series win.
He is 0-3 in three World Series appearances, two for the Tigers.
His earned run average in those games is 6.43.
He looks better than that tonight.
Top 4th: Hill settles in after giving up home run.
With the exception of the solo homer he allowed in the third inning, Rich Hill has matched Justin Verlander.
It was more of the same in the fourth.
He retired Jose Altuve on a grounder to short, got Carlos Correa to fly out to center, and after Yulieski Gurriel was once again greeted with heavy booing, Hill got him to fly out to right to end the inning.
Photo Bottom 4th: Verlander mows down Dodgers big hitters.
Through four innings it is almost surprising that the Dodgers have a hit.
Justin Verlander continued to dominate, retiring Corey Seager on a fly to left and then fooling Justin Turner on a cutter for strike three.
With two outs, Verlander got his seventh strikeout of the game when Cody Bellinger swung right through a fastball to end the inning.
Waldstein: Verlander looks really sharp, as expected.
He gets Justin Turner on a 92 miles-per-hour cutter and then gets Cody Bellinger on a 97 miles-per-hour fastball perfectly located up and in.
He is pitching without the same kind of safety net that Rich Hill is.
That is because the Astros are really out of good options in the bullpen.
Everyone is either worn out or ineffective, or both.
The supposed closer, Ken Giles, may not even pitch any more because he has been so bad.
Keep in mind that before the game, Astros manager A.J.
Hinch said that he would do whatever is necessary to win tonight, including possibly using Lance McCullers to close it out.
I think if you complicate it and try to manage two games at once, youll find yourself having two games, he said.
Photo Top 5th: Dodgers go to bullpen early ... again.
Brandon Morrow, who has pitched in each game of the World Series, was called on once again because Rich Hill had loaded the bases with two outs.
The Dodgers setup man, who faltered badly in Game 5, got out of the inning when Alex Bregman grounded out to short to end what looked like a Houston rally.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brian McCann led off the inning with a single to right and went to third when Marwin Gonzalez doubled past a diving Alex Bregman.
Hill chose to pitch to Josh Reddick despite first base being open and the pitcher being on deck, and was rewarded for it when Reddick struck out.
Justin Verlander also struck out, and after George Springer was intentionally walked to load the bases, Hills night was over.
With Los Angeles into its bullpen for the remainder of the game, Hills final line was 4 2/3 innings, four hits and one run.
He struck out five and walked one.
He threw just 58 pitches.
Waldstein: Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts did what he has been consistently doing with Rich Hill, pulling him before the third time through the Dodgers batting order.
Hill did his job, keeping the Dodgers in the game.
The fans did not like it when Hill came out, but it worked to perfection.
Brandon Morrow, who looked completely gassed in Game 5, came in with the bases loaded and got the Astros out of the jam.
Bottom 5th: Verlander gets eighth strikeout.
Justin Verlander is still working with a one-run lead, but he continues to cruise.
In the fifth he needed just one pitch to retire Yasiel Puig on a fly ball to right, threw three pitches to Joc Pederson, getting him to fly out to left, and then battled a bit with Logan Forsythe before striking him out on seven pitches to end the inning.
Verlander has eight strikeouts on 69 pitches.
He has the endurance to throw 120 or more if the Astros can avoid a situation where they need to pinch-hit for him.
Photo Top 6th: Dodgers bullpen gets out of another jam.
Brandon Morrow has been almost comically overused, with tonight representing the relievers 13th postseason appearance this year the record is 14, which was set by Paul Assenmacher of the Cleveland Indians in 1997.
He was not perfect, allowing a two-out single to Yulieski Gurriel, but pressed into duty for his sixth World Series game this year, he got three critical outs for Los Angeles.
Tony Watson took over for him after Gurriels hit, and immediately hit Brian McCann with a pitch.
But he finished off the inning without allowing a run, getting Marwin Gonzalez to line out to second, erasing the two base runners.
Photo Bottom 6th: Dodgers find Verlanders number.
Justin Verlander got himself into trouble and the Astros are now trailing 2-1.
Austin Barnes stroked a leadoff single into left, which brought up pinch-hitter Chase Utley.
Despite Utley being 0 for 14 in this years postseason, Verlander pitched him very carefully before hitting him with a pitch.
That brought up Chris Taylor, who lined a double into to right, bringing Barnes home and tying the game 1-1.
With runners on second and third, Corey Seager hit a long fly to right that seemed as if it might leave the park, but eventually ended up as a sacrifice fly when the ball landed in Josh Reddicks glove and Utley scored.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Verlander stopped the bleeding by getting a foul-out from Justin Turner and a strikeout from Cody Bellinger, but he will be done with six innings of work because he is due up second in the next inning.
Photo Waldstein: Justin Verlander will not do a Josh Beckett in Game 6.
He is out of the game for pinch-hitter Evan Gattis in the top of the 7th.
What an interesting inning.
Verlander certainly looked like he had reached his limit.
Even the first out Corey Seagers sacrifice fly ball to right was hit hard enough to have been a home run in Yankee Stadium, anyway.
Although Verlander walked off without the chance to get his first World Series win in three separate trips to the Fall Classic, he did well to limit the damage when the Astros had already evened the score and had runners at second and third with no out.
Now this game is all about the bullpens, and the Dodgers have the marginal advantage.
Photo Top 7th: Astros threaten, but come up short.
The Astros got the situation they wanted, with Jose Altuve at the plate with a runner in scoring position, but the Dodgers got out of the inning unscathed, maintaining their 2-1 lead.
Josh Reddick walked to lead things off, which brought up the pitchers spot, and Justin Verlander was removed for a pinch-hitter.
Kenta Maeda came on in relief to face Evan Gattis, and induced a force-out at second.
George Springer singled, at which point Houston replaced Gattis on the bases with Derek Fisher, and the speedy pinch-runner advanced to third on a flyout to center by Alex Bregman.
With runners on the corners and two outs, Altuve came up, and was hacking away from the first pitch, but he ended up grounding out to third to end the inning, with the throw just barely beating him at first.
Walstein: The Dodgers are doing a great job on Jose Altuve and Calros Correa, who are a combined 0 for 7.
Astros manager A.J.
Hinch waited to pinch run for Evan Gattis until Gattis reached second base, which is often done by managers.
But if he had immediately sent Derek Fisher in to run after Gattis reached first on a fielders choice, he might have made it to third base on George Springers single, which got past Corey Seager at shortstop and dribbled into left field.
It would have been close, but if a runner did make it there, he definitely would have scored on Bregmans deep fly ball out.
Would have, could have.
Photo Bottom 7th: Pederson goes deep.
Joe Musgrove was given the unenviable task of coming in for Justin Verlander.
The right-hander retired Yasiel Puig on a pop-out to short, but Joc Pederson, who has been on fire recently, crushed a 1-2 fastball for an opposite-field home run that increased the Dodgers lead to 3-1.
Musgrove recovered to retire pinch-hitter Andre Ethier on a fly to left and he struck out Austin Barnes to end the inning, but the Dodgers will be handing the game over to Kenley Jansen for a six-out save, and he has a two-run cushion to work with.
Waldstein: Wow, that was some home run trot by Joc Pederson.
I dont recall seeing a player skip down the third base line pointing to his dugout in the 7th inning.
It looked like something out of the movie Major League.
More important, his home run gives Kenley Jansen a cushion.
Remember, Jansen blew the save in Game 2 in his second inning of work and took the loss in Game 5 when he gave up a run, also in his second inning of work.
And the Astros dont ever concede.
Then again, neither do the Dodgers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Top 8th: Jansen gets three easy outs.
Kenley Jansen is halfway through a six-out save.
He got Carlos Correa to fly out to left, got Yulieski Gurriel to pop out to first and then struck out Brian McCann to end the inning.
Los Angeles will now try to add some insurance to their two-run lead.
Bottom 8th: No more insurance runs for the Dodgers.
A two-run lead will have to suffice for the Dodgers.
Charlie Culberson led off the inning against Luke Gregerson with a single to left, and he advanced to second on a groundout by Chris Taylor.
Corey Seager worked a full-count, but struck out on a slider that cut in on him.
With a man on base, Justin Turner walked, which ended Gregersons day.
Francisco Liriano came in to face Cody Bellinger, and the 12-year veteran, who was making his first career World Series appearance, struck out the rookie slugger in a grueling 9-pitch at-bat.
The Dodgers are three outs from forcing a Game 7.
Photo Top 9th: Jansen closes the door on Astros.
Kenley Jansen had a long wait between innings, but the Dodgers closer was just as dominant in the ninth, shutting the door on the Astros and securing a six-out save.
He started things off by getting Marwin Gonzalez to pop out to first.
He then took care of things himself, striking out Josh Reddick and pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran to end the game, needing just 19 pitches to complete two innings of work.
On Sunday, when the Los Angeles Dodgers called yet again for Morrow in Game 5, he served up four runs, including two homers, in just six weary pitches.
His stuff was missing the mystical quality all pitches need: life.
Thats like the last 1 percent of what you can get on the ball, kind of like the life on your arm translates out and through the baseball, Morrow said in the Dodgers somber clubhouse at Minute Maid Park after Game 5 ended in a 13-12 crusher won by the Astros in 10 innings.
Even though I felt good, I guess I just didnt have as much life in my arm as I was hoping.
As the rehab pitching coordinator for the Toronto Blue Jays, Knowles is especially familiar with Morrows arm.
When Knowles coached the Blue Jays Class A team in Dunedin, Fla., Morrow made annual visits while recovering from injuries each season from 2011 through 2014.
Along the way, Morrow said, he came to learn Knowles claim to fame.
Knowles came to respect Morrows determination to overcome injuries and manage Type 1 diabetes to fashion a productive major league career.
He had a lot of injuries when he was a starter with the Blue Jays, but it looks like hes found his niche, Knowles said.
He always threw hard.
I wouldnt have thought hed be able to go two or three days in a row, but obviously thats not a problem.
It had not been a problem when Knowles spoke, just before Game 5.
By then, Morrow had thrown more than 12 postseason innings, with a 1.46 earned run average, as the primary setup man for Kenley Jansen.
But Game 5 was Morrows 12th outing in the Dodgers 13 postseason games, and by the time he was done, an 8-7 Los Angeles lead had become an 11-8 deficit after a homer by George Springer, a single by Bregman, a double by Jose Altuve and another homer by Carlos Correa.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dave Roberts, the Dodgers manager, had said before Game 5 that while Morrow was available, he hoped not to use him.
But Clayton Kershaw could not survive the fifth inning, and Roberts deployed Kenta Maeda and Tony Watson to get through the sixth.
He still had four other relievers besides Jansen for the seventh, but Morrow had sent word from the bullpen insisting he was ready.
When I saw where the game was at in the 7th, I was getting loose and I was feeling O.K., Morrow said.
Probably selfish on my part to call down and push to let them know Im ready and want to get in.
They had a plan were obviously very plan-oriented and try to stick to that and I made them deviate away.
Roberts called it a credit to him that Morrow asked to pitch, and said it would have been hard to turn him down.
Morrow, who signed a minor-league contract in January for just $1.125 million, had a 2.06 e.r.a.
.
with no home runs allowed over 45 games this season, averaging more than five and a half strikeouts per walk.
He was very good in spring training, Roberts said.
You see the plus, plus velocity, and you always think, in a shorter stint, will his stuff play up?
So he really embraced coming out of the pen this year, and he did that for our Triple-A club.
Morrow, who had pitched a decade with Seattle, Toronto and San Diego, yearned for the intensity that comes with the major leagues.
But he had pitched just 18 games for the Padres last season after shoulder surgery in 2015 had ended his career as a starter.
I was obviously hoping to get a major league deal, said Morrow, who had a 1.69 e.r.a.
in 18 games for San Diego.
I thought I threw the ball really well, but the swing-and-miss stuff wasnt there, and the velocity wasnt quite back all the way.
Picking up the ball this year, though, something was different, like I knew I was stronger, ready to go.
I felt like myself again.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Morrow has always had the stuff to dominate.
Seattle drafted him fifth over all in 2006, out of the University of California, passing on Andrew Miller and three future Cy Young Award winners Kershaw, Tim Lincecum and Max Scherzer who went in the next six picks.
The Mariners never found a steady role for Morrow.
Traded to Toronto in December 2009, he periodically flourished as a starter, and lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning in 2010, finishing with a 137-pitch, 17-strikeout one-hitter.
In 2012, he threw three shutouts through the first week in June.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then an oblique injury cost him more than two months.
Forearm problems and a torn tendon in his hand hampered him in other seasons.
No wonder, then, that with good health this season, Morrow has been eager to contribute as much as possible.
Knowles can relate.
In 1972, he was an eight-year major leaguer on an Oakland team bound for the World Series but a broken thumb in late September ended his season.
The next year, the As won a five-game American League Championship Series without using Knowles at all.
I just wanted to get into a World Series game; everybody dreams of that, Knowles said.
I was just thanking God I got into the first game, and I happened to get the save.
In that game, against the Mets, Knowles relieved closer Rollie Fingers with one out and one on in the ninth inning, protecting a 2-1 lead.
The Mets had announced the left-handed Rusty Staub as a pinch-hitter against the right-handed Fingers, a future Hall of Famer.
But when Oakland Manager Dick Williams called for the left-handed Knowles, the Mets manager, Yogi Berra, countered with a righty, Jim Beauchamp.
Knowles retired Beauchamp on an infield pop, and then got the left-handed Wayne Garrett to fly out to end the game.
From there, Williams just kept calling for Knowles, who had 12 days of rest from the end of the regular season to the start of the World Series.
He collected five outs in Game 2, and then faced 15 batters across the next three games at Shea Stadium.
Facing elimination at home in Game 6, Williams used Knowles to replace another future Hall of Famer, Catfish Hunter, with a 2-0 lead, one out and one on in the eighth inning.
Garrett and Felix Millan singled, cutting the lead to a run, but Knowles recovered to strike out Staub.
Yogi Berra said that was the biggest out of the series, Knowles said.
It took giving up back-to-back hits for that to happen, so it wasnt ideal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Fingers got the final four outs of Game 6, and on the morning of Game 7, Knowles learned that no pitcher had ever worked all seven games of a World Series.
He knew he might have a chance to be the first, but it almost never came.
Fingers entered Game 7 with one out in the sixth, and held a 5-1 lead with two outs in the ninth.
But when first baseman Gene Tenace booted a grounder by Ed Kranepool, scoring a run, the left-handed Garrett came to the plate as the potential tying run.
Knowles got his turn, retiring Garrett on a pop fly to short for the final out.
I told Dick Williams after Game 7, Youre the dumbest manager I ever played for you took out Rollie Fingers and you brought me in!
Knowles said.
But he played everything by the book, and it worked out.
Knowles and Garrett are friends now; both live in Florida, and they sometimes golf together.
Every time he sees him, Knowles said, he reminds Garrett of that final out which he got without even using his left-on-left advantage.
I threw him three Nolan Ryan fastballs, Knowles said, laughing.
I pitched all seven games and I think I threw only one slider all series.
I was having trouble with it, so I junked it.
I was not a power guy, but I had movement.
All pitchers learn to improvise when their best weapons betray them, and Morrow could not do it in Game 5.
But on Tuesday he helped get the World Series to Game 7, where he could a record.
You just try to dig inside, Morrow said, and pull everything out that youve got.
As Major League Baseballs postseason is nearing the biggest celebration of all the Houston Astros need one more victory to win the World Series, the Dodgers need two it seems appropriate to ask: Where does this ritual come from?
Great question, but I have no idea, said Cubs reliever Pedro Strop, who celebrated a lot last year when his team snapped a 108-year drought and finally won the Series.
He was speaking during a slippery and sticky moment this month after the Cubs beat the Washington Nationals in a five-game division series.
Its been like this for years, he added.
Its actually really fun.
Its like its raining and youre running around to avoid getting wet.
Few, if any, sports seem to celebrate achievements as much as baseball teams do.
In the other major professional sports leagues in North America, teams do not usually pop the corks until they win an actual championship.
Photo But that may be because other major sports do not play nearly as many games as baseball teams do.
The 162-game regular season in baseball is twice as voluminous as the seasons in the N.B.A.
and the N.H.L., and has about 10 times as many games as the N.F.L.
season.
So if a team clinches a playoff spot during the season even if it is just the right to play in the win-or-go-home wild-card game it is usually reason enough to break open the champagne and beer.
I always think its silly to do it celebrating a division or getting the wild card, McCarthy said.
But then I thought about that.
You might never get back there.
If thats the only time when youre first up, why not?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story If a major league team clinches a wild-card spot, wins the wild-card game, captures a division series and the league championship series, and then prevails in the World Series, that means five raucous, alcohol-filled celebrations in perhaps five or six weeks time.
Four of them could occur within the span of three weeks in the postseason.
Its extreme to go from nothing to four celebrations if you win, said Los Angeles outfielder Curtis Granderson, who has reached the World Series three times in his career with the Dodgers, Tigers and Mets.
Its always been interesting to me.
Baseball championship celebrations involving champagne and beer have their roots in amateur baseball, dating back to the 19th century, according to research by John Thorn, the official historian of Major League Baseball.
In the 20th century, there are instances of rambunctious festivities that go back to at least the 1940s.
One involved the Brooklyn Dodgers, who in 1941 won their first National League pennant in 21 years.
The clinching victory came against the Braves in Boston.
Afterward, Larry McPhail, the Dodgers president, arranged for champagne to be stocked on the train for the teams ride back to New York.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
By the time the train reached its destination, the Dodgers were hilarious and the train was a wreck, according to a newspaper account of their arrival.
One of the Dodgers coaches, Chuck Dressen, had his shirt ripped off in the merriment, the article said.
Two players, Pee Wee Reese and Pete Reiser, prowled up and down the aisles squirting everybody with champagne.
Alcohol was also part of the postgame celebration after the legendary home run that Bobby Thomson hit in 1951 to allow the New York Giants to snatch the pennant from the Dodgers.
And after the Dodgers won the 1956 N.L.
pennant, their celebration was described as such in The New York Times: Beer and champagne were being poured over the heads and into the hip pockets of those who still had uniforms on.
Photo The celebrations have continued since then, but with various twists.
Many players now use goggles, regardless of what Kershaw thinks.
Not surprisingly, the New Era Cap Company, which makes the official caps for Major League Baseball, is now in the goggle business, too.
One goggle-wearer is Josh Reddick, the Astros right fielder, who is notorious for his champagne-drenched reveling while wearing only stars-and-stripes briefs.
He does not care if he looks ridiculous.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I love it, he said in an interview last week.
For as long as I can remember, this is the way its been, so thats what Im accustomed to and Ive gotten used to.
So I dont look at it from that perspective, like it being awkward, but its just what Ive known and look forward to as a player.
Major League Baseball has tried to curb over-the-top celebrations with periodic guidelines concerning such things as the quantity of alcohol available or transportation provided for players and staff.
Some players and baseball executives acknowledge they have not really thought about alternative ways to whoop it up.
Karim Garcia, a retired outfielder from Mexico who spent parts of 10 seasons in the major leagues, said he was surprised when he first took part in a division-clinching celebration with the Dodgers in 1995.
As it does now, most of the alcohol, including some expensive champagne, ended up on the floor or sprayed on the ceiling, and went unconsumed.
It was a great experience, and then you realize: Why are you spraying and wasting it?
Better to drink it, he said.
We probably should have just sprayed beer.
Its just one of those traditions thats been around awhile and you just follow it.
I think its the only place that we do it like this.
After winning titles in Mexican League baseball, Garcia said, his teams celebrated only with beer because it was cheaper.
Astros reliever Tyler Clippard, a veteran of 11 major league seasons, said: It is weird.
But what else would you do?
In the Indy 500, they drink milk.
Thats way weirder.
What should you do?
Spray orange juice?
Farhan Zaidi, the Dodgers general manager, said spraying so much beer and champagne was probably not the greatest bang-for-the-buck expense that we have as an organization, but its a tradition and this sport is full of it.
If the celebration for winning different rounds of the playoffs was an elaborate high five, thats what everybody would do and then go home, he added.
Its just what people have always done.
But if aliens landed from another planet and saw this, they would think it was pretty bizarre.
Now, it seems, the Astros have learned to play the modern game better than anyone else.
In a major league season that included more home runs than ever before, the Astros led all teams in slugging percentage while also having the fewest strikeouts.
In that way, Game 5 was their masterpiece.
The Astros got homers from Yuli Gurriel, Jose Altuve, George Springer, Carlos Correa and Brian McCann, and fanned just six times in 47 trips to the plate.
The final batted ball was a two-out single to left by Alex Bregman off the Dodgers Kenley Jansen.
Derek Fisher, a rookie pinch-runner, had been inserted just before that pitch for the first time in the series.
He dashed home from second, slid his orange spikes across the plate, ahead of the throw, and popped up to embrace McCann, the veteran who had told him he would do something special.
You never know when your times going to be, but youre going to have a time, Fisher said McCann had promised him.
And its going to be an important time.
For the winning run to score on such a play a first-pitch line drive, a two-base sprint and a smooth final slide was oddly reassuring.
Most of what came before was another home run derby, the second of the series.
In Game 2 at Dodger Stadium last week, the teams combined for a record eight homers in a comeback victory for the Astros, by 7-6, in 11 innings.
I didnt think that would ever be topped, said Bregman, who debuted in the majors last year.
I thought that would be the best game I ever played in my career.
Who knows where this one ranks?
Right up there with that game.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The teams have combined for 22 homers in five games, breaking the World Series record of 21 set in seven games in 2002, the last year before baseball began testing for steroids.
One theory for the new power surge is that hitters have learned to tailor their swings to launch more fly balls, reasoning that fly balls produce more runs than grounders.
Many pitchers, though, suspect the balls are juiced because baseball wants more offense, as the Astros Dallas Keuchel asserted after the Game 2 slugfest.
Before Sundays game, another Astros pitcher, Justin Verlander, told a roomful of reporters that the balls for this World Series were slicker, making them harder to grip and leading to erratic location.
McCann who hit last in the Astros lineup on Sunday despite 12 seasons as one of the best slugging catchers in baseball gave a more nuanced explanation.
Then it was the Dodgers turn, rallying for three runs to tie it in the ninth inning, the last of which came on Chris Taylors two-out, two-strike single that scored Austin Barnes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But it was the Astros who had the last word in the 10th inning, and while their clubhouse was a mixture of exhaustion and elation afterward, the Dodgers were resolute.
This is not going to be finished on Tuesday, said Los Angeles outfielder Yasiel Puig.
There is going to be a Game 7.
In a World Series that has come to be defined by the unpredictable and unexpected, it was only fitting that one night, after a lights-out pitchers duel between the heretofore unremarkable Alex Wood and Charlie Morton, a slugfest would unfold that sent the Cy Young Award winners Clayton Kershaw and Dallas Keuchel to early exits.
And Puigs two-run homer off Chris Devenski in the ninth inning, which brought the Dodgers within 12-11, was the 22nd of the Series, breaking the previous record, set in 2002 by the San Francisco Giants and the Anaheim Angels over seven games.
Photo I cant tell you how many times Ive said this is the craziest game of my life, said Musgrove, who blanked the Dodgers in the 10th inning to get the win.
I mean, again, tonight, this is the craziest game of my life.
In this series, the Astros have shown not only lockdown starting pitching, dynamic defense and the type of prodigious power that invites bat flips.
They have also flaunted the resilience of a champion.
Twice the Astros have rallied against one of baseballs best closers, Kenley Jansen, and twice on Sunday they rallied against the best pitcher in baseball, Kershaw, who had dominated the Astros in a 3-1 victory in Game 1.
Nobody better exemplified that bounce-back than Springer, the Astros center fielder.
The Dodgers had taken an 8-7 lead in the seventh when Springer made a running dive and missed Cody Bellingers liner, which bounced past him and allowed Enrique Hernandez to score all the way from first.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A more cautious and prudent play for Springer would have been to pull back and concede the base hit.
But one reason the Astros are here is their superlative defense, which had rescued them moments earlier when reliever Brad Peacock threw out Justin Turner at third on Hernandezs bunt.
But Springer atoned on the first pitch of the bottom of the seventh, hammering a fastball from Brandon Morrow far over the left-field wall.
Photo Thats about as low to about as high as you could probably feel, Springer said.
I made a bad decision.
I tried to make a play, but I should have stopped.
But then to come out and tie it, thats a feeling that I dont think I can ever describe to anybody.
Springers was the third home run of the game for the Astros at that point and both of the previous two, a three-run blast by Yuli Gurriel in the fourth off Kershaw and a three-run drive by Jose Altuve in the fifth off Kenta Maeda, had also tied the score.
This was by far the craziest game Ive ever been a part of and will probably ever be a part of, said Bellinger, who hit a three-run homer in the fifth off Collin McHugh that gave the Dodgers a lead.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Astros were not done after Springers home run.
Bregman followed him with a sharp single, and Altuve added a drive into the left-center gap, chasing Bregman home to put the Astros ahead for the first time, 9-8.
With the crowd still on its feet, Carlos Correa hit a towering fly ball to left that seemed to scrape the roof of the ballpark, the type of shot that would be a home run in an elevator shaft or, as it turns out, in Minute Maid Park.
Left fielder Joc Pederson drifted to the wall, but the ball landed in the first row of the Crawford Boxes the left-field seats that abut Crawford Avenue outside the ballpark.
When the ball settled in the stands, Correa who had stopped near first base pounded his chest and pointed to his teammates in the first-base dugout as the orange-clad crowd erupted again.
Photo In a span of six pitches, the Astros had gone from trailing by a run to seizing an 11-8 lead.
Of course, with the Astros beleaguered bullpen, it would not be enough.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Corey Seagers double in the eighth closed the gap to 11-9, but Peacock stranded two runners to keep the Dodgers at bay.
McCann added a solo homer in the bottom of the inning to restore the three-run lead, but again it was not enough.
After Puigs one-out homer in the ninth brought the Dodgers within one, Barnes followed with a double and advanced to third on a groundout.
Taylor then delivered, lining a 2-2 changeup from Devenski up the middle.
He shook his fist as he reached first base, signaling that the Dodgers were not done.
Neither, though, were the Astros.
In the 10th, McCann was hit by a pitch from Jansen, advanced to second on a walk to Springer and then was pinch-run for by Fisher, who crossed the plate to end it.
Drama is at an all-time high, McCann said.
Youre on every pitch, your focus is through the roof.
You have to be ready for anything, thinking two, three steps ahead, constant communication.
Its more mentally exhausting than physically.
But for a 13-year veteran playing in his first World Series, there were no complaints.
A good nights sleep and a trip to Los Angeles awaited.
This is what I signed up for, McCann said.
Ive been waiting my whole life for this moment.
Photo HOUSTON No World Series has had as many home runs through the first four games as this one.
Heading into Game 5 on Sunday, the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Houston Astros had smashed 15 of them, putting the teams on pace to break the World Series record of 21, set in 2002.
Naturally, perhaps, pitchers are citing the baseball as a culprit.
I know Mr. Manfred said the balls havent changed, but I think theres enough information out there to say thats not true, said the Astros Justin Verlander, referring to Commissioner Rob Manfred.
I think the main complaint is that the balls seem a little bit different in the postseason, and even from the postseason to the World Series balls, Verlander said Theyre a little slick.
You just deal with it.
But I dont think its the case of one pitcher saying, Hey, something is different here.
I think as a whole everybody is saying, Whoa, something is a little off here.
After Game 2, which included a single-game World Series-record eight home runs, the Astros Dallas Keuchel said the balls were juiced because Major League Baseball wanted more offense.
In an online report Sunday, several pitchers told Sports Illustrateds Tom Verducci that the slickness of the World Series balls has kept them from throwing their best sliders.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Slicker leather affects a pitchers ability to pull down on an off-speed pitch, and the loss of friction would affect the tightness of the spin.
The Dodgers Yu Darvish and the Astros Ken Giles are pitchers who rely on sliders, and both have struggled in the World Series.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Darvish and others told Verducci the balls were slicker, though not all pitchers are convinced.
The Dodgers Rich Hill, who will oppose Verlander in Game 6 and throws more curveballs than sliders, said he thought the balls felt the same.
Gonzalez got credit for the throws from the outfield that nabbed Bostons Mitch Moreland in Game 4 of the division series and Greg Bird of the Yankees in Game 1 of the A.L.C.S.
Bregman was the one who threw from third to cut down Bird in Game 7 of the A.L.C.S.
and the Dodgers Austin Barnes on Saturday.
In both of the plays involving Bregman, there were runners on first and third with one out.
Each time, Bregman fielded a grounder and threw quickly to McCann to beat the runner.
Photo Two first-and-third plays, McCann said, marveling after the play on Barnes.
You dont see that but a couple of times a year.
For it to happen twice in the postseason is just phenomenal.
The Dodgers went on to win Game 4, 6-2, to even the World Series at two games apiece.
But at the time that Bregman and McCann made the play, it was a scoreless game in the top of the sixth inning.
With Charlie Morton pitching for the Astros, Chris Taylor hit a slow bouncer toward third and Bregman charged it, short-hopped the ball with his glove, exchanged it quickly into his throwing hand and threw to McCann while on the run.
His throw arrived so quickly that Barnes stopped in the base path and tried to turn back toward third, but he fell and had no chance as McCann tagged him out.
Bregman then hit a home run in the bottom of the inning to give Houston a 1-0 lead that wound up being temporary.
Bregman said the foundation of the play on Saturday night was the same as the one in Game 7 of the A.L.C.S., when he gunned down Bird of the Yankees with a remarkable throw that met McCanns glove at the exact point where Bird was sliding into the plate.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In that game, the Yankees Todd Frazier was at the plate with Houston leading, 1-0, in the top of the fifth inning in a decisive Game 7.
Bregman looked into the Astros dugout at the infield coach Alex Cora, who will become the Red Sox manager after the World Series.
Cora put his finger to his head, signaling that Bregman should think before the play about what he would do if the ball was hit to him.
If the ball was hit hard, he could gamble and go for an inning-ending double play while the runner at third raced home.
But if the ball was hit more slowly, leaving no chance for a double play, Bregman would throw home and let McCann try to tag the runner.
Which is what he did.
Frazier hit a chopper, Bregman grabbed it and threw, and Bird was out.
The Astros went on to widen their lead and clinch the American League pennant.
Photo In Saturdays game, Bregman said, he knew there was a good chance that he would see another slow ground ball off Mortons pitches, so he cheated a bit by moving a few steps toward the plate.
But the communication with Cora was the same.
Exact same thing, Bregman said.
I looked into the dugout and Cora said, Think.
The thought process is, Hey, if its not absolutely rocketed at you, lets take the out at the plate and keep the game 0-0.
McCann said his role in those plays was simply to catch the ball and lay down the tag, but it is more than that.
The sequences occur rapidly: With a player on the other team bearing down on him at full speed, he must look for a baseball being thrown to him while also making sure he is allowing the runner a path to the plate.
Something can easily go wrong.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
After all, the Yankees, who traded McCann to the Astros after last season, had considerable difficulty making these same kinds of plays in the postseason because their catcher, Gary Sanchez, could not hold on to the ball.
I was lucky to hold on to the one with Bird, McCann said of the play during Game 7 of the A.L.C.S.
Those guys just put it on the money, and all I have to do is tag the runner out.
Marwin has a great arm and he charges the ball really well.
Alex, he doesnt hesitate even for an instant.
Beltran agreed that what had impressed him the most about Bregman on the two throws he made to McCann was his unwavering commitment to the play his guts, as Beltran put it.
Making quality throws in intense moments is not always easy.
Just ask the Mets, who lost the final game of the 2015 World Series in part because their first baseman, Lucas Duda, made a poor throw to the plate that allowed Eric Hosmer to score the trying run in the top of the ninth inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And making quality tags at the plate in huge moments is tough, too.
But McCann, Gonzalez and Bregman are pulling it off, creating an unusual subtext to the postseason with more games still to go.
A.J.
Hinch followed through on his promise not to use his teams struggling closer, Ken Giles, in a high-leverage situation, but the result was roughly the same despite the team coming away with a win.
Chris Devenski, who pitched the ninth inning in what would typically be Giless assignment, surrendered what had been a three-run lead.
Joe Musgrove earned the victory with a scoreless 10th inning, thus becoming the only Astros reliever to record more than one out in the game without allowing a run.
- Want exclusive sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of New York Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
- Heres a look at how the Astros beat the Dodgers in Game 5, inning by inning: Photo Top 1st: Dodgers get to Keuchel early ... again.
Dallas Keuchel spotted Clayton Kershaw three runs in a matchup of aces.
Houstons top starter gave up a leadoff single to Chris Taylor and then with one out, he issued back-to-back walks to Justin Turner and Kike Hernandez.
He struck out Cody Bellinger, but Logan Forsythe laced a two-out single to left that brought in two runs.
An inning where the control artist Keuchel could not find the strike zone got even weirder when Forsythe left too soon on a stolen base attempt and Keuchel threw to first to try to pick him off.
Forsythe was caught between bases and Yulieski Gurriel threw wildly to Jose Altuve at second.
As Altuve struggled to get the ball and then get back to the bag to tag Forsythe, Hernandez raced in from third to score, increasing Houstons lead to 3-0.
The call was challenged by Houston but was upheld.
Keuchel got out of the inning when Yasiel Puig hit a dribbler in front of the plate and was thrown out at first by Brian McCann, but at that point he had already spotted baseballs best pitcher a three-run lead and had thrown 32 pitches.
Bottom 1st: Kershaw takes over with a 3-0 lead.
Clayton Kershaw answered Dallas Keuchels hectic first inning with an incredibly quiet one on his end.
He needed just two pitches to retire George Springer on a grounder to third.
Alex Bregman popped out to center and then Jose Altuve struck out on a slider that went through the heart of the strike zone to end the inning.
As reported on the broadcast, Kershaws career record in games in which he is spotted a three-run lead is 124-19.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Waldstein: The Astros have some work to do offensively after an uncharacteristically sloppy top of the first.
Two walks and two hits given up by Keuchel, a muffed ball by left fielder Marwin Gonzalez and a terrible throw to second base by Yuli Gurriel combined to hand the Dodgers three runs.
Is this really the Astros?
This team can catch it and throw it, as old-timey baseball folks like to say, and Keuchels lack of command was puzzling, too.
Tall order to have to score three runs against Kershaw, but the sliver lining of falling behind early is that they have nine innings to work with ... make that eight.
Astros go down in order in the first.
Photo Top 2nd: Keuchel finds the strike zone.
The real Dallas Keuchel showed up for the second inning, as he needed just 13 pitches to deal with the bottom of the Dodgers order.
Keuchel ran the count full against Austin Barnes but eventually got the catcher to fly out to right.
Charlie Culberson grounded out to short, and Chris Taylor grounded out to third to end the inning.
Bottom 2nd: Kershaw cruises through Astros order.
Another 1-2-3 inning for Clayton Kersaw.
The Dodgers ace induced a grounder to first from Carlos Correa, got Yulieski Gurriel to pop out to first, and then finished things off by getting Josh Reddick to fly out to center.
He has thrown 24 pitches to Dallas Keuchels 45.
Top 3rd: Dodgers go down quietly as Keuchel settles in.
The Dodgers had no answer for Dallas Keuchel in the third.
Corey Seager grounded out to first, Justin Turner flew out to Jose Altuve in short right field and Kike Hernandez hit a comebacker to Keuchel for the final out of the inning.
Thirteen consecutive batters have been retired between the two pitchers since Logan Forsythes two-run single in the first.
Waldstein: Tom Verducci of Sports Illustrated reported that some of the pitchers have complained that the leather on the baseballs in this World Series is slicker than it was during the regular season, making it hard to throw certain pitches, especially sliders.
Baseball denies there is a difference, but the balls have been at issue all year, with many pitchers complaining they are juiced and travel farther than normal.
It does not seem to be bothering one Clayton Kershaw.
Photo Bottom 3rd: Astros get a hit, but Kershaw closes the door.
The Astros finally got a hit off Clayton Kershaw when Evan Gattis lined a single to center, but the momentum was short-lived as Marwin Gonzalez grounded into a double-play.
With two outs, Brian McCann grounded out weekly to second to end the inning.
Photo Top 4th: Keuchel is done after Dodgers add an insurance run.
Dallas Keuchel had two outs and a runner on second, having settled into a quiet pitchers duel with Clayton Kershaw after a rough top of the first inning.
But Austin Barnes, perhaps the Dodgers worst hitter, singled on a liner to left which brought Logan Forsythe home from second, extending the Los Angeles lead to 4-0.
Charlie Culberson got an infield single, and A.J.
Hinch decided enough was enough, pulling his starter from the game after he recorded just 11 outs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Luke Gregerson came on in relief and struck out Chris Taylor on a checked swing to end the inning.
With Keuchels day officially over, his final line was 3 2/3 innings, five hits and four runs (three earned).
He struck out four and walked two.
Waldstein: When you have Keuchel on the mound and have to get Gregerson up in the fourth inning, you know things arent going well.
Keuchel threw 86 pitches.
Maybe if there is a Game 7 he can toss an inning or two in relief, if it ever gets there.
Photo Bottom 4th: Gurriels blast ties the game, 4-4.
Clayton Kershaw cruised through three innings, but he started the fourth with a walk to George Springer.
He was able to retire Alex Bregman on a fly to left, but then Jose Altuve singled, Carlos Correa doubled and Yulieski Gurriel hit a three-run homer and suddenly the Astros and Dodgers were tied, 4-4.
Kershaw settled down to retire Josh Reddick on a pop-out to first, and got out of the inning when Evan Gattis flew out to left.
Gurriels home run is especially intriguing after Commissioner Rob Manfreds decision to suspend him for a racist gesture he made in the dugout in Game 3.
The suspension could have gone into effect immediately, which would have kept him out of this game, but Manfred decided to have him remain eligible for the World Series and have his suspension start at the beginning of the 2018 season.
Waldstein: Many people, especially Dodger fans, were arguing that Yuli Gurriel should have been suspended for one World Series game for his racist gesture on the bench in Game 3, instead of five regular season games next year.
He did nothing in Game 4, but in Game 5 he came through with the hit of the series so far, smashing a Kershaw slider over the plate.
The ball hit the signs over the seats in the left field bleachers.
Maybe Kershaw cant grip the ball properly, after all.
Photo Top 5th: Bellingers blast puts the Dodgers back on top.
Collin McHugh replaced Luke Gregerson to start the inning, and the counterintuitive move to use a reliever who has barely pitched in the postseason backfired as he allowed two walks and then gave up a three-run home run to Cody Bellinger that gave Los Angeles a 7-4 lead.
McHugh, who started 12 games for Houston during the regular season, had just one previous appearance in this years postseason.
He pitched four shutout innings in the Astros Game 3 loss to the Yankees in the A.L.C.S.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story McHugh recovered from Bellingers blast to retire Logan Forsythe on a fly to right and ended the half-inning by striking out Yasiel Puig on a high fastball that the slugging outfielder simply waved at.
Waldstein: Biggest no-nos in pitching: Dont walk the leadoff batter in an inning and dont give back a lead after your batters have worked to tie a game or go ahead.
McHugh did it all and the Houston fans are quiet and depressed again.
Photo Bottom 5th: Astros chase Kershaw, then Altuve ties the game.
The fifth inning finally ended, but not before the Houston Astros tied the game at 7-7.
Clayton Kershaw was pulled from the game with two men on and two out, but Kenta Maeda, one of the Dodgers top relievers, could not get the job done, allowing Jose Altuve to crush a three-run homer to center.
Maeda followed up the home by run giving up a single to Carlos Correa with Correa advancing to second on a bad throw but got out of the inning when Yulieski Gurriel grounded out to short.
Kershaws final line for the night was 4 2/3 innings, four hits and six earned runs.
He struck out two and walked one.
Photo Waldstein: Its hard to adequately describe the complete energy shifts that have taken place in this building, first with Gurriels 3-run homer, then Bellingers 3-run homer dampening it down, and then Altuves reigniting the thunderous cheers.
The fans were chanting M.V.P.
with a deep, throaty insistence, and Altuve put everything he had into one mighty swing from his diminutive body.
The ball went about 450 feet down the left field line, but foul.
Then, on the next pitch from Kenta Maeda, Altuve straightened it out.
Swinging as hard as he could again, he blasted the ball about as high as it was long and the fans, led by base runner George Springer with his arms aloft, erupted.
Quite a buzz in here now.
Everyone knows they are witnessing a remarkable game in a fun World Series.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Top 6th: McHugh gets the job done for Astros.
Collin McHugh got bailed out after allowing three runs in the fifth inning, and he responded to that support by working around a one-out walk in a scoreless inning.
He finished off the frame by freezing Corey Seager on a 90 mile-per-hour fastball on the outside corner for strike three.
Waldstein: This time, Collin McHugh doesnt hand back the lead, so better job by him.
Its funny, as colleague Billy Witz noted, when Charlie Morton and Alex Wood squared off in Game 4, it was a shutout pitching duel through five, and when the Cy Young Award winners Clayton Kershaw and Dallas Keuchel take the mound for Game 5, there are two touchdowns on the board after five innings.
I think those guys are gassed here on October 29.
Bottom 6th: Astros bats quiet down some.
The chess game of relievers continues.
Kenta Maeda had Josh Reddick flailing at strike three to start the half-inning, but he walked Evan Gattis so Dave Roberts chose to pull him.
The move to Tony Watson made Marwin Gonzalez bat right-handed, and that proved beneficial as Gonzalez, who is a much better left-handed hitter, flew out to right.
Brian McCann then grounded a ball right into the shift for the third out of the inning.
Photo Top 7th: Bellinger puts the Dodgers on top again.
Brad Peacock, who was the anchor of Houstons bullpen in Game 3, was out to start the seventh even though Manager A.J.
Hinch had intended to give him the day off.
The right-hander started off poorly, allowing Justin Turner to rap a double off the center field wall, but he showed some defensive versatility by fielding a sacrifice bunt attempt from Kike Hernandez and wheeling around to throw Turner out at third.
The good fortune did not last.
The next batter was Cody Bellinger and the rookie lined a ball up the middle that a diving George Springer could not come up with.
Hernandez scored from first and Bellinger ended up with a stand-up triple.
With one run in and one out, Peacock got a called strike three against Logan Forsythe and then got out of the inning when Yasiel Puig flew out to left.
Waldstein: There was a lot to digest in the top of the 7th.
First of all, why would the Dodgers have Enrique Hernandez, batting fourth, drop down a bunt in the seventh inning of a game where runs are coming in bunches?
He put down a terrible bunt and Brad Peacock, without hesitation, spun and fired to third base to get Justin Turner easily.
But the Astros go from crisp defense to a really bad blunder when George Springer lets a sinking liner get behind him for a run-scoring triple by Cody Bellinger (scoring Hernandez from first).
If Springer played that ball on a hop, the Dodgers are at first and second with out and a double play ball gets them out of the inning.
Its doubtful this game will end with this score, anyway.
Photo Bottom 7th: Astros lead after Springer and Correa go long.
Brandon Morrow had been a reliable reliever for the Dodgers all postseason, but pitching on a third consecutive day for the first time in his career, the right-hander Morrow allowed a deep home run to George Springer on his first pitch of the game, gave up a single to Alex Bregman on his second pitch, and then watched as Jose Altuves long fly ball sailed over Joc Pedersons head for a double, allowing Bregman to score.
He threw a wild pitch to Carlos Correa, which allowed Altuve to get to third, and then Correa made that irrelevant by crushing a 96 mile-per-hour sinker over the wall in left for a two-run homer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Now trailing 11-8, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts came out to the mound to replace Morrow with Tony Cingrani, who stopped the bleeding by getting three quick outs, including strikeouts of Yulieski Gurriel and Josh Reddick.
Waldstein: Coming into the game, both teams had 20 home runs in the postseason.
The Dodgers now have 21 and Houston has 24.
The record for one postseason is 27 by the 2002 San Francisco Giants.
The 04 Astros hit 25.
These teams have also combined for 20 home runs in the World Series, and 14 of those have either tied the game or produced a lead.
The record for most home runs in a World Series is 21, set in 2002 with Barry Bondss Giants and the champion Angels.
Photo Top 8th: Dodgers get one back.
The Astros used three relievers in the inning to face six batters, and while they allowed a run on a double by Corey Seager, they kept Houston on top 11-9.
Houston will try to get a few insurance runs in the bottom of the 8th inning, but it is a mystery how the team will handle the top of the 9th since A.J.
Hinch said before the game that he would not use his closer, Ken Giles, in a save situation.
Photo Bottom 8th: McCann stretches Astros lead to 12-9.
Considering the state of the teams bullpen, Houston needed some insurance, and they got it when Brian McCann hit a solo homer that stretched the teams lead to 12-9.
That was all they got as Ross Stripling came in for the Dodgers to settle things down.
Houston is now three outs away from going back to Los Angeles with a 3-2 lead in the best-of-seven series.
Photo Top 9th: Puig homers as Dodgers tie the game again.
The Astros stayed away from Ken Giles, and instead had Chris Devenski come out for the ninth after hed recorded one out in the eighth.
It did not work out as Devenski allowed three runs to send this game to the bottom of the ninth tied 12-12.
Devenski walked Cody Bellinger, struck out Logan Forsythe, and then allowed a one-handed home run to Yasiel Puig that cut the deficit to 12-11.
Austin Barnes made things interesting with a double, but Joc Pederson grounded out to short which brought up Chris Taylor.
Taylor got into a 2-2 count, but he stayed alive and singled to center, scoring Barnes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Corey Seager flied out to center to end the inning, but the Dodgers have come back from their third deficit of three or more runs in one game.
Bottom 9th: Jansen works a scoreless inning.
Kenley Jansen pitched a scoreless half-inning, though Yulieski Gurriel made him sweat on a two-out double to center that caromed off the wall before falling onto the warning track.
Jansen was able to erase the threat by retiring Josh Reddick on a fly ball that fell into Andre Ethiers glove for the third out of the inning.
Photo Top 10th: Musgrove holds Dodgers to one base runner.
Joe Musgrove became the seventh pitcher for the Astros.
He allowed one hit when Andre Ethier took advantage of the shift to poke the ball into left for a single, but he otherwise kept the Dodgers bats quiet.
His teammates now have another chance to win it with a single swing in the bottom half of the inning.
Waldstein: Something to keep an eye on if Jansen stays in the game: the Astros have been getting good swings on him and he has not been as automatic in this World Series as he normally is.
Plus, this game has been a launching pad, as it is.
Bottom 10th: Bregman gets the last laugh.
Kenley Jansen appeared to be cruising.
The Dodgers closer got two quick outs but then unraveled.
He hit Brian McCann with a pitch, walked George Springer and then lost the game when Alex Bregman lined a single to left that was deep enough to bring home pinch-runner Derek Fisher.
It was a game defined by home runs, but won through patience and hustle.
The Astros Charlie Morton faced the minimum 15 batters through five innings, and allowed just three hits and a run in six and one-third innings.
It was the only matchup in World Series history in which both starters allowed four or fewer base runners.
Yet despite efficient pitch counts 84 for Wood, 76 for Morton both starters were gone by the seventh-inning stretch.
Its always in your best interest to take the pitcher out a hitter too early rather than a hitter too late, and Ive always tried to give the reliever a little bit of a leash, Astros Manager A. J. Hinch said.
I always try to give the starter a job well done when he walks off the mound.
But the context of the game is always going to shift and change.
Photo Since the Mets Matt Harvey faltered in the ninth inning of the final game of 2015, managers have refused to let starters go deep in the World Series.
The starters in Game 3 of the Series last fall the Chicago Cubs Kyle Hendricks and the Cleveland Indians Josh Tomlin were both removed in the fifth inning of a scoreless tie.
No starter recorded an out past the sixth inning of that World Series, and through four games of this one, the only starter to complete seven was the Dodgers Clayton Kershaw in Game 1.
Kershaw, who threw just 83 pitches that night, was scheduled for a rematch with Dallas Keuchel in Game 5 here on Sunday.
The idea, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts said, is to predict when trouble might happen and avoid it, upending the traditional notion of riding a starter until he gets tired.
Baseballs very reactionary, Roberts said, explaining that he tries to be proactive and get ahead of something that potentially might happen and to go a direction that might increase your chances marginally.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Dodgers have done this all year.
In the regular season, they had the fewest starts in the majors of at least 100 pitches, with their pitchers reaching that threshold just 24 times half by Kershaw.
In the 12 games the Dodgers had played in this postseason entering Sunday, only Kershaw had thrown 85 pitches in a start.
Were very into analytics here, and numbers say the third time through the order, things kind of fall apart sometimes, Morrow said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I dont think we necessarily anticipated that with Woody throwing the ball as well as he was.
Even though he gave up a home run there, hes more than able to come back and throw two or three more innings, Im sure.
Games like this, you make the decision.
Robertss decisions guided the Dodgers to 104 victories in the regular season, the most in the franchises six decades in Los Angeles.
They now have a chance to finish this World Series at Dodger Stadium on Tuesday or Wednesday, so they might be on to something.
Yet, for Wood and his fellow starter Rich Hill who was pulled after four innings, one run and just 60 pitches in Game 2 the numbers do not spike drastically after the second time through the order.
Photo In the regular season, Hill kept hitters to a .162 average when facing them for the third or fourth time in a game.
Against Wood in such situations, the average was .222.
Then again, Roberts and Hinch he of the similarly analytics-minded Astros have reams of proprietary data to prepare them for nearly every possible in-game decision.
They work closely with their front offices in a manner that the Yankees, who dismissed Joe Girardi last week after 10 winning seasons, will seek from their next manager.
Roberts invited scrutiny in Game 2 after pulling Hill so early.
The game went into extra innings, and by the time it reached the top of the 11th, Roberts was down to one reliever, Brandon McCarthy, who had not pitched in the entire postseason.
McCarthy faltered, and the Dodgers lost.
But those circumstances arose only because Kenley Jansen, who is normally infallible, blew the save in Game 2 after being handed a two-run lead in the eighth inning by the four Dodgers relievers who preceded him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When the other relievers hold a lead for Jansen, Roberts has essentially done his job, regardless of the final outcome.
Even with meticulous planning, it is the players, not the manager, who control the results.
So it was in Game 4 of the Series, when Morton left with a 1-0 lead in the seventh inning but the bullpen gave up six runs behind him.
It was natural to wonder what might have been had Morton stayed in the game, and Hinch understood.
You can draw it out perfectly and map it out, but you never know how the other outcome would have been, he said.
Everybody in baseball thinks that the other way would have been perfectly good, and we dont know.
We do know that bullpen usage is changing, and starters rarely determine the outcome on their own anymore.
They have gotten to the World Series this way, and accept it.
We havent really had to work too hard so far in the playoffs, Wood said, paying tribute to the Dodgers bullpen.
Theyve been absolutely nails.
The Dodgers battered the Astros bullpen in the ninth inning on Saturday night, with Bellinger delivering a double off closer Ken Giles to put Los Angeles ahead, 2-1.
And after a sacrifice fly by Austin Barnes made it 3-1, Joc Pederson blasted a three-run homer off Joe Musgrove to end any suspense.
The Astros managed only two hits all night solo homers by George Springer with two outs in the sixth and by Alex Bregman with two outs in the ninth.
Photo The late Dodgers outburst came after an unlikely pitchers duel between the teams No.
4 starters, Alex Wood of the Dodgers and Charlie Morton of the Astros.
Wood carried a no-hitter into the sixth on Saturday, when Springer produced the games first run with his homer.
Morton was only slightly less flawless, facing the minimum number of batters through five innings.
Thus far, each game has delivered an unexpected element.
Game 1 came with extreme 103-degree heat.
Game 2 brought a rare blown save by Dodgers closer Kenley Jansen and late, no-quit, home run-fueled comebacks by both teams.
And Game 3 was marred by a racist gesture by Astros first baseman Yuli Gurriel.
Gurriels act, in which he stretched the side of his eyes after hitting a home run off the Dodgers Japanese pitcher Yu Darvish, provided the backdrop for Game 4.
On Saturday afternoon, Commissioner Rob Manfred suspended Gurriel for five games at the start of the 2018 season, but chose not to discipline him for this Series, in part because he did not want to penalize the rest of the Astros.
His decision drew support from Roberts, whose mother is Japanese.
I think that it gives us all some closure in the sense that it was something that happened, Roberts said.
The way that it was dealt with, I support.
Gurriel, who received modest cheers from Astros fans when he came to the plate for his first at-bat on Saturday, was not a factor as Game 4 proceeded.
But Bellinger was.
Photo Bellinger, who made his Dodgers debut when veteran Adrian Gonzalez was injured this season, generally carries himself well beyond his years, owing to a reserved personality and the preparation provided by his father, Clay, who won two World Series rings with the Yankees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hes got no pulse; he really doesnt have a memory, either, said Dodgers shortstop Corey Seager, who is 23 and in his third postseason.
He forgets things.
Things go away.
Thats what you have to do in baseball you have to forget the past, forget your last AB and move onto the next one.
Thats what he did tonight.
But Bellingers breakout night did come with a thought process on his part.
He was hitless in 13 at-bats, including eight strikeouts four in Game 3 as he came to the plate with one out in the seventh inning against Morton, who was nursing a 1-0 lead.
Earlier, an insight had came to Bellinger when he went out to take batting practice: His teammates Andre Ethier and Logan Forsythe regularly hit the ball the opposite way when taking their pregame swings.
So why not do the same?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I was always told these really good hitters hit the ball the other way in B.P., and I had never done it and I wanted to try it, said the left-handed hitting Bellinger, who proceeded to hit every ball to left field during the practice session.
The struggles Bellinger endured in the Series were not unlike those of another ballyhooed rookie the Yankees Aaron Judge who emerged from a postseason slump midway through the American League Championship Series against the same Astros team Bellinger was now facing.
I watched and we were identical, striking out a lot, swinging at a lot of off-speed pitches that we dont normally swing at, Bellinger said of Judge.
I think thats the pressure of the postseason sometimes.
Photo The Astros had put Bellinger in a funk by throwing him back-foot breaking balls and fastballs away pitches that are difficult to pull.
But when Morton threw a 3-2 curveball to him in the seventh, he left it over the plate and Bellinger drove it the opposite way.
Left fielder Marwin Gonzalez gave chase, but could not track it down.
As Bellinger coasted into second with a double, he raised his hands and gazed upward as if to give thanks for his first hit of the series.
It was also enough to chase Morton.
He had survived the top of the sixth after Astros third baseman Alex Bregman threw Barnes out at home to keep the game scoreless.
It was almost identical to a pivotal play Bregman made in Game 7 of the A.L.C.S., when he gunned down the Yankees Greg Bird at home to preserve a 1-0 lead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But after Bellingers double an inning later, Astros Manager A. J. Hinch had a brief conversation with Morton on the mound and then called on his rested bullpen.
Will Harris came on to retire Yasiel Puig on a deep fly to right field, but Forsythe followed by lining a 2-0 fastball for a single that easily scored Bellinger.
The Dodgers werent done.
In the ninth, Giles who surrendered a two-run lead in Game 2 gave up a single to Seager and a walk to Justin Turner.
Bellinger followed by driving a 1-0 fastball into the left-center gap for a double that scored Seager and sent Turner to third.
The double he hit to left-center, he stayed on that curveball pretty good, Astros catcher Brian McCann said of the first double.
And the one in the ninth, he cheated on the heater.
They were not the swings of an overmatched youngster, or of someone weighed down by the moment.
Instead, they were taken by someone who understood what to remember and what to forget, and the result was a World Series that might end up going the distance.
Obviously, Manfred said, World Series games are different than regular-season games.
Among the other reasons Manfred cited for delaying the suspension, this stands out: I felt it was unfair to punish the other 24 players on the Astros roster, he said.
I wanted the burden of this discipline to fall primarily on the wrongdoer.
Denying Gurriel a chance to help his team in the World Series would have severely affected him.
It would also have allowed a fleeting gesture an ugly one, for sure, but one that was done in the dugout, not on the field, and that did not appear to be premeditated to unduly influence the World Series.
Photo And yet, given that reasoning by Manfred, these tough words from him on Saturday There is no place in our game for the behavior or any behavior like the behavior we witnessed last night seem somewhat contradictory.
Gurriel, after all, is still playing.
But Manfred was right in saying that World Series games are far more significant than a midseason game for the Oakland As or the Toronto Blue Jays.
Maybe that sounds crass, but there is no disputing it.
And while Manfred would not declare five games as the new standard price for intolerant words or actions during a game he said he would deal with each situation on its own merits the penalty for Gurriel does exceed all recent punishments, including the three-game ban given to Yunel Escobar, then of Toronto, for wearing eye black inscribed with an anti-gay slur in 2012.
Gurriel, for his part, said after Fridays game that he was surprised by the furor over his gesture.
He mentioned his experiences in Japan he played for the Yokohama BayStars in 2014 and said that he respected Japanese people.
I did not want to offend anybody, he said through an interpreter.
As for his characterization of Darvish as a chinito, a word that can be demeaning to Asians, Gurriel said that in Cuba, the term applies to anyone who is Asian, not just to Japanese people, although that did not amount to much of an excuse.
In any case, he added that he understood he was wrong.
In a statement on Saturday, Gurriel apologized to Darvish and called his gesture indefensible.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Not surprisingly, both managers in the Series were asked to comment on Gurriel and his punishment.
We support everything thats right about this game, and well move forward, if everyone will allow us to, Astros Manager A. J. Hinch said.
Knowing Yuli, knowing what he will do to convince everyone that this incident was not in his heart, will be key.
Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts, who was born in Japan and whose mother is Japanese, said he approved of the way Manfred had handled the incident.
Gurriel, who was batting .340 in the postseason and was in the starting lineup for Game 4, has delivered on his promise since the Astros signed him for five years and $47.5 million after he defected last year.
He made a smooth transition from third base to first while batting .299 with 18 homers, 75 runs batted in and 43 doubles this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Hes a great hitter, said Jose Altuve, the Astros star second baseman, one of the best Ive ever seen, to be honest with you.
It was, officially, Gurriels rookie season.
But at 33 years old, after playing professionally for 15 seasons in Cuba and Japan, Gurriel is a rookie in name only.
He comes from a prominent baseball family in Cuba, and spent most of his prime years there.
I could have left at 22 or something like other players and spent their entire careers here and maybe that would have been better, Gurriel said in Spanish at a workout in Los Angeles on Monday.
But no, I dont regret it.
I had the chance to play my entire life in Cuba and enjoy those great moments, and the chance to play in Japan.
God wanted me to be here in this moment now, and Im enjoying this.
The Astros have such a deep offense that their leader in runs batted in, Marwin Gonzalez, batted eighth in Game 3.
That suits Gurriel, who said he felt pressure to carry his Cuban teams but does not have the same feeling here.
In Cuba, if I didnt hit, I lost, he said.
If I did hit, it was normal and what I was supposed to do.
So it was really hard to please people.
Its been different here in this lineup.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story At the same group interview in which he made those comments, Gurriel was asked a question by a Japanese reporter.
He answered with a few words in Japanese before continuing in Spanish.
I identified a lot with the Japanese public, Gurriel said.
It was a really great experience.
Yet with one gesture on Friday, Gurriel turned what should have been an experience to celebrate into something much different.
And left Manfred to untangle it.
Photo HOUSTON Yuli Gurriel, the Houston Astros first baseman who was seen making a racist gesture in the dugout during Game 3 of the World Series on Friday night, has been given a five-game suspension without pay that will begin at the start of the 2018 season.
The suspension, which was handed down by Rob Manfred, the commissioner of Major League Baseball, is the largest levied against a player for a public act of intolerance during a baseball game, exceeding by two games the suspension of Yunel Escobar, who was penalized for gay slurs written on his eye black strips in 2012.
Manfreds decision, which he announced in a Saturday afternoon news conference, means that Gurriel will not have to sit out any of the remaining games of the World Series.
The Los Angeles Dodgers tied the Series at two games apiece with a 6-2 victory on Saturday night.
Photo Gurriel is scheduled to earn $12 million in 2018 and will lose roughly $320,855 because of the suspension.
He will also have to undergo sensitivity training.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There is no excuse or explanation that makes that type of behavior acceptable, Manfred said.
During Game 3 of the Series on Friday, Gurriel, who defected from Cuba in 2016, hit a home run off Dodgers pitcher Yu Darvish in the bottom of the second inning.
After Gurriel returned to the dugout, he was captured on camera smiling and then raising his hands as if to stretch the sides of his eyes.
It seemed to be a clear, and pointedly insensitive, reference to Darvish, who is from Japan.
After Game 3 ended in a Houston victory, Gurriel was besieged by reporters, and he told them through an interpreter that he did not intend to offend Darvish.
He maintained that he was telling teammates that maybe Darvish thought he was Japanese and that is why he gave him a good pitch to hit.
Photo Darvish issued a statement Friday night forgiving Gurriel and asking people to learn from the incident.
HOUSTON The list of stellar pitchers that the Houston Astros lineup has toppled this postseason is impressive: Chris Sale, Craig Kimbrel, Luis Severino, Aroldis Chapman and Kenley Jansen all among the best at their craft.
And by the second inning of Game 3 of the World Series on Friday night, the Astros had struck again, this time getting the best of another prestigious pitcher the Los Angeles Dodgers Yu Darvish.
They shelled him for four runs and forced him to make him an unceremonious exit after getting only five outs.
The end result was a 5-3 victory that gave the Astros a lead of two games to one in the Series, with Game 4 scheduled for Saturday night at Minute Maid Park.
The Astros are now 7-0 in their ballpark this postseason, and the Dodgers trail for the first time in a 2017 postseason series.
The victory displayed the dynamism of the Astros offense.
After being limited to one run in Game 1, the Astros scored 12 over the next two games.
The win also underscored the versatility of pitcher Brad Peacock.
Used mainly as a starter this season, Peacock took over for Lance McCullers Jr. in the sixth and fired three and two-thirds hitless innings to complete the game, earning the first save of his career and ensuring that the work of the Astros lineup would hold up.
Photo When I was out there, a couple of times I got the chills from them screaming so loud, Peacock said of the Astros fans.
Advertisement On Baseball A World Series Twist: First Loves Become the Enemy Image Fernando Valenzuela pitching for the Dodgers in 1988.
He was the favorite player of Jeff Luhnow, who is now the general manager of the Houston Astros.
Credit HOUSTON From the field here Thursday night, after a workout for his Los Angeles Dodgers, Andrew Friedman gestured to the seats behind third base.
It was there, at a different Houston ballpark, where he once rooted for the Astros in the postseason.
The day before, Jeff Luhnow had done the same thing at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles.
Luhnow, who built the Houston Astros, pointed to the spot on the third-base loge level where he once cheered for the Dodgers in the playoffs.
Friedman, who runs the Dodgers baseball operations, grew up an Astros fan.
Luhnow, who does the same for the Astros, grew up a Dodgers fan.
Now their teams are meeting in the World Series , with the Astros striving to bring the first title in franchise history to a region recovering from Hurricane Harvey.
I think for any city that hasnt yet experienced it, it would be significant, said Friedman, 40, who was born in Houston and attended nearby Episcopal High School.
Obviously, with what the city went through recently, it would be very significant.
But Im hoping that the American League championship will suffice.
Luhnow, 50, was born in Mexico City, where his parents ran a publishing business.
He spent his last two years of high school at the Webb School of California in Claremont, near Los Angeles, but was already smitten with the Dodgers by then.
His parents were from New York and rooted for the Yankees, as did Luhnows older brother, Chris, who told him they could not root for the same team.
Luhnow picked the Dodgers, one of the more successful teams of the 1970s.
I watched them on TV sunshine, L.A., the beach, a likable team, I liked the colors, all that, he said.
So they became my team.
Image The Astros Jeff Luhnow lived in Mexico when he was growing up, and the Los Angeles Dodgers were his team.
Credit Bob Levey/Getty Images When Luhnow was 14, in 1981, Fernando Valenzuela profoundly jolted the franchise.
Valenzuela, a pudgy prodigy from Navojoa, Mexico, opened the season by going 8-0 in eight starts and working nine innings every time.
He ended that year with nine more innings against the Yankees to win Game 3 of the World Series , helping the Dodgers to a championship.
Luhnow had found his favorite player.
He just didnt look like a prototypical athlete, he said.
He physically didnt look like he was in that great shape, his delivery was so unusual, and he looked like a guy that grew up in rural Mexico and was suddenly on the largest stage in the world and dominating in an unusual way that no one could figure out the screwball, the eyes rolling back and all the things that he did.
He was a lovable player.
Decades later, Luhnow would also defy convention to make it in baseball, using a business background and a strong belief in analytics to grow a thriving farm system for the St. Louis Cardinals and, since December 2011, to patiently build the Astros into winners.
When he moved to California for high school, though, that was too far-off to imagine.
Luhnow just wanted to go to Dodger Stadium.
I came to a ton of games, he said.
My English teacher had season tickets, right up there in the loge level.
I would come every time he would invite me, which was quite a bit.
Luhnow was there for the first two games of the 1983 National League Championship Series against the Philadelphia Phillies a loss in the opener and a victory by Valenzuela in Game 2.
The Phillies won the best-of-five series in four and the Dodgers would not reach the World Series until 1988, after Luhnow had left California to continue his education, eventually earning an M.B.A. from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern.
Friedman could relate to the World Series near miss.
In 1986, just before he turned 10 (and before the Astros changed leagues), he attended the N.L.C.S.
at the Astrodome.
Friedman saw the Mets beat the Astros Nolan Ryan in Game 2, but the game that haunts him came a few days later.
That was the infamous or celebrated Game 6 , which the Mets tied with three runs in the ninth.
The Mets scored again in the 14th before the Astros, who were facing elimination, tied it on a Billy Hatcher homer.
The Mets scored three in the 16th, gave up two in the bottom of the inning, but finally won the pennant and avoided facing the unhittable Mike Scott in Game 7.
I was heartbroken I swore off baseball, said Friedman, who had witnessed Scotts division-clinching no-hitter that September.
He added that 86 scarred me some I remember watching the World Series with the Mets and Red Sox, and it was painful.
Image As a child, the Dodgers executive Andrew Friedman attended Game 6 of the 1986 National League Championship Series, rooting for the Astros to beat the Mets.
With a 16-inning win, the Mets took the pennant.
I was heartbroken I swore off baseball, Friedman said.
Credit Damian Dovarganes/Associated Press Of course, Friedman did not really give up the game.
As the years went on, he would visit the Astrodome so frequently about 30 times a summer, he guessed that he befriended the stadium workers and could roam almost anywhere he pleased.
Long before clubs stamped game-used items with holograms and sold them at the team store, Friedman would often go home with broken bats or discarded equipment.
He once scored an artifact from the early career of a future Hall of Famer.
Probably a Craig Biggio helmet from when he was catching, Friedman said, when asked for the prize of his collection.
It had a crack in it, and I dont really remember how I got it but probably someone that wasnt him just saw me there hanging out.
Friedman would play baseball at Tulane and, like Luhnow, work in business before joining a major league front office.
He built the Tampa Bay Rays into pennant winners in 2008, and has been the Dodgers president of baseball operations for three years.
In their jobs now, Luhnow and Friedman regularly meet their old heroes.
Friedman said he had put his fandom long behind, and was not awe-struck when he met Biggio a few years ago.
Luhnow, though, has never quite summoned the courage to have a conversation with Valenzuela, who now broadcasts Dodgers games in Spanish and tossed the ceremonial first pitch before Game 2.
Luhnow said he got chills watching that ceremony.
He has said hello to his baseball idol, but only casually.
Yet Valenzuela is well aware of his work.
I havent had the pleasure of meeting him, but I would congratulate him on where his team has gotten, Valenzuela said in Spanish.
His team has reached the World Series, which is what you want.
Actually, both of Luhnows teams his employer and his first love have reached the World Series.
Both of Friedmans, too.
James Wagner contributed reporting.
Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D 2 of the New York edition with the headline: A World Series Twist: First Loves Become the Enemy Sign up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, delivered to your inbox every week.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
After all, since the Yankees began jettisoning veterans from their 25-man roster, in 2016, almost everyone they have traded has gone on to the Series.
So why not Ellsbury and Headley?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Consider that Aroldis Chapman was traded to the Chicago Cubs in July of last year (he is a Yankee again) and played a key role in the 2016 Series.
So did his fellow reliever Andrew Miller, who was traded by the Yankees to the Cleveland Indians in midseason and also ended up a major figure in the 2016 Series.
Another Yankee who was dealt at the nonwaiver trade deadline last year was Carlos Beltran.
He was sent to the Texas Rangers, but signed as a free agent with the Houston Astros before this season.
Now he is in the World Series, too, along with another former Yankee catcher Brian McCann, who was traded by New York to the Astros in the off-season.
Then there is reliever Tyler Clippard, who was a Yankee this year and is now an Astro, although he is not on the postseason roster.
Still, if the Astros win the Series, he is in line to get a ring.
Photo Clippard was sent to the Chicago White Sox this season to help offset some of the salary the Yankees were taking on when they acquired relievers Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson and third baseman Todd Frazier.
Several weeks later, the White Sox sent Clippard to the Astros.
The only two players the Yankees have dealt from their major league roster in the past 16 months who have not reached a World Series are starting pitcher Ivan Nova, who was sent to Pittsburgh at the 2016 nonwaiver trade deadline and has remained there, and reliever Tyler Webb, who was dealt to Milwaukee this past summer.
Beltran, who grounded out as a pinch-hitter on Tuesday night in Game 1 of the Series, was relegated to the bench for the two World Series games at Dodger Stadium earlier this week because there is no designated hitter in National League parks.
But McCann could play a central role as this Series continues, just as he did in the American League Championship Series against the Yankees, when he hit a pair of run-scoring doubles that sparked the Astros to victories in Games 6 and 7.
McCann signed a five-year, $85 million deal with the Yankees in November 2013 but realized his role as the teams regular catcher was in peril once the Yankees called up Gary Sanchez from the minor leagues in August 2016 and thrust him into the lineup.
From that point on, McCann played regularly as a designated hitter but caught only sporadically.
Meanwhile, Sanchez was slugging one home run after another.
Photo When the season ended, I kind of assessed where I was and what I wanted to do going forward, and I just wasnt ready to catch once a week and I wasnt ready to just D.H. against right-handed pitching, McCann said recently.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While McCann had a no-trade clause in his deal with the Yankees, he also had another incentive to waive it the $15 million in his contract for 2019.
It vests only if he has 1,000 plate appearances in 2017 and 2018 and he must also catch at least 90 games next year and not end the season on the disabled list.
In conversations with Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman after last season, it became apparent to McCann that there were two realistic landing spots for him the Astros and the Atlanta Braves.
Atlanta is McCanns hometown and the Braves are the club with whom he began his career.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But in the end, it was Houston that wanted to make the deal, with the Yankees picking up $11 million of McCanns contract over this season and next.
I looked around and this was the first team that came to mind because I knew they needed a catcher, I knew the talent they had in the clubhouse playing against them, and it was just a perfect fit, said McCann, who is playing in his first World Series.
I talked to Cash quite a bit during that process and it was really between coming here or going to Atlanta.
Im very thankful this all worked out the way it did.
Well, not all of it.
Because McCann had only 399 plate appearances this season he batted .241 with 18 home runs it is unlikely the 2019 option will kick in.
Still, he is in the World Series, one more recently traded Yankee enjoying baseballs most prestigious competition.
Perhaps there will be still others in 2018.
- Want exclusive sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of New York Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
- Heres how the Astros beat the Dodgers in Game 3, inning by inning: Photo Top 1st: McCullers gets three quick outs.
Game 3 began at 8:21 p.m. Eastern with Lance McCullers of the Astros throwing a 95 mile-per-hour fastball low and outside for ball one to Chris Taylor of the Dodgers.
McCullers eventually got Taylor to pop out to second and retired Corey Seager when Jose Altuve made a great diving play in shallow-right to knock the ball down before throwing Seager out at first.
The inning ended with Justin Turner flying out to deep center.
Waldstein: Yu Darvish takes the mound in the bottom of the first for the Dodgers as the first Japanese starting pitcher in the World Series in 10 years.
The last one was Daisuke Matsuzaka for the Boston Red Sox in their four-game sweep of the Colorado Rockies in 2007.
Matsuzaka also started Game 3.
Darvish has plenty of experience pitching at Minute Maid Park from his days with the Texas Rangers.
He comes into the game with a 4-1 record and a 2.16 earned run average, so the Dodgers are pinning a lot of their hopes on him replicating that success here.
Bottom 1st: Darvish gets out of jam.
George Springer worked a 3-1 count against Yu Darvish and then pounced on a fastball in the zone, hitting a hard liner to center for a double.
Alex Bregman made Darvish work, fouling off five pitches in an eight-pitch at-bat, but ultimately grounded out to third, which kept Springer at second.
Jose Altuve flew out to deep center, which sent Springer to third, but Darvish got ahead in the count and Carlos Correa grounded out to short to end the inning.
Top 2nd: Dodgers make some noise, but no runs.
Lance McCullers threw half of his 12 pitches in the inning to one batter, but worked around a single to keep the game scoreless.
He needed just three pitches to strike out Cody Bellinger, as the rookie infielder almost fell down as he swung wildly at a knuckle-curve.
One pitch to Yasiel Puig and McCullers had a second out on a grounder to second, but Logan Forsythe got the Dodgers first hit on a single to right.
Forsythe was able to steal second as Austin Barnes worked a six-pitch at-bat, but the half-inning ended when Barnes grounded out to third.
Photo Bottom 2nd: Astros jump all over Darvish and score 4 runs.
Yu Darvish struggled to put pitches where he wanted them and that led to a great inning for struggling Astros batters.
Only six outs into the game, Dave Roberts had seen enough and removed his No.
3 starter with the Dodgers already down 4-0.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Yulieski Gurriel, who was 1 for 7 in Games 1 and 2, led things off by unloading on a fastball for a solo home run.
Josh Reddick, whose bat had been almost entirely silent, doubled to left for his first extra-base hit of the postseason.
Evan Gattis walked and Marwin Gonzalez, who had been in a horrible funk leading up to his game-tying home run in Game 2, singled off the wall in left, scoring Reddick.
With runners on first and second with no outs, Brian McCann, who was hitless in the first two games of the series, looped a ball into right-center that brought home Gattis and sent Gonzalez to third.
Photo Darvish finally got his first out when George Springer, the sixth batter of the half-inning, lined out to second, but Alex Bregman hit a fly ball deep enough to center to give Gonzalez enough time to tag up and score, making the score 4-0.
Jose Altuve doubled to left, sending McCann over to third, and that brought out Roberts, who replaced Darvish with Kenta Maeda.
Maeda needed just two pitches to end the inning, getting Carlos Correa to fly out to right.
Darvishs final line was one and two-thirds innings, six hits and four runs.
He walked one and had no strikeouts in the shortest start of his career.
Waldstein: Darvish did not have it tonight.
Even the outs were on balls that were hit hard.
Gurriel started it by ripping a line-drive home run into the left field bleachers, which can be home to some of the cheapest home runs in baseball.
Not to say that it was cheap, because he hammered the ball.
But the distance is 315 feet, only 5 feet deeper than Fenway Park in Boston.
But the wall here is about half the height of the 37-foot Green Monster, so it is one of the most tantalizing targets in baseball for a right-handed pull hitter, as Gurriel showed.
It was the sixth home run hit in the last four innings of this World Series, going back to the extra innings of Game 2.
Photo Top 3rd: Dodgers get one back.
Given a fairly sizable lead, Lance McCullers walked the bases loaded to start the third, but managed to get out of the half-inning having only allowed one run.
It was a rough start, as he engaged in a battle with Joc Pederson.
The boom-or-bust hitter fought off several good pitches in what proved to be a nine-pitch walk.
Undoubtedly frustrated by putting Pederson on base, McCullers responded with walks to Kike Hernandez and Chris Taylor.
He got some help when his defense turned a double-play on a grounder from Corey Seager, and ended the inning by getting Justin Turner to ground out to short.
The inning couldve gone far worse for McCullers, who should be happy with a 4-1 score.
Waldstein: You want to make a pitching coach crazy?
Get handed a 4-0 lead and then go to the mound and walk the No.
8, No.
9 and No.
1 hitters to load the bases with nobody out.
Thats what Lance McCullers, Jr. just did.
But thanks to some terrific defense, including by McCullers, himself, the Astros avoided big damage.
The big play was getting Corey Seager to ground into a double play that required some exceptional synchronized movement and pinpoint throws from the Astros to complete.
First baseman Yuli Gurriel threw a strike off the wrong foot to Carlos Correa coming across the second base bag and he, while in stride, delivered the ball to a moving target in McCullers covering first.
That kind of cohesion begins in spring training.
Photo Bottom 3rd: Maeda cools down Astros batters.
After a pair of lengthy half-innings for both teams, Kenta Maeda made quick work of the Astros in the third.
He started by getting a pair of matching pop-outs to third from Yulieski Gurriel and Josh Reddick.
A walk to Evan Gattis was a mild speed bump, but Maeda finished things off by getting Marwin Gonzalez to ground out to first to end the inning.
Photo Top 4th: Puigs gamble backfires.
A bang-bang play went Houstons way, sending the Dodgers down in order.
With one out, Yasiel Puig hit a grounder down the third-base line that Alex Bregman could not quite reach.
The ball skipped into foul territory, but Puig took some time before realizing he should round first and Carlos Correa was able to corral the ball and throw him out at second.
Stoked to have two outs despite the hard hit by Puig, Lance McCullers ended things by getting Logan Forsythe to fly out to right.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Waldstein: Yasiel Puig has been caught admiring balls before, but this time he suffered from putting his head down and hustling to first base.
After hitting a sharp bouncer down the third base line, Puig ran so hard that he did not see the ball had skipped past third baseman Alex Bregman.
Puig overran first, slowed down and only then realized he should have been headed to second.
By the time he restarted and slid into second, the ball was in Jose Altuves glove and Puig was tagged out.
Bottom 4th: Maedas relief appearance gives Dodgers hope.
Kenta Maeda has done a terrific job of settling things down after Yu Darvishs disastrous start.
Brian McCann led off fourth against him by looping a ball just out of Corey Seagers reach in shallow left field for a single.
But Maeda was unfazed and went on to strike out George Springer on four pitches and Alex Bregman on five.
He got out of the inning when Jose Altuve grounded out to short.
Maeda is up to 38 pitches in two and one-thirds innings of relief as the Dodgers try to get as much as they can from one of the teams three best relievers.
Photo Top 5th: McCullers gets out of trouble again.
Lance McCullers worked around some tremendous hustle from Joc Pederson to pitch another scoreless inning, with some help from George Springer.
With one out, Pederson hit what looked like a single to center.
But the young outfielder ran hard right out of the box and managed to stretch the soft hit into a double.
Kike Hernandez sent him to third on a groundout to second, but McCullers got out of the inning when Chris Taylor hit a shallow fly to center that a diving Springer was able to snare for the third out.
Across from Gurriel at the other corner of the infield is Bregman, a 23-year-old third baseman and a first-round draft pick in 2015 who moves seamlessly between the teams contingents of Latino and American players because he has a working knowledge of Spanish and a desire to get better at it.
He makes the effort, and he values the guys who dont speak English, which is important in this game, said Carlos Beltran, the Astros designated hitter, who is from Puerto Rico.
When I see an American player really making the effort with the Latinos, its something really special, added Beltran, 40, who was shy as a teenage prospect because he did not understand English but over the years has become confident in publicly addressing issues.
He was one of the players most instrumental in getting Major League Baseball to require that every team have Spanish-English interpreters.
More than a quarter of major league players are Latino, and most of those were born overseas.
After arriving in the United States, those players are expected to learn English, and they often take language classes in baseball academies and in the minor leagues.
In contrast, American-born players without any Latino background do not receive similar instruction in Spanish, even though it is the first language of numerous teammates.
Instead, they usually learn bits of Spanish from playing alongside Latinos in both the minor and major leagues.
What frequently happens as a result is that the foreign-born Latino players, especially those whose English is limited, end up spending most of their time in and away from the clubhouse with their fellow Spanish-speaking teammates.
It becomes a question of comfort and familiarity.
Photo But in the Astros clubhouse, the high-energy, Spanish-speaking Bregman bounces around everywhere.
He hangs with the American players, the Latinos, everyone, Correa said.
Hes a great teammate.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On Monday, the day before Game 1 of the World Series, the Astros infielders finished fielding drills and headed to the batting cage together.
Altuve, Correa, Gurriel, Bregman and the utility player Marwin Gonzalez, who is from Venezuela, walked as a group with Gonzalezs arm over Bregmans shoulder.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Growing up in New Mexico and in a baseball family, Bregman was perhaps destined for this.
His father, Sam, who is a lawyer, and an uncle played baseball at the University of New Mexico.
His grandfather Stan was the general counsel for the second version of the Washington Senators, and helped negotiate the teams sale.
At age 5, Alex Bregman said, he began receiving Spanish instruction in school.
Throughout his baseball travels, including time while on developmental rosters for Team U.S.A., he said, he played in Colombia, Mexico and Cuba.
That helped with his Spanish, too.
Bregman was selected by the Astros with the second overall pick in 2015, and within a year he was in the major leagues because of his strong fielding and hitting ability.
He hit .284 with 19 home runs and 71 R.B.I.
this season and was 3 for 10 with a home run through the first two games of the World Series.
Meanwhile, Bregman said, his Spanish skills continued to improve because he had so many Latino teammates once he turned professional.
Im basically almost fluent now, he said, perhaps overstating his proficiency.
I understand it all and speak probably 90 percent of it.
You can ask them, but theyll tell you Im fluent.
Photo His teammates verdict?
He speaks it pretty well, at least better than you think, said Altuve, who speaks English well, just like Correa and Gonzalez.
When I first met him, he didnt speak much.
But hes learning more every day, so be careful what you say in front of him.
Francisco Liriano, a veteran Astros pitcher who is from the Dominican Republic, grinned when asked about Bregmans Spanish.
He sounds like an American, but he knows a good amount, he said.
Beltran lauded Bregmans confidence and desire to learn a new language, a trait Beltran said would help Bregman not only with Spanish but throughout his career on the baseball field.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The most important thing is that he tries, said Beltran, who spoke in Spanish for this article, as did the other Latino players who were interviewed.
Hes not afraid to express himself.
He makes me laugh a few times because its funny the words he uses, good and bad words.
Words you hear and you think, Oh, wow, how cool that he knows this word.
Bregman is so enthusiastic about his language endeavor that he has done conducted brief interviews in Spanish with Francisco Romero, a Spanish-language radio broadcaster for Astros games.
In an interview two weeks ago with Romero during the postseason, Bregman called a home run against the Boston Red Sox a dream for me and my family in Spanish, then mixed in some English when he could not remember how to say a blessing.
The sentences were not complete, and there were a few mistakes, but he tried and he smiled.
Earlier in the season, Romero recorded Bregman singing along in Spanish to Ginza, a popular reggaeton song by the Colombian artist J. Balvin.
Because Altuve is well known in the Astros clubhouse for singing along to music, Bregman wanted to do it, too.
Hanging out with his Latino teammates, Bregman said, has given him an appreciation for reggaeton (we all listen to it in the clubhouse all the time) and for carne asada, a staple of Latin American cuisines.
Its all part of his learning process.
As if it had fallen from the sky, a fruitful theme emerged in the sixth inning: Corey Seager, the Dodgers All-Star shortstop who missed the previous round of the playoffs with a bad back smashed a go-ahead, two-run home run.
(Hitting a baseball is hard enough; imagine bashing it into the stands when it is thrown at 97 miles per hour and you have barely played the past two weeks.)
Even when standout Dodgers relievers Brandon Morrow and Kenley Jansen gave up a run in the eighth inning, the Dodgers still held a 3-2 lead, and I thought the 950 words of a story framed around Seager would still work.
I even liked how I had written it.
But in the top of the ninth inning, something unlikely happened: Astros left fielder Marwin Gonzalez, who had been struggling in the playoffs, clobbered a game-tying home run off Jansen, who had never blown a save in his playoff career.
It was 11:18 p.m. Eastern.
While the most dramatic, mind-bending games are fun to watch on the couch or at the bar or in the stands, trying to capture the many late-game twists and turns as the final print edition deadline nears can be nerve-racking.
So, goodbye Corey Seager story.
I copied it all into a separate document and started rewriting.
Then, in the top of the 10th inning, Astros stars Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa gave Houston a 5-3 lead with two solo home runs.
As a reporter, I have no rooting interest.
But this gave me a little bit of a cushion from deadline pressure: The Dodgers still had to bat in the bottom of the inning.
I reframed the story around Houstons improbable comeback against a Dodgers bullpen that had not allowed a run in 25 consecutive innings entering the game, focusing on the blasts by Gonzalez, Correa and Altuve.
Photo At 11:50 p.m., the night sports editor, Joel Petterson, emailed to remind me that they would need the story immediately when the game ended to get it into the final edition.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dont worry if its sloppy, well clean up whatever, said Petterson, who has saved me on deadline before.
Within 10 minutes of his email, the Dodgers tied the score, at 5-5, with a home run by Yasiel Puig and a single by Enrique Hernandez.
I wrote back to Petterson: Ive added like 50 white hairs the past three innings alone.
I had not gotten up from my seat since the fifth inning.
By now, I knew that I needed to come up with a way to capture the mayhem of the game, no matter the outcome.
I wrote a broad introduction or lede, as we call it in journalism and worked backward through the wildest moments of the game.
(The teams set a World Series record with eight home runs in total, including five in extra innings.)
I left a few sentences with blanks, knowing I would fill in the final details the time of the game, the last out, the winning hit.
As soon as the game ended, I sent in my story.
After talking to the managers and players, I filed an updated version for the web, since the print deadline had long passed.
Once I was done, I looked over at the secondary document I had open on my computer.
There is probably a funny compilation to be made of all the drafts of historic game stories that never saw the light of day.
If anyone ever gets around to pulling one together, I have 2,360 words to add.
It is clear, though, that the Yankees viewed this moment as something of a pivot point.
After coming so close to the World Series, they now expect to get there, and win, within the term of the next managers contract.
Girardi took this group to the edge of a title, and now his successor they hope will haul it over the top.
For all the niceties in the five-sentence statement from General Manager Brian Cashman announcing the move he praised Girardis work ethic and heart, and wished him well he gave no explanation for the move.
Everything this organization does is done with careful and thorough consideration, the statement said, leaving open the question of what Cashman considered to be lacking in Girardi.
After a decade of working with him, Cashman knew precisely what he had in Girardi.
He is said not to have held Girardis tactical blunder in the division series against him (Girardi failed to ask for a video review that could have prevented a Cleveland Indians grand slam), but he knows what kind of team he has built, and he decided not to have Girardi lead it.
Photo To Cashman, Girardis style might not mesh well with a team of players in their 20s.
The veterans Girardi managed for most of his tenure, essentially, were fully formed major leaguers before they played for him.
A younger group may respond better to a manager who projects less tension and more outward calm.
In the A.L.C.S., the Yankees got a close look at a manager who does that, one with renowned communication skills: A. J. Hinch of the Astros, who recovered from three losses at Yankee Stadium to take the final two games in Houston.
Hinchs Astros also eliminated the Yankees in the 2015 A.L.
wild card game, the Yankees only other playoff appearance in the last five years.
He just believes in every single one of us, and he shows you that, Alex Bregman, the Astros 23-year-old third baseman, said on Thursday.
He shows that he has confidence in everybody on our roster.
Hes a motivator and a guy that you want to play for a guy that you want to run through a wall for.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Girardi speaks often of believing in his guys.
But he showed no faith in Dellin Betances, a four-time All-Star reliever, when he yanked him after he had faced two batters in his final appearance of the regular season with a four-run lead in the ninth inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Betances had seemed to be turning around an inconsistent season, but after that outing he became a playoff afterthought.
Twice Girardi pulled him after two batters in the postseason when the Yankees held a big lead, and by the fateful Game 7 of the A.L.C.S.
after burning Chad Green for two and a third innings in Game 6 Girardi was left with limited options.
Of course, the Yankees did not score in Game 7, so their pitching options made little difference.
And bullpen management, in general, has always seemed to be a strength of Girardis, along with his meticulous preparation.
Yet over Girardis tenure, managers increasingly became extensions of the front office, and the Yankees, with their increasing emphasis on analytics, were no different.
If Girardi and Cashman were still in lock step on overall philosophy, game management or both their partnership would most likely still be intact.
Instead, Cashman severed it, as the Washington Nationals did with Dusty Baker and the Boston Red Sox with John Farrell, both after having made the playoffs two years in a row.
In one of his final acts on the job, Girardi made a point to seek out Hinch in the home clubhouse in Houston after Game 7 to congratulate him and wish him well.
Hes a real class act, Hinch said on Thursday, adding later, I dont think anyone goes through what Joe goes through in New York.
Girardi went through it all as a winner 10 seasons, 10 winning records and a somewhat puzzling departure.
Fans once wondered how anyone could adequately replace Joe Torre, who won four championships.
Now we could ask the same question about replacing Girardi, who won just one title but kept a stable, successful atmosphere for a decade.
It will now be up to Cashman to find a new manager, although Cashman himself still has to sign a new contract with the club.
The most likely internal candidate is Joe Espada, who worked as a special assistant to Cashman for one season before becoming the Yankees third-base coach in 2015.
Espada, who is 42, has a strong relationship with several of the young, Spanish-speaking Yankee players.
Cashman was developing a list of candidates on Thursday, according to the baseball executive, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly.
And that list will almost certainly include candidates from outside the Yankees organization as Cashman tries to figure out who is best suited to managing a young team brimming with talent while dealing with the media scrutiny that the Yankees attract.
The decision to part with Girardi comes after a postseason run that was both exhilarating and painfully disappointing for the Yankees, ending with a loss in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series.
Two other managers the Washington Nationals Dusty Baker and the Boston Red Sox John Farrell lost their jobs this month after their teams were ousted from the postseason.
Girardi now becomes the third.
In his decade in the Bronx, Girardi compiled a 910-710 record and was the third-longest-tenured active manager in the major leagues before he was let go, behind the Los Angeles Angels Mike Scioscia and the San Francisco Giants Bruce Bochy.
Photo In recent years, he was able to get aging Yankee teams to at least stay in the hunt for a postseason berth.
And then came the 2017 campaign, in which Girardi found himself presiding over a younger and, at times, dynamic roster that began to exceed just about everyones expectations as the season progressed.
It was a club that chased the Red Sox to the penultimate day of the regular season for the division title before ending up with a wild-card berth.
And it was a club that then embarked on a postseason run that did not end until last weekend.
Girardis unyielding manner be it his rigorous preparation or his sometimes-contentious back and forth with the news media was reflected in that run, in which the Yankees twice rallied from two-games-to-none deficits in postseason series only to ultimately fall short.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But it was during the postseason run that Girardi also came under fierce criticism for his managing.
It grew out of the Yankees Game 2 loss in the division series against the Cleveland Indians, a game in which Girardi declined to ask for a replay review of a hit-by-pitch call a decision that opened the door for an Indians comeback.
Girardi, who made a rare admission the next day I screwed up, he said repeatedly at a news conference was afforded a reprieve when the Yankees rallied to win the next three games to advance to the A.L.C.S.
against the Houston Astros.
Still, the withering criticism that was directed at him after the Game 2 blunder seemed to affect him deeply and, for the first time, raised the notion that his decade in the Bronx had worn on him.
And Saturday night, after the Yankees were eliminated by the Astros, Girardi had an almost fatalistic tone as he discussed his baseball future.
Ive had 10 great years here, he said.
I feel extremely blessed.
God has been good to me, and well see what the future holds.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
That same night, Cashman was vague in his assessment of Girardi and did not single him out for praise.
I think everybody did everything they possibly could to get where we wanted to go, to be the last team standing, and we fell short, Cashman said.
Though Cashman and Girardi have divergent personalities and far different interests, they had generally enjoyed a strong working relationship.
I think he knows that he can speak his mind in a constructive way with me, and I can speak my mind in a constructive way with him, Cashman said at the start of the 2016 season.
Theres an openness that is encouraged here.
I acquire the talent, and Joe deploys the talent, and sometimes youll have disagreements on players capabilities that Ive acquired or strategies that hes employing.
Photo Youve got to be able to work through those in a healthy manner to have a successful manager-general-manager relationship, and Im proud to say we have that, Cashman added.
But at a time when the ability to relate to players is becoming more valued, Girardi may have had some difficulties on that front.
He became so frustrated this season over catcher Gary Sanchezs inattentiveness in blocking pitches that he publicly called him out, a rarity for Girardi.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And in the wake of Girardis botched replay decision, closer Aroldis Chapman liked a social media post that urged the Yankees not to bring Girardi back.
Chapman later said he had done it inadvertently.
Girardi, who was chosen over Don Mattingly to replace Torre, as manager, had a rocky first season in 2008, when the Yankees missed the playoffs for the first time since the strike-aborted season of 1994.
But the Yankees made an immediate turnaround and won the 2009 World Series the 27th in franchise history in a new stadium.
That championship also meant a change of uniform for Girardi.
He switched to No.
28 from No.
27 because he wanted a visible reminder of the number of championships the Yankees had accumulated, along with the inference that another one would surely come soon enough.
But it did not.
In an interview before the start of the 2017 season, Hal Steinbrenner largely absolved Girardi for the disappointments the Yankees had encountered, including a failure to make the playoffs in 2013, 2014 and 2016.
Was any of what was going on the fault of Joe Girardi?, Steinbrenner said.
Was Joe Girardi the fact we hadnt made the playoffs in two to three years?
Had he lost control of the team?
Did the players no longer respect him?
Is it a serious situation in that regard?
And the answer to that in my opinion was no.
There have been plenty of owners that have fired managers left and right and still arent winning, Steinbrenner added.
So how well does that work?
Girardi, who has three children, has long touted the importance of family.
He skipped a game this season in Tampa to attend the high school graduation of his oldest daughter, and he made it comfortable for players and coaches to leave the team for significant events in their lives.
And Girardi said last week that he would meet with his family after the season to gauge how they felt about him returning.
Im not living my kids lives; Im not living my wifes life, he said.
Im living, in a sense, my life, so I dont know what changes for them.
Now, however, much has changed for Girardi.
He is no longer the Yankees manager.
That was basically the story of Game 2, when the Astros and the Dodgers combined for five home runs in extra innings something that had never been done in major league history, even in the regular season.
Major leaguers combined for a record 6,105 homers in 2017, and the postseason has been no different.
The very first batter, Minnesotas Brian Dozier, went deep to start the first wild-card game.
In their National League Championship Series loss to the Dodgers, the Chicago Cubs scored eight runs on homers, and no runs any other way.
Of the 17 runs scored in this World Series, 14 have come on homers.
Everybodys swinging for the fences, said a weary Ken Giles, the Astros closer, who served up Yasiel Puigs 10th-inning blast in Game 2.
Home runs this series have been the big play so far.
We need to figure out a way to prevent it.
On Friday, the series shifts to Minute Maid Park, where the Astros are 6-0 this postseason.
Jose Altuve began the Astros playoff run with three homers there in the division series opener.
The Dodgers also got a three-homer game in the playoffs, by Enrique Hernandez in the N.L.C.S.
clincher.
Teams generally must slug to win.
The top eight teams in slugging percentage all reached the playoffs this season; the Astros were first, at .478, and the Dodgers were tied for seventh with the Cubs, at .437.
If this World Series becomes one big home run derby, the Astros like their chances.
If it comes down to a slugfest, my moneys on us, third baseman Alex Bregman said.
We bang.
Were the best-hitting team in baseball.
Well step in that box ready to go every time.
Its fun to be a part of an offense like this.
Bregman homered off Clayton Kershaw in Game 1, the only blemish across Kershaws seven dazzling innings.
It was typical of the way opponents have tried to handle Kershaw this month: With little chance of bunching hits together, they simply try to swing big.
Photo The strategy is failing; while Kershaw has allowed all eight of his runs on homers this postseason, he is 3-0 with a 2.96 earned run average.
He is scheduled to face Keuchel in Game 5 on Sunday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As for Keuchels assertion widely shared by other pitchers around the league that the balls have been altered, Commissioner Rob Manfred has consistently denied it.
He reiterated that stance before the American League wild-card game this month.
Were using two different labs that have been looking at the ball on a continuous basis all year, Manfred said.
Balls are within specs; theres been no movement even within the range of the specifications in terms of the baseball.
Ive said before I think theres other issues causing the home runs other than the baseball principally, the way the games being played, the tolerance for strikeouts, power pitching, guys changing their swing.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Manfred added that fans like home runs, a point that is hard to argue.
Excitement surged through Dodger Stadium with each home run on Wednesday night, and the hitters reacted memorably: The Dodgers Joc Pederson joyously gestured to the crowd; Carlos Correa gleefully flipped his bat toward the Astros dugout; Puig gently placed his bat on the dirt; Charlie Culberson cavorted as if he were Joe Carter.
Guys have been superaggressive, trying to get a fastball or attack a first pitch thats what Ive been seeing, said the Astros Chris Devenski, who gave up Culbersons two-out homer in the 11th but struck out Puig with a changeup to end it.
Its baseball.
It goes in streaks; it goes in spurts at times.
The last time the World Series came to Southern California, in 2002, home runs were also the big story.
The Angels beat the San Francisco Giants in Game 2 in Anaheim, 11-10, with the teams combining for six home runs, out of a record 21 for the Series.
Players openly guessed that the ball was juiced then, too.
Al Levine, a nonroster pitcher for the Angels, actually took a Ginsu knife and sliced open a World Series ball and a regular-season ball in the clubhouse during that game.
He concluded that the World Series ball was wound tighter.
When I cut them open, one was easier, definitely, Levine said then.
The World Series ball was a lot tougher to get through.
Troy Percival, the Angels closer who had given up a towering homer to Barry Bonds, put it this way: Its like throwing a smooth rock.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Predictably, baseball denied any shenanigans.
By then, though, the owners and the players had agreed to implement steroid testing the next season.
The program has gradually gotten tougher since then, including a provision that players suspended during the regular season cannot take part in the postseason.
We have been fooled before, of course, but this generation of players seems to want a clean game.
A widespread, coordinated cheating epidemic that consistently beats baseballs testing program seems a little hard to fathom.
In any case, this World Series has so far reflected the game in 2017: dinger after dinger after dinger, breaking records and turning most players into awe-struck fans.
I dont know what to tell you, man, Correa said.
It was so much fun.
Because no lead was safe on Wednesday, many fans were undoubtedly holding their breath in the bottom of the 11th.
It was merited: Charlie Culberson hit a solo home run off Astros reliever Chris Devenski, trimming Houstons lead to one run.
Photo But Devenski struck out Puig to complete the victory after 4 hours 19 minutes, handing the Dodgers just their second loss of this postseason.
It was probably as nerve-racking as it was in the stands as for everybody else, Springer said.
When the last out is made you finally breathe.
Two games may be a small sample size, yet one conclusion can be drawn in this series: These are two well-matched teams that have the potential to play more dramatic games like Game 2.
Even the calmest of fans would have had trouble watching Wednesdays game without fraying some nerves.
Two teams that competed for 27 outs, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts said.
An emotional roller coaster.
The teams will now fly to Houston with the best-of-seven series tied at one game apiece.
They will return to action on Friday, with Houstons Lance McCullers Jr., a hero of Game 7 of the A.L.C.S.
against the Yankees, slated to start Game 3 opposite Yu Darvish of the Dodgers.
The unseasonably warm weather in Los Angeles it was 93 degrees at first pitch should have been a clue that no margin would be comfortable.
Balls that might have normally died at the warning track turned into game-changing hits.
Photo Dodger Stadium is pretty famous for, at night, the ball not carrying, said Verlander, who had pitched brilliantly this postseason.
Doesnt seem like the case the last couple of nights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Verlander, staked to a 1-0 lead thanks to Alex Bregmans single in the third inning, was mowing through the Dodgers lineup with ease early on.
But with two out in the fifth inning, Verlander gave up his first hit to Dodgers left fielder Joc Pederson, who tied the score at 1-1 with his first major league home run since July 26.
Seager provided what felt a decisive blow an inning later.
Seager, last years National League Rookie of the Year, hurt his back in the Dodgers division series against the Arizona Diamondbacks and missed the entire N.L.C.S.
With two outs in the sixth, Dodgers center fielder Chris Taylor drew a walk, and then Seager smashed a go-ahead, two-run home run and screamed in delight.
Then the Astros proceeded to slowly chip away.
Facing the Dodgers stout reliever Brandon Morrow in the eighth inning, Bregman smacked a ball down the right-field line that hit the edge of Puigs glove as he dived for the ball.
Puig, a strong defender, flung his glove into the ground in annoyance after the play.
Nursing a two-run lead, Roberts called for Jansen, his closer, for the kind of two-inning save Jansen has handled well.
Photo This time was different.
The second hitter Jansen faced, Correa, smacked an outside cutter up the middle for a run-scoring single that trimmed the Astros deficit to 3-2, snapping a streak of 28 consecutive scoreless innings by the Dodgers bullpen.
Ill take Kenley any day of the week with a one-run lead going into the ninth inning, Roberts said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The next inning spelled more trouble for the Dodgers.
Gonzalez was a key cog in the Astros season, yet he had not driven in a run since the first game of the division series.
But he drilled a 94 m.p.h.
cutter, Jansens trademark pitch, over the center-field wall for a game-tying blast.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It was the first earned run Jansen, the best closer in baseball, had allowed in the postseason since Game 3 of a division series in 2016.
It was just flat, Jansen said.
Give credit to Marwin Gonzalez.
He didnt miss the one pitch that was flat the whole night.
In the top of the 10th, Altuve and Correa provided a 5-3 lead by feasting off Dodgers reliever Josh Fields, who had been used sparingly this postseason.
Altuve brought chants of M.V.P.
when he blasted a solo home run to left-center field to lead off the 10th inning.
Photo Correa followed with his own shot, flipping his bat far into the air before he began his home run trot.
The Astros dugout bounced up and down as the home crowd sat stunned.
I loved it, said Puig, who is well known for his own home run celebrations.
He threw it higher than I normally do, and thats the way you should play in the World Series.
Puig replaced the Astros euphoria with anxiety when he hit a solo home run off Giles in the bottom of the 10th.
Normally emphatic on the field, Puig simply placed his bat on the ground before running the bases.
With blood pressure high everywhere, Logan Forsythe drew a two-out walk and advanced to second base on a wild pitch.
Hernandez then tied the game with a single, Forsythe beating Josh Reddicks throw to home plate.
As if that were not enough drama, Hinch brought in Devenski.
And before he threw a pitch, Devenski fired a pickoff attempt to second base, hoping to nab Hernandez.
It was wide, and if it had not hit the umpire Laz Diaz, there might have been another play at the plate.
Instead, it was a dead ball.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Laz was perfectly positioned right where we wanted him, Hinch said with a smirk after the game.
This all set the stage for a delirious 11th inning.
McCarthy had not pitched since Oct. 1, and was making his postseason debut.
He coughed up a single to Astros outfielder Cameron Maybin.
Up came Springer, who struck out four times in Game 1 but was determined to slow his heart rate down in this moment.
He did, slamming a ball to right-center field for a two-run lead, and the Astros held on to win a game for the ages.
Seven have featured so far.
Kenley Jansen is the closer, with four saves in the postseason.
His WHIP (walks plus hits per inning pitched) is a miserly 0.33, his earned run average a perfect 0.00.
Jansen, 30, from Curacao, is an intimidating presence at 6 feet 5 inches and 275 pounds, and he has been an elite closer for the Dodgers for six seasons.
But like many of his teammates, he is only now getting to throw in his first World Series.
He and his setup man, Brandon Morrow, led the way with eight appearances each in the Dodgers nine games.
Morrows nine and a third innings leads the team.
He and Tony Watson are the hold men; Morrow has four and Watson three so far.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Kenta Maeda, signed last year from the Hiroshima Carp, has been shifted to the bullpen for the playoffs.
He has not given up a hit in five innings and has been credited with two wins.
Tony Cingrani, Josh Fields and Ross Stripling round out the group.
The Dodgers were a comfortable 14 games up in the N.L.
West at the end of July but did not stand pat, bolstering their relief by landing Cingrani from the Reds and Watson from the Pirates.
Though the relievers have been impressive, it cannot be too surprising to those who paid attention during the regular season.
The bullpens E.R.A.
was 3.38, the best in the N.L.
Jansen finished tied for second in saves behind Tampa Bays Alex Colome.
His win probability added, a stat that tries to determine how much players contribute to victories, was 5.7, the best of any pitcher in the game.
Houstons relievers were also effective in Game 1 of the Series: Brad Peacock and Chris Devenski did not give up a run.
But over all, the Astros bullpen has not been as dominant, surrendering nine runs, for example, in the seven-game A.L.C.S.
Plenty of fans will tell you that pitching plays an outsize role in the postseason.
And ask any Yankee fan about Mariano Rivera to understand just how important a good bullpen can be.
With the kind of numbers their relievers are putting up, the Dodgers are holding a big edge as the Series continues.
Across baseball, the crowds at major league stadiums are often not so diverse, reflecting the overwhelmingly white makeup of fans in general, according to studies, though a quarter of the players are from Latin America.
Interest in other sports and high ticket prices, among other factors, tend to suppress Latino turnout.
Photo Latino attendance can be seen in other ballparks, including Minute Maid Park in Houston, but the scene at Dodger Stadium seems to stand apart.
The diversity is fantastic, said Jaime Jarrin, the Dodgers longtime Spanish-language radio announcer.
When I first started in this job, the Latinos coming to the ballpark were about 8 to 10 percent.
Now, he said, he believes the figure to be around 45 percent.
It is the most of any park, he added.
Oh, by far.
But we have also seen many Japanese people and Korean people here, too.
Jarrin, who is originally from Ecuador, has been broadcasting Dodgers games since 1959.
He said he has seen a steady uptick in fans at Dodger Stadium who come from various backgrounds.
Assumptions about someones ethnic identity can prove false, and much of the available evidence about the diversity at Dodger Stadium is anecdotal.
Stan Kasten, the Dodgers president, said he had no statistical data regarding the ethnic composition of the fans at Dodger Stadium.
Still, he said the team cherished that its fan base was noticeably diverse.
Photo We are very proud of it, Kasten said.
This is the organization of Jackie Robinson.
The Dodgers were at the forefront, not only of breaking the color barrier, but we historically scoured the globe to find players.
The Dodgers were the first to build an academy in the Dominican Republic.
Were a global team, and that is something thats reflected in the stadium, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When the Dodgers brought Robinson to the major leagues in 1947, he became the first African-American to break through baseballs wall of segregation, and many African-American fans were drawn to the team.
In 1980, the Dodgers introduced Valenzuela, a charismatic left-handed pitcher from Navojoa, Mexico, who energized fans on both sides of the border with his unorthodox windup and stellar pitching.
Valenzuela, who now does commentary on Dodgers games alongside Jarrin, left the Dodgers after the 1990 season.
But the legacy of Fernandomania is still felt today.
People who were into soccer and boxing, they became big baseball fans because of Fernando, Jarrin said.
Many of them still love the Dodgers.
And more players would come along and attract fans from various communities to Dodger Stadium.
In 1994, the right-handed pitcher Chan Ho Park became the first player from South Korea to join the major leagues, and he tapped into the large Korean-American community in the Los Angeles area.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
The next year, the remnants of Fernandomania gave way to Nomomania, named for Hideo Nomo, the whirlwind Japanese pitcher who became such an instant sensation that fans from Japan would fly to Los Angeles for a weekend just to see him pitch.
The Dodgers currently have two Japanese players on their playoff roster, the pitchers Kenta Maeda and Yu Darvish.
There are also two players from Cuba (Yasiel Puig and Yasmani Grandal); one from Puerto Rico (Enrique Hernandez); and a pitcher, Hyun-jin Ryu, from Incheon, South Korea.
When Ryu was pitching this summer, I was sitting with like 20 Korean fans, said the 55-year-old Varela, who works for a health care firm in Los Angeles.
We were all together and we had so much fun.
In recent years, the team has acquired popular Mexican-American players like Nomar Garciaparra, who delighted many fans by walking to his at-bats to the song Low Rider, by War, and Adrian Gonzalez, who is on the team but not on the playoff roster.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There is also building excitement for Julio Urias, a 21-year-old left-handed pitcher from Culiacn, Mexico, who is injured.
Photo When fans arrive at Dodger Stadium they are greeted by signs written in English and Spanish.
Along the top of the visitors dugout the word Welcome is painted in English, Japanese, Spanish and Korean, and some fans wear blue shirts that read, Doyers, an affectionate reference to the way first-generation immigrants in Los Angeles sometimes pronounced the Dodgers.
But the Dodgers early relationship with Angelenos of Mexican descent was fraught with animosity and distrust after some residents of Chavez Ravine, where Dodger Stadium now sits, were forcibly evicted first to make room for a public-housing development that was never built and then, in 1958, for the stadium.
Some of those evictions were captured on television news programs.
But over time, that episode was mostly forgiven as fans jumped aboard the Dodgers wagon.
For many Mexican-Americans, it was another example of how they were uprooted and pushed around, said Eric Avila, a professor of history at U.C.L.A.
and the chairman of the Csar E. Chvez Department of Chicana and Chicano Studies.
The Dodgers got off to a really bad start in Southern California.
But in the end, people just loved baseball, and they eventually adopted the Dodgers.
Avila called Valenzuelas electrifying rookie season in 1981 a tipping point.
From that point forward, the Dodgers actually became an expression of Mexican-American identity in Southern California.
The Mexican-American community went nuts for Fernando, he said.
They claimed him and the Dodgers as their own.
Photo The Dodgers are also still popular among a segment of African-American supporters, especially older fans who were initially drawn to the team that Robinson played for.
But as with the rest of baseball, the Dodgers have struggled to attract a substantial number of African-American fans to games.
Curtis Granderson, a Dodgers outfielder who is African-American and has also played in Detroit and New York, said he noticed the fan diversity at Dodgers games to a certain extent.
I know theres a heavy Hispanic population and a white population here, Granderson said.
I havent noticed a heavy black population.
That doesnt mean it doesnt exist.
But those two have definitely stood out the most to me.
It is definitely a diverse group, and it should be.
This is the second-largest city in the U.S., and you hope everyone is supporting the Dodgers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Despite the early resentment created by the evictions at Chavez Ravine, Walter OMalley, who owned the Dodgers, made sure to broadcast games on Spanish radio to spread the gospel of the team among the local Spanish-speaking population, and the broadcasts helped create more Latino fans.
One of them was Juan Arrieta, who grew up in the Los Angeles area listening to Jarrin describe Dodgers games in Spanish because Arrietas father, a mechanic from Peru, did not understand English well at the time.
It was only recently that Arrieta discovered that Jarrin is actually from Ecuador, just north of Peru.
I always just assumed he was Mexican, Arrieta said, acknowledging how people can mislabel others.
Isnt that awful?
Now a 45-year-old bartender living in San Diego, Arrieta and his wife, Diane, who is of Mexican descent, attend a handful of Dodgers games each year, and were sitting in the bleachers at Game 2 of the National League Championship Series.
I think the big difference nowadays is that you see people spread around the stadium, Arrieta said about Dodger Stadiums diversity.
It used to be that we would sit in the upper deck or out in the pavilion.
Now its not segregated like that anymore.
And its not just Latino.
When Maeda or Ryu pitch, you see a lot of Asian fans at the game, too.
Its a real melting pot.
After Game 1 of the World Series ended and happy Dodgers fans were congregating in the parking lot waiting to leave, Varela came upon an older white man who said he was originally from Brooklyn and had been a Dodgers fan since then.
He was sharing stories with a younger Mexican-American fan from Los Angeles, and the two men snapped photos of themselves together.
It doesnt matter what color you are or where you come from or what religion you are, she said.
What matters is we all love baseball, and that unites us.
Bottom 6th: Seager goes deep on Verlander.
Justin Verlander needed just four pitches to retire Chase Utley and pinch-hitter Andre Ethier on a pair of fly-outs to center to start the inning, but that is when the trouble started.
He walked Chris Taylor his second walk of the game, both of which were drawn by Taylor and got ahead, 0-2, on Corey Seager, but a 97 mile-per-hour fastball was right down the middle and Seager wasted no time hitting it out of the park to give his team the lead.
Justin Turner popped out to end the inning, but the mighty Dodgers bullpen now has a lead to work with, which could be a big problem for Houston.
Waldstein: Did that seem like a familiar script?
A two-out walk to Chris Taylor and then a two-run homer to left by the next batter?
In Game 1 it was Justin Turner with the smash.
In Game 2 it was Corey Seager, who went opposite field with a pitch that Verlander left up in the zone.
And Seager knew it was gone or at least had a good chance right away because he was screaming as the ball left the bat.
All of the Dodgers runs so far in the series have come on four home runs.
Now L.A. is 12 outs away from taking a 2-0 lead in the series by beating the Astros two best pitchers, and the Dodgers have a favorable pitching matchup in Game 3.
Top 7th: Dodgers bullpen stays strong.
Ross Stripling was the fourth Dodgers pitcher of the game and he lasted just four pitches, each of which was a ball.
The walk to the struggling Marwin Gonzalez resulted in yet another pitching change, with Brandon Morrow coming in to face Josh Reddick, and the right-hander came through in a big way by getting Reddick to ground into a double play.
He allowed a single to Evan Gattis, who was pinch-hitting for Justin Verlander, but finished off the inning by inducing a grounder to short from George Springer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With Verlander now out of the game, his final line was six innings, two hits and three earned runs.
He struck out five and walked two.
Bottom 7th: Harris Keeps it close for Astros.
With Will Harris on in relief for Houston, Cody Bellinger led off the inning and reached on a throwing error.
He advanced to second on a curveball in the dirt that was ruled a wild pitch and went to third on a groundout by Yasiel Puig.
But with the infield in to try to prevent a run, Joc Pederson struck out on five pitches.
The infield returned to their normal positioning with two outs and Harris struck out Austin Barnes to end the inning.
Photo Top 8th: Astros cut into Dodgers lead.
Dave Roberts continued to be aggressive with pitching changes, but for the first time in the series he did not quite have the magic touch as the Astros narrowed the Dodgers lead to 3-2.
After Alex Bregman led off the inning with a ground-rule double off Brandon Morrow, Roberts turned to his closer, Kenley Jansen, hoping for a six-out save.
Jansen was able to get a groundout from Jose Altuve, but Bregman advanced to third on that play and then scored on a single by Carlos Correa.
Jansen recovered to get a pop-out from Yulieski Gurriel and then ended the inning by striking out Brian McCann.
Unless the Dodgers can extend the lead in the bottom of the 8th, Jansen will have just one run to work with in the ninth.
Waldstein: The Astros finally break through against the Dodgers bullpen, which had not surrendered a run in 28 consecutive innings in the postseason.
Jansen, who is being asked to get a 6-out save, was 41 for 42 in save opportunities in the regular season.
He had one five-out save this year and earned a win in a two-inning performance in extra innings.
He has a five-out save and a four-out save this postseason.
Bottom 8th: Dodgers riding Jansen for six-out save.
It was a quick inning for the Dodgers offense.
Chase Utley flew out to left, pinch-hitter Kike Hernandez grounded out to short, and Chris Taylor flew out to left to end the inning.
The Dodgers are three outs away from a 2-0 lead in the series with their dominant closer, Kenley Jansen, trying to finish a six-out save.
Photo Top 9th: Gonzalez breaks out of slump to tie game.
Kenley Jansen only had one six-out save in his career coming into todays game, and he will leave with only one after he allowed a game-tying solo homer to Marwin Gonzalez to start the ninth inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After the home run, Jansen got a quick out from Josh Reddick, who popped out to second, and retired pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran on a fly ball to center, but he allowed a two-out double to George Springer.
With the go-ahead run on base, Jansen was able to stop the bleeding by retiring Alex Bregman on a grounder to short.
With the Dodgers already having used five relievers, including their three best, they could run into manpower issues if this tie game stretches on for a while.
Waldstein: It was only Jansens second blown save of the year.
His first was July 23 in Atlanta when he gave up a game-tying, three-run home run to Matt Adams.
But the Dodgers came back to win that game, 5-4, and are 98-0 when leading after 8 innings this year, including the postseason.
Bottom 9th: Bellingers blast ends at warning track.
Houston turned to their closer in the ninth and Ken Giles started things off by striking out Corey Seager.
He retired Justin Turner on a grounder to short and narrowly escaped a walk-off home run when Cody Bellingers deep blast to right was caught at the warning track by Josh Reddick.
This game is headed to extra innings.
Photo Photo Top 10th: Back-to-back homers give Astros a lead.
Houston badly needed its best hitters to start delivering, and Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa did that in a big way by starting the 10th inning with back-to-back home runs to give the Astros a 5-3 lead.
The Dodgers ran out of top-shelf relievers, thanks to the aggressiveness of Dave Roberts in trying to protect a narrow lead earlier in the game, so Josh Fields came in for the 10th.
Robertss aggressiveness had paid off throughout the postseason, but it backfired in Game 2, with Fields giving up the two home runs, and a double to Yulieski Gurriel, before being replaced by Tony Cingrani.
Cingrani made quick work of the Astros, allowing just an intentional walk.
Houston is now three outs away from victory.
Waldstein: That was Altuves sixth postseason home run.
Not too shabby.
And Carlos Correa follows it up with another blast, the third by the Astros in the last two innings.
Correa with an epic bat flip, too.
This game, and the series, has pivoted in a hurry, and Dodger Stadium is very quiet.
Photo Bottom 10th: Dodgers storm back to tie game.
The Astros went ahead 5-3 in the top of the 10th, and sent their closer, Ken Giles, out for a second inning in hopes of finishing off the victory.
The Dodgers had other plans.
Yasiel Puig led off the inning with a home run, and after Giles struck out two batters, Los Angeles tied things up on a walk to Logan Forsythe and a single by Kike Hernandez.
Chris Devenski relieved Giles, and with the winning run at second base, he got Chris Taylor to fly out to center to end the inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Waldstein: I have been at some great World Series games, and this one now joins the list.
Leads have been erased, home runs all over the place, blown saves, classic bat flips, and to top it all off, the second base umpire, Laz Diaz, gets hit in the upper leg with a pickoff attempt.
Had it not hit him, Kike Hernandez certainly would have been on third base, and that might have changed how Dvensky would have pitched to Taylor.
When Forsythe slid home for the tying run, the upper decks of Dodger Stadium were swaying slightly.
I remember that from Shea Stadium in 1999 and 2000.
A bit unsettling.
Photo Top 11th: Springer goes deep to put Astros on top.
Brandon McCarthy was not on the N.L.C.S.
roster for the Dodgers, but he was added as an extra arm for the World Series.
Because the team was officially out of relievers, he was on the mound to try to keep Los Angeles in the game in the 11th.
Cameron Maybin led off the inning with a single and stole second before George Springer, who had been ice-cold coming into the game, hit a monster blast to right-center that once again put the Astros on top.
McCarthy ended the damage there, getting three quick outs, but the Dodgers now have three outs to stay alive in what has become a wild game.
Bottom 11th: One more home run, but not enough for Dodgers.
Chris Devenski was back out for a second inning of work and he started things off by getting Corey Seager to line out to center.
That brought up Justin Turner, and the postseason hero for the Dodgers hit a liner that looked like it might sneak through the infield before Alex Bregman ranged to his left and was able to snare it for the second out.
That brought up Charlie Culberson, and the last man on the Dodgers bench hit a two-out solo homer to center to narrow Houstons lead to one run, but that was as close as Los Angeles would get, as Yasiel Puig struck out to end the game.
Jose Mourinho is scheduled to face accusations of tax fraud in Spain on Friday and his familiar routine has already changed ahead of Manchester United's trip to Chelsea.
The Spanish authorities opened a case against the 54-year-old in June for alleged tax evasion during his spell at Real Madrid boss.
It was alleged Mourinho owes the Spanish state nearly 2.9million in undeclared revenue related to image rights in 2011 and 2012 - a claim that has been strenuously denied by his representatives.
The United boss was later summoned to appear in a Madrid court on November 3, which falls two days before Mourinho takes his current side to his former club Chelsea in the Premier League.
United have yet to confirm whether Mourinho will attend the hearing, but the club announced their manager will hold his match preview press conference on Thursday ahead of Sunday's game.
That is a break from their standard practice of hosting it on a Friday before a weekend fixture.
According to Press Association Sport, players have been made aware of an altered training schedule, although few expect focus to waver when it comes to facing Chelsea before the international break.
The allegations against Mourinho are part of a wider crackdown by the Spain authorities against tax fraud, with several leading figures in football having been investigated.
Commenting on the allegations against the United boss in June, his representatives, Gestifute Media, said: "Jose Mourinho, who lived in Spain from June 2010 until May 2013, paid more than 26 million euros in taxes, with an average tax rate over 41 per cent, and accepted the regularisation proposals made by the Spanish tax authorities in 2015 regarding the years of 2011 and 2012 and entered into a settlement agreement regarding 2013.
"The Spanish government in turn, through the tax department, issued a certificate in which it attested that he had regularised his position and was in compliance with all his tax obligations."
Arsenal have announced they will increase the capacity of the Emirates Stadium by adding more hospitality seats.
The club will start a two-stage renovation project which will take place over the summers of 2018 and 2019 to add an extra 780 seats to their 'Club Level' areas.
Once completed, the stadium will hold over 60,600 spectators, bringing it closer to the capacity when the Gunners originally relocated from Highbury in 2006.
The capacity has dropped since then to comply with health and safety legislation as well as an increase in access for disabled supporters.
"Arsenal will be developing and renovating areas of Emirates Stadium over the next two years to help bring capacity back in line with its original figure from 2006," a statement read.
"Capacity has been reduced in recent seasons due to safety requirements and improvements to facilities for disabled supporters.
"Next May work will begin on adding approximately 780 extra seats to Club Level and will involve adding an extra row to the front of Club Level taking capacity to just over 60,600."
Construction will be completed in two stages during the summers of 2018 and 2019.
The club will be in contact with all club level members to inform them if and how this will affect them.
With attendance figures in competitions such as the Carabao Cup and Europa League lower than Premier League fixtures this season, the move will not add additional capacity for regular seats within the stadium.
Arsene Wenger believes Jack Wilshere is ready to return to the England fold.
The Arsenal midfielder has had a torrid time with injuries in recent years and is pushhing for his first Three Lions call-up in a year.
Wilshere was called up for the double-header against Scotland and Spain last November while on loan at Bournemouth but did not make an appearance.
His last England cap came as a substitute in the shock 2-1 defeat to Iceland at Euro 2016 which ultimately saw Roy Hodgson leave his post as manager.
Now Gareth Southgate is at the helm and Wilshere, who has shone in his Europa League outings this season, could break back into the England picture when he announces his squad on Thursday for the friendlies against Germany and Brazil.
"I think he's ready," Wenger said when asked about a potential call-up for the 25-year-old.
"Personally, I think he's ready.
He was not three weeks ago but he is today.
He's ready.
I have the same problem.
He's competitive.
In every single competition, he's ready to play.
I would encourage him to do it."
Wilshere has played just 13 minutes of Premier League football despite his return to fitness, with Southgate in attendance for that appearance as a substitute at Everton.
He has had to use his opportunities in the Europa League to make an impact and is likely to once again start when Arsenal host Red Star Belgrade on Thursday knowing victory will secure qualification into the round of 32.
"I can only repeat what I personally think: I don't know how you can keep a super-fit Jack out of the England squad," Wenger added.
"No.
I manage him like every single player.
Since three weeks, he is treated like any other player."
Wilshere has featured in the Europa League as Wenger selects an almost completely rotated side in Europe and the Carabao Cup.
That means the likes of Mesut Ozil, Alexandre Lacazette and Alexis Sanchez will not feature on Thursday as they prepare for the tough test against early Premier League pace-setters Manchester City on Sunday.
"Both of the teams do well," Wenger replied when asked about his squad rotation across competitions.
"Even in training, when we play them against each other, it's very tight.
I've gone into a rotation policy and I want to stick to that at the moment.
"I must say that I am pleased with the quality of our performances in every single competition.
"It's very difficult to make a change.
They all want competition, they all deserve competition because of their quality.
"If you look at the number of minutes played by all of these players since the start of the season, many of them are in very competitive shape and that should be an advantage of us for the rest of the season."
Arsene Wenger has played down reports linking him with a fresh approach for Monaco star Thomas Lemar.
The Gunners were chasing the France international in the summer but failed with a deadline day bid for him.
They are being linked with a new move for the 21-year-old when the transfer window opens in two months.
But when asked if he was considering a January swoop for Lemar, Wenger said: "No.
"At the moment I have told you I have a big squad and the problem for me is to keep everyone together until the end of the season.
"Do we go for the transfer market in January?
I don't know yet."
Arsenal defender Sead Kolasinac is in a race against time to be fit for Sunday's clash with Manchester City.
The Bosnian went off injured during Saturday's 2-1 victory over Swansea City after picking up a hip problem.
The 24-year-old will not play against Red Star Belgrade on Thursday, but he was always expected to be rested for that.
However, Kolasinac is now struggling to be fit for Sunday's clash with Manchester City and will be assessed later this week.
"Today he was much better.
He will have a test at the end of the week," said Wenger.
"He's not ruled out of Sunday's game yet, but of course he's not involved tomorrow.
It's not as bad as we feared at the start."
Italian giants Inter Milan look set to win the race to sign former Arsenal defender Thomas Vermaelen on loan.
The out-of-favour Barcelona defender had been linked with Everton, West Ham and Anderlecht, but now looks set for a January move to Italy.
Vermaelen, 31, is yet to feature for the Spanish giants this season and has slipped well down the pecking order under new manager Ernesto Valverde.
This has led to speculation linking the Belgium international with a return to the Premier League, with both Everton and West Ham eyeing a potential deal.
However, according to Tuttomercatoweb, Inter are clear favourites to sign the defender on loan in January, boosting their defensive options ahead of a run at the Serie A title.
Manchester City will qualify for the knockout stages of the Champions League with a win over Napoli tonight.
Pep Guardiola's team have won all three of their group games and got the better of their Italian opponents at the Etihad two weeks ago.
Victory will be all that's on City's mind, and talkSPORT.com has taken a look at the players likely to be trusted to get the result later today.
Scroll through the gallery above to see our predicted Man City line-up.
Liverpool could have signed Dani Alves two years before Barcelona and for half the price, the player has revealed.
The 34-year-old was playing for Sevilla at the time and was wanted by Anfield manager Rafa Benitez.
Asked how close he came to signing for Liverpool in 2006, Alves said it appeared to be a done deal.
Mate, I pretty much had an agreement with Liverpool, he told the current issue of Four Four Two.
But for whatever reason it didnt happen at the last moment and I really dont know why, as I wasnt the one conducting the negotiations.
"I had other people representing me back then.
Something similar happened later in my career with Chelsea and Real Madrid.
"Of course, it all worked out happily for the Cules [Barcelona fans] in the end, and also for me as I was able to write an amazing story at the Camp Nou instead.
At the time, Liverpool had Jan Kromkamp as their right-back, so Alves would certainly have been an upgrade, but the clubs could not agree a fee.
The Guardian reported the Reds were not keen to go above 9m to meet the 12m reportedly being sought by the Spanish side, so he stayed put and that summer Liverpool signed Jermaine Pennant, Fabio Aurelio and Dirk Kuyt among others, and added right-back Alvaro Arbeloa in January 2007.
Alves, meanwhile, ended up joining Barcelona in 2008 for 23.5m and played in a very successful Pep Guardiola side.
He won six titles and three Champions Leagues before leaving for Juventus in 2014.
In the summer he had the option of linking up with Guardiola again, but opted for Paris Saint-Germain over Man City.
I still have this ambition [to play in England], yes, he added.
But I don't know if it will happen now.
I think there are plenty of things to do here first with PSG.
Chris Coleman says he has "no idea" if he will continue as Wales manager after holding initial talks about staying in the job.
Coleman's current contract ends at the end of November after this month's friendlies against France and Panama.
The 47-year-old's position has been under scrutiny since last month's defeat to the Republic of Ireland cost them a place at the 2018 World Cup next summer.
"I have no idea if these are my last games," Coleman told a press conference near Cardiff.
"Initial talks have been undertaken since our last game, but we are no further forward.
That's where we are."
Coleman was appointed Wales manager in January 2012 following the death of his great friend Gary Speed.
He struggled at the start of his reign but the former Fulham manager took Wales to their first major finals for 58 years at Euro 2016 and steered them to the semi-finals in France.
A players' delegation - including star man Gareth Bale and skipper Ashley Williams - met Coleman straight after the defeat to Ireland in attempt to persuade him to stay.
"France in Paris is a fantastic game for us and if this is my last camp it's not a bad way to sign off," Coleman said.
"It may be the (Euro 2016) final that never took place and of course we've never played Panama.
"I have to look and think, 'Can I take it forward?
Is the structure and facilities good to take us forward?'
So it's not just me personally.
"All things need to be right for us to take it forward.
"I have to think, 'Am I the man to take it on and have I got the tools to do so?'
"The next step is going to be harder because the margins are smaller.
"To maintain that or take it on, the next step is even tougher and it means we need to do things a bit differently.
"Maybe not all parties will agree but that's my take."
Coleman has been linked with Premier League vacancies at Everton and Leicester - the latter since filled by Claude Puel - in the last month.
But he was reticent when asked if there had been any interest in his services.
"I'm not going to say a club has done this or that," he said.
"We're always going to be linked with clubs and vacancies.
"Some managers are still in their jobs, I've been on the end of that and it's not nice.
"It's not going to go on for much longer, we'll come to an agreement either way.
"If we can't move forward together, I'll still be super proud of leading my country for six years through good and bad.
Nobody can take that away from me."
Gareth Bale has been named in the Wales squad for the friendly with France in Paris on November 10 and the home game against World Cup-bound Panama in Cardiff four days later.
Bale has not played since suffering a calf injury in Real Madrid's Champions League victory against Borussia Dortmund on September 26 and missed Wales' final World Cup qualifiers against Georgia and the Republic.
Teenager Ethan Ampadu is set to win his first cap this month.
The 17-year-old central defender or midfielder has already made his Chelsea debut this season, featuring in Carabao Cup wins against Nottingham Forest and Everton.
Sheffield United striker David Brooks - who played for England at the Under-20 Toulon Tournament in May before switching international allegiance - is also in line for a November debut, while Liverpool forward Ben Woodburn is expected to make his first start.
Emyr Huws joins the squad after Achilles surgery which has prevented him from playing for Ipswich this season.
WALES SQUAD: Hennessey (Crystal Palace), Ward (Liverpool), Maxwell (Preston), Gunter (Reading), Chester (Aston Villa), A Williams (Everton), B Davies (Tottenham), Taylor (Aston Villa), Lockyer (Bristol Rovers), Ampadu (Chelsea), Allen (Stoke), Ledley (Derby), Edwards (Reading), King (Leicester), Huws (Ipswich), Ramsey (Arsenal), J Williams (Sunderland), Watkins (Norwich), Robson-Kanu (West Brom), Vokes (Burnley), Bale (Real Madrid), Lawrence (Derby), Woodburn (Liverpool), Brooks (Sheffield United).
Ray Wilkins believes Chelsea selling Nemanja Matic was 'the biggest act of lunacy' he's ever seen in football.
WORLD PLAYER XI: RANKING THE BEST MIDFIELDERS IN FOOTBALL RIGHT NOW Wilkins, who played for both clubs, says Chelsea's current problems stem from the decision to sell the midfielder to United for 40m in the summer.
In an interview with The Times, Old Trafford boss Jose Mourinho was full of praise for Matic.
"I cannot say that I had better guys than him in my career," he said But do you agree with him?
This is how some people reacted to what is only an opinion...
From The Cowboys QBs, a special issue of Sports Illustrated.
To order, click here.
Don Meredith lit his cigar and took a puff as he nodded along to his coachs lecture.
Tom Landry stood facing the chalkboard, presiding over one last quarterbacks meeting before the 1968 Hall of Fame game in Canton, Ohio.
Landry allowed his players to smoke inside meeting rooms, and in training camp that year Meredith had persuaded many of his teammates to trade in their cigarettes for cigars.
Meredith had recently perfected the art of twirling the cigar around in his fingers and enjoyed showing off his tricks, especially during meetings that dragged on, like this one.
He twirled it like guys used to do with silver dollars as magicians, recalls Merediths backup, Craig Morton.
Meredith tapped Morton to get his attention.
Hey, Curly, watch this one!
Landry turned and barked, Don, are you listening to me?
Flustered, Meredith quickly put the cigar back in his mouth.
Too late, he realized hed accidentally inserted the wrong end.
Meredith violently spit the cigar out.
It hit the chalkboard and landed next to Landry.
There were ashes everywhere, ashes over Coach Landry, as Meredith is spitting and choking, Morton remembers.
Meredith and Landry, 1967.
Getty Images Meredith leaned over and stuck his tongue out to reveal a big, red blister, sending Morton into a fit of laughter.
Landry stood motionless, unamused.
Craig, he said, would you like to leave the room to try to control yourself?
Even if they werent always so behind closed doors, make no mistake: Dallas Cowboys quarterbacks have always been among the coolest cats in sports.
Meredith was one of the first in a line of Cowboys quarterbacks who turned the position into an iconic role in sports.
In total, 40 men have started a game for Dallas, some more memorably than others.
Whats it like to be the leading man on Americas Team?
Hear it from 17 men whove held the job.
Its not just about the fame and fortune.
Close, but no cigar.
BECOMING AMERICAS TEAM Cowboys quarterbacks began to capture the nations attention during the days of Dandy Don and Next Years Champions: Don Merediths Cowboys made the playoffs three times and advanced to two NFL championship games, but he never led the team to the Super Bowl.
Meredith retired after the 1968 season, leaving the job to Craig Morton.
The Cowboys won the 70 conference title with Morton at the helm but lost Super Bowl V, a defeat that paved the way for one of the most well-known quarterback controversies in NFL history.
Morton vs. Staubach reached its peak in Week 7 in 71, when Landry famously alternated the two quarterbacks for each play in a game at Chicago.
CRAIG MORTON (1965-74): When Don Meredith was playing, they were booing him like mad, they were saying, We want Morton!
We want Morton!
So I went over to him, and I said, Im sorry, Don, I hate hearing this.
He said, Hey, dont worry about it, Curly.
Its going to happen to you.
ROGER STAUBACH (1969-79): Coach Landry announces in 71 at the start of the season, We have two starting quarterbacks.
That was a shocker to everybody.
MORTON: Landry had an unbelievable explanation for alternating us.
He said, youll be right next to me, so when the next play starts, well talk about it before you go in.
First of all, he doesnt have a clue what the next play is going to be, because he doesnt know the yard and distance.
And then you dont have any time to talk about it, because you only have 25 or 30 seconds to get the play off.
Youre running in there as fast as you can, breathing hard, and then you run out.
It was so dumb.
STAUBACH: I thought maybe he had a stroke or something.
MORTON: It was not a good decision.
I would say that was probably his worst moment.
STAUBACH: We lost to the Bears during the season, so I figured that Coach Landry was going to figure out he better get a starting quarterback.
Everybody was divided.
The team was probably split in half as to who should be starting, and that wasnt good.
You needed a team leader at quarterback.
MORTON: Coach Landry called me at my house one night about 10:30.
He says, Craig, can you come over?
I knew it was about time that he needed to make a decision.
So I come over, and I went into his office, and he looked at me and said, Craig, Ive got this feeling, Im going with Roger.
Thanks for coming over.
And that was it.
He did that same thing the next year and the next.
STAUBACH: Landry said, This was a tough decision, but weve got to commit to one quarterback.
Youre going to be the starting quarterback.
Thats all he said.
MORTON: He wasnt real free with his feelings.
Tired of taking a back seat in Dallas, Morton asked for a trade during the 1974 season.
The Cowboys dealt him to the struggling Giants.
After a short stint with the Giants, Morton eventually revived his career with the Broncos.
Staubachs taking over as starting quarterback was a pivotal moment in the Cowboys history.
The man who would go on to win two Super Bowls during his career in Dallas, make the Pro Bowl six times and cement himself as a Dallas icon was one of the most important players in the franchises history.
And from very early on, his teammates knew he was a different kind of beast.
JERRY RHOME (1965-68): I remember Staubach coming in.
We were sitting there working out: me, Meredith, Craig Morton.
Staubach was still in the Navy, and instead of going home, he comes to Cowboys training camp.
Its just starting, so were out there in shorts, taking it easy.
And here comes Roger Staubach; hes fully dressed, hes got his helmet, shoulder pads, the whole works, and I turn around to Meredith and say, Were in trouble, man.
BABE LAUFENBERG (1989-90): For everybody that comes through here, Roger is the gold standard.
He wins the Heisman, graduates from the Naval Academy, serves the country, comes back, wins the Super Bowl, wins another, goes on to have a multimillion-dollar international real estate company, and hes in the Hall of Fame.
I said to Roger one day, Roger, do you ever get tired of accomplishing things?
STAUBACH: The proudest moment I had was when I was in the locker room with all the guys that had said they were next years champions, the Bob Lillys and the Mel Renfros and the Cornell Greens and all the guys that were there when I was still in the service, watching the Cowboys when they played in the Ice Bowl [in December 1967].
I was their quarterback in the first Super Bowl that we won [Super Bowl VI, in January 1972], and it took all the pressure off us.
Dallas was a winning team, it was a good team, and Meredith had built it to a good team.
But until you win that Super Bowl, you are just next years champions; you cant win the big game.
As the Cowboys grew in prominence with their Super Bowl VI win, Landrys profile grew as well.
The future Hall of Fame coachs steady guidance of his quarterbacks over 29 seasons in Dallas would play a huge role in the success of the franchise.
STAUBACH: They asked Walt Garrison one time, did you ever see Coach Landry smile?
And he said, No, but I have only been here nine years.
There is the picture of Coach Landry being carried off the field with a big smile on his face.
MORTON: When Landry laughed, everybody just laughed because it didnt happen that often.
DANNY WHITE (1976-88): I wouldnt call it fear; I dont know if we were afraid of himwe were afraid to disappoint him.
This is an amazing statement, but in 13 years I never heard him raise his voice, because he didnt have to.
He did one time, and I saw pictures of it.
He was yelling at me when I audibled on fourth down against the Redskins and wasnt supposed to.
STEVE PELLUER (1984-88): It seemed like even the coaches were a little intimidated by him.
I was intimidated, especially since I was a young player.
He had a stern look about him and didnt smile a whole lot.
STAUBACH: In practice we put in a few new goal-line plays, and Landry always liked to step in there and say, Heres how you do it.
I happened to run this goal-line play, and he said, No, you need to give it a stronger fake to the fullback.
It was kind of a fake inside and then rolling to the right, so he said, Here, give it to me.
He had a bad knee, so he faked to the fullback, and he started rolling to the right, and he started limping to the right with his knee.
So I got back in there and ran, and I started limping to the right.
Everybody got a kick out of it except Coach.
When you were on the field, he was serious about everything.
Roger Staubach on the run, 1978.
Getty Images WHITE: If you messed up, he would just look at you and roll his eyes.
And thats all he had to do.
Roll his eyes at you, like, Oh brother, what was that?
It was like sticking a hundred daggers right through your heart.
It was the most painful thing.
Fine me, make me run a hundred laps, but dont give me that look, whatever you do.
STAUBACH: I was on the sideline one time, and Im waiting for the play, and Landry has his arms folded.
Hes rolling his eyes, and hes looking up through the hole in the roof.
He finally looks down and gives me the play.
So I said, Hey, Coach, I was always wondering where you got those plays from.
He made it look like he was Gods son there on the sideline, looking up to get the play.
All the assistant coaches started laughing.
WHITE: Even when the crowd was booing and they were writing bad things about me in the paper, I knew that Coach Landry was in my corner.
I always knew that, so when he benched me in 1984, that was like the worst thing that could have happened, and it destroyed my spirit for the whole year.
Even when I came back as a starter, it became a job for me, and the passion was gone.
I was devastated.
Anybody else could have said anything they wanted to, and it wouldnt have hurt me one bit.
But when Coach Landry said something, it meant the world to me.
STAUBACH: He really had this tremendous ability to focus and concentrate.
He was an industrial engineer, so his preparation and his thinking didnt have a lot of emotion.
Clint Longley is a fascinating footnote in the annals of Cowboys quarterbacks.
A backup to Staubach for two seasons, the Mad Bomber is known for his performance off the bench as a rookie in the 1974 Thanksgiving Day game against the Redskins.
With the Cowboys trailing 23-17 and with only 35 seconds left and no timeouts, Longley hit Drew Pearson down the middle for a 50-yard touchdown, good for a 24-23 comeback victory.
Though Longley never challenged Staubach for his starting job, he did end up fighting him during training camp in 76.
WHITE: Well, I wouldnt use the word fascinating.
I would say the guy was crazy.
He hunted rattlesnakes for his hobby.
STAUBACH: I liked Clint.
He sat with me on the plane going to games, and he was my backup for two years.
There was something about Clint that was awfully good.
He didnt mind being the backup or at least he didnt act like it.
Then Danny came, and the mood changed.
WHITE: Roger was one of the first guys to welcome me [in 1976], and we started working out together every day, and Clint would never come when we were there.
He was upset because all of a sudden I was a threat to his job.
STAUBACH: He really didnt speak to us by the time we were in training camp.
It wasnt hunky-dory.
WHITE: Drew Pearson ran a pass route, and he slipped and fell, and Clint went ahead and threw the ball anyway, and it hit Drew in the head.
Roger turned around to Clint and said something like, Oh, way to go, Rabbit Tooth.
Because Clint had buck teeth, and he looked like Bugs Bunny.
So Clint challenged Roger to a fight.
STAUBACH: We walked off to the side of the field and ... WHITE: They say to me, Danny, you keep Coach Reeves occupied so he doesnt see us.
That was my job.
I turn and look around, and Roger is over there, down on his knees just pounding away at Clint.
I thought he was going to kill Clint!
Dan Reeves saw it, and he went running over there and stopped it.
STAUBACH: Longley actually told [cornerback] Mel Renfro, he said something like, I need to get out of here, and the way I need to get out of here is to hit Staubach.
Then he wanted to get into a second fight a few days later before practice.
I am literally putting on my shoulder pads in the locker room and WHITE: Clint walks up behind Staubach and just cold-cocks him.
I mean, you have to be a little bit crazy.
There has to be something wrong with you to do something like that!
And then he takes off running with Roger chasing him, blood running down his face.
STAUBACH: That was the last I saw of him.
I feel bad now.
At the time I was really upset, and I wanted to get him, but looking back on it, the fact is that he lost his job to Danny White, and he changed his attitude.
He didnt want to be a third-team QB, but he was a Cowboys QB and a good one there for a while.
WHITE: Never in the history of football has anybody gotten more out of one pass than Clint Longley.
Clint was fascinating, if you want to call him that, but I just think there was one little screw that was not attached.
Staubach retired after the 1979 season, citing concerns about his long-term health and the 20 concussions hed had during his career.
White had big shoes to fill, but he filled them admirably.
White took the Cowboys to three consecutive NFC championship games but lost all three of them.
Although he put up impressive statistics, White is arguably one of the most underappreciated quarterbacks in Dallas history because he never led the team to a Super Bowl.
WHITE: Becoming the starter was almost overwhelming.
I just wanted to go home.
I was so tired of answering questions and talking to people.
And everybody had to have their answer to the same question.
It just got so old.
What does it feel like filling Roger Staubachs shoes?
I must have been asked that question a million times.
I wanted to say, Look Ive already answered that question, can we move on to something else?
I started and finished five full seasons, and we were in the playoffs all five years.
If you just go by that, then maybe I am underrated.
Danny White, 1983.
Getty Images LAUFENBERG: Danny White had a great NFL career.
If you told me my brother, my son, my nephew would have the career that Danny had, I would be so proud of them.
But somehow you are looked at as having failed.
Maybe youre not a failure, but having failed, Im sure its a tough thing to deal with.
WHITE: Im over [not leading the team to a Super Bowl]; I dont think about it, it doesnt bother me.
There are a lot of great quarterbacks that didnt make it to the Super Bowl.
I played in two Super Bowls, so its not like I never was in one, and I actually played quarterback in the first because Roger broke his finger, so I played in a Super Bowl, and I was a punter in both of them.
I just never took a team to a Super Bowl, and if I could do it all over again and change one thing, it would be that.
But its not something I sit around and think about.
THE NEW ERA 1989: A year of big change.
White retired.
Jerry Jones bought the team and promptly fired Landry, the coach since the teams inception, and his entire staff.
New coach Jimmy Johnson and a new regime drafted Troy Aikman to lead a team coming off a 3-13 season, the worst in team history.
Before it could become one of the most star-studded teams in all of sportswith a core of Aikman, Emmitt Smith, Michael Irvin and Deion Sandersthe franchise first had to hit rock-bottom.
TROY AIKMAN (1989-2000): When I got there in 89, I didnt feel any historical pressure.
It wasnt like, Wow, this is a standard I have to uphold.
There are people who would compare playing quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys to playing centerfield for the Yankees, but I dont know about that.
It certainly didnt feel that way when I got there.
We were not a good teamnot at all.
LAUFENBERG: That season was almost like one big training camp, one big audition.
It was such a transitional period because a lot of the veteran players that had been here were gone that year.
From Hall of Famer Randy White to Danny White to Coach Landry and his staff.
Every Monday we probably had five new players in.
Five guys would get released, and five more would be in the next week.
Jimmy clearly had a plan with what he wanted to do and how he was going to go about it.
You got to Sunday, and you said, Oh thats right, we have a game dont we?
Troy Aikman, 1993.
Getty Images STAUBACH: Ive always been a big Aikman fan.
Even when Aikman was a rookie and had a tough year, he never complained and he never blamed anybody.
I could see he had the talent.
They just needed to get some things and some people around him.
LAUFENBERG: Troy went 0-11 his rookie year.
It was brutal.
We won one game in 1989, and Steve Walsh was actually the guy who won that game.
Troy actually didnt win any.
The expectations werent there like they were for that team in the 90s, when they started winning Super Bowls.
I remember looking up and he was 0-11, and he said, Whats it take to win a game in this league?
I just want to win a game.
AIKMAN: The realization for me after we won our first Super Bowl was that winning wasnt going to be as enjoyable as it once was.
The bar was raised.
Championships were all that mattered.
Championships were expected from that point on.
Theres no doubt the climb from the bottom of the league was a fun ride.
Then it was just different.
LAUFENBERG: It was like the Bulls when they had Jordan and they become something other than an athletic teamthey become rock stars.
The 90s Cowboys had it.
They had big personalities.
Shoot, the offensive linemen here were famous.
There was the Kitchen [Nate Newton] and all these guys that went by one name: Michael, Emmitt, Deion.
WADE WILSON (1995-97): Anytime we went to the hotel, on the road or at home, we would never go through the lobby; we would park in the back and go through the service elevators because there would be so many people out there.
You go park and it was fenced off, and there would be two or three thousand fans out there just begging for an autograph.
To Troys credit his focus was unbelievable.
He never got caught up in the fame.
LAUFENBERG: I could go somewhere [in public], and Troy couldnt.
That was a bad relationship.
The only thing I could really compare it to would be the Rolling Stones, where its just a frenzy.
If you meet Jack Nicklaus, I think there is an appreciation for what hes done and who he is, but its not a frenzy.
JASON GARRETT (1993-99): A lot of those high-profile guys would compete with each other to see who was going to be the last one out of the hotel.
They were playing chicken with the departure time, coming right down to the wire with it, to see who would be the last one out.
They had hats and hatboxes, and all the different things that went with it.
There were a lot of great personalities on that team.
AIKMAN: This may sound weird, nonsensical, but when I look back on my career, the vision I have is from our Super Bowl at the Rose Bowl [in January 1993].
I threw a touchdown pass to Alvin Harper to put us up by a lot in the fourth quarter.
Now we knew we were going to win the game.
No way theyre going to come back.
I go to the sidelines after that touchdown, and I see all the guys whod been through so much to get us to that point.
I see Kevin Gogan, I see Ken Norton Jr., I see Jimmy Johnson, all smiling, all so happy, like this was the pinnacle.
When I think of my career, when I think of my 12 years, thats what I see.
That moment.
Jason Garrett, wearing a nice hat, 1994.
Getty Images GARRETT: I always say this, but if Troy walks into a room, you say thats exactly what an NFL quarterback should look like: Hes 64, 222 pounds, hes got long arms, hes got big hands.
He throws the ball as well as any quarterback I have ever been around, quick, compact delivery, has as much arm strength as anybody.
His accuracy in all parts of the field was off the chart.
There would be days and weeks that went by where he wouldnt throw incomplete passes.
WILSON: Troy was the most detailed person Ive ever been around in my life.
I got there in 95, and hes already been there seven years and won two Super Bowls.
Ernie Zampese, the offensive coordinator, is installing plays, and Troy is taking notes with six different colored pens!
Good Lord, this is the same play we ran 12 weeks ago!
Hes like, This color is my height, this is my sight, this is my read.
Six different colors!
Im thinking, I got this, but maybe I should be doing that as well?
He was seven years in and still doing the exact same thing.
EMPIRE FOR A NEW CENTURY Aikman retired following the 2000 season, and the Cowboys entered a transition period as they struggled to find a stable successor, cycling through eight starting quarterbacks in six years.
By the start of the new decade, however, Jerry Jones had firmly established himself as the leagues most visible owner, growing the franchise into one of the biggest empires in sports.
And in 09, Texas Stadium was replaced by AT&T Stadium, which gave the Cowboysand their quarterbacksthe grandest stage in the NFL.
QUINCY CARTER (2001-03): [Jerry Joness] attentiveness to every facet of that organization was always amazing to me.
Im not feeding you some b.s.it aint nothing that goes through that organization that that man doesnt know about.
GARRETT: He is not this guy standing up in the tower looking down on everybody.
CARTER (released in 2004 for reportedly failing a drug test): He was heavily involved with getting me counselors that could help me with some of my issues off the field and behind the scenes before it came up through the league.
Who wants to admit they are a [marijuana] addict at 22 years old?
Who wants to say you have a problem?
And then who wants to go tell strangers your business when you may think they might be going to tell your employer?
I had all that pressure on me, so it was like, Oh, hell no.
I cant admit to this.
I cant ...
He did some things extra that he wasnt doing for others; well, I dont know about others, but I know what he was trying to do for me.
From Day One.
I just want to look him in his eyes and tell him thank you for what he did for me.
Quincy Carter, 2002.
Getty Images In October 2006, Tony Romo replaced Drew Bledsoe as the teams starter, leading Dallas to a 6-4 finish.
He led the Cowboys to a 13-3 record in 2007, passing for 4,211 yards in his first full season.
BRAD JOHNSON (2007-08): One of the best plays I ever saw [Romo] make: We were playing St. Louis in Dallas [in September 2007]; we were around the 50-yard line, and the ball is snapped over his head in shotgun.
He ran back to about the 20-yard line to grab it.
Most quarterbacks would fall on the ball or take a knee, which is the smart play to make, but Tony picked it up, and he ran around for 20 yards.
WILSON: He dodged about eight guys and makes it like a three-yard positive play to get the first down.
He made so many guys miss, it was unbelievable.
JOHNSON: That was Tony.
Tony can make a great play out of something bad.
CARTER: We played some basketball together, and I saw how good an athlete he was.
Man, hes got it all.
I think his best attribute is his shooting.
He can shoot that rock from anywhere.
It hurts me that he couldnt take the boys over the top.
He worked so hard.
Shoot, every time I would be in the weight room and look out the damn window, it was like, Goddam, is that dude out there still throwing his ball?
I had probably thrown earlier that morning, but then seeing him, it was like, S---, man, I got to back out here and do something!
TONY ROMO (2003-16): I was a little crazy.
I was obsessed, to say the least.
It really had nothing to do with a work ethic, I just couldnt sleep at night without the feeling of thinking that I had gotten better physically at throwing the football.
I used to go throw the football in the morning in my backyard, and then I would go to football practice, and then I would come back out with David Lee, who was our old quarterbacks coach.
Id wait until everyone was gone and I would go out there, hed come up and turn the lights on in the facility for me at 10 oclock at night, and Id throw 20 footballs.
If he couldnt make it, I would go up on my own and throw into a net with my own 10 balls.
Instead of always having to learn on the practice field while the coaches are watching, I got to do it on my own.
I feel like thats what the best quarterbacks do.
LAUFENBERG (now a Cowboys radio network color analyst): Ive basically seen every throw the guy has made, including training camp.
I go to every practice.
I just think he was about as underappreciated a quarterback as there has been in the NFL.
Not just Cowboys.
He was really, really good.
I know its a big if, but if this had been a better team around him and they had been a Super Bowl winner, I think there is no doubt he would be in the Hall of Fame.
But as it stands, he wont sniff it.
A back injury to Romo during the 2016 preseason paved the way for fourth-round draft pick Dak Prescott to take over as the Cowboys starter in his rookie season.
DAK PRESCOTT (2016-present): Tony was as helpful as I can imagine.
Once we scored two touchdowns on back-to-back series opening drives, and then he comes up to me and says, Hey, be ready for the defensive coordinator to change his whole game plan because you are killing him.
Things like that that I will never forget.
Five to 10 years from now Ill be in a game where we score the first two or three possessions, and I will think about Tony Romo telling me that.
Tony Romo, 2007.
Getty Images ROMO: It benefits young quarterbacks to be around guys who are good.
If they are smart, they will quiz them all the time.
Its like me going into broadcasting right nowif Im smart, all Ill do is just wear out the people who have gone before me.
The top guys are so good, and there are a lot of little bits of advice that can give you advantages, and you can be ready for things that you shouldnt be, things that you need to experience first to learn.
If you can learn it before you experience it, thats a huge plus.
In some ways it would be better for Dak to see and hear all those things for years.
But he soaked it in great, and hes a smart kid.
Hes got a bright future.
WILSON (now the Cowboys quarterbacks coach): It was very difficult [to continue with Dak as the starter, even when Romo had recovered from injury].
Im trying to coach up Dak because we have a great thing going and had a relationship with Tony.
Id tell him, Stay dialed in, come on, work with me.
I understand where you are coming from, but if something happens to Dak, you have to be ready to play.
He understood what I was saying, but he didnt always show that he enjoyed what I was saying.
ROMO: I think you are going to need your whole life, wishing you ...
It is obviously a hole on my rsum, but we dont get to choose when we come about and what time.
We all wish we played for the 92 Cowboys.
Peyton Manning had a No.
1 defense, and he wasnt even playing at a level conducive to what he did his whole career.
But when he had that in Denver, they won a Super Bowl.
I feel like I can sleep at night knowing that I may have come up short, but I gave everything I possibly could.
Thats a special feeling to have that.
I just feel like I was one of the lucky ones.
BEING THE BIG MAN IN BIG D Whether you are Roger Staubach or Brandon Weeden, theres a moment, sooner or later, when you realize that theres nothing like being quarterback of the Cowboysfor better or for worse.
LAUFENBERG: One time we had Elizabeth Taylor go out and do the coin flip, she had a new perfume line out, Diamonds or whatever it was called.
Im standing on the sideline, and there is Elizabeth Taylor standing next to me, and she is going out for the coin flip.
And I just thought, This is a little different.
And to Jerrys credit, I just thought, O.K., were not in Kansas anymore, Dorothy.
KEVIN SWEENEY (1987-88): When I got home from the Giants game [Sweeney started the second half in place of Pelluer and passed for three touchdowns in the 1988 loss], there were five TV trucks at my house.
My wife was waiting for me and so were the reporters.
It was chaos.
It was a week of chaos for that.
People kept knocking on the door.
People lined up there.
I went to [passing game coordinator] Paul Hacketts sons playoff game at Southlake.
I got caught at that game, and I ended up signing autographs for three and a half quarters until I went down to present the trophy.
That doesnt happen very many places that Im aware of.
At least for me, growing up in California, that is not quite like that.
DREW BLEDSOE (2005-06): Walking down the tunnel in the old Texas Stadium, that was a pretty cool scene.
As I was coming out, I really did make a conscious effort to enjoy everything that I was doing.
I would generally grab a rookie by the back of his shoulder pads and get in his ear and say, Man, how f------ cool is this, that we get to go do this for a living?
Lets go have fun!
Brandon Weeden at center stage, 2015.
Getty Images JON KITNA (2010-11): The craziest thing to understand is just the passion that people have for the Cowboys.
My first training camp, you show up and you go to the opening night, this is just the players showing up.
Well, there are 25,000 people there to just see you walk in.
Thats not normal.
Its not like that everywhere.
BLEDSOE: Its kind of like pitching for the Yankees.
Youre that guy.
Nobody is ambivalent about the Cowboys.
People either love them or hate them.
It was really kind of funny, a lot of my close friends are Niners fans, and it was really hard for them when I was playing for the Cowboys.
AIKMAN: The quarterback for Dallas is given a lot of attention every season.
Thats what separates him from the quarterback in Jacksonville.
Having said that, I dont think the pressure is any greater in Dallas than it is in Jacksonville.
I really dont.
Theres more attention, more discussion, but theres pressure on all 32the same pressure.
The moneys great everywhere.
The pressure to win, I believe, is the same on all the quarterbacks, all the coaches, all the GMs.
They have to win.
If they dont feel it, they shouldnt be playing.
Theres a vast difference between attention and pressure.
For me, I dont think there was ever a time that it was overwhelming.
BRANDON WEEDEN (2014-15): The perception from the outside looking in, the lights are brighter.
And after playing there for a couple years, the lights are brighter.
Every Thursday night, me, Tony, Jason [Witten], DeMarco [Murray] and sometimes Dez [Bryant] would go to dinner at Nick & Sams, that was our ritual.
When you go out in public, and you see the way people treat him, and I know its Tony Romo, but you see his celebrity-type status, and you think, O.K., this is a bigger deal.
People bleed blue and silver.
Coming from Cleveland [and the Browns], I had never been around another quarterback like that.
ROMO: You wouldnt be human if you didnt recognize the lineage and the history of high-level quarterback play that have been around.
I am a football junkie and historian, and obviously I love the Dallas Cowboys.
I used to sit around and watch tape of Aikman and Staubachit was harder to find tape on Staubach, but it was great.
You try to find something in their game that you can use to make you better.
Dak Prescott arrives, 2016.
Getty Images PRESCOTT: You realize quick why its Americas Team.
Everything that you do is going to be seen and exposed to the world, good or bad.
You notice that pretty quick, just how many cameras are at practice, how many media are in the locker room.
I know everybodys got it, but I would say ours is probably a little more than everybody elses.
It hits me when I am all the way across the country, East Coast or West Coast, and people know who I am and are calling my name.
WHITE: My favorite picture on the wall in my office is a picture of me and Troy and Roger and Craig and Don and Eddie [LeBaron, the first QB of the Cowboys] and Coach Landry.
Landry drafted Troyit wasnt Jimmy Johnsonso we considered Troy to be one of us.
We just happened to all be at a golf tournament together.
It was the only time that all seven of us had been in one place at one time.
I love that photo.
Thats a real honor, to be one of Landrys quarterbacks.
Its like being one of Lombardis quarterbacks.
There just werent very many of them.
To be a Dallas Cowboys quarterback is something that were all very proud of.
From The Cowboys QBs, a special issue of Sports Illustrated.
To order, click here.
Question or comment?
Email us at talkback@themmqb.com.
Diamonds may be a girl's best friend, but Lais Ribeiro is all about those "Champagne Nights."
The Brazilian bombshell, who is both a Sports Illustrated Swimsuit model and Victoria's Secret Angel, found out during fittings for the upcoming Victoria's Secret Fashion Show that she would have the honor of wearing the coveted treasure during the annual TV event.
And she's admittedly a little emotional about it.
"I never cried so much in my entire life and I have a baby," Lais told PEOPLE.
"It was so emotional.
I couldnt believe it when they told me.
It was so beautiful."
Courtesy of Victoria's Secret The piece, which is called the Champagne Nights Fantasy Bra, is valued at $2 million, weighs more than 600 carats, and features a combination of handset diamonds, yellow sapphires, and blue topaz.
The work of art took almost 350 hours to create and is comprised of almost 6,000 total gemstones.
Lais follows in the footsteps of fellow VS Angels such as Gisele Bundchen, Candice Swanepoel and Adriana Lima, who have also graced the VS runway while wearing the annual Fantasy Bra.
This year's show will be in Shanghai, China, at the Mercedes Benz Arena, which holds more people than any of the previous Victorias Secret Fashion show venues.
Catch Lais on the runway wearing the 2017 Champagne Nights Fantasy Bra at this years Victorias Secret Fashion Show, airing November 28 at 10/9c on CBS.
See all of Lais' stunning photos from SI Swimsuit 2017:
Barcelona have confirmed that both Sergi Roberto and Andre Gomes will be out of action for roughly 3-5 weeks following injuries picked up in the Blaugrana's 0-0 draw with Olympiacos on Tuesday night.
The Catalans were left frustrated on Tuesday evening, having failed to get the better of goalkeeper Silvio Proto - denying Lionel Messi five times, while Luis Suarez came the closest to breaking the deadlock with an effort striking the bar.
However, the news gets worse for the Blaugrana following club medics' analyses of both Gomes and Roberto - the latter being forced off with a hamstring complaint before half time, with Gomes suffering a thigh injury towards the end of the match.
"The FC Barcelona medical services have confirmed that Sergi Roberto and Andr Gomes will be out of action for between 3-5 weeks."
A statement reads on the club's official website.
"Tests have confirmed that he has a hamstring strain in his right leg and will be out for around five weeks.
"(Andre Gomes) picked up a thigh injury in his right leg which means he will be out of action for around 3-4 weeks."
The two players add to Ernesto Valverde's unwanted injury list.
Both Ousmane Dembele and Rafinha remain long term absentees for the Catalan club, while Aleix Vidal and Arda Turan are still yet to return to the fold.
Barcelona's draw in Greece means that the Spanish league leaders are still yet to confirm there place in the knockout stages of the Champions League - with Sporting CP and Juventus still in contention for a spot.
Sign Up for our Newsletter Don't get stuck on the sidelines!
Sign up to get exclusives, daily highlights, analysis and moredelivered right to your inbox!
As of Wednesday, we've had a full two weeks of NBA basketball to process.
Here are five takes on what we've seen so far.
1.
The Future Belongs to Giannis Antetokounmpo If you think of superstar athletes like stock, there was a time when Giannis Inc. could've been purchased at a reasonable price.
He had potential, definitely, but there were early questions about his jumper, his hoops IQ, and his teammates in Milwaukee.
His peers had more pedigree.
Even as Antetokounmpo established himself, there were still plenty of good arguments about whether you'd take KAT or Giannis, Brow or Giannis, and so on.
Toward the end of last year, Giannis stock was expensive, but nobody considered him the future of the economy.
Now that's over.
Giannis is Google.
Giannis is Amazon.
We don't know exactly what the NBA future will look like, but it's pretty clear it will eventually orbit around him.
In some ways, we're already there.
The numbers so far: 33.7 PPG, 10.3 RPG, 5.3 APG, 1.7 SPG, 1.0 BPG, 63 FG%.
Sixty-three!
The Bucks fell apart against OKC on Tuesday night, but even in his worst performance of the year, Antetokounmpo finished with 28 points on 9 of 14 shooting.
Every other Bucks game, he's played like LeBron at the end of that Pistons playoff series.
So yes, today marks two weeks of NBA basketball in 2017-18, and the most important development is that it's now clear Giannis Antetokuonmpo will be the most unstoppable player in basketball within three years.
He's already top five, and he's currently the favorite to win MVP.
He's like a hybrid of LeBron James and Kevin Garnett, floating somewhere between point guard and center, and making everyone else look kind of hopeless.
There are people who wonder how big men will dominate in the small ball erawhat would Hakeem Olajuwon look like today?
Shaq?
Kareem?and Giannis is the most convincing answer we've seen so far.
This is Shaq, with length instead of strength.
He's gliding to the rim in two steps, and using an 8-foot wingspan to finish over anyone you put in front of him.
Of course, if this is the player we're dealing with, there are dozens of Giannis questions to consider next.
Among them: Is Jason Kidd the right coach for him?
How much can he really win with a team that's still counting on Tony Snell, Malcolm Brogdon, and Matthew Dellavedova as key members of the supporting cast?
Can they flip one of their big men for another wing?
How will Jabari Parker fit into the future?
If this is what Giannis has become in the regular season, what will Playoff Giannis look like?
What kind of cultural impact will there be if the best player in basketball is a Greek immigrant of Nigerian descent?
And what does the rest of the NBA look like if the best player on earth is averaging 35 per game without shooting outside eight feet?
The answers will become clearer as we go.
For now, it's acceptable to be too delirious to think rationally.
The only lucid Giannis take I have after two weeks is that I hope he never gets a reliable jumper.
Watching him do KD things would be great, sure.
But it wouldn't be as entertaining, because it wouldn't be as surreal.
Somehow Giannis doesn't need to conform to the rest of the sport to dominate, and that's part of the spectacle.
In the shadow of the Warriors and the Rockets and superstars launching threes all over the league, Giannis isn't following.
He's working with a blueprint we've never really seen before.
2.
The East Is College Football, the West Is the NFL This is dangerous.
It's reckless.
It may look extremely foolish in about three weeks.
In fact, if there's anything in this article that makes me feel genuinely self-conscious, it's this opinion.
But right now, on Nov. 1, I think the East looks fun.
It only took five minutes for the Eastern Conference projections to go up in flames on opening night.
Gordon Hayward's injury transformed the Celtics from a Finals contender to a team held together by 20-year-olds.
What was supposed to be a top-heavy conference now looks even more underwhelming among the contenders.
But there's also another way to read the first few weeks: the bottom of the Eastern Conference is more competent than anyone would've expected, and leveling out the top only makes things more entertaining.
So here's where we are: That new Celtics team is already a lot of fun, the Wizards are legitimately good, and the Cavs have one of the three greatest players ever.
The Bucks have Giannis and the Raptors have Lowry and DeRozan to go along with a strangely fun second unit.
Then there are teams like the Magic coming out of nowhere looking frisky.
The Hornets look extremely solid even without Nic Batum.
The Pistons are riding Reggie Jackson and Tobias Harris, embracing all the madness that entails.
Then there are the Nets, playing every game at 150 MPH and looking like the team the Lakers were supposed to be.
The Sixers are an ongoing science experiment starring Ben Simmons and Joel Embiid.
They beat the Rockets on Monday and they've won three of their last four.
Then you've got Victor Oladipo, Domantas Sabonis, and the Pacers' crusade to make all our Paul George takes look bad... Again, I say this in a whisper, but the East might be OK. Coming into the year, we approached the East and West like AAA baseball and the Major Leagues.
That made sense in July, but in November, I think it's the wrong analogy.
What we have here is more like college football and pro football.
The West is where every team's weakness is exposed, the story ends badly for almost everyone, and everyone is taking things very seriously.
It's dramatic, but I don't how rewarding it is.
We nitpick teams and players against the Golden State elite-ness standard, nobody measures up, and fun teams are quickly ground to dust.
In the East, though?
I'm pretty sure the Nets built their entire team out of Rondae Hollis-Jefferson and Rondae Hollis-Jefferson clones, and it kind of works.
The Pacers are making Oladipo look like a Heisman candidate.
The Magic are spreading the field for Evan Fournier and Nikola Vucevic and they're in first place, while the Heat are platooning quarterbacks with Goran Dragic and Dion Waiters.
The East is where some of these strange experiments can actually succeed and surprise people.
The standings could go a dozen different directions over the next six months, and it will be chaos, and it doesn't matter that nobody is beating Bama at the end.
The East is college football.
And I like college football.
Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images 3.
No, Draymond Green Is Not Unfairly Targeted by the NBA Part of Draymond Green's response to the league fining him $25K pic.twitter.com/Xo0k3CaDi6 Anthony Slater (@anthonyVslater) October 30, 2017 Draymond Green screams at referees more than any player I've ever seen.
If he gets the occasional technical that looks unfair, there are 50 others that go uncalled.
It's a legitimate skill of his, harassing referees far beyond what could be considered reasonable from any other player in the league.
And I love Draymond, so none of this is a criticism.
But he's not unfairly targeted by the NBA.
As for the Bradley Beal fight, he was fined for because it's never a coincidence when Draymond gets caught in the middle of a fight.
All of which is to say, this wounded, "I guess I can't be me" monologue is just incredible.
4.
Either Thibs Isn't Coaching or the Wolves Aren't Listening Strong line from Wolves' Tom Thibodeau: "If youre waiting on potential, youre waiting on losing.
We cant wait on potential any longer."
Sam Amick (@sam_amick) October 8, 2017 Tom Thibodeau has been clear that this is the year the Wolves get serious about winning, and it's almost working.
At 4-3 they are fifth in the West, right about where most people expected them to be.
The problem is the games themselves.
Buying into the Wolves before the season was fairly simple.
Minnesota was talented enough to compete in most games last year, but they were poor on defense, laughably bad in third quarters, and they had no one to close out games in the fourth.
This year the defense would get better as Towns improved from Kanter-level to league average, Jimmy Butler and Jeff Teague would help stabilize the offense to avoid lopsided third quarters, and then Butler would be the fourthquarter closer.
It made sense.
But it hasn't really come together.
So far it's been Andrew Wiggins closing games, not Jimmy Butler.
Wiggins has taken more shots than Butler in every game they've played, and it's one of the more baffling phenomenons to emerge in the early season.
Wiggins is fine, but fairly one-dimensional, and not good enough to justify that kind of investment on offense.
Butler is an All-NBA player who can provide exactly the kind execution Thibs said he's looking for this season.
Meanwhile, KAT's the most talented scorer on the team, but it's not clear that the team has any idea where or how to use him.
Then there's the defense.
Towns has continued to struggle even as Wiggins, Butler, and Jeff Teague have eased his burden on offense.
Wiggins is not much better.
Neither one looks any less lost than they did a year ago.
Given that this Monday night sequence came on a game-tying final possession, this might be the worst defense we've seen from anyone in the league so far: Can anyone tell me what in the hell KAT is doing here?
It definitely isnt his job.
pic.twitter.com/WS5nfVrQ1l Dave DuFour (@DaveDuFourNBA) October 31, 2017 The Wolves are last in defensive efficiency, and in that Heat game Jimmy Butler was 5 of 13 from the floor while Andrew Wiggins was 7 of 23.
This can't be the plan, right?
The Wolves should be fun, but they are currently way too stressful to qualify as enjoyable.
5.
The Cavs Are Fine, but the Past Week Is Why LeBron Should Leave LeBron James: What month is it again, October?
Im not about to go crazy about this right now Dave McMenamin (@mcten) October 30, 2017 Yes, the Cavs have enough talent to win the East this year and probably for the foreseeable future, but that's not the point.
Double-digit losses to the Knicks and Pelicans were a good reminder of why LeBron might really leave regardless.
It's not just that he'd want to beat Golden State, but the prospect of running it back year after year with bloated Cavs rosters could be its own call to action.
Even if he can't build an obvious Warriors challenger somewhere else, does anyone really want to see LeBron stay loyal to Ohio and recreate the KG-Joe Johnson Nets through the 2020s?
It's not a knock on the raw talent in Cleveland or what's possible this year, and I reserve the right to rescind this takeplus any and all Eastern Conference optimism!within the next few months.
But we know the Cavs will be ugly for a while, and eventually they'll probably be fine, and we've done all this before.
That's part of the problem.
This version of the Cavs is boring right now.
And if the Warriors are going to rule the league for the next few years, LeBron should at least keep the story interesting.
Sign Up for our Newsletter Don't get stuck on the sidelines!
Sign up to get exclusives, daily highlights, analysis and moredelivered right to your inbox!
Sign Up for our Newsletter Don't get stuck on the sidelines!
Sign up to get exclusives, daily highlights, analysis and moredelivered right to your inbox!
Sign Up for our Newsletter Don't get stuck on the sidelines!
Sign up to get exclusives, daily highlights, analysis and moredelivered right to your inbox!
Reach Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane has claimed that his Champions League holders will use the league defeat to Girona, as motivation to win Wednesday's Champions League clash against Tottenham at Wembley.
Girona came from behind to beat the Spanish giants 2-1 on Sunday, leaving Real eight points adrift of rivals Barcelona - currently in fine fettle.
Zidane now faces Tottenham, as both sit at the top of their Champions League group on identical points and the pressure is ripe on the Frenchman, who is said to be relishing the challenge.
The squad got their first taste of Wembley ahead of Wednesday night's big #RMUCL clash with @SpursOfficial!
pic.twitter.com/hClSH0v3Mn Real Madrid C.F.
(@realmadriden) November 1, 2017 Speaking to ESPN Zidane explained: "In many ways I like this situation."
"Its a good feeling to have the motivation of a big match to return to winning ways, it inspires me and when things are toughest, you need a big challenge to come back stronger.
its when I work best", he maintained.
The Frenchman then reiterated: "Some people believe a defeat means we are weakest but is the exact opposite, we are working harder than ever at coming back stronger against a great opponent."
Alex Broadway/GettyImages Talking about the League results, Zidane said: "Was Girona my worst match as manager?
I dont think so, thats an overreaction and you must remember we went a goal up but could not take advantage of that, but we must bounce back.
"Its important for us not to think too much about that and move on, to think of the match against Spurs and give all we can to that match to win."
Marcelo, speaking to the press, echoed his managers notions, and when questioned about the impact of Harry Kane, stated: "It does not make, for me, a big difference.
Harry Kane is a very important player but Tottenham are more than just one player."
Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson received some welcome news ahead of the London derby with Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday at Wembley Stadium, as key defender Mamadou Sakho returned to training.
Reported in the Croydon Advisor, the French international has returned to light training in preparation for the important league clash at the weekend.
This was also confirmed by the club as they posted photographs on the Palace's official website and Twitter account showing the defender being put through his paces by coaching and medical staff.
Having missed last weekend's 2-2 draw with West Ham United due to a calf injury, former England manager Hodgson will be eager to get Sakho involved in the Palace squad to boost his defensive options especially against a Spurs side that has multiple attacking options and has the Premier League's top scorer - firing on all cylinders - in Harry Kane.
IAN KINGTON/GettyImages More good news for the Eagles is that Scottish international James McArthur also returned to light training after getting over a slight ankle injury.
It has been a challenging start for the Selhurst Park club, however the battle to overcome injuries to key players has not helped the situation.
Now those players are making their way back and proving their fitness, this will provide the necessary platform for Crystal Palace to fight their way out of the relegation zone as they have the quality in the squad to be soaring a lot higher than their current position reflects.
Liverpool have been handed a boost ahead of next weeks international break, with Egyptian winger, Mohamed Salah, being relieved of some of his duties.
According to the Liverpool Echo, Salahs workload in the international break has been halved after Egypt cancelled their friendly against the United Arab Emirates, although the winger will be involved in the North African nation's meaningless World Cup Qualifier against Ghana.
The last time Salah played for his country he left a hero, helping his country secure a place in their first World Cup in almost 30 years.
The Egyptian scored twice in a 2-1 win over Congo in early October.
PAUL ELLIS/GettyImages Egypt finished top of Group E in African World Cup Qualifier, qualifying with a game to spare.
With Egypt already qualified, Liverpool boss, Jurgen Klopp will be hoping that Salahs minutes are limited in the game against Ghana.
Salah has shown his importance to his country, and has already shown his importance to his club Liverpool so far this season.
In what has been a season full of inconsistencies for Liverpool, Salah emerges as one of the success stories.
TAREK ABDEL HAMID/GettyImages The Egyptian has scored five goals in 10 league appearances so far, as well as chipping in three goals in Liverpools champions League campaign.
Salahs limited international duty may seem small, yet significant as Liverpool attempt to work their way back into top-four contention.
The health of the Egyptian is paramount, especially with Sadio Mane out injured.
It would be a tad unfair to suggest that Chelsea hugely missed Eden Hazard's attacking influence during the early weeks of this season.
True, the Belgian forward's presence on the pitch could have prevented the Blues from falling to a shock opening day defeat against Burnley on home turf, but the reigning Premier League champions weren't too shabby in his absence.
The 26-year-old is still a vital cog in Antonio Conte's side though and judging by this stat from OptaJoe about his form in the Champions League, Hazard appears to be getting back to his best following a lengthy lay off after breaking his ankle: 13 - Eden Hazard has created more goalscoring chances than any other player this season in the Champions League (13).
Silky.
pic.twitter.com/mbBIO5hlUB OptaJoe (@OptaJoe) October 31, 2017 Considering the world class talent on show in UEFA's big-money club tournament - we're looking at you Messrs Messi, Ronaldo, Neymar and De Bruyne - Hazard trumps them all when it comes to selflessly setting up his teammates.
Does it mean that Chelsea are starting to rely heavily on Hazard again now that he's back and fully fit?
Possibly, but then who wouldn't want to involve Hazard as much as possible in attacking phases of play?
He has the creativity, eye for a pass, pace and shooting power to cause serious problems to opposition defences and Conte will hope he continues to both score and assist as much as possible this term.
The saga of Philippe Coutinhos future at Liverpool shows no sign of slowing down.
In fact, the fog that once shrouded this story has become even more unclear, as Barcelona his main suitor seek greater certainty before they attempt a move for him again in January.
Bleacher Report claim that French club, Paris Saint-Germain are now looking at the Brazilian.
Barcelona's pride was truly bruised last summer, losing star Brazilian, Neymar to PSG, and failing miserably to replace him with a Brazilian of their own in Coutinho.
Shaun Botterill/GettyImages According to the Mundo Deportivo (via Sport Witness) the Catalan club are looking for stronger assurance on Coutinhos availability before they expend all their efforts in January to sign him.
A repeat of the failed summer activity is something that Barcelona will be hoping not to repeat.
Barcelona will want to distance themselves from last summer's futile attempts of trying and probing at Liverpools stout resolve, despite the Brazilian pleading to leave.
Barcelona ended their pursuit for Coutinho, signing French wonder kid Ousmane Dembl from Dortmund, but they are to return in January for the Brazilian.
Philippe Coutinho has scored 17 @premierleague goals from outside the box since his debut in Feb 2013 - 3 more than any other player pic.twitter.com/HCWV6Hr74r Sky Sports Statto (@SkySportsStatto) October 1, 2017 However, there are more problems that have stepped in the way of signing Coutinho.
Barcelonas monumental wage bill has said to be a potential barrier.
The Brazilian might have to take a wage cut if he is to leave Merseyside.
Enter French club, PSG, who have shown of late that money isnt an issue for them.
Barcelona, will rightfully be fearful of PSGs interest in their target.
With fellow Brazilians already on their team, PSG will be hoping to send both Neymar and Dani Alves to try seduce Coutinho to join the french outfit.
Sign Up for our Newsletter Don't get stuck on the sidelines!
Sign up to get exclusives, daily highlights, analysis and moredelivered right to your inbox!
Jurgen Klopp has claimed that Liverpool will face a tough test against Maribor in the Champions League on Wednesday night, despite handing out a 7-0 thrashing to the Slovenian side in their previous encounter.
The Reds were comprehensive winners at the Stadion Ljudski, and sit top of Group E on five points with three games played.
However, Klopp has warned against complacency in the return fixture at Anfield, and expects the game to be far from a repeat of the thrashing in Slovenia.
"They are usually really well organised but it is a football playing side and I don't think they can change this much," he said in his pre-match press conference, as quoted by eir Sport.
"We have to do like we did in the first game.
Two or three of the goals were because of our pressing situations, when they played and we jumped in, the first goal especially when Mo [Mohamed Salah] put the left-back under pressure with his speed.
"I don't expect a lot of easy spaces.
We will have to work for this.
If anyone is expecting something like this [7-0 again] I cannot change that."
ANTHONY DEVLIN/GettyImages With Liverpool only marginally ahead of second-placed Spartak Moscow, and third-placed Sevilla in Group E, Klopp has called on his players to remain "100 percent serious" in order to secure qualification for the last 16.
"We have three more games, nine points, we had the first two games with good performances but not enough points, so there is nothing to waste now," he added.
"We have to be and we will be 100 percent serious.
I will make sure of that.
If we win at the end 1-0 I am completely happy about it because it means we have three more points."
Young Everton and England forward Dominic Calvert-Lewin believes that caretaker manager David Unsworth is the right man to save the Toffees' season because of his honesty with the players.
Calvert-Lewin told Everton's Official Website that he is backing his honesty to get Everton back to winning ways ahead of Thursday night's Europa League clash against French side Lyon, which Everton lost the reverse fixture of 2-1 in the controversial game that involved an aggressive fan throwing punches at the players.
29 A post shared by DCL (@domcalvertlewin) on Sep 26, 2017 at 5:12am PDT Calvert-Lewin said "Everyone is looking forward to trying to return to winning ways.
"The match at Chelsea showed we have those good performances in us, then in the second half against Leicester, they had a two-goal cushion but we were trying to break them down for the full 45 minutes and were the better side.
"If we can keep bringing that intensity and standard of play to our performances, then we will win games."
OLI SCARFF/GettyImages Calvert-Lewin has worked under Unsworth at Sheffield United and with the Everton Under-23's, and has undeniable faith in the manager.
He goes on to say: "He is good with a lot of the young lads, I think it is probably his honesty, he will tell you when you are doing well, but he will tell you when you are not, too.
"He is there when you need to speak to him, from a young persons point of view.
I moved away from home and his door was always open.
In that respect, he was very helpful when I came to the club.
"My first games for Everton were with the Under-23's and he was the manager.
It was him who brought me to the Club and showed belief in me, which was a massive thing for me at the time."
Liverpool target Stefan de Vrij is hoping to have a better understanding of his future by Friday, with the defender's current contract with Lazio due to expire at the end of the season and negotiations over a new deal having stalled.
According to reports by TalkSport, this has sparked interest from Liverpool, as well as Italian champions Juventus, who are both eager to sign the Dutchman for free in the summer.
Lazio are desperate for De Vrij to agree new terms and a meeting is schedule for Friday.
The centre-back's agent is traveling to Rome to meet with chiefs from the Italian club as they look to finally sort out his client's future.
The cause for the delay in signing a new contract is believed to be a release clause in De Vrij's new contract, with Lazio and the player unable to agree on the amount it should be set at.
Lazio are intent on the fee being around 45m in the 25-year-old's new contract, but his advisers are insisting that the buy-out clause be much lower - a fee worth around 25m.
De Vrij played a key role in the 2-1 win over reigning champions Juventus earlier this month and after that game he confirmed that he is hoping to extend his stay in Rome.
He said: "Besides playing well as a team there are also a lot of friendships among us, this is a really nice thing.
I'm very happy to be here.
"We are talking to the club right now and I hope to find an agreement.
You never know what will happen.
My intention is to grow and improve and make the best decision for my career."
It seems De Vrij might be Klopp's alternative if further attempts to sign Van Dijk prove to be unfruitful again.
De Vrij has made 79 appearances in all competitions for Lazio since his 6m transfer from Feyenoord in July 2014, and lifted the Supercoppa Italiana last season.
Atletico Madrid manager Diego Simeone has rued his teams inability to score against Qarabag in their Champions League encounter on Tuesday night - pointing to their match against AS Roma as a crucial tie.
It's the same story again for Atletico - plenty of shots and domination, but no end product.
Despite the Spanish club's classy looking attack, Simeone's side failed to break down their opponent, leaving Atletico third in group C. And speaking after the game, the Argentinian pointed to the impressive display put on by the Qarabag goalkeeper prohibiting his team from finding the back of the net: "All explanations, after this result, are excuses," Simeone said in his post-match press conference (via ESPN).
"We did not start badly, had some chances but could not take them.
Then we got anxious, nervous, at end of the first half.
We played as we needed to in second half, I have the feeling team did everything they could do.
Denis Doyle/GettyImages "Their goalkeeper had a great game, Qarabag defended very well.
Clearly the result is not what we were looking for, and we are in this arm-wrestle with the goal.
We must keep insisting to overcome this situation."
After Atletico's disappointing draw, Simeone has now pointed to an important match against Roma - a game which he claims will determine his club's Champions League future: "When Roma come here we will try and win our game", he continued.
"You get what you deserve.
We will know after the Roma game if we can continue, or are out already."
Atletico are currently four points adrift of second placed Chelsea in group C.
Arsenal have announced that they will alter the capacity of their stadium back to 60,600, the club losing 780 seats during the construction of the stadium in 2006 due to safety requirements and upgrades to sections dedicated for disabled supporters, according to the Evening Standard.
The work needed to increase the stadium size will take place during the summer of 2018 and 2019, with the club hoping of having the additional seating ready for the opening day of the 2019/20 Premier League season.
Arsenal have won their last 13 games at the Emirates Stadium!
pic.twitter.com/nugLTwDwmv Lacazette FC (@Lacazest) October 31, 2017 "The development of club Level is crucial to ensuring fan experience at games is at its best whilst also enabling us to stay at the forefront of stadium hospitality," said Arsenals Chief Commercial Officer, Vinai Venkatesham.
"As we continue to face high demand for tickets in all areas of Emirates Stadium, this is a significant investment to ensure that as many supporters as possible are able to watch the team play at Emirates Stadium."
Even with the improvements made to the maximum capacity at the Emirates, Arsenal's home ground will still be 999 seats short of Tottenham's new stadium.
Srdjan Stevanovic/GettyImages The Gunners return to European action on Thursday as Serbian giants Red Star Belgrade travel to the Emirates on matchday four of the Europa League.
An Olivier Giroud wondergoal at the Rajko Miti Stadium helped Arsenal make it three wins from three in their Europa League campaign, with qualification from the group now looking to be a formality for Arsne Wenger's side.
After another poor showing in the Champions League group stages last night, Atletico Madrid captain Gabi vented his frustrations at the very real prospect of the club dropping down into the Europa League, by calling the competition "a load of s***."
The 1-1 draw to Azerbaijani club Qarabag leaves Atleti needing to beat Chelsea and Roma in their last two games to give them any real chance of making the Champions League knockouts.
Gabi was speaking to beIN Sports (via Sport) after the disappointing result, when he hit out at the Europa League.
Gabi said: "As of today, I would tell you that the Europa League is a load of s***, although it has given me a lot.
"What hurts most is that we don't have matters in our own hands, that is the cruel reality.
We have to try and beat Roma and hope Qarabag are capable of holding Chelsea.
"At the moment we are out.
We have a chance but it is very remote."
Gabi also voiced his support for his teammates, coaches and the fans, who have all been reassuring of each other during Atletico's poor Champions League performances.
The Spanish midfielder said "We're the same players when we win and when we lose, just as the manager, the board, the fans [are the same]...We have to keep working hard and learn from this experience because there's nothing else to do but pick ourselves up.
"We were poor in the first half.
In the second half, when we wanted to turn things around, we weren't capable of doing so.
But no one has said the word impossible"
(Reuters) - West Ham United must learn to hold onto a lead if they are to climb up the Premier League standings, club captain Mark Noble said ahead of Saturdays clash with Liverpool.
Britain Football Soccer - West Ham United v Tottenham Hotspur - Premier League - London Stadium - 5/5/17 West Ham United's Mark Noble celebrates after the match Action Images via Reuters / Andrew Couldridge Livepic Slaven Bilics side have recorded two wins in their opening 10 league games of the season and currently sit a point above the relegation zone in 16th place.
They have lost five points from winning positions, allowing Southampton, Burnley and most recently Crystal Palace to score late goals, and Noble said such results could cost them in the long run.
You cant make mistakes like we made at Crystal Palace in the Premier League and expect to win matches, so we really need to learn how to hold onto a lead because were really shooting ourselves in the foot, the 30-year-old midfielder told the clubs website (www.whufc.com).
People talk about managing the game and a lot of it is common sense.
We need to be able to see the time out by slowing the play down and, in a way, get the opposition and their fans feeling anxious.
I dont think we have done that well enough this season.
Over the last two seasons, West Ham have lost just once in six meetings with Liverpool in all competitions but Noble said his team will have to be at their best to beat Juergen Klopps men at the London Stadium.
With where we are in the table and the fact we go into the final international break of the year after it, there is a massive motivation to win Saturdays game, Noble added.
Liverpool at home is a big game - it always is.
Were at home, well have the crowd behind us and weve got to roll our sleeves up, look forward to the game and do the basics right.
(Reuters) - Former Ghana and Ajax defensive midfielder Abubakari Yakubu has died at the age of 35, the Ghanaian Football Association said on Wednesday.
Football - Stock , 31/1/06 Yakubu Abubakari - Ghana Mandatory Credit: Action Images / Alex Morton The Ghana FA announced the news on Twitter but did not give the reason for his death.
Multiple media reports said that Yakubu died in a hospital in the southern Ghanaian city of Tema on Tuesday.
Were sad to hear the death of former Ghana, Ajax and Vitesse midfielder Abubakari Yakubu, our thoughts are with his family.
may his soul RIP, the Ghanian FA tweeted.
Yakubu won 16 caps for Ghana and helped his country qualify for the 2006 World Cup.
However, he was not picked for the tournaments finals in Germany.
A versatile player who slotted into defence when required, Yakubu won the Dutch league and cup double in 2002 and added another league title in 2004.
He left Ajax for Vitesse Arnhem in 2004 after 89 appearances.
ZHUHAI, China (Reuters) - Slovakias Magdalena Rybarikova clinched her first victory of the WTA Elite Trophy on Wednesday, beating top seed Kristina Mladenovic 7-5 1-6 7-6(5) in a thrilling encounter lasting two hours and 48 minutes.
Rybarikova made an impressive start, firing two aces on her way to winning the first set over her French opponent.
The 29-year-old, ranked 22 in the world, struggled with injury during the majority of the second set, and after ceding a 4-1 lead, took a medical timeout.
Mladenovic, unaffected by the break, raced to a second set win, in which she hit 13 winners and only five unforced errors.
The players exchanged early breaks in the final set but Rybarikova clinched the decisive lead in the tiebreak, before sealing the victory on her seventh match point.
I am happy that I went through this match because conditions were tough and I had some problems with my leg, Rybarikova said after the match.
I was saying to myself that I had to win this match because I had so many match points and it would be really cruel to end the season like this.
Rybarikova improved her record in the Azalea Group to 1-1 after dropping her first match to Julia Goerges on Tuesday.
Mladenovic will now have to beat Goerges in their match later in the week to have any chances to reach the final four.
Australias Ashleigh Barty moved to the top of the Rose Group with a convincing 6-4 6-1 win over Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova.
Barty broke the Russians serve four times and served nine aces in the victory and will qualify for the semi-finals outright, should she beat Angelique Kerber on Thursday.
To qualify for this week is just a massive bonus, Barty, the youngest player in the draw at 21, told reporters.
And now to get a win, I can just look forward to the match tomorrow and try and go out there and play with freedom again.
Latvias Anastasija Sevastova cruised past reigning US Open champion Sloane Stephens 7-5 6-3 to avenge her quarter-final loss in New York.
JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Danny Jordaan, the central figure in South Africas staging of the 2010 football World Cup, on Wednesday denied allegations that he raped former African National Congress lawmaker and singer Jennifer Ferguson in the 1990s.
Football - Soccerex Durban, South Africa - 5/11/14 Danny Jordaan during the 2014 Soccerex African Forum Mandatory Credit: Action Images / Anesh Debiky Livepic EDITORIAL USE ONLY.
Jordaan, who is the president of the South African Football Association, said he was ready to clear his name in court.
Ms Ferguson has alleged that Dr Jordaan raped her 24 years ago.
Dr Jordaan denies that he raped Ms Ferguson, his lawyer, Mamodupi Mohlala-Mulaudzi, said in a statement.
Rapes of women and children are common in South Africa, with womens rights campaigners charging that sexual violence has almost lost the power to shock.
Ferguson, in a blog post last month, accused Jordaan of raping her in 1993 in a hotel in Port Elizabeth on South Africas south coast after she gave a concert.
Ferguson said she was emboldened to break her silence by the #MeToo social media campaign that grew out of the slew of allegations of predatory sexual behaviour by Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein.
Ferguson said that after the concert, Jordaan entered her hotel room and raped her.
She said her intention was not to seek revenge.
The thought of going to the police felt intolerable.
What would I say?
Should I have screamed louder?
Fought him off harder?
Had I been complicit in some way?
she wrote.
Ferguson said she had not yet decided what legal steps to take.
(Reuters) - Burnley striker Nahki Wells needs more game time before he can compete for a regular first-team slot at the English Premier League club, manager Sean Dyche said on Wednesday.
Football Soccer - Accrington Stanley vs Huddersfield Town - Pre Season Friendly - Accrington, Britain - July 12, 2017 Huddersfield Town's Nahki Wells Action Images via Reuters/Ed Sykes Wells is recovering from surgery to rectify an ankle problem but was on the substitutes bench for the first time since his move from Huddersfield Town as Burnley claimed a 1-0 Premier League win against Newscastle United on Monday.
Nahki still needs more minutes, Dyche told the club website (www.burnleyfootballclub.com).
We thought it was appropriate to put him in, especially with (Chris) Wood being out.
He needs that mixture now of getting involved with us and getting more game time, so we will look to get that sorted out for him in the coming weeks.
Wells has twice featured as an over-age player for Burnleys under-23 side since returning to action last month and also completed 90 minutes in a friendly against Sheffield United.
The 27-year-old Bermuda international could next feature with the under-23s in a Premier League Cup tie against Colchester United on Thursday.
The club also confirmed that striker Wood is likely to face a late fitness test before Saturdays league trip to Southampton after missing the Newcastle clash with a hamstring injury.
As for Chris, well see.
I believe in all of my forwards and if I have to make a decision, I do, said Dyche.
We just decided, with a hamstring, it was probably too early.
And we got the win, so it looks a good decision.
Burnley are seventh in the Premier League table with four wins, four draws and two defeats from their opening 10 games.
KIEV (Reuters) - Ukrainian police have detained more than 50 people after a bar brawl broke out between fans of Dutch football team Feyenoord and Ukraines Shakhtar Donetsk in the eastern city of Kharkiv late on Tuesday, the police said.
There were 40 Dutch citizens among those detained, news agency Interfax Ukraine reported.
The bars interior was destroyed and its windows smashed in the fight, which took which took place ahead of a Champions League match between the two teams on Wednesday evening, Kharkiv police said in a statement.
The conflict occurred between Dutch and Ukrainian fans, the police said.
It said 52 people had been taken in for questioning at the local police headquarters in connection with the incident, without giving further details.
In 2015, 23 Feyenoord fans were arrested in Rome and 19 charged after violence broke out before a match against Italian team AS Roma.
BARCELONA (Reuters) - The true strength of Barcelonas squad will be put to the test in the next month after the club said on Tuesday midfielders Andre Gomes and Sergi Roberto were ruled out for up to four and five weeks, respectively.
Soccer Football - La Liga Santander - Athletic Bilbao vs Barcelona - San Mames, Bilbao, Spain - October 28, 2017 Barcelonas Andre Gomes in action with Athletic Bilbao's Unai Nunez REUTERS/Vincent West Roberto, a natural midfielder who also plays as a full back, was forced off in the first half of Barcas 0-0 draw at Greeces Olympiakos on Tuesday in the Champions League with a hamstring injury.
Portugals Gomes also ended the game with a hamstring problem even though he only played the last 15 minutes.
Barca are unbeaten in all competitions so far this season and top La Liga with 28 points from 10 games while leading Champions League Group H with 10 points.
But their midfield pair will miss league games with Sevilla, Leganes, Valencia and the trip to Italys Juventus.
Gomes should return in time to face Celta Vigo on Dec. 3, with Roberto being back to face Villarreal on Dec. 10.
Ernesto Valverdes Barca side currently have seven players injured in total, including captain Andres Iniesta and record signing Ousmane Dembele, who will not be available until January.
MADRID (Reuters) - Atletico Madrid, despite twice coming within inches of Champions League glory in the last four years, have experienced an emphatic fall from grace this season and are on the brink of a humiliating exit from the group stage.
Soccer Football - Champions League - Atletico Madrid vs Qarabag FK - Wanda Metropolitano, Madrid, Spain - October 31, 2017 Atletico Madrid's Fernando Torres in action with Qarabags Maksim Medvedev REUTERS/Sergio Perez While in past years Diego Simeones side out-muscled continental heavy weights such as Barcelona, Bayern Munich and Juventus, this campaign they have been unable to beat Azerbaijans little-known Qarabag in two attempts.
On Tuesday the 55,000 fans packed into the shiny new Wanda Metropolitano stadium groaned with frustration as Atletico wasted chance after chance to grab a winning goal against the Azerbaijani side, even after the visitors had forward Pedro Henrique sent off with half an hour remaining.
The 1-1 draw in Madrid came two weeks after a goalless stalemate in Baku in which Atletico also had the advantage of an extra man in the second half.
They are without a win in four games in Champions League Group C and their future in the competition is out of their own hands.
Itll take more than a miracle, said the front cover of newspaper Marca, picturing a despondent Antoine Griezmann covering his face in his hands, while daily AS declared: Atletico look towards the Europa League.
Atleticos wobbly form this season has not been limited to Europes elite competition and they have only won one of their last eight games, conceding far more goals than they used to and appear to be suffering from anxiety when it comes to scoring.
This teams identity is based on conceding very few goals and scoring from the few chances we create.
Now things have changed, we concede more goals and no matter how many chances we create we cant seem to score, said captain Gabi.
The veteran midfielder was one of few players to escape from criticism after the miserable draw with Qarabag on Halloween night, which Marca described as Gabi and 10 Ghosts.
ELEMENTARY MISTAKES Atleticos shaky backline is the most remarkable aspect of their decline.
They had the strongest defensive record in four of the previous five seasons in La Liga and two years ago conceded fewer than one goal every two games, but now they are making the most elementary mistakes.
All nine of the goals they have conceded in the league and Champions League have come from crosses into the box, situations which they used to extinguish with ease, while defenders Diego Godin and Juanfran, 31 and 32 respectively, have badly underperformed.
A ban on registering new players due to the illegal transfer of minors has lead to a lack of competitive edge in the squad.
So in attack there has been an over-reliance on Antoine Griezmann, who has only scored three goals all season.
The arrivals of Spain forwards Diego Costa and Vitolo in January cannot come soon enough.
Another problem for Atletico has been adapting to their new 68,000-capacity arena, where they have failed to win their last four games and which has yet to witness a Champions League win.
A pining for the decrepit but beloved old stadium was tangible after the draw with Qarabag, with Marca declaring: This would not have happened at the Vicente Calderon.
(The story was refiled to fix a word in the lead)
LONDON (Reuters) - Turning Britain into a top-five Olympic nation in skiing and snowboarding might appear about as realistic as climbing the Eiger in a pair of plimsolls, but that is the target Dan Hunt has set himself.
Athletes from the British Ski and Snowboard team take part in a photocall at the The Snow Centre in Hemel Hempstead, Britain October 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner It is unlikely to happen at next years Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang but Hunt does not have much time for the naysayers who laugh off the prospects of a nation without any Alpine DNA.
For good reason too.
Hunt, who became performance director of British Ski and Snowboard (BSS) a year ago, has previous when it comes to mocking conventional wisdom.
When he joined British Cycling in 2005, then performance director Dave Brailsford put him in charge of a womens endurance squad used to making up the numbers.
Hunt, who had no expertise in cycling, applied his background in exercise science and physiology to such great effect that Rebecca Romero and Wendy Houvenaghel won gold and silver in the individual pursuit in Beijing in 2008.
Now he believes Britains skiers and snowboarders can make a similar jump from also-rans to medal winners.
Weve set out to become a top-five nation, Hunt said in an interview at a media day for Britains Pyeongchang hopefuls at Hemel Hempsteads Snow Centre.
As soon as you say something like that, and Ive done that a couple of times so I know whats going to happen, you get 33 percent of the team saying yeah thats what we want, want to start winning, we want ambition.
INTERESTING JOURNEY Athletes from the British Ski and Snowboard team take part in a photocall at the The Snow Centre in Hemel Hempstead, Britain October 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner Then you have the that will never happen brigade.
They think just because it hasnt been done means it cant be done.
When we said at British Cycling that we wanted to have a Tour de France champion by 2013 the room burst into laughter.
Then you have the middle group who will take a step to the left or right depending on how its going to pan out.
Thats why you have to deliver what you said you were going to deliver.
Hunts second Olympics as a cycling coach was London 2012 where the hosts won 12 medals, after which he joined Team Sky as Sporting Director, before being poached by the Premier League to run its Elite Player Performance Plan.
Slideshow (3 Images) Its been an interesting journey for me, Hunt, now responsible for all the snow disciplines -- including Alpine, cross-country, freestyle, snowboard and ski jumping, said.
There are some fundamental aspects of performance that are very similar across all sports.
You take good leadership, good coaching and strap that around a very defensible performance plan.
You need a clear vision and strategy.
Britain won its first ever Olympic medal on snow when Jenny Jones came third in the snowboard slopestyle in Sochi 2014.
Last year, the team earned 15 World Cup podiums across the various disciplines and heading into Pyeonchang there are realistic medal hopes for the likes of slalom skier Dave Ryding, snowboarders Katie Ormerod and Billy Morgan and freestyle skiers James Woods and Katie Summerhayes.
Hunt said his first year in charge has been about plugging gaps and while he does not expect a medal rush in South Korea, he is confident the team can better Sochi.
Im not Harry Potter with a magic wand saying we are suddenly going to be a competitive nation.
But we have a process in place.
Pyeongchang is 100 days and Im hoping it will be our most successful Games.
But once we have come back the world wont stop turning.
Then we start focussing on Beijing 2022 and where we will have many more opportunities.
PARIS (Reuters) - Germanys Alexander Zverev was knocked out in the Paris Masters second round when he slumped to a 3-6 6-2 6-2 defeat against Dutch journeyman Robin Haase on Wednesday.
FILE PHOTO - Tennis - Shanghai Masters tennis tournament - Shanghai, China - October 12, 2017 - Alexander Zverev of Germany in action against Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina.
REUTERS/Aly Song The fourth seed, who has already booked his ticket for the season-ending ATP World Tour finals in London, lost his way in the match after Haase levelled at one-set all.
The 20-year-old Zverev converted his only break point in the first set to take the lead while Haase wasted six break chances.
But Haase played a bit tighter in the second set and it was enough to unsettle Zverev, who never threatened again in an almost empty AccorHotels Arena.
Later on Wednesday, Spains Rafa Nadal will make sure he ends the year as world number one if he beats South Koreas Chung Hyeon.
Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni presented Ashish Nehra with a memento on behalf of Team India.
Virat Kohli and MS Dhoni presented Ashish Nehra with a memento on behalf of Team India.
AFP India captain Virat Kohli paid rich tributes to the retiring Ashish Nehra and termed the veteran pacer as 'one of the smartest cricketers' he has ever played with.
The first T20 International against New Zealand at the Feroz Shah Kotla is Nehra's final international match of a career that started way back in 1999.
"Nineteen years as a fast bowler is a great achievement.
One of the smartest guys I've played with, always loves helping youngsters.
He is someone who knew what to do in specific situations.
Sad to see him go but it is happening at his home ground," Kohli said during the toss.
During the pre-match training session, Kohli and Mahendra Singh Dhoni presented Nehra with a memento on behalf of Team India.
VIDEO: Ashish Nehra given a memento by the team for his remarkable contribution to Indian cricket #TeamIndiahttps://t.co/3itQO1Ov5u pic.twitter.com/orHnyu3eUB BCCI (@BCCI) November 1, 2017 India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh also posted an old photo with Nehra and wrote a special message.
"Gud luck my bro #Ashishnehra playing his last game 2day.jus enjoy as we did in this pic aftr winning th World Cup2011.
Bhangra khich @BCCI," Harbhajan wrote.
Gud luck my bro #Ashishnehra playing his last game 2day.jus enjoy as we did in this pic aftr winning th World Cup2011.
Bhangra khich @BCCI pic.twitter.com/DDkqngSNf7 Harbhajan Turbanator (@harbhajan_singh) November 1, 2017 Here's how other cricketers wished Nehra for his final appearance in India jersey.
Nehra Ji is definitely playing...after all it's the #ThankYouNehraJee Day https://t.co/T91Lfmu1eV Aakash Chopra (@cricketaakash) November 1, 2017 As the veteran makes his way out - three cheers to you and your glittering career that always had us on our toes.
You'll be missed, Nehraji.
pic.twitter.com/FkCdJ9o6C8 SunRisers Hyderabad (@SunRisers) November 1, 2017 Nehra was only 19 when he began playing for India, while his domestic career is even longer.
Former India captain Kapil Dev said on Wednesday that when he had seen Jasprit Bumrah's awkward bowling action for the first time, he was sceptical about the bowler's long-term survival in international cricket.
But Bumrah's rise to the number one spot in the ICC T20 bowlers' list proved the former Indian great wrong.
Appreciating Bumrah's performance, Kapil Dev termed the Indian a 'fabulous' bowler and further added that the Gujarat pacer has completely changed people's perception about bowlers with unorthodox actions.
"He (Bumrah) is fabulous.
When I saw Bumrah for the first time, I thought how would he play with such an awkward action.
But this player has changed our thought process," the 1983 World Cup-winning skipper said.
"And today we feel players with awkward action will play for their country for long," Kapil further added.
A stern advocate of fitness, the legendary all-rounder was full of praise for India skipper Virat Kohli for turning the current team into one of the fittest in world cricket.
"Every captain has his thought process.
This captain (Virat Kohli) has brought up an idea of fitness in the team and I think we should respect his decision," Kapil said.
"You may be very talented but if you can't take catches and save extra runs for the team, it is of no use.
A minimum level of athleticism is required.
Yo-Yo test is not something which a player can't clear.
"I was also a fitness freak and it will be unfair if I don't stand by it.
I feel fitness to zaruri hai (fitness is important).
The message that goes to youngsters is that you have to maintain a certain level of fitness.
I support Virat in that," he said.
Kapil Dev backed the Indian team management's decision to test young Hardik Pandya in different positions in order to develop him as a fine all-rounder.
"The team management knows better.
We can have views sitting outside but they know better.
We all want Hardik Pandya to do better.
Surely, the team management is thinking something good about him," Kapil said.
"The changes in the rules are always introduced for the betterment of the game.
There should be changes but rules should be modified as well.
Only time will tell the impact of the new rules," he commented on the new playing rules.
(With PTI inputs)
Live Cricket Score, India vs New Zealand: Hosts aim to better their abysmal T20 record against NZ.
Live Cricket Score, India vs New Zealand: Hosts aim to better their abysmal T20 record against NZ.
AFP Ashish Nehra running into bowl one last time at a place where it all began will form the sub-plot as India aim to better their abysmal T20 record against New Zealand in the three-match series starting here on Wednesday.
The opening match at the Feroz Shah Kotla will be Nehra's last game in competitive cricket and India would look to bid a befitting farewell to the seamer, whose career has been characterised by many injuries and many comebacks.
It is appropriate that the 38-year-old will be hanging up his boots in front of his home crowd and nothing would be sweeter than an Indian win against a team that has been their Achilles heel in this format.
India have so far lost all their matches against New Zealand, the fifth and last one coming at the ICC World T20 in 2016.
(Live scorecard) For a team that has stormed its way to the top of world cricket with wins over Australia, England and Sri Lanka, among others, this piece of statistic certainly sticks out like a sore thumb.
That aside, India have been on a roll.
With series wins over big teams like Australia, India have firmly stamped their supremacy in the limited-overs format.
Having emerged a 2-1 winner in a keenly-contested preceding One-day International series against the same opponents, India's confidence is high and they would look to continue the good work in this slam-bang format.
With a strong all-round and in-form team at their disposal, India will fancy their chances of improving their record against the Kiwis.
Live score and updates from India vs New Zealand 1st T20, straight from Feroz Shah Kotla, Delhi 20:22 IST: TV umpire turns down the caught behind appeal.
Rohit survives.
20:21 IST: Boult appeal for Rohit Sharma caught behind, umpire turn down the appeal, New Zealand take a review.
20:17 IST: With two overs to go, India 174/2 (Rohit 76*, Kohli 9*).
Can India cross the 200-mark.
20:12 IST: OUT!!
Flight delivery from Sodhi and he gets turn and bounce, Pandya (0) is drawn into the forward defensive, the ball grips the surface and the spin takes the outside edge.
Latham takes a comfortable catch behind the wicket.
India 158/2 in 16.4 overs.
20:09 IST: Stumped!
Dhawan (80) comes down the wicket, misses the wide ball from Ish Sodhi and the wicket-keeper does the rest.
20:07 IST: 18 runs off the Trent Boult over.
India eyeing big total at Feroz Shah Kotla.
20:06 IST: Four!
Full toss from Boult, Dhawan slams the ball straight down the ground for back-to-back boundaries off Boult.
20:05 IST: Four!
Boult strays on the pads, Dhawan flicks it past the man at short-fine leg.
20:04 IST: Six!
Boult steams in from round the wicket and lands it on a length outside off, Rohit plants his front foot across to scoop, the thickish top-edge flies over fine leg for another maximum.
20:03 IST: India 140/0 after 15 overs.
(Dhawan 71*, Rohit 61*) 20:02 IST: India at 139/0 registered their highest opening partnership in T20Is going past previous partnership of 136 stitched by Gautam Gambhir and Virender Sehwag vs ENgland in Durban.
20:01 IST: Back-to-back boundaries!
Rohit Sharma is toying with Santner.
20:00 IST: Six and a fifty!
Rohit makes space and hammers Santner straight down the ground.
Scores his 12th T20I half-century.
19:57 IST: Six!!
Right in the slot from Southee, Dhawan, in red-hot form, swings his arms for a massive maximum over mid-wicket.
On the other hand, Rohit (46*) is also edging closer to his half-century.
19:50 IST: Six and a four!
Dhawan rocks back and pulls Sodhi for a maximum on the leg-side and follows it with a boundary.
Highest score for Dhawan in T20Is.
Goes past 60 vs Bangladesh in Asia Cup Final in Dhaka in 2016.
19:49 IST: 100 comes up for India in the 12th over.
India batsmen dominating the proceedings.
19:47 IST: FIFTY!
Shikhar Dhawan scores his third T20I half-century off 37 balls.
19:44 IST: SIX!
Length ball from Munro and Rohit welcomes him with a huge maximum over long-on.
19:43 IST: Colin Munro, right-arm medium, comes into the attack.
19:42 IST: India 80/0 after 10 overs.
(Dhawan 47*, Rohit 25*).
The dew factor has been working in favour of the India at the moment.
19:39 IST: Four!
India get another free hit and Dhawan slams the ball through the off-side for a boundary.
Not a satisfactory over from de Grandhomme, concedes 18 runs.
19:37 IST: Free hit!!
De Grandhomme trying the knuckle ball, bowls a full toss over the keeper and it's a no ball and a boundary too.
19:36 IST: Dhawan, who is playing on his home-ground, has quickly moved on to 40*.
19:33 IST: Excellent first over from Ish Sodhi, gives away only three runs.
India 56/0 after eight overs.
19:31 IST: Ish Sodhi, right-arm leg break, comes into the attack.
19:30 IST: Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan seem to be on top of their game so far in the innings.
19:28 IST: Four!
Dhawan down on one knee, sweeps Grandhomme for a boundary past the man at backward square leg.
19:27 IST: Dropped!
Colin de Grandhomme bowls a slower ball, Rohit frees his man, doesn't connect properly, but Southee at long-off drops a low catch, Rohit lives.
19:26 IST: Colin de Grandhomme, right-arm fast medium, comes into the attack 19:24 IST: Four!
Flighted delivery just outside off stump, Rohit goes inside-out and lofts Santner beautifully over the man at covers.
19:21 IST: India 38/0 after five overs.
(Dhawan 25*, Rohit 11*) 19:19 IST: In head to head in T20Is New Zealand have won five times and India is yet to open their account.
19:15 IST: Four!
Width offered outside off, Dhawan cuts it with authority for a boundary.
India is off to a solid start.
19:11 IST: SIX!!
Short of a length delivery outside off stump from Southee, Rohit opens the face of the bat and upper-cuts, Boult, at third man, jumps really high but couldn't reach the ball.
19:10 IST: Brilliant second over for India, score 11 runs off the Boult over.
19:08 IST: Dropped!
Short and wide from Boult, Dhawan cuts it, Santner, at covers, drops the catch.
19:06 IST: Four!
Boult drifts on the pads again, Dhawan flicks it through mid-wicket.
Consecutive boundaries for the left-hand batsman.
19:05 IST: Four!
Boult strays on the pads, Dhawan edges it past the wicket-keeper to score the first boundary of the match.
19:05 IST: Trent Boult, left-arm fast medium, comes into the attack.
19:03 IST: Brilliant first over from Santner, gives away only two runs.
19:00 IST: Game time!
Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma opening the batting for India.
Mitchell Santner opening the bowling for New Zealand.
18:40 IST: Playing XI for both teams: India (Playing XI): Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan, Virat Kohli(c), Shreyas Iyer, MS Dhoni(w), Hardik Pandya, Axar Patel, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Ashish Nehra, Jasprit Bumrah, Yuzvendra Chahal New Zealand (Playing XI): Martin Guptill, Colin Munro, Kane Williamson(c), Tom Bruce, Tom Latham(w), Henry Nicholls, Colin de Grandhomme, Mitchell Santner, Tim Southee, Trent Boult, Ish Sodhi 18:35 IST: Ashish Nehra given a memento by the team for his remarkable contribution to Indian cricket.
VIDEO: Ashish Nehra given a memento by the team for his remarkable contribution to Indian cricket #TeamIndiahttps://t.co/3itQO1Ov5u pic.twitter.com/orHnyu3eUB BCCI (@BCCI) November 1, 2017 18:32 IST: Ashish Nehra included in the playing XI.
"He has been a great servant for Indian cricket.
He's one of the smartest guys I have played with.
It's sad to see him go," Kohli said during the toss.
For India, Proud moment for young Shreyas Iyer as he receives his T20I cap from @RaviShastriOfc #TeamIndia #INDvNZ pic.twitter.com/6Men3m6ciz BCCI (@BCCI) November 1, 2017 18:30 IST: New Zealand captain Kane Williamson wins toss, elects to field.
18:28 IST: We are just minutes away from the toss.
Stay tuned.
18:10 IST: All eyes will be on the 38-year-old Ashish Nehra, who will be playing his last match in competitive cricket.
18:00 IST: Hello and welcome to the live blog of the first T20I match between India and New Zealand straight from Delhi.
In bowling, India will look to Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Jasprit Bumrah for breakthroughs with the new ball as well as in the death overs.
With his match-turning effort on Sunday, Bumrah showed why he is considered the best death bowler in the world.
Though he went for 92 in his 10-over spell in Kanpur, Bhuvneshwar has normally been a bowler captain Kohli could turn to.
Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal will be high on confidence after his crucial two-wicket burst at Green Park and he is again going to be the key spinner.
Kuldeep Yadav is the other spinner, who could figure in the playing XI.
Then there is Nehra, who will bring to an end 18 years of international cricket journey, and he must be hoping for that perfect ending.
Against the likes of Kane Williamson, Ross Taylor, Tom Latham, Trent Boult and Mitchell Santner, it will take some doing.
Tottenham Hotspur host holders Real Madrid in their Group H UEFA Champions League clash at the Wembley Stadium on Wednesday.
Spurs and Madrid had played out a 1-1 draw in their first leg at the Bernabeu Stadium a fortnight ago.
The hosts are on top of Group H, level with Real on both points and goal difference.
Both of them are six points clear of Dortmund and Apoel Nicosia.
Spurs striker Harry Kane remains in contention for a starting berth after missing Saturday's Premier League action in the 1-0 loss against Manchester United.
Both Madrid and Spurs will qualify for the knockout stage with a win.
Real come into this match after a shock 2-1 loss against Girona in the La Liga which has left them eight points behind leaders Barcelona.
Liverpool will look to extend their winning run after they thrashed Huddersfield 3-0 in their weekend Premier League fixture.
The Reds host Slovenian side Maribor at Anfield where the former thrashed them 7-0 in the first leg.
Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is looking for a 1-0 win than replicate their 7-0 mauling and tighten their grip on the Group E points table.
Midfielder Philippe Coutinho and defender Dejan Lovren remain doubtful with goalkeeper Loris Karius expected to remain in goal again for the Reds.
Other matches Porto vs Leipzig; Dortmund vs Apoel; Sevilla vs Spartak; Shakhtar vs Feyenoord; Napoli vs Man City (all matches 1:15 a.m., IST).
The Pakistan Cricket Board has filed an appeal seeking a life ban on disgraced national team batsman, Khalid Latif, who was banned for five years and fined one million rupees for spot-fixing.
PCB's legal advisor, Tafazzul Rizvi, said they had filed an appeal with the independent adjudicator, seeking a life ban on Latif.
"We are not satisfied with the five-year ban and volume of fine.
Our policy is clear that we have zero tolerance for players found guilty of corruption," he said.
"We don't want to see players who are found guilty on all counts under the anti-corruption code to play again.
We want to make an example for others."
Latif and batsman Sharjeel Khan were both found guilty by a three-member anti-corruption tribunal for spot-fixing and other breaches of the anti-corruption code.
The duo was suspended and sent back from Dubai in February after meeting a suspected bookmaker and allegedly agreeing to spot-fix for him.
The tribunal banned Sharjeel for five years, suspending half of his sentence and didn't fine him.
But in Latif's case, the tribunal, headed by a former Lahore High Court didn't show any relaxation at all.
While the tribunal found Sharjeel and Latif guilty on all counts of charges brought against them by the PCB, in Latif's case, he was found guilty of one additional charge, which was that he had instigated his team-mate to indulge in spot-fixing.
Sharjeel has already filed an appeal against his ban with the independent adjudicator, but there is no word from Latif so far.
But Latif and his lawyer, since the start of the tribunal proceedings, have alleged that it was biased against them and they had not been given a fair hearing.
Latif's lawyer has also filed a petition in the higher court against the tribunal proceedings and ban.
In Pakistan's cricket history only one player -- former Test batsman Salim Malik -- has been banned for life on match-fixing charges way back in 2000.
Ashish Nehra running into bowl one last time at a place where it all began will form the sub plot as India aim to better their abysmal T20 record against New Zealand in the three-match series.
The opening match at the Feroz Shah Kotla will be Nehra's last game in competitive cricket and India would look to bid a befitting farewell to the seamer, whose career has been characterised by many injuries and many comebacks.
It is appropriate that the 38-year-old will be hanging up his boots in front of his home crowd and nothing would be sweeter than an Indian win against a team that has been their Achilles heel in this format.
Ahead of his final match, Nehra's teammates recollected some of their fondest memories of him.
Rohit Sharma, Dinesh, Karthik, Ajinkya Rahane, Shikhar Dhawan and Bhuvneshwar Kumar can be seen in the video uploaded by the BCCI.
India have so far lost all their matches against New Zealand, the fifth and last one coming at the ICC World T20 in 2016.
Nehra, who will bring to an end 18 years of international cricket journey, must be hoping for that perfect ending.
(With inputs from PTI)
Indian pistol shooters on Wednesday pulled off a clean sweep in the 10m air pistol event at the Commonwealth Shooting Championship with Shahzar Rizvi, Omkar Singh and Jitu Rai winning gold, silver and bronze medals respectively.
In the 10m women's air rifle event, Pooja Ghatkar bagged a gold while Anjum Moudgil won the silver medal.
The bronze in this event went to Martina Lindsay Veloso of Singapore.
India had a productive second day at the range winning as many as five medals, including two gold, two silver and one bronze medal.
Earlier, Heena Sidhu claimed the 10m air pistol gold, while Deepak Kumar fetched a silver in the 10m air rifle event to give India a fine start at the Championships yesterday.
Sidhu shot a combined score of 626.2 (386+240.8) to claim the top honours.
This was Sidhu's second successive international gold after she, along with Jitu Rai, claimed the top position in the 10m air pistol mixed team event in the ISSF World Cup Finals in Delhi earlier this month.
Former India batsman VVS Laxman received plenty of Twitter love on the occasion of his birthday.
Laxman, who is among the most respected cricketers to have graced the game, turned 43 on Wednesday.
While Virender Sehwag wished him in trademark fashion, Sachin Tendulkar opted to reveal one of his dressing room secrets.
"Happy birthday, Lax!
Shall I spill out the secret behind your ability to score runs?
Taking a shower & eating an apple before going to bat.
Oops," tweeted Tendulkar.
Happy b'day, Lax!
Shall I spill out the secret behind ur ability to score runs?
Taking a shower & eating an apple before going to bat.
Oops??
pic.twitter.com/DNYFNQUnAi sachin tendulkar (@sachin_rt) November 1, 2017 Several of Laxman's former teammates too wished him on this 'very, very special day'.
Wishing #WristJaadugar & Bhrata Shri @VVSLaxman281 a very happy birthday.Can calm any situation with a flick of his wrists.Chitiyan Kalaiyan pic.twitter.com/fYv9z2FGW1 Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) October 31, 2017 Happy birthday @VVSLaxman281!
281 has a Very Very Special meaning in Indian cricket ??
Thanks for the memories!????
pic.twitter.com/hzU4foQKC1 Suresh Raina (@ImRaina) November 1, 2017 True inspiration!
His crucial knocks down the order has bailed india out so many times.
No one can forget his #281 in one of the historic test wins for India.
Happy birthday lachi bhai @VVSLaxman281 Rohit Sharma (@ImRo45) November 1, 2017 Happy birthday to one of the greats of Indian cricket, @VVSLaxman281 bhai..hope you have an amazing year ahead????????
pic.twitter.com/writqR5u4d Shikhar Dhawan (@SDhawan25) November 1, 2017 A great mentor, a real match-winner and one of the kindest souls around, here's wishing @VVSLaxman281 very best on his birthday.
pic.twitter.com/xH0evG0f3u Bhuvneshwar Kumar (@BhuviOfficial) November 1, 2017 Wish a very Happy Birthday to Mr Elegant @VVSLaxman281 .
May you remain as classic as your drives and flicks.
pic.twitter.com/baxJGx5OWD R P Singh (@RpSingh99) November 1, 2017 Laxman played 134 Tests and scored 8781 runs at an average of 45.97, notching up 17 centuries and 56 fifties.
Laxman is now part of the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) that BCCI consults on key cricketing matters.
Irfan Pathan's hopes of making a comeback into the national team suffered a major setback after he was sacked as captain of the Baroda Ranji team after two rounds and then dropped from the 15-man squad for the third match against Tripura.
Baroda, currently at the bottom of Group C, will now be led by all-rounder Deepak Hooda.
Irfan, who has picked up just two wickets in the tournament so far, has also been dropped from the 15-man squad for their third game, against Tripura.
The decision to sack Irfan comes as a surprise especially since he scored 80 in the opening round against Madhya Pradesh and picked up a wicket in both the games.
The all-rounder took to Twitter to express his disappointment.
"Not wishing Good Morning & not being a YES man to ur boss can go against u...but don't bother,keep doing ur work," he tweeted.
Not wishing Good Morning & not being a YES man to ur boss can go against u...but dont bother,keep doing ur work #keepfighting #keeptrying Irfan Pathan (@IrfanPathan) October 29, 2017 The 33-year-old found plenty of support after his unceremonious ouster.
@IrfanPathan bhai my heart broke on hearing the news.
But I believe u can definitely make a great comeback.
U r our my hero forwver cricket kid (@cricket_kid_17) October 31, 2017 @IrfanPathan Keep fighting ..you have it in you to make another heroic comeback..after you belong to Sourav's army Subhojit (@roysubhojit) October 31, 2017 Buddy, you are one of my fav but fortune is not going your way!
Just a matter of time!
You still have your best left in you!
Keep going!
Harpreet Singh Sethi (@Hssethi11) October 31, 2017 @IrfanPathan u have been one of the best all rounders.
But it need not be "have been", need to convert this to "still is".
Want 2 c u 4India Ashish Ved Sharma (@AshishVedSharma) November 1, 2017 Irfan, who made his Test debut against Australia in 2003 at the Adelaide Oval where he dismissed Matthew Hayden as his maiden scalp, last played a Test match in 2008 against South Africa.
Irfan played his last ODI and Test in 2012 and 2008 respectively.
The left-arm pacer, who is known for his hat-trick against Pakistan in Karachi, admitted in a recent interview that time was running out fast for him to make a comeback into the Indian team
Virender Sehwag and VVS Laxman are now teammates in the commentary box.
Virender Sehwag and VVS Laxman are now teammates in the commentary box.
Twitter Virender Sehwag was at it again on Wednesday as he wished former teammate and birthday boy VVS Laxman in his trademark style on Twitter.
Known for his wit and sarcasm on the social media platform, Sehwag did not disappoint his fans and followers on this 'very very special' occasion.
"Wishing #WristJaadugar & Bhrata Shri @VVSLaxman281 a very happy birthday.Can calm any situation with a flick of his wrists.Chitiyan Kalaiyan," Viru tweeted.
"Thank you very much for your wishes, Viru," was Laxman's reply.
Wishing #WristJaadugar & Bhrata Shri @VVSLaxman281 a very happy birthday.Can calm any situation with a flick of his wrists.Chitiyan Kalaiyan pic.twitter.com/fYv9z2FGW1 Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) October 31, 2017 ??
Thank you very much for your wishes, Viru !
https://t.co/k5jGVsEJym VVS Laxman (@VVSLaxman281) November 1, 2017 Sehwag's reference to a popular Bollywood song had most of his fans and followers in splits.
"Chitiyan Kalaiyan" was the best part of this tweet omg ??
#Virupanti rocks Chiranjeet?Albeliya?
(@Shreyanjeet_SN) October 31, 2017 Chitiyan kalaiyan ????????
Nikita Sharma ?
(@Nikita07s) October 31, 2017 The Delhi and Districts Cricket Association (DDCA) on Tuesday named Gate No.
2 of the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium as the 'Virender Sehwag Gate'.
Laxman was among the several cricketers who congratulated the Delhi batsman.
To remember history of India, Delhi has India gate, and now to remember a legend of the game, @virendersehwag Gate.
Richly deserved Viru !
pic.twitter.com/qZFUBziQZM VVS Laxman (@VVSLaxman281) November 1, 2017 "It's an honour to have a gate named after me at Ferozshah Kotla Stadium.
I remember when I started off I used to daily cross this gate and now it has my name," Sehwag told reporters.
Thanking the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA), the cricketer-turned-commentator said: "There will be many more cricketers from this state who will have stands, gates, pavilions named after them but I am glad that I am the first one.
I feel very fortunate and would like to thank the DDCA for this honour."
(With inputs from PTI)
Jose men were made to wait to seal their passage into the next round.
Jose men were made to wait to seal their passage into the next round.
AFP Layvin Kurzawa scored an unlikely hat-trick as Paris Saint-Germain powered into the last 16 of the Champions League on Tuesday with a 5-0 rout of Anderlecht, while Bayern Munich joined them in the knockout stage.
Marco Verratti curled in a terrific opening goal -- his first in Europe since September 2014 -- on the half-hour at the Parc des Princes, with Brazilian superstar Neymar firing in a second before the break.
The world's most expensive player was involved in PSG's third goal as well, as his free-kick was tipped onto the post with France international Kurzawa forcing in the rebound.
The left-back then headed in another from a Dani Alves cross and completed an improbable treble with an angled drive as PSG increased their goals haul to 17 -- with none conceded -- in four Group B matches.
"The hat-trick is thanks to my teammates.
I am delighted and the goals will give me confidence," Kurzawa told beIN Sports.
The French giants top their section with a maximum 12 points, with Bundesliga leaders Bayern progressing alongside them following a 2-1 victory away to Celtic.
Kingsley Coman pounced on hesitant Celtic defending to latch onto a long clearance upfield from goalkeeper Sven Ulreich and round Craig Gordon to slot into an empty net on 22 minutes.
Callum McGregor slotted in a second-half equaliser, but Javi Martinez's brave towering header -- which left the Spaniard bloodied -- clinched qualification for the Germans in Glasgow.
"I knew that today would be a very difficult, intensive game.
We've had a busy schedule recently," said Bayern coach Jupp Heynckes.
"It's important that we have qualified, but it's going to be difficult to finish top of the group because of our head-to-head record."
Jose Mourinho's Manchester United were made to wait to seal their passage into the next round despite a 2-0 win over Benfica.
Benfica's Mile Svilar, who became the youngest goalkeeper in Champions League history a fortnight ago, suffered more misfortune at Old Trafford as his own goal handed United a 45th-minute lead.
The 18-year-old, at fault for the 1-0 defeat in Lisbon, atoned for that error by saving an Anthony Martial penalty, but Svilar was helpless when Nemanja Matic's low drive cannoned off the post before hitting him on the arm and squirming over the line.
Daley Blind wrapped up victory from the penalty spot on 78 minutes after a foul on Marcus Rashford.
"We must get that point from the two remaining matches," United manager Mourinho told BT Sport.
"I am more than happy."
Chelsea thumped, Atletico toil CSKA Moscow reignited their campaign with a 2-1 victory at Basel in the other Group B fixture.
Luca Zuffi's brilliant lob put Basel in front, but CSKA levelled through Alan Dzagoev in the second half before Pontus Wernbloom steered in the winner to leave the Russians level on six points with their Swiss hosts.
Lionel Messi and Barcelona were frustrated in a goalless stalemate with Olympiakos in Greece, while Juventus salvaged a 1-1 draw at Sporting Lisbon after Gonzalo Higuain levelled late on following Bruno Cesar's opener.
Barcelona remain top of Group D with 10 points, three ahead of last year's runners-up Juve, with Sporting on four.
Chelsea squandered a chance to secure a berth in the knockout stages as Stephan El Shaarawy inspired Roma to a 3-0 success over the Premier League champions in Italy.
El Shaarawy drilled Roma ahead after just 40 seconds at the Stadio Olimpico as he ran onto an Edin Dzeko knockdown to slam home from the edge of the area.
The Italy striker netted a second on 36 minutes with Diego Perotti rifling in a third from 25 yards as Roma replaced Chelsea at the top of Group C with two matches remaining.
Roma are on eight points, one above Chelsea, but Atletico Madrid -- finalists twice in the past four seasons -- are heading for elimination following a 1-1 draw at home to Qarabag.
Journeyman Spaniard Michel headed the Azerbaijani champions in front from a corner, and while Ghana midfielder Thomas Partey hammered in an equaliser, Diego Simeone's side must now beat both Chelsea and Roma and hope other results work in their favour.
Watford striker Troy Deeney will serve a three match ban for violent conduct during last Saturday's fiery Premier League clash with Stoke, the Football Association announced on Tuesday.
The 29-year-old -- whose club and Stoke were charged by the FA on Tuesday for failing to control their players -- admitted to the offence which saw him press his thumbs into the face of Joe Allen.
Welsh international Allen had reacted angrily to Deeney for perceived unsportsmanlike behaviour when the Watford forward tried to cross the ball into the Stoke penalty area rather than hand back possession after a Stoke player had put the ball out of play because a player was lying on the ground injured.
Both players were booked but Deeney -- Watford's captain -- subsequently was charged by the FA over the incident.
Deeney will miss the Premier League matches at Everton on November 5, West Ham's visit on November 19 and the trip to Newcastle on November 25.
Both Watford and Stoke -- who won the match 1-0 -- could face fines if proven guilty after the FA decided to charge them too.
"Watford and Stoke City (have been) charged for failing to control their players during (the) fixture on 28/10/17," read a statement from the FA on Tuesday.
Both clubs have until 1800GMT on Friday to respond.
Pep Guardiola takes his swaggering Manchester City side to the home of Italian league leaders Napoli on Wednesday knowing a win will guarantee qualification for the Champions League knockout stages with two games to spare.
City, unbeaten this season, notched an eighth straight Premier League win on Saturday that keeps them five points clear of nearest challengers Manchester United.
Guardiola's free-scoring side have won 13 games in a row in all competitions and are unbeaten in their past 21 outings -- two new club records.
They are riding high at the top of Champions League Group F with three wins from three, knowing victory against Napoli would see them qualify for the knockout round.
But Guardiola remains wary of the Neapolitans -- third in the group behind City and Shakhtar Donetsk -- with Belgian Dries Mertens catching the eye up front this season.
"We need one more win to qualify but we are going to the team that are leading Serie A and everybody knows the type of football they play in their own stadium so it's going to be very difficult," said the City boss.
"But it's a great opportunity for us to book our place and we're going to try our best to do it."
The Spaniard -- who campaigned for independence for his native Catalonia -- is targeting a third Champions League trophy after wins in 2009 and 2011 at the helm of Barcelona.
He failed to progress beyond the semi-finals during his three-year spell at Bayern Munich.
Maurizio Sarri's Napoli have been similarly dominant in Italy this season, where they are unbeaten in 11 league games -- including 10 wins -- as they chase a first Serie A title since the golden days of Diego Maradona in 1990.
But Sarri remains realistic of the challenge ahead at their San Paolo Stadium against a side led by former FIFA coach of the year Guardiola.
"Manchester City are the best team in Europe coached by the best coach in Europe," said Sarri.
"Guardiola has a brilliant football philosophy, but no team is unbeatable."
-'Mythical figure' - Napoli lost 2-1 at the Etihad two weeks ago after falling to Shakhtar by the same scoreline last month and need to win on Wednesday.
"I can't compare myself to him (Guardiola), a mythical figure and the best coach in the world at this time.
"I like his football philosophy, the idea that his teams have to go out always with the ball, their unique speed and great movements that are at the brink of the genius.
"We're talking about an absolute level, we're talking about one of those coaches who changed the way we see football.
"They deserve great credit for what they did in the first match, no-one has escaped our pressing like that."
Sarri said he was looking at second place in their group, adding: "We have to get into the game right away, we can create chances but we'll need to play an extraordinary defensive match."
And Spanish forward Jose Callejon warned that Napoli "don't fear anyone".
"Manchester City have a wonderful playing philosophy, but Sarri has given us a winning mentality," he said.
"We knew they were strong before, even more so after we played them.
We need to go onto the pitch with that mentality, knowing it's an important game and we're playing for the group."
Dinesh Chandimal attributed his team's good performance vs Pakistan in the Test series to witchcraft Dinesh Chandimal attributed his team's good performance vs Pakistan in the Test series to witchcraft AFP Sri Lanka won the Test series against Pakistan 2-0 but suffered a 5-0 series whitewash in the ODIs against the same opponent which was soon followed by a 3-0 drubbing in the three-match Twenty20 International series.
Sri Lanka's surprise two-match Test series win against Pakistan this month was down to witchcraft, captain Dinesh Chandimal said Tuesday, drawing mockery on social media.
Chandimal scored a brilliant 155 in the first Test match that laid the foundation for the visitors to capitalise on a good first innings score and win the Test while the second Test saw the Sri Lankan captain score a half-century that helped the visitors reach a formidable first innings score.
Chandimal has pretty much attributed his team's good performance to witchcraft that has drawn a lot of criticism from all quarters.
Chandimal told reporters he had received a special blessing from a meyni, or sorcerer, ahead of the two-match series in the United Arab Emirates.
"I am always ready to accept the blessings of anyone --whether it is a meyni or any clergy," Chandimal told reporters after returning to Colombo.
"You can have talent, but without this blessing you can't move forward."
His comments came a week after Sri Lanka's sports minister denied ordering the struggling national team to use witchcraft ahead of the Test series.
Dayasiri Jayasekara threatened to sue a sorcerer for claiming that at his request she cast a spell over Pakistan to ensure Sri Lanka's victory.
Several Sri Lankan politicians, business leaders and sports stars put their faith in witchcraft or astrology.
Former president Mahinda Rajapakse took the advice of his personal astrologer before calling an election two years ahead of schedule in January 2015, only to lose badly.
Chandimal said the sorcerer he consulted was the mother of a friend, and he was willing to accept her blessings.
But since the Test victory, Sri Lanka have fared less well losing both the one-day series as well as the T20Is.
Sri Lankan fans made fun of Chandimal and criticised his sorcerer online, with many calling her a fraud.
"You made predictions, tied talismans, held poojas, but finally we were humiliated," posted one social media user.
(With AFP Inputs)
Lasith Malinga was left out of the series against Pakistan, but he still managed to make the headlines.
After being snubbed from a full series against Pakistan, Malinga opted to play in the domestic league.
Known for his pace and toe-crushing yorkers, Malinga stunned everyone when he bowled off-spinners in the final of the MCA 'A' division knockout tournament.
To everyone's surprise, the Sri Lankan managed to take three wickets.
#Malinga the slinger turned Malinga the spinner as the paceman turned to off-spin, in a domestic T20 match.
[: Cricket Aus] pic.twitter.com/7gjIr8eiIg AmMaD (@Cob_Adder) October 31, 2017 Malinga, who was leading Teejay Lanka in the domestic league, helped his team restrict LB Finance to 125/7 in 25 overs .
Teejay Lanka went on to win the match by 82 runs via Duckworth-Lewis method.
The 34-year old was a regular member of the ODI side but injuries had marred his progress in the national side.
"I'm playing after 19 months following a leg injury.
In the Zimbabwe and India series, I couldn't play well.
I'll see where I'm at after this series, and evaluate how long I can play given the way my body is.
No matter how experienced I am - if I can't win a match for the team and do what the team needs, there's no point in me being here," Malinga had said after their series defeat against India recently.
Sri Lanka won the Test series against Pakistan 2-0, but their good show in Tests was soon overshadowed by their miserable performance in the ODIs and T20Is.
Sri Lanka suffered a 5-0 series whitewash against Pakistan in the ODIs which was soon followed by 3-0 drubbing in the three-match Twenty20 International series.
India skipper Virat Kohli's immense desire to succeed at the highest level and his will to put in the long yards has been instrumental in his rise to one of the best players in the world, reckons former national selector Vikram Rathour.
"He's a great player.
He has been extremely hungry and hardworking and I think all this combination is paying off now.
He always wanted to be a superstar.
He already is now," the former North Zone selector said.
Kohli was adjudged the Man-of-the-Series in the recently concluded ODI series against New Zealand and also became the fastest batsman to score 9,000 runs in the shorter format of the game during the series-deciding third game against New Zealand in Kanpur on October 29.
In his 202nd match Kohli became the 19th batsman to breach the 9,000-run mark, making him the fastest to get there surpassing AB de Villiers as he also moved back to the top of ICC rankings.
"He works very very hard.
He always had the ability and all this combination is doing great wonders for him and he's doing great for the country."
Rathour further said India finally boasts of a complete bowling attack with spinners and pacers complementing each other.
"Maybe this is the best ever bowling attack.
Maybe this is the most balanced attack, there's nothing short.
In past you would have good spinners but not seamers or good seamers but not spinners," the former India and Punjab opener said.
"This looks to me a complete attack.
They should not be worrying too much about any surface they play on or against any opponent they face.
They have all their bases covered."
The Himachal Pradesh director of cricket is here as the coach of his team as they take on Bengal in a group D Ranji fixture, beginning Wednesday.
"It will be a battle between Bengal bowlers and Himachal batsmen," the 48-year-old said.
Bengal bowlers, especially Ashok Dinda and Mohammed Shami have been in superb form off late.
Dinda and Shami picked up 18 wickets in their huge win over Chhattisgarh in the last match.
"A lot to play for.
It's always a challenge playing Bengal in Bengal.
It will be a good game for sure.
With Shami, Dinda and Saha, it will be a good test for our team.
It will be virtually their bowling versus our batting," he concluded.
(With PTI Inputs)
Iyer is part of the 16-member Indian squad for the T20I series against New Zealand starting on Wednesday.
Iyer is part of the 16-member Indian squad for the T20I series against New Zealand starting on Wednesday.
Facebook Uncapped Shreyas Iyer is comfortable batting at any position and said scoring a century against South Africa A in a tournament final earlier this year has been satisfying.
Iyer, who is part of the 16-member Indian squad for the T20I series against New Zealand starting on Wednesday, was rewarded for his consistent performances in the domestic circuit and the IPL over the last two years.
Iyer led India A to a tri-series title in South Africa earlier this year, hitting a big hundred against South Africa A in the final of the tournament, which also had Afghanistan A.
"It was very helpful for me.
I was going through a good patch, got good starts, but I was not able to convert them into big knocks till the final," Iyer told reporters on the eve of the first T20 International against New Zealand.
"It (the final) was a big game, it (the knock) was really satisfying that it came through and obviously, once you get the team through, you get a lot of attention from the teammates as well."
Iyer said he is flexible batting at any position.
"I think I am very flexible.
I don't mind batting at any number.
Even in Indian Premier League (IPL) this year, I was shuffled from number four to number three.
It did not really matter to as I am comfortable," Iyer said.
He added: "Whatever number I bat, if I get to play the game, I will see to it that I give my best."
As usual, the Indian team had an optional practice session, but skipper Virat Kohli, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Hardik Pandya, Rohit Sharma, Axar Patel, Jasprit Bumrah and Bhuvneshwar Kumar skipped it.
Iyer said he was hoping to be a part of the team in at least one of the three T20 games.
"I am hoping to be a part of the playing XI.
There are three matches and it will be great for me even if I am able to play one game."
The Mumbai batsman scored 809 runs at 50.56 in his debut Ranji Trophy season (2014/15) to finish as his team's highest run-scorer.
The first T20 International here is set to be veteran seamer Ashish Nehra's last game in competitive cricket.
The Indian bowlers had a torrid time against the New Zealand batsmen in the third and final One-day International at Kanpur as they struggled to defend a substantial total, thanks to the dew which made gripping the ball difficult.
India struggled with the ball as the Kiwis found the fence at will, chasing a big total of 338 runs to win the series.
India, however held their nerve and won the match by six runs but the dew at the Green Park Stadium did pose a lot of problems to the Indian bowlers.
In order to counter that, the hosts are taking measures to make themselves as comfortable as possible with the dew likely to be present in almost all the T20Is that are scheduled to start at 7 pm.
Anticipating that gripping the ball may prove to be a stiff challenge because of dew, chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav was seen on Tuesday practising with the wet ball on the eve of the Twenty20 series-opener against New Zealand in New Delhi.
Dew has been prevalent whenever Indian teams play at home from October to January.
Any score becomes chaseable under lights during this time of the year as bowlers find it extremely difficult to grip the ball.
During the optional net session in the afternoon, Yadav was seen soaking the white ball in mineral water after every second delivery.
The idea was conceived by bowling coach Bharat Arun, who was seen discussing the strategy with the left-arm wrist spinner.
India paceman Bhuvneshwar Kumar had also adopted the same strategy to prepare himself for death bowling in the past.
Kuldeep primarily bowled to Dinesh Karthik at the nets but the batsman was seen negotiating the deliveries easily.
In between, he asked journalists at what time in the evening dew factor sets in.
During the nets session, rookie Shreyas Iyer was hit on the right forearm by a throw-down from support staff member Raghavendra.
Iyer looked in pain and did not take any further part in the nets after that.
(With PTI Inputs)
DDCA named Gate No.
2 of the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium as the 'Virender Sehwag Gate'.
DDCA named Gate No.
2 of the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium as the 'Virender Sehwag Gate'.
BCCI The Delhi and Districts Cricket Association (DDCA) on Tuesday named Gate No.
2 of the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium as the 'Virender Sehwag Gate'.
They honoured the legendary batsman, but with a big goof-up.
In the achievements column, DDCA referred to Sehwag as the "only Indian batsman to score a triple-century in Test cricket."
Sehwag is the first Indian player to hit a triple-century in Tests, but he is not the only Indian to reach that landmark.
Karun Nair is the second in the list.
Nair scored a triple century (303*) against England in Chennai in December last year.
#thankyou #ferozshahkotla #gate A post shared by Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) on Oct 31, 2017 at 12:30am PDT Sehwag has hit triple-centuries twice in his career and is the only Indian to score two triple tons in Tests.
The former swashbuckling opener scored 309 against Pakistan in Multan in 2004 and then slammed another triple ton in 2008, scoring 319 against South Africa in Chennai.
After Nair joined Sehwag in 300 club last year, the former India cricketer had lauded him on Twitter.
"Yay !
Welcome to the 300 club @karun126 .
It was very lonely here for the last 12 years 8 months.
Yay !
Welcome to the 300 club @karun126 .
It was very lonely here for the last 12 years 8 months.
Wish you the very best Karun.Maza aa gaya!
Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) December 19, 2016 Thank you Viru sir!
Karun Nair (@karun126) December 19, 2016 "Wish you the very best Karun.Maza aa gaya!," Sehwag wrote.
Inaugurating the gate, Sehwag said it was a huge honour to have a gate named after him at the ground where he started his journey to become a cricketer.
"It's an honour to have a gate named after me at Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium.
I remember when I started off I used to daily cross this gate and now it has my name," Sehwag told reporters.
Asked to single out that one moment he wished he was part of in Delhi cricket, Sehwag said it was the Ranji Trophy triumph in 2007-08 when they beat Uttar Pradesh in the final.
"One moment I missed was that I was not part of that Ranji Trophy triumphant team.
I was playing for the Indian team then.
Full credit to Gautam Gambhir, who was leading the team, and Pradeep Sangwan also played really well I remember," the veteran cricketer said.
Sehwag also recalled a must-win match against Gujarat at the Kotla during his U-19 days.
"We played one U-19 match here -- Delhi versus Gujarat -- and we had to win and qualify.
Ashish Nehra and Amit Bhandari played really well in that game, picking up five and four wickets, and though I scored only 50 or 60 runs I still fondly remember that game as we managed to qualify for the knockout," Sehwag added.
(With PTI inputs)
Wicket-keeping great Adam Gilchrist has called on Australian selectors to pick and stick when they decide who will be behind the stumps for the upcoming Ashes series.
Three players are seen as being in the mix to take the gloves -- and also provide middle-order batting stability --ahead of the first Test against England in Brisbane on November 23.
They include the current incumbent Matthew Wade, who has struggled with the bat, his predecessor Peter Nevill, who was axed 12 months ago, and the fast-improving Alex Carey.
Whoever gets the nod should be given an extended run, said Gilchrist, who played 96 Tests, making more than 400 dismissals and scoring over 5,500 runs.
"Whoever they pick, they just need to give them a good run at it," he told radio station SEN late Monday.
"Say 'We've got to settle here now'.
Like they've done with (Matthew) Renshaw at the top of the order.
"He was untried and they threw him in there.
He's had 10 or 11 Tests now."
Gilchrist pointed to fellow wicket-keepers Ian Healy and Rod Marsh as players who repaid the faith of selectors by becoming greats of the game.
He said there were arguments for all three players, but he believed South Australian Carey, 26, could be the surprise pick despite his lack of international experience.
"I'm hearing a big push for Carey from South Australia," he said.
"He's slightly younger than the others...
I believe he's a very hard worker and a top team man and a good guy to have around.
"I'm probably starting to think that it's more likely that (selectors) might say 'OK youngster, you're in'."
18.6 : India:185/2 18.6: T Boult to R Sharma, Not out!
Rohit Sharma survives!
Full ball speared across, Rohit looks to squeeze it square on the off side and there's a noise as the ball passes the bat.
Big appeal from the keeper and the bowler as they think there's an edge.
The umpire isn't sure, so he checks it upstairs.
And replays show that the noise was of the bat hitting the ground.
NEW DELHI: India captain Virat Kohli on Wednesday paid rich tributes to the retiring Ashish Nehra as "one of the smartest cricketers" he has ever played with.The first T20 International between India and New Zealand at Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi is Nehra's final international match of a career that started way back in 1999.
"Nineteen years as a fast bowler is a great achievement.
One of the smartest guys I've played with, always loves helping youngsters.
He is someone who knew what to do in specific situations.
Sad to see him go but it is happening at his home ground," Kohli said.During the pre-match training session, Kohli and MS Dhoni presented Nehra with a memento on behalf of team India.
KOLKATA: Former world number one Anjali Bhagwat on Wednesday said pistol shooter Heena Sidhu is peaking at the right the time ahead of the next year's Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia.The two-time Olympian Heena clinched the women's air pistol at the Commonwealth Shooting championships in Brisbane to add to her three gold medals in the mixed air pistol, including the World Cup Final last week.
"She is peaking up at the right time.
She is currently preparing for the Commonwealth Games.
She is number one in India currently and among the world's top," Anjali said on the sidelines of the RP-SG Indian Sports Honours jury announcement here.
"She is a brilliant shooter, she has established that and she's showing her consistency.
Winning the Commonwealth Championship along with the World Cup final is a great performance.
I'm looking for a great show from her at the Commonwealth Games," said Anjali.She said awards are needed to motivate the athletes.
"It's not just award but a token of love and appreciation from the society," Anjali said.The jury is chaired by former all-England champion and chief national badminton coach Puellela Gopichand.
The other members of the jury are multiple tennis Grand Slam winner Mahesh Bhupathi , legendary sprinter P T Usha and former hockey captain Arjun Halappa.
"I hope these awards will inspire a huge number of people, and also the junior scholarship programme which is there will definitely help a lot of us to get into the sporting nation of the world," Gopichand said.
"In the last few years sports has taken a centrestage more than in the past.
I'm sure awards like these will actually provide the much-needed inspiration, motivation and support which all of us need in the sporting fraternity," he said.Terming this an "authentic" sports award, Bhupathi said: "Having an award at the end of a season not only inspires youth but recognises the past players.
It's exciting to have an authentic sport award in the country.
It will definitely create an aspiration to achieve more.
"The members of the jury also unveiled the trophy which will be handed over to the winners during the inaugural awards ceremony in Mumbai on November 11.Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli through his foundation and city industrialist Sanjiv Goenka have come together to create this platform to honour exceptional sport performances of the country.
BHUBANESHWAR: In-form teenage opener Prithvi Shaw slammed his fourth century in five first-class matches to help Mumbai reach 264 for 6 against Odisha at stumps on day one of their Ranji Trophy Group C match here on Wednesday.The 17-year old, who has been talked of highly ever since he made his debut in the last season, struck a breezy 105 studded with 18 boundaries and added 136 valuable runs for the second wicket with experienced Ajinkya Rahane (49).So far among the Indian batsmen, only one player had more first-class hundreds before the age of 18 - maestro Sachin Tendulkar who had seven three figure scores.Shaw had announced his arrival in Ranji Trophy by scoring a century on debut against Tamil Nadu in the semi-final in the 2016-17 season.In today's match, Odisha, electing to bowl, started on a promising note dismissing Akhil Herwadkar (14) in the sixth over itself, but Shaw and Rahane who came together then averted any further damage as they batted mixing caution and aggression.Shaw, in particular, scored at an impressive strike rate of 68.63 and looked strong before falling leg before to Basant Mohanty in the 44th over.Mumbai's progress slowed down after the dismissal of Shaw as the team scored only 108 runs in the next 46 overs.Rahane, who has not found a place in the India team to play the T20 Internationals against New Zealand, looked his classy self before missing out on a half-century.Surya Kumar Yadav (23) and Siddesh Lad (33) got decent starts but could not kick on.Skipper Aditya Tare (28) and Akash Parkar (3) were at the crease when stumps were drawn.Veteran all-rounder Abhishek Nayar , a tenacious batsman, who has rescued the team on numerous occasions fell in the 81st over leaving Tare a lot to do with the tail for company.For Odisha, Biplab Samantray and Basant Mohanty took two wickets apiece.Mumbai 264 for 6 in 90 overs (Prithvi Shaw 105, Ajinkya Rahane 49, Biplab Samantray 2 for 26) vs Odisha.At Vizianagaram: Madhya Pradesh 219 for 5 in 89 overs (Shubam Sharma 60, Prithvi Raj Yarra 3 for 35) vs Andhra Pradesh.At Vadodara: Baroda 304 for 5 in 90 overs (Vishnu Solanki 116, Abhijit Karambelkar 75 not out, Gurinder Singh 2 for 61) vs Tripura.
NEW DELHI: Paying a tribute to the retiring Ashish Nehra , the Delhi District Cricket Association (DDCA) on Wednesday named one of the playing ends at the Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium after the veteran seamer.Nehra is set to become only the second bowler in international cricket, after England paceman James Anderson , to bowl from his own end.This will be only for a day, though, it was learnt.The first Twenty20 International between India and New Zealand is the 38-year-old Nehra's final competitive game.
'Ashish Nehra End' was written, for a day, on the first tier in the centre of the Ambedkar Stadium Stand.Earlier, at the toss, India skipper Virat Kohli also paid tribute to the seamer whose 18-year-old international career was characterised by many injuries and many comebacks.
"Ashish Nehra is playing.
Nineteen years as a fast bowler is a great achievement.
One of the smartest guys I've played with, always loves helping youngsters.
It's sad to see him go," Kohli, who has been Nehra's state-mate also, said about the Delhi player.In a video posted by BCCI , India cricketers Rohit Sharma Shikhar Dhawan , Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Dinesh Karthik and Ajinkya Rahane spoke about Nehra and his career.Owing to prolonged injury worries, Nehra could not take more than 44 wickets in Test cricket in 17 matches.
His limited overs career record has been far more impressive with 157 wickets from 120 ODI matches, besides 34 scalps from 26 T20 Internationals.Nehra's career started with a Test match against Sri Lanka back in Colombo in 1999.Nehra was part of the Sourav Ganguly-led team that reached the final of the 2003 World Cup, and his most memorable moment was also witnessed during the same tournament when he demolished England with a fine spell of 6/23.He later went on to win the World Cup in 2011, under Mahendra Singh Dhoni's captaincy.
CHENNAI: Pooja Ghatkar brought her 'A' game to the fore as she won gold in the 10m Air Rifle event of the Commonwealth Shooting Championship in Brisbane on Wednesday.
The Maharashtra shooter shot 415.3 in the qualifying rounds and made the final in the fourth spot.
The final saw Pooja grab the lead after 10 shots and ended with a score of 249.8.
"It definitely is satisfying to win gold at this event.
I would like to dedicate this medal to my mother who has been a pillar of support for me right through my career," Pooja told TOI.
India's Anjum Moudgil finished with silver after scoring 248.7 points in the final round.While Pooja's mother has supported her through thick and thin, shooting ace Gagan Narang - who was also part of the competition - too has played a significant role.
"Gagan has been mentoring me for the last one year.
Whenever I have faced issues technique-wise, I invariably go to him.
After every match, he gives me inputs on how I fared and areas that I can work on.
Even during this tournament, we were training together for two days and his inputs were crucial.
He was happy after my performance today," Pooja pointed out.With the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games slated to be held in Australia and Indonesia respectively next year, this performance at the start of the season augers well for Pooja whose next international assignment will be the Asian Airgun championships to be held in Japan next month.
NAGPUR: Almost all the top Indian shuttlers, including Kidambi Srikanth PV Sindhu and Saina Nehwal , will be seen in action in the seven-day Senior National Badminton Championships which begins here from Thursday.Besides Olympic medallists Sindhu and Saina, the championship will see Srikanth who is in red-hot form after becoming the first Indian and fourth in the world to win four Super Series titles in a calendar.No doubt, Srikanth will be the favourite to win the title in the men's singles.In the women's singles, Saina and Sindhu may clash in some stage, which will be a rare occasion for the badminton fans to relish.Other top Indian shuttlers who will be taking part in the championships include HS Prannoy, Ajay Jayaram, Sai Praneeth B, Sameer Verma, Sourabh Verma, Parupalli Kashyap and Danial Farid in men's singles and Rituparna Das and Anura Prabhudesai in women's singles.Over 400 players from 29 states and 2 union territories will take part in the event.Srikanth, Prannoy, Jayaram, Sai Praneeth, Verma brothers, Kashyap and Farid have been given direct entry to the pre-quarterfinals in men's singles.
Similarly, Sindhu, Saina, Rituparna and Anura will start the tournament from the pre- quarterfinals in women's singles.In men's doubles, Satwiksairaj Rankireddy/Chirag Shetty, Manu Attri/Reddy B, Arjun M R/Ramchandran Shlok and the top pair from the latest BAI rankings have been handed a direct entry to the quarterfinals.In women's doubles, Ashwini Ponnappa/Reddy N Sikki, Sanjana Santosh/Arathi Sara Sunil, Jakkampudi Meghana/S Ram Poorvisha and a top pair from latest BAI rankings will start the tournament from the quarterfinals.In mixed doubles, Pranaav Jerry Chopra/Reddy N Sikki, Reddy B Sumeeth/Ashwini Ponnappa, top and second ranked pair from the latest BAI rankings have been handed a direct entry to the quarterfinals.The 82nd edition, which will continue till November 8 at the Divisional Sports Complex at Mankapur here, is being held under the aegis of Badminton Association of India and Maharashtra Badminton Association.There will be five events -- men's and women's singles, men's and women's doubles and mix doubles and team championship -- in the tournament.The total prize money for the event is Rs 60 lakh -- the highest ever in the history of the Senior Nationals.The winner in men's and women's singles as well as the doubles pairs will receive Rs 2 lakhs each while corresponding runners-up will get Rs 1.5 lakh.
NEW DELHI: Legendary Kapil Dev was sceptical about Jasprit Bumrah 's long-term survival in international cricket with such an awkward action, but the former captain on Wednesday said he has been proven wrong by the pacer.Kapil termed Bumrah a "fabulous" bowler and said the Gujarat pacer has completely changed people's perception about bowlers with unorthodox action.
"He (Bumrah) is fabulous.
When I saw Bumrah for the first time, I thought how would he play with such an awkward action.
But this player has changed our thought process," the 1983 World Cup-winning skipper said on Wednesday during an event here.
"And today we feel players with awkward action will play for their country for long," he added.A stern advocate of fitness, the legendary all-rounder was full of praise for India skipper Virat Kohli for turning the current team as one of the fittest in world cricket.
"Every captain has his thought process.
This captain (Virat Kohli) has brought up an idea of fitness in the team and I think we should respect his decision," Kapil said.
"You may be very talented but if you can't take catches and save extra runs for the team, it is of no use.
A minimum level of athleticism is required.
Yo-Yo test is not something which a player can't clear.
"I was also very fitness freak and it will be unfair if I don't stand by it.
I feel fitness to zaruri hai (fitness is important).
The message that goes to youngsters is that you have to maintain a certain level of fitness.
I support Virat in that, " he said on sidelines of the launch of 'Wonder Cement Saath: 7 Cricket Mahotsav'.Kapil backed the Indian team management's decision to test young Hardik Pandya in different positions in order to develop him as a fine all-rounder.
"The team management knows better.
We can have views sitting outside but they know better.
We all want Hardik Pandya to do better.
Surely, the team management is thinking something good about him," he said about Hardik, who already has attracted comparisons with Kapil for his exploits in his short, little career.The International Cricket Council ( ICC ) has introduced a number of changes in playing conditions, which includes restriction on dimensions of the bat, the introduction of player send-offs for misconduct and changes to the Decision Review System among others, on September 28.Asked Kapil about the new rules, he said: "The changes in the rules are always introduced for the betterment of the game.
There should be changes but rules should be modified as well.
Only time will tell the impact of the new rules."
NEW DELHI: World football body FIFA on Wednesday said it was awaiting an official communication regarding the setting aside of the election of All India Football Federation ( AIFF ) president Praful Patel "FIFA is awaiting an official communication from the AIFF concerning the said matter.
We have no further comment for the time being," a FIFA spokesperson said.According to football experts, the FIFA may not act in haste as it is a decision by a court of law and not a case of factionalism in the national federation or something arising out of government interference.The Delhi High court on Tuesday set aside the election of Patel in December 2016 for not following the National Sports Code.
The court appointed former chief election commissioner SY Quraishi as an administrator to look into the functioning of the AIFF while also directing that fresh elections be conducted within a period of five months.Patel, a former Union Minister, served as acting president of the AIFF for one year after long-time head Priya Ranjan Dasmunshi suffered a cardiac arrest in 2008.
He took over as full time president in October 2009 before being re-elected for the top job in December 2012.He was re-elected unopposed as AIFF president for his third successive term in December last year.Meanwhile, with the detailed judgement awaiting, Quraishi is yet to take charge as administrator.As soon as the detailed judgement is available, the AIFF top brass will meet to chalk out the future course of action.
NEW DELHI: Indian badminton's new superstar Kidambi Srikanth , whose stature has grown immensely following a phenomenal 2017, was on Wednesday nominated for the prestigious Padma Shri award by former sports minister Vijay Goel Srikanth became the first Indian and only the fourth shuttler in the world to win four Super Series tournaments in a calendar season when he clinched the French Open last week.Goel, who is now parliamentary affairs minister, on Wednesday wrote a letter to home minister Rajnath Singh , recommending Srikanth for the country's fourth highest civilian award.However, the deadline for Padma nominations had closed on the midnight of September 15.
"In this scenario, it is imperative to motivate the young sportsman by acknowledging his contribution to this sport in India," Goel, who was succeeded by Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore in a Cabinet reshuffle, wrote in his letter.
"He is an idol for the youth of the country and millions of people have aspirations to see his achievements being recognised.
Many people have approached me in the capacity of ex-Sports Minister to recommend his name for this year's Padma Shri award.
Accordingly, in the spirit of reflecting the aspiration of people of India, I recommend name of Shri Srikanth Kidambi for the Padma Shri award," the letter read.Srikanth had downed Japan's Kenta Nishimoto 21-14, 21-13 in the summit clash of the French Open Super Series in Paris.Before Srikanth only Chinese legend Lin Dan, his compatriot Chen Long and Malaysian star Lee Chong Wei have managed to win four Super Series titles in a single season in the men's singles.This season, the 24-year-old Srikanth reached five finals, ending runner-up at Singapore Open, where he lost to compatriot B Sai Praneeth.Srikanth is not the only sportsperson who has been recommended for Padma awards.
Women shuttler PV Sindhu and former cricket skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni have been recommended for the Padma Bhushan.Former tennis national champion Nitten Kirtane has also sent his application.The awards -- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri -- are announced on the eve of the Republic Day every year.
Congrats Pooja Ghatkar.
Great show to win GOLD IN 10m AR at Commonwealth Shooting Cship.
Proud 2 support @OGQ_India https://t.co/6fSzbdfc08 Viren Rasquinha (@virenrasquinha) 1509514980000 NEW DELHI: After shooter Heena Sidhu 's gold medal winning effort in women's 10m Air Pistol event at the Commonwealth Shooting Championships on Tuesday, Indian shooters registered a 1-2-3 finish in the men's 10m Air Pistol with Shahzar Rizvi claiming gold ahead of Omkar Singh (Silver) and Jitu Rai (Bronze) today at Brisbane.In the women's 10m Air Rifle event, India's Pooja Ghatkar won gold with a score of 249.8 in the final, beating India compatriot Anjum Moudgil (248.7), who claimed silver.Yesterday, Sidhu had claimed her second successive international gold after she, along with Rai, had won gold in the 10m air pistol mixed team event in the ISSF World Cup Finals in Delhi earlier this month.
Deepak Kumar fetched a silver in the 10m air rifle event.
London Olympic bronze-medallist Gagan Narang finished fourth in the same event, while Ravikumar ended fifth.
Narang shot 626.2 in the qualification to create Commonwealth record.In the women's Skeet, India's Rashmmi Rathore made the six-woman final with a qualification round score of 65 out of 75.
She eventually finished sixth.
Two other Indians, Maheshwari Chauhan and Sania Sheikh, shot 64 and 62 respectively to miss out on a shot at the medals.
NEW DELHI: An astounding 136 wide balls were bowled during a BCCI U-19 women's one-day match between Nagaland and Manipur being played at Dhanbad on Wednesday.The match, which is a part of the inaugural NE-Bihar U-19 one-day competition being organised by the cricket board, saw Manipur bowling 94 wide balls while Nagaland were a shade better with 42.Nagaland eves won the match by 117 runs to log four points, but it was learnt that girls from both the north-eastern states were at times not even able to land the ball on the 22-yard square.Sample this: Nagaland were all out for 215 in 38 overs and as per the scorecard available on BCCI website, Mushkan (54) and Pori (24) were the only two batswomen, who managed to score in double digits.But Manipur bowled 94 wide deliveries, which meant nearly 15.4 extra overs.
Despite the bowling side's profligacy, Nagaland women lasted 38 overs, and had a decent score to look forward to.In reply, Manipur were all out for 98 in 27.3 overs with Nagaland bowling seven extra overs (42 wides).
In Manipur innings, there were two players who got into double figures.Seterni (17) and Ronibala Thokchom (24) crossed the 10-run mark while Pori of Nagaland got five wickets for 16 runs.The match was being played at the Nehru Stadium in Jealgora, Dhanbad.The Committee of Administrators (COA) wants to integrate north-eastern states into the BCCI set-up but the match was an example that aspiring cricketers from the region need top quality coaching facility from the cricket board.
"There is always a beginning.
As the teams from NE states will play more matches, they will certainly get better.
The idea to have a one day league between NE states is to given the exposure to competitive cricket.
With state of the art coaching, one can only get better," Naba Bhattacharjee, the Meghalaya CA top boss and the convenor of NE states in BCCI said on Wednesday.However, a few BCCI officials, who were present during the match, conceded that it's not about the wide balls bowled but the "wide gap" that exists, which needs to be bridged.
"It looks nice to throw these girls at the deep end of the pool but when you are playing a National U-19 championship, just knowing the basics of cricket well won't suffice.
You need to be at least be competitive," a senior BCCI official said on conditions of anonymity.
PALA: TP Ouseph , the renowned jumps coach, and former national coach is on cloud nine.
In a coaching career spanning 40 years, Ouseph has coached world medallist and Olympians Anju Bobby George (long jump), Bobby Aloysius (high jump), Jincy Philips (triple jump) and international and former national record holder Lekha Thomas (long jump).But he is excited after seeing his trainee Sandra Babu leap 6.07m to win gold in under-17 girls long jump event in the 61st Kerala State Schools Athletics Championships at Pala.
Sandra in her fifth attempt erased West Bengal's Sibani Bhumji national mark of 5.88m in 2006 and Nayana James's state mark of 5.86m set in 2010.
Ouseph has high hopes for his ward.
"Sandra is the best among a lot of all trainees I got in a coaching career spanning 40 years.
Her height now is 1.68m and in a couple of years she will reach 1.72m in height and that's of world standard.
I'm priming her to be an Olympic medallist, nothing short.
And she is capable of it," 72-year-old Ouseph insisted.The plus-one student of Government Vocational HSS Marthiripally in Ernakulam and hailing from Kelakom in Kannur is virtually adopted by Ouseph and his family.Her father Babu TK is a rubber tapper and her mother is a homemaker and has a younger sister and obviously, the family doesn't have money to support her.
"I give her scholarship of Rs 3000 per month as she is good in studies too.
I also pay her for supplements which are must need for the athlete and her diets are monitored.
In the morning before training she is given dry fruits every day and after training sessions, she returns to Mathirapally hostel for breakfast and school class.
I train her at MA academy at Kothamangalam and after school timing, we have skill training et al," said Ouseph who pays the money from his pension.
His wife and NRI son too chip in to support Sandra.Sandra was modest with her achievement.
"It just happened and honestly I don't know.
During a training session, he always insists that I should not do things overdo and wants me to enjoy my training session.
He wanted me to jump between 5.80 and 5.90m but I have defied him this time.
I would blame it on the aura about this meet, I got carried away with the kind of support from spectators," Sandra told TOI before leaving for dope testing.
"After today's show, I feel I can also be good at Asian level too," Sandra said in a post-meet chat to TOI.
When pointed that her famed coach is sure that she is a sure bet Olympic medallist, the 16-year-old quipped: "Is it, are you sure?
If so, then I have to reset my goals from Asian to Olympic level.
I won't let him down then," she trailed off.Sandra is ready to work hard to live up to her coach's dream.
"Training under him is the best present I have got in my life...
I am happy to do whatever he wants me to do because he is the best in the country and he has enough credentials to back it up too," Sandra said.Mercy Kuttan, former Olympian, and long jumper, is backing Ouseph.
"I too saw her.
I too feel is future talent and the best part is Sandra in good hands.
There may be glitches in her action, but that can be improved as she grows up.
She is the best, no doubt," Mercy, who is also a coach, said.
MANCHESTER: Manchester United closed to the brink of the Champions League knockout phase after more inadvertent generosity from Benfica goalkeeper Mile Svilar helped them to a 2-0 victory on Tuesday.Having carried a Marcus Rashford free-kick into his own net to gift United victory in the reverse fixture, 18-year-old Svilar scored an unwitting own goal when Nemanja Matic 's shot hit the post and went in off his arm.Daley Blind's 78th-minute penalty completed victory, but with CSKA Moscow beating Basel in the other Group A game, United were left needing one point from their final two games to be certain of a last 16 berth.
"We must get that point from the two remaining matches," United manager Jose Mourinho told BT Sport.
"I am more than happy.
We scored two goals, did not concede, gained three more points, more money for the club because every victory means money and did not have any significant injuries.
"Belgian youth international Svilar for one will be glad to see the back of United, particularly after he appeared to have atoned for his blunder in Lisbon two weeks ago by saving a penalty from Anthony Martial.Rui Vitoria's Benfica remain bottom of the group with no points after their fifth successive European defeat -- the worst run in the club's history -- and have only a paper-thin chance of qualifying for the knockout rounds.
"My team showed great personality.
We played against one of the best teams in Europe," said Vitoria.
"There are still two games to play.
With six points, you can go to the Europa League , stay in the Champions League or get nothing.
"With four wins from four games, United are six points clear at the top of the group and only a minor miracle will prevent them from reaching the knockout rounds for the first time since the 2013-14 season.Mourinho's side visit Basel on November 22 before closing their campaign at home to CSKA.Rewarded with a starting berth for his match-winning cameo in United's 1-0 victory over Tottenham Hotspur on Saturday, Martial won but then squandered a 15th-minute penalty.In attempting to curb the Frenchman's driving run into the box from the United left, Douglas lost his footing and handled the ball.Martial took the penalty himself, steering it towards the bottom-left corner, but Svilar got down to turn the ball around the post.Benfica had been denied a penalty shortly before United's spot-kick was awarded when Eric Bailly stepped across Pizzi and the hosts also had an appeal turned down following a challenge on Juan Mata by Ljubomir Fejsa.It took a spectacular one-handed save from David de Gea to prevent Diogo Goncalves putting Benfica ahead with a swerving 25-yard effort.Svilar denied United again on the half-hour, pushing Romelu Lukaku's low strike behind, but fortune would desert the teenager once again on the brink of half-time.From Lukaku's lay-off, Matic let fly from 30 yards with a powerful drive that struck the base of the right-hand post and ricocheted against the prone Svilar's left arm before bouncing into the net.Svilar, who rushed out to thwart Lukaku moments later, wore an understandably rueful expression as he left the pitch at the break.Jesse Lingard gave way for United at half-time after being unable to run off a blow to the side, with Henrikh Mkhitaryan taking his place behind Lukaku.The Armenian was unable to add much zip to the home side's play, however, and Benfica threatened to equalise on several occasions.De Gea's fingertips stopped Goncalves from levelling with an angled effort and the Spain international was grateful to his post for bailing him out in the 65th minute after Bailly's sloppy pass gave Raul Jimenez a clear sight of goal.Blind soothed Old Trafford's nerves with 12 minutes remaining by drilling a penalty down the middle of the goal after Andreas Samaris was penalised for felling United substitute Rashford.
HYDERABAD: Kidambi Srikanth, who arrived to a grand welcome on Tuesday after winning back-to-back titles, said that he was very pleased to see HS Prannoy play so aggressively in the semifinals of the French Open.
Srikanth shared his thoughts on his friends and opponents in the world of badminton.ExcerptsWe are very close friends for sure, but even I train as hard as he trains.
I can't really think of it that way.Not much.
Both of us wanted to win.
It's just important to get those crucial points in the end.Definitely, not just him but everyone is playing well.
Prannoy was too good that day.
I was shocked to see him so aggressive that day.
There was no speed metre, but I am sure some of his smashes would've crossed the 400 kph mark.Lee Chong Wei, Lin Dan and Chen Long have dominated for a long time.
Now it's become more open and it's always good for the sport when you have so many new champions.
But we can't really write them off.
They have the experience to come back.
Lin Dan has reached the final of World Championships, so they will definitely be tough every time we play them.
But we need to believe in ourselves.I think the mindset has changed.
These days I am ready to play long matches.
That gives a lot of confidence against top players.Every time we enter a tournament, we play to win.
The way we've been playing in the last eight months, hopefully, we should win major trophies as well.I am a great fan of Roger Federer .
I take inspiration from him to be calm on court and be focused.
I trying to follow him.
KARACHI: The Pakistan Cricket Board has filed an appeal seeking a life ban on disgraced national team batsman, Khalid Latif , who was banned for five years and fined one million rupees for spot fixing PCB 's legal advisor, Tafazzul Rizvi , said they had filed an appeal with the independent adjudicator, seeking a life ban on Latif.
"We are not satisfied with the five-year ban and volume of fine.
Our policy is clear that we have zero tolerance for players found guilty of corruption," he said.
"We don't want to see players who are found guilty on all counts under the anti-corruption code to play again.
We want to make an example for others.
"Latif and batsman Sharjeel Khan were both found guilty by a three-member anti-corruption tribunal for spot fixing and other breaches of the anti-corruption code.The duo were suspended and sent back from Dubai in February after meeting a suspected bookmaker and allegedly agreeing to spot fix for him.The tribunal banned Sharjeel for five years, suspending half of his sentence and didn't fine him.But in Latif's case, the tribunal, headed by a former Lahore High Court didn't show any relaxation at all.While the tribunal found Sharjeel and Latif guilty on all counts of charges brought against them by the PCB, in Latif's case, he was found guilty of one additional charge, which was that he had instigated his team-mate to indulge in spot fixing.Sharjeel has already filed an appeal against his ban with the independent adjudicator, but there is no word from Latif so far.But Latif and his lawyer, since the start of the tribunal proceedings, have alleged that it was biased against them and they had not been given a fair hearing.Latif's lawyer has also filed a petition in the higher court against the tribunal proceedings and ban.In Pakistan's cricket history only one player -- former Test batsman Salim Malik -- has been banned for life on match-fixing charges way back in 2000.
NEW DELHI: If Test cricket is struggling to stay relevant, bilateral T20 Internationals too quite often lack significance.
With no major T20 International tournaments around the corner, the Indian team management is keen on continuing with the approach they adopted with the ODI team.
In doing so, one problem area has been carried forward across formats - the middle-order.The deviations from the ODI team - like Shreyas Iyer in place of Kedar Jadhav - also suggest that the game of musical chairs is set to carry on for a while, irrespective of the format.To be fair, captain Virat Kohli had earlier in the year said that the management looks at this format as an opportunity to groom youngsters for the longer versions.
The results in the recently-concluded ODI series suggest that New Zealand have a more stable and steady middle-order, even if they too have swapped Tom Latham 's batting number with Colin Munro's.However, it's the only change they have made since the retirement of Luke Ronchi after the Champions Trophy in June.
India, in contrast, have jumbled up the line-up in order to find a suitable No.
4.
The inconsistencies in the middle-order have only grown with each series.Maybe, India could do some of the clarity in the New Zealand camp to settle their middle-order woes.
What can a 22-year-old Shreyas Iyer expect in such a situation?
The prolific rungetter for Mumbai has enjoyed success in the IPL, opening the batting for Delhi Daredevils .
"I am very flexible.
I don't mind batting at any number.
Even in the IPL this year, I was made to bat up and down the order," he said on Tuesday.
"I haven't attended a team meeting yet.
Anyway, I can't divulge details of that," he said.
ROME: Stephan El Shaarawy scored a brace as Roma mauled Chelsea 3-0 to claim top spot in Champions League Group C on Tuesday at the expense of the English champions.The rematch in Rome's Stadio Olympico after a 3-3 thriller in London two weeks ago did not disappoint the 55,000 crowd as Chelsea coach Antonio Conte was frustrated on his return to Italy.
El Shaarawy rifled in two first-half goals -- the first after less than a minute and the second nine minutes before the break -- with Argentine Diego Perotti adding a third on 63 minutes.A second win in four games moves the Romans closer to the last 16, thwarting Chelsea who had been hoping to seal a spot in the knockout rounds with two games to go.Eusebio Di Francesco's side are the only unbeaten side in the group and now have eight points from four games, one point ahead of Chelsea, with Atletico Madrid third on three points after being held 1-1 by Qarabag.
"We were always dangerous," said Di Francesco.
"It was a great evening for our fans who also deserved this victory.
But it mustn't stop here, this game must be a starting point.
We're closing in on something important.
"Conte's Chelsea were a shadow of the team that played at Stamford Bridge earlier this month.
"I didn't see anything positive in the second half, it was really bad," said Conte.
"Roma showed a hunger and desire to beat us.
They really deserved this victory.
"French midfielder N'Golo Kante, who has just returned from a hamstring injury, was left out by the Italian, along with Nigerian Victor Moses as Greek defender Kostas Manolas started on the bench for Roma.El Shaarawy and Perotti backed up Edin Dzeko in the Roma attack with Chelsea counting on the trident of Eden Hazard , Alvaro Morata and Pedro.After an opening burst the hosts were ahead after just 38 seconds when Dzeko nodded down and El Shaarawy blasted into the back of the net past a stunned Thibaut Courtois.
"These are evenings you remember for your whole life," said El Shaarawy.
"Your first Champions League brace doesn't happen every day.
"Hazard -- who scored a brace in the first meeting along with Dzeko -- was omnipresent early for Chelsea with Alisson saving twice at the near post, Morata also missing an opportunity in front of goal for the Blues.But after going close a second time, El Shaarawy broke through again on 36 minutes following a long ball from Radja Nainggolan.A Tiemoue Bakayoko header looked dangerous but Alisson dived to clear four minutes before the break.Perotti got the third after the break following a Cesc Fabregas error in midfield to pile the pressure on Chelsea, who could thank Belgian keeper Courtois for pulling off some key saves including from a searing Manolas header.And Perotti could have made it 4-0 minutes later as unmarked he fired over an empty net.Fabregas came off midway through the second half with Danny Drinkwater getting his Champions League debut for Chelsea.But it was all Roma, as Nainggolan was kept out by Courtois, along with a Dzeko header from the resulting corner.Conte is now under increasing pressure as his side sit fourth in the Premier League ahead of next weekend's game against Manchester United "We were unlucky in the first half.
The second half was bad all round," said Conte.
"We have to understand that this season will be very difficult if we don't have the right attitude and if we don't fight until the end.
"He added: "I honestly don't care about the Qarabag result, we have to think about how to improve and to have the new players as soon as possible.
"Roma next travel to Atletico Madrid with Chelsea facing the long trip to Qarabag in Azerbaijan.
COLOMBO: All-rounder Angelo Mathews has been declared fit and available for Sri Lanka 's tour of India later this month as the islanders strive to end their limited-overs woes against their formidable neighbours.Former captain Mathews missed the two-Test series against Pakistan in the United Arab Emirates with a calf injury, the latest setback in the injury-plagued career of the 30-year-old.
"Angelo and Kusal Janith (Perera) have both recovered and they will be considered for selection for the Indian series," Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) chief executive Ashley De Silva was quoted as saying by ESPNcricinfo.
"Asela Gunaratne is fit as well," he added.Sri Lanka registered a rare Test series victory in the UAE but have lost their last 16 limited-overs matches, including one-day and Twenty20 whitewashes at the hands of India and Pakistan.
"It's pretty obvious what the mood will be like when you've lost 16 games," interim coach Nic Pothas said.
"With respect to new faces, that's a conversation that we need to have with the selectors," the South African added.
"But I think it stands to reason that in any walk of life, when you've had negative results for a period of time you need to see some change somewhere.
"SLC is expected to name a new head coach by the end of the year.
"We are discussing with about three or four coaches, including Nic Pothas.
We hope to finalise the decision by the end of the year," De Silva said.Beginning November 16, Sri Lanka play three Tests in India, followed by the same number of one-day and Twenty20 Internationals.
GLASGOW: Javi Martinez grabbed a late winner as Bayern Munich booked their place in the last 16 of the Champions League for the 10th successive season on Tuesday with a 2-1 Group B win over Celtic in Glasgow.The German champions took advantage of a Halloween horror show in the Celtic defence to take a 22nd-minute lead through Kingsley Coman.The Hoops responded positively and Callum McGregor's 74th-minute equaliser looked set to earn them a share of the points.However, it took just over two minutes for Bayern to regain their lead with Martinez bravely heading home the winner that keeps them three points behind leaders Paris Saint-Germain, whose 5-0 thrashing of Anderlecht ended Celtic's hopes of progressing from the group.
"We have to take into account the last few weeks and all the changes that have taken place," said Bayern Munich manager Jupp Heynckes, who took over from the sacked Carlo Ancelotti earlier this month.
"The trainer changed and we knew it would be difficult and challenging, but we must compliment our opponents.
"The Scottish champions remain favourites to clinch third spot and a Europa League place ahead of Anderlecht, who they host on match day six, following their win in Belgium earlier in the campaign.
"The disappointment in the dressing room really shows how well we played," said Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers "I was very proud of the team and the level of composure and quality that we played with and we caused them lots of problems.
"Roared on by a noisy home support, Celtic started brightly and were less wasteful in possession than they had been on their visit to Munich a fortnight ago.Their early determination was epitomised by Kieran Tierney, who helped to create the first real opportunity of the match.His tenacity in a challenge broke up a Bayern attack and released James Forrest down the right wing.
The winger's clever chipped ball to the back post appeared to catch everyone by surprise including the recipient, Stuart Armstrong, with the midfielder somehow poking the ball wide from five yards out.Moussa Dembele then used his pace and strength to get in behind Jerome Boateng but the French striker dragged his shot well wide of Sven Ulreich 's goal.Bayern may have been missing Robert Lewandowski and Thomas Mueller through injury, but Jupp Heynckes was still able to name on-loan Real Madrid star James Rodriguez and Arturo Vidal in the starting lineup.However, it was Coman, an injury doubt in the run-up to the game, who handed the German champions the lead as a comedy of errors let Bayern in.Dedryck Boyata allowed a long ball out of defence to go over his head and Craig Gordon needlessly rushed out his box, only for Coman to round the 'keeper and slot a low shot into the net from the edge of the box.The goal sparked fury among the Celtic players who claimed the French winger used a hand to flick the ball round Gordon.Celtic didn't let this affect them for long and Armstrong nearly made amends for his earlier miss as he played a tantalising ball across goal for Dembele, only for David Alaba to clear the danger.The Germans looked content to sit on their one-goal advantage in the second half but McGregor disrupted their game plan with a well-taken equaliser.
The Scotland international got on the end of a superb pass from Armstrong to send a low shot through the legs of Ulreich and into the net.Celtic's joy was short-lived as Bayern soon went in front again.Spanish midfielder Martinez leapt above Nir Bitton to get on the end of Alaba's cross and head past Gordon, with the Bayern player left with blood streaming from a cut above his eye for his efforts.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Corey Seagers sixth inning sacrifice fly helped the Los Angeles Dodgers eke out a come-from-behind 3-1 Game Six victory over the Houston Astros on Tuesday to force a World Series decider.
Seagers deep fly ball to right field allowed Chase Utley to scamper home for the go-ahead run, igniting the sold-out crowd of 54,128 as the Dodgers tied the series up at 3-3 to set up Wednesdays winner-take-all showdown.
Dodgers center fielder Chris Taylor continued his clutch hitting in the post-season, tying the game 1-1 earlier in the inning with a double down the right field line off of losing pitcher Justin Verlander.
I was just trying to put a ball in play, Taylor said.
Hes really tough with that fastball up in the zone and a good slider.
I was just trying to get the barrel on the ball and hope for something good and it worked out for me, he said.
Taylor has reached base safely 26 times this post-season, a Dodgers franchise record.
Dodgers slugger Joc Pederson hit a solo 373-foot blast in the bottom of the seventh to provide the National League champions with an insurance run, and reliever Kenley Jansen came in during the eighth inning for a drama-free six-out save.
The loss was the first of the post-season for the hard-throwing Verlander, who had a no decision in Game Two.
Dodgers starter Rich Hill was sharp but gave up a solo home run to center fielder George Springer in the third inning for a 1-0 Astros lead on a cloudy and cool evening in Los Angeles.
BRILLIANT DEFENSE Oct 31, 2017; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Los Angeles Dodgers players Joc Pederson (31) , Justin Turner (10) , Yasiel Puig (66) , Charlie Culberson (37) and Corey Seager (5) celebrate after defeating the Houston Astros in game six of the 2017 World Series at Dodger Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Jayne Kamin-Oncea-USA TODAY Sports Dodgers reliever Tony Watson, who came into the game in the top of the sixth inning and escaped a two on-two out jam, was the winning pitcher.
The defensive play of the game came in the top of the seventh when the Astros had runners on first and third with two outs, and second baseman Jose Altuve hit a soft ground ball to Justin Turner.
The third baseman charged to pick up the ball and make a quick throw to first baseman Cody Bellinger, who took it on the hop to get the speedy Altuve and keep the Dodgers 2-1 in front.
Slideshow (13 Images) Pederson said keeping emotions in check would be key to finishing off an exciting matchup, which has seen two extra-inning games and the most home runs hit in any World Series.
You dream about it as a kid, Pederson said.
Its going to be big for me and I think all of us need to just remember its still a baseball game.
Youve got to slow it down.
Still play the same way that weve been playing all year that got us to here and try to limit the distractions.
Game Seven will pit the Dodgers Japanese right-hander Yu Darvish against Astros curve-ball specialist Lance McCullers Jr. Darvish had a nightmare Game Three in Houston, where he could not get out of the second inning in the shortest start in his major league career.
McCullers Jr had a solid outing for the first five innings of the same game before losing accuracy in the sixth, but still came away with the win.
Wednesdays encounter will be the first World Series Game Seven played at Dodger Stadium and will either see the hosts win a first title since 1988 or the American League champion Astros secure a first MLB crown in their 55-year history.
PARIS (Reuters) - Germanys Alexander Zverev was knocked out in the Paris Masters second round when he slumped to a 3-6 6-2 6-2 defeat against Dutch journeyman Robin Haase on Wednesday.
The fourth seed, who has already booked his ticket for the season-ending ATP World Tour finals in London, lost his way in the match after Haase leveled at one-set all.
The 20-year-old Zverev converted his only break point in the first set to take the lead while Haase wasted six break chances.
But Haase played a bit tighter in the second set and it was enough to unsettle Zverev, who never threatened again in an almost empty AccorHotels Arena.
Later on Wednesday, Spains Rafa Nadal will make sure he ends the year as world number one if he beats South Koreas Chung Hyeon.
ZHUHAI, China (Reuters) - Slovakias Magdalena Rybarikova clinched her first victory of the WTA Elite Trophy on Wednesday, beating top seed Kristina Mladenovic 7-5 1-6 7-6(5) in a thrilling encounter lasting two hours and 48 minutes.
Rybarikova made an impressive start, firing two aces on her way to winning the first set over her French opponent.
The 29-year-old, ranked 22 in the world, struggled with injury during the majority of the second set, and after ceding a 4-1 lead, took a medical timeout.
Mladenovic, unaffected by the break, raced to a second set win, in which she hit 13 winners and only five unforced errors.
The players exchanged early breaks in the final set but Rybarikova clinched the decisive lead in the tiebreak, before sealing the victory on her seventh match point.
I am happy that I went through this match because conditions were tough and I had some problems with my leg, Rybarikova said after the match.
I was saying to myself that I had to win this match because I had so many match points and it would be really cruel to end the season like this.
Rybarikova improved her record in the Azalea Group to 1-1 after dropping her first match to Julia Goerges on Tuesday.
Mladenovic will now have to beat Goerges in their match later in the week to have any chances to reach the final four.
Australias Ashleigh Barty moved to the top of the Rose Group with a convincing 6-4 6-1 win over Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova.
Barty broke the Russians serve four times and served nine aces in the victory and will qualify for the semi-finals outright, should she beat Angelique Kerber on Thursday.
To qualify for this week is just a massive bonus, Barty, the youngest player in the draw at 21, told reporters.
And now to get a win, I can just look forward to the match tomorrow and try and go out there and play with freedom again.
Latvias Anastasija Sevastova cruised past reigning US Open champion Sloane Stephens 7-5 6-3 to avenge her quarter-final loss in New York.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Yu Darvish will get the chance to make up for one of the worst starts of his Major League Baseball career when he takes the mound against the Houston Astros in Game Seven of the World Series on Wednesday.
Oct 29, 2017; Houston, TX, USA; Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Yu Darvish (21) before game five of the 2017 World Series against the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park.
Mandatory Credit: Shanna Lockwood-USA TODAY Sports The Japanese pitcher was lifted in the second inning of Fridays Game Three after allowing four runs on six hits and a walk as the Dodgers fell behind 2-1 in the series.
The Dodgers battled back for a 3-1 win in Games Six on Tuesday that tied the series and has given Darvish his chance.
We have really good people in this clubhouse and I really appreciate my team mates supporting me, the soft-spoken 31-year-old told reporters on Tuesday.
Darvishs awful Game Three was compounded by a racist gesture made by Houstons Yuli Gurriel.
After hitting a home run off Darvish to put the Astros ahead the 33-year-old Cuban was caught on camera using his hands to make a slanted-eye gesture while in the dugout.
Major League Baseball opted not to suspend Gurriel for any of the remaining World Series games and will instead ban him for five games at the start of next season.
Gurriel was booed by Dodgers fans every time he came to bat on Tuesday but Darvish said he had moved on.
I wasnt that frustrated when I saw it the first time, Darvish said.
And then after the game he contacted us and said, Hey, Id like to meet you in person and apologize, but I told him, Hey, you dont have to do that, because you made a comment, and, like, Im not that mad.
So like I really didnt care much about that, he said.
While pitchers on both teams have complained about baseballs that are slicker to the touch, making it hard to get a good grip on the ball, Darvish said he did not know the reason why he could not get his slider working in Game Three.
And after the game I came back and I realized that my slider, I couldnt finish my pitches.
I couldnt get that final touch.
And then it just didnt make sense, he said.
I really didnt know if it was my physical thing and mechanical adjustment that I had to make or the ball.
I cant really say.
And I just need to learn from it and go to tomorrow night.
Darvish said he used the game ball during his most recent bullpen practice session and his slider was showing improvement
PYEONGCHANG, South Korea (Reuters) - Workers in the South Korean resort town of Pyeongchang are making final preparations for the Winter Olympics, remaking roads, renovating buildings and preparing menus in English, Chinese and Japanese, a burst of activity that masks a big problem.
With less than 100 days before the Games begin, barely a third of the tickets have been sold.
Its a bummer, said 55-year-old motel owner Oh Young-whyan, who spent about $360,000 refurbishing his 15-room property close to the Olympics Plaza.
Oh, other hotel owners and local authorities say political tensions with North Korea and China have chilled foreign interest in the Games, which open on Feb. 9 just 80 km (50 miles) from the worlds most heavily fortified border.
Tourists are reluctant to commit to the event as North Koreas leader, Kim Jong Un, and U.S. President Donald Trump trade insults and threats of mutual destruction after the North conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test in September.
Ticket sales are weak, with 341,327 sold, or 32 percent of the total on offer, as of Oct. 24 - much weaker than during the run-up to the last winter Games in Sochi, Russia.
More than 70 percent of Sochis tickets were sold before the opening ceremony.
Pyeongchang Organising Committee Secretary General Yeo Hyung-koo says there is still time to catch up.
The Olympics torch relay, which began in Korea on Wednesday, will ignite domestic interest, he said.
Local business are also putting on a brave face, hoping for a late surge in interest, especially from Chinese tourists after Beijing this week set aside a dispute with Seoul over an anti-missile system.
We still have 100 days so Im not that worried, said Oh, owner of the Daekyanryung-sanbang motel, where Olympics banners were hung inside and out.
NO PASSENGERS, EMPTY AIRPORT Nearby, a bus terminal which undertook a $447,000 makeover in preparation for the Olympics was largely empty, with only one Chinese couple and a handful of locals seen waiting for buses.
Buses bound for Seoul in the past used to have as many as 38 foreign passengers, half of them Chinese, but nowadays some buses have no passengers, said Kim Moo-gyu, the owner of the terminal.
Before this weeks diplomatic breakthrough, Chinese authorities had unofficially imposed a ban on tour groups visiting South Korea since March and stopped charter flights.
The number of Chinese visitors, which accounted for nearly half of all foreign tourists into South Korea last year, slumped 61 percent from March to September from the same period last year, official data shows.
Yangyang International Airport, the only international airport near Pyengchang, was quiet, with flight routes from Shanghai and seven other Chinese cities all cut since last November.
LOTS OF LOSSES Min Byong-kwan, the chief executive of Phoenix Hotels & Resorts, is counting on a pick-up.
The ski resort spent tens of millions of dollars building six Olympics courses and renovating some 1,000 rooms to accommodate foreign officials during the Olympics.
We are making a lot of investments - and booking a lot of losses - through the Olympics, Min said.
A man looks at the Olympic Rings at the Gyeongpodae beach in Gangneung, South Korea, October 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Kim Hong-Ji It is regrettable that the Olympics boom is falling short of our expectations so far.
But he added: I expect the boom to experience exponential growth for the remaining 100 days.
Pyeongchang, carved out of pine-covered slopes in northeast Gangwon province, is being festooned with banners reading Passion Connected, a slogan reflecting the hosts aim to dissolve tensions with a show of sporting goodwill.
Organizers hope athletes from North Korea, still technically at war with the South, will take part and share the mountain with American and Chinese athletes.
The North has yet to confirm if it will send a team.
Han Do-sam, who sells seafood at the popular Sokcho fish market, said the improvement in ties between Beijing and Seoul was a good start.
We hope ... it will help more foreign tourists come here when they visit for the Olympics, Han said.
UNLIKELY TO MEET TARGET Slideshow (13 Images) South Korea planned to use the Olympics to introduce foreign tourism to Gangwon province.
Provincial authorities set an ambitious goal of attracting 5 million visitors next year, up from an original expectation of around 3 million this year.
But Gangwon governor Choi Moon-Soon said he doubted the 2018 target would be met.
So far we have seen declines in visits from China and Japan, which are directly affected by the Norths nuclear issue, Choi told Reuters.
Southeastern Asian group tourists are showing signs of cancelling trips as well.
Song Sung-sup, director of Goodmorning Travel, which specializes in Chinese tourism, was also glum, despite Tuesdays surprise detente between South Korea and China.
Unless China lifts a ban on charter flights to any local airport in South Korea, Im a bit skeptical whether signs of easing are clear at the moment, said Song, who saw sales drop by up to 20 percent due to the frozen ties with China.
Just two years ago, the outlook looked bright.
A Chinese company had committed to build a $431 million luxury resort - China Dream City - an hours drive from Pyeongchang.
Pitched at Chinese tourists, it was to provide accommodation during the Games.
But construction has still not begun.
Governor Choi said he was also worried about delays to a $450 million project to build a Legoland in the city of Chuncheon, about 145 km (90 miles) from the Games venue.
Legoland operator Merlin Entertainments said last month the resorts completion date was delayed by three years to 2020 to get final partner funding and for a lot of Korean twists and turns, without elaborating.
Merlin CEO Nick Varney joked last month it might help ease tensions, and brighten up prospects for the Games, if Legoland were to promise North Koreas leader an annual pass to the theme park.
Hopefully that will cheer him up a little bit.
LONDON (Reuters) - Red Bull expect to remain the Formula One benchmark for Renault next season despite McLaren switching from Honda to the French manufacturers engines, according to team principal Christian Horner.
FILE PHOTO: F1 - Formula One - British Grand Prix 2017 - Silverstone, Britain - July 16, 2017 Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner before the race.
REUTERS/Jason Cairnduff Red Bull have won three races this season, including Dutch youngster Max Verstappens victory in last Sundays Mexican Grand Prix, while former champions McLaren last tasted victory in 2012.
Renaults own works team are currently seventh in the 10 team constructors championship with two races remaining while McLaren are ninth.
McLarens a great team with strong drivers and we look forward to competing with them on (the) track, Horner, whose team won both titles for four years in a row between 2010 and 2013, told Reuters at the weekend.
Weve made great progress in the second half of this year and obviously our target and objective is to carry that momentum through into 2018.
They (Renault) have a benchmark in Red Bull, he added.
Renault and McLaren share oil and fuel partners in BP while Red Bull are with ExxonMobil, the company that sponsored McLaren for 21 years until they left for Red Bull at the end of last year.
That synergy could work to the advantage of McLaren, with Red Bull coming close to a split from Renault at the end of 2015 and their engine now branded as a Tag Heuer -- another former McLaren partner.
There is also lingering uncertainty about what engines Red Bull will be using after 2018, with media reports in September suggesting Renault no longer wanted to supply the team beyond then.
Both sides have dismissed that as speculation.
Formula One - F1 - Italian Grand Prix 2017 - Monza, Italy - September 2, 2017 Red Bull's Max Verstappen with team principal Christian Horner.
REUTERS/Luca Bruno/Pool McLaren, meanwhile, are committed to using the French engines until 2020 after ending their failed partnership with Honda -- who will be making the switch from Renault to Red Bulls Toro Rosso team.
SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION ExxonMobils global sponsorship manager Kai Decker said his company relished the challenge of competition between Renault-powered teams and against its former partners while Horner said fuel developments had contributed significantly to this years performance.
Weve had Esso Synergy upgrades this year that have enabled us to compete with Mercedes and beat them, he said.
Its not insignificant.
It is absolutely noticeable and putting performance on the car.
He gave no exact figures but Red Bulls chief engineer Paul Monaghan said in Malaysia last month, a race also won by Verstappen, that the fuel upgrade had been worth a grid position.
Red Bull also have top designer Adrian Newey, whose cars also won titles for McLaren, as a prize asset and Horner said he would continue to split his time between Formula One and other projects with title sponsor Aston Martin.
Weve got pretty much regulation stability so the lessons we take out of RB13 (the current car) will go into 14, said Horner.
Obviously were hopeful that on the engine side performance and reliability improve over the winter and they are fundamental aspects for us.
I think weve demonstrated that weve got a really competitive chassis.
Since the August break, Red Bull have scored more points (156) than Ferrari (137), who have won four races this year and are second to champions Mercedes.
If we can take these learnings into next years car then hopefully we can start on a stronger footing than the second or so that we were off in Melbourne at the start of the year, added Horner.
LONDON (Reuters) - Turning Britain into a top-five Olympic nation in skiing and snowboarding might appear about as realistic as climbing the Eiger in a pair of plimsolls, but that is the target Dan Hunt has set himself.
Athletes from the British Ski and Snowboard team take part in a photocall at the The Snow Centre in Hemel Hempstead, Britain October 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner It is unlikely to happen at next years Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang but Hunt does not have much time for the naysayers who laugh off the prospects of a nation without any Alpine DNA.
For good reason too.
Hunt, who became performance director of British Ski and Snowboard (BSS) a year ago, has previous when it comes to mocking conventional wisdom.
When he joined British Cycling in 2005, then performance director Dave Brailsford put him in charge of a womens endurance squad used to making up the numbers.
Hunt, who had no expertise in cycling, applied his background in exercise science and physiology to such great effect that Rebecca Romero and Wendy Houvenaghel won gold and silver in the individual pursuit in Beijing in 2008.
Now he believes Britains skiers and snowboarders can make a similar jump from also-rans to medal winners.
Weve set out to become a top-five nation, Hunt said in an interview at a media day for Britains Pyeongchang hopefuls at Hemel Hempsteads Snow Centre.
As soon as you say something like that, and Ive done that a couple of times so I know whats going to happen, you get 33 percent of the team saying yeah thats what we want, want to start winning, we want ambition.
INTERESTING JOURNEY Athletes from the British Ski and Snowboard team take part in a photocall at the The Snow Centre in Hemel Hempstead, Britain October 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner Then you have the that will never happen brigade.
They think just because it hasnt been done means it cant be done.
When we said at British Cycling that we wanted to have a Tour de France champion by 2013 the room burst into laughter.
Then you have the middle group who will take a step to the left or right depending on how its going to pan out.
Thats why you have to deliver what you said you were going to deliver.
Hunts second Olympics as a cycling coach was London 2012 where the hosts won 12 medals, after which he joined Team Sky as Sporting Director, before being poached by the Premier League to run its Elite Player Performance Plan.
Slideshow (5 Images) Its been an interesting journey for me, Hunt, now responsible for all the snow disciplines -- including Alpine, cross-country, freestyle, snowboard and ski jumping, said.
There are some fundamental aspects of performance that are very similar across all sports.
You take good leadership, good coaching and strap that around a very defensible performance plan.
You need a clear vision and strategy.
Britain won its first ever Olympic medal on snow when Jenny Jones came third in the snowboard slopestyle in Sochi 2014.
Last year, the team earned 15 World Cup podiums across the various disciplines and heading into Pyeonchang there are realistic medal hopes for the likes of slalom skier Dave Ryding, snowboarders Katie Ormerod and Billy Morgan and freestyle skiers James Woods and Katie Summerhayes.
Hunt said his first year in charge has been about plugging gaps and while he does not expect a medal rush in South Korea, he is confident the team can better Sochi.
Im not Harry Potter with a magic wand saying we are suddenly going to be a competitive nation.
But we have a process in place.
Pyeongchang is 100 days and Im hoping it will be our most successful Games.
But once we have come back the world wont stop turning.
Then we start focusing on Beijing 2022 and where we will have many more opportunities.
(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights from National Basketball Association games on Tuesday: Oct 31, 2017; Brooklyn, NY, USA; Brooklyn Nets forward DeMarre Carroll (9) passes the ball against Phoenix Suns center Tyson Chandler (4) and guard Devin Booker (1) during the second half at Barclays Center.
Andy Marlin-USA TODAY Sports Suns 122, Nets 114 The Phoenix Suns beat the Brooklyn Nets 122-114 on Tuesday to improve to 3-1 since interim coach Jay Triano replaced Earl Watson last week.
The Suns blew an 18-point lead in the third quarter but made enough timely plays down the stretch to win.
Devin Booker scored 32 points for Phoenix, his second 30-point game of the season and the 22nd of his career.
Rookie Mike James added 24 for the Suns.
TJ Warren scored all 20 of his points after halftime and grabbed 11 rebounds for the Suns, who controlled the glass by a commanding 66-44 margin.
DAngelo Russell scored a season-high 33 points as the Nets dropped their third straight.
Lakers 113, Pistons 93 Julius Randle scored 17 points off the bench to lead seven Lakers in double figures as Los Angeles downed Detroit.
Kyle Kuzma added 16 points in a reserve role, Larry Nance Jr. had 14 points and 12 rebounds for the Lakers.
Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, Brandon Ingram and Lonzo Ball scored 13 points apiece, and Jordan Clarkson finished with 10.
Reggie Jackson and Tobias Harris scored 18 points each, Ish Smith had 12 off the bench, and Andre Drummond finished with 10 points and 12 rebounds for the Pistons, who were coming off back-to-back wins against the Los Angeles Clippers on Saturday and the Golden State Warriors on Sunday.
Thunder 110, Bucks 91 Paul George scored 20 points, Carmelo Anthony had 17 and Russell Westbrook added 12 as Oklahoma City cruised past Milwaukee.
Westbrook finished an assist short of his fourth triple-double of the season, dishing out nine assists while grabbing 10 rebounds.
Jeremi Grant also finished with 17 for the Thunder, who won consecutive games for the first time this season, while Milwaukee lost for the second time in three games.
Giannis Antetokounmpo finished with a team-high 28 points to lead the Bucks but failed to reach the 30-point mark for just the second time this season.
Pacers 101, Kings 83 Indiana put five players in double figures, led by Bojan Bogdanovic with 17 points, in a romp over Sacramento.
Pacers forward Domantas Sabonis delivered his third double-double of the season with 12 points and a career-high 16 rebounds.
Thaddeus Young added 15 points for Indiana.
Victor Oladipo, who led the Pacers in scoring each of the first six games, finished with 14 points.
Rookie DeAaron Fox was the high scorer for the Kings with 18 points on 9-of-18 shooting.
Sacramento has dropped five consecutive games.
(Reuters) - Columbus Crew took full advantage of playing with an extra man to score three second-half goals on the way to a 4-1 victory over New York City FC in the first leg of their Major League Soccer Eastern Conference semi-final showdown on Tuesday.
Trailing 1-0, New York City defender Alexander Callens was shown a red card in the 52nd minute after a video review showed he had elbowed Justin Meram in the face, and the home side spared no mercy to seize control of the contest.
Columbus had already taken an early lead when Ola Kamara netted a close-range effort in the sixth minute and the Crew pulled clear in the final 45 minutes.
Artur scored from the middle of the penalty area in the 58th minute, before Meram added a third in the 69th minute and Harrison Afful capped the rout with an injury time strike.
David Villa scored a 78th minute consolation goal for New York City, who now find themselves in a huge hole heading into the second leg at Yankee Stadium on Sunday.
No hill is big enough that we cant climb it, New York goalkeeper Sean Johnson told MLSSoccer.com.
Weve got the guys; weve got a talented group and a mentally strong group.
So I think well get back to it and well come out guns blazing.
Oct 31, 2017; Columbus, OH, USA; New York City FC defender Ben Sweat (2) executes a overhead kick in the second half against the Columbus Crew SC at MAPFRE Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Trevor Ruszkowski-USA TODAY Sports The Crew received a special lift from their home crowd as fans responded to reports that owner Anthony Precourt was considering moving the team to Austin, Texas.
Fans displayed Save the Crew signs around the Mapfre Stadium and cheered wildly.
You could feel it, the atmosphere was unbelievable from the beginning, Kamara said.
With everything around it too, its a game thats (been) built up a lot.
I think the fans came here today to show what they stand for, and for us to win 4-1 and be able to celebrate with the fans like that, its a good feeling.
(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of the National Hockey League games on Tuesday: Oct 31, 2017; New York, NY, USA; New York Rangers center Mika Zibanejad (93) smiles after being named the first star after defeating the Vegas Golden Knights at Madison Square Garden.
Mandatory Credit: Danny Wild-USA TODAY Sports Rangers 6, Golden Knights 4 Mika Zibanejad had a goal and two assists in the third period as the New York Rangers erased a two-goal deficit in the final 20 minutes to defeat the Vegas Golden Knights 6-4 on Tuesday on an emotional day in New York that had players distracted in the hours leading to the game.
A terror attack in lower Manhattan early in the afternoon -- an area frequented by many Rangers players and their families -- cast a pall over the proceedings at Madison Square Garden a few hours later.
David Perron scored on a penalty shot to give the Knights a 4-2 advantage heading into the final period despite Vegas playing with a fourth-string goaltender.
Chris Kreider scored on the first half of a Perrons double minor at 5:31 of the third period, and Pavel Buchnevich tied the game at even strength at 9:26.
Zibanejad later ripped a shot that ricocheted off the knob of the stick of Maxime Lagace, who made 32 saves in his first NHL start, and into the net to give the Rangers a 5-4 lead at 14:11.
Jets 2, Wild 1 Kyle Connor scored an early goal, and Connor Hellebuyck made 28 saves as Winnipeg beat Minnesota.
Nikolaj Ehlers also scored late as the Jets beat Minnesota for the second time in October.
Winnipeg has gone five consecutive games without a regulation loss (3-0-2).
The Wild got 17 saves from goalie Alex Stalock and a second career goal from Luke Kunin but saw their two-game winning streak snapped.
Red Wings 5, Coyotes 3 Dylan Larkin collected a goal and an assist and Anthony Mantha netted his team-high fifth goal as Detroit defeated Arizona.
The Red Wings won for the second straight game, while the Coyotes, who have just one win, saw their bid for two straight wins dashed.
Arizona goalie Scott Wedgewood made 35 saves.
American ice dancing duo Rachel and Michael Parsons, left, and snowboarder Mike Trapp.
They've all spent tens of thousands of dollars a year on training as they vie to go to the Olympics.
The rewards for competing in the Olympics this winter in Pyeongchang are largely symbolic for the vast majority of athletes who won't win medals or sign lucrative endorsement deals.
And the financial strain their years of training puts on their families can hit hard.
"Its a daunting challenge," said Richard Parsons, whose two eldest children are the reigning U.S. and world junior ice dance champions.
Rachel and Michael Parsons' win at the 2017 World Junior Figure Skating Championships in Taiwan this year marked a milestone in their quest to compete at the 2022 Olympics if not sooner, should they clinch the spot as alternates for Team USA at the 2018 Games.
Once theyve qualified for the Olympics, athletes flights, accommodations, food and training are paid for by the United States Olympic Committee.
But getting to that point?
That's on the athletes, and often their families.
Olympic Hopefuls Gear Up for Winter Games American Olympic hopefuls are doing everything they can to be ready for the 2018 Winter Games in Pyeongchang.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 31, 2017) The cost of the Parsons' 12-year journey thus far has been over $500,000, to cover the ice time, coaching, choreography, dance classes, costumes, ice skates, registration fees and travel expenses necessary to help Rachel and Michael compete at the elite level on the international stage, their dad said.
"When they were starting out, it was just a thousand or two a year early on.
Then it started ramping up steadily as they started competing nationally and then internationally," Richard Parsons said, noting the annual expenses increased from an average of $40,000 a year to $75,000 last year.
And the Maryland family is not an outlier in how much it spends eye-popping expenses are par for the course for most Olympians.
Parsons said some teams in their sport spend more than $100,000 to train at the elite level.
Mike Trapp, the 2011 and 2012 U.S. snowboarding champion, said an average season training costs about $35,000 in equipment, coaching and traveling expenses.
It's more expensive in a year leading up to the Olympics.
The native of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, is training in Italy ahead of World Cup qualifiers in December and January.
In order to score a spot on the U.S. Olympic team, Trapp needs to finish in the top three in one of five events taking place in Italy, Austria and Slovenia.
It took nearly two decades of training and discipline, plus hundreds of thousands of dollars, just for Trapp to reach the cusp of Olympic selection.
Rachel and Michael Parsons.
Photo credit: Daphne Backman/Ice-dance.com FUNDING THE 'A TEAM' The United States is one of the only countries with an Olympic committee that is not supported through funding from the federal government.
The separation was established in 1978 with the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act, which gave sole control over Americas representation in the games to the USOC and the various sports' national governing bodies under the committee.
Under this legislation, the USOC has complete control over the intellectual property associated with the Olympic Games, giving it exclusive distribution rights over logos and other licensing material.
The autonomy also means the USOC is responsible for raising and allocating all of the funding needed for the U.S. to compete in the Olympics and Paralympics.
It does this through trademark licensing, corporate sponsors and broadcast revenue.
Some of the money is also distributed to various sports' national governing bodies to help fund athlete development.
Richard Parsons said that once his kids made the jump to the junior level in ice dancing they began receiving support from the U.S.
Figure Skating Association, which helped offset some of their costs.
The money is allocated based on performance, or "likelihood that an athlete will win a medal," according to Team USA spokesman Mark Jones.
This pay-for-performance model leaves some organizations struggling to support their athletes.
Olympians Try Korean Snacks In preparation for the Olympic Winter Games, NBC gave Team USA some of the most popular Korean snacks to see what they thought of them.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 31, 2017) "U.S.
Ski and Snowboard can only fund the A team," Trapp said.
As a B team member, Trapp, who moonlights as a mechanic during his summers, has had to foot the bill for his training.
"I'm doing this all on my own dime," he said.
"That job keeps the dream alive."
The A team is fully funded in the U.S. ski teams budget, which allocates about $100,000 per athlete annually, according to U.S.
Ski President Tiger Shaw.
"But theres a $2 million funding gap in paying for travel costs for B and C team" athletes.
Members of the B and C teams are billed $15,000 to $20,000 at the beginning of each season to close the gap.
Shaw acknowledged that is a significant amount of money, but the only other option, he said, is to cut half the team.
He said the organization works with the athletes to help them find sources of revenue.
EXPENSIVE SCHOOLING Like many elite athletes competing in snowsports, Trapp attended a ski academy during his formative school years, albeit part-time.
From sixth to 11th grade, Trapp transferred out of his regular school curriculum for part of the year to train at Waterville Valley Academy in New Hampshire, where tuition for a three-month season cost $15,000, not including equipment and race fees.
That figure pales in comparison to the $55,000 tuition Olympic gold medalist Mikaela Shiffrin paid to attend Burke Mountain Academy in Vermont full-time.
Olympic Torch Lighting Starts Relay to Pyeongchang Games The torch for the 2018 Winter Olympics was lit among the ruins of Olympia, Greece, marking the start of its 100-day journey to the Pyeongchang Games.
Skier Apostolos Aggelis, of Greece, was the first torch-bearer.
(Published Monday, Oct. 30, 2017) Shiffrin was born in Vail, Colorado, "an epic ski town," she told NBC.
Both her parents and her older brother are skiers, and they grew up with skiing as their "family recreational sport."
She recalled starting out in a kids' "Fresh Tracks" training program by age 5.
When it came time for high school, the prodigy who was already winning races opted for a ski academy.
She gained entrance to one of the country's most exclusive ski academies, where Shiffrin trained for hours each day, learning "a lot about time management" and "being responsible."
Shiffrin went on to claim gold in the slalom in Sochi.
But it's not just expensive to attend an exclusive training program.
To even be considered for admission to an elite ski school, applicants usually need a solid foundation in skiing and a resume of winning races.
"You had to apply and get in, and part of that process obviously is showing your skiing resume you couldnt just be a beginner," said Gordy Megroz, a graduate of Stratton Mountain School in Vermont.
And though some ski schools offer junior classes for skill-development training, "realistically youd need to live within four or five hours of the ski area to be able to get to practice, races and lessons," said Megroz, highlighting the geographical difficulties some aspiring athletes face.
He learned to ski growing up in Vermont, he said, by standing on his father's and grandfather's skis when he was as young as 2 years old.
He started competing when he was 10.
His parents drove him to races on weekends.
"You have to pay for everything from season passes to equipment to race fees," Megroz said.
"Its certainly an expensive sport no disputing that.
People who get into ski racing probably are pretty affluent."
Former U.S.
Ski Team coach and co-founder of the alpine skiing World Cup, Robert "Bob" Beattie, said the cost of ski racing is pricing out talent who have no income, "killing our sport."
"We're only getting kids with money," Beattie said in a March interview with the Aspen Times.
"Kids like Billy Kidd, Jimmie Heuga and Buddy Werner would never be ski racers now.
They could never afford it.
Their parents didn't have that kind of money."
Kidd and Huega became the first American men to win Olympic medals in skiing, taking silver and bronze respectively in the slalom at the 1964 Games.
'WE'VE HAD TO MAKE A LOT OF SACRIFICES' Chasing the Olympic dream is a risky venture, and for most families, raising an Olympic athlete is a tremendous investment with no guarantee of a monetary return.
Many Olympians are young, and a lot of their expenses are covered by their parents.
The average Olympic hopeful will train for a decade or more.
And with athletes devoting more than six hours a day, six days a week to training, there isn't much room for a part-time job or career.
Team USA Concerned About N. Korea, But Trusts USOC With tensions high between North Korea and the U.S., how do Olympic hopefuls feel about traveling to South Korea for the 2018 Olympic Winter Games?
(Published Friday, Oct. 27, 2017) Michael Parsons, now 22, began skating at age 7, and sister Rachel Parsons, 19, at age 6.
Their parents credit the Wheaton Ice Skating Academy, a Maryland rink run by Russian ice dancing champions Alexei Kiliakov and Elena Novak, for making the endeavor affordable in the early years by offering classes in group sessions, which are less expensive than private lessons.
But as their kids began moving up the ranks, they required more training, fresh routines, new costumes and more money.
And just as they were taking off on the world stage, the 2008 recession hit and Richard Parsons was laid off from his job by 2009.
"We've had to make a lot of sacrifices.
We're just a middle class family and we've had to be very creative, especially with two," Parsons said, noting the family doesn't take vacations, he and his wife drive older-model, well-worn cars and they don't shop for new clothes.
Team USA speedskater Emily Scott made headlines in 2013 when she applied for food stamps while training for the Olympics after her monthly stipend from the U.S.
Speed Skating Federation got cut from $1,950 to $600.
Scott turned to crowdfunding site GoFundMe for help, ultimately flying to Sochi thanks to thousands of strangers.
Like many athletes vying for the Olympics, Trapp and the Parsons have also turned to crowdfunding to raise the money needed to fund their goals.
Even entire teams and national sports organizations are turning to sites like Rallyme and Dreamfuel to help foot the bill to prepare for the Winter Games.
But despite all the hardships, Richard Parsons said Rachel and Michael have gotten so much out of the experience that "I wouldn't change it for the world."
NBC's Emilie Mutert contributed to this report.
NBC's prime-time figure skating commentators Tara Lipinski and Johnny Weir talk about their fashion inspiration for the Pyeongchang Games, the American figure skaters they're excited to see perform and the hottest rivalries to keep an eye on heading into the 2018 Winter Olympics.
(Published 2 hours ago) It was seven minutes into an interview and Johnny Weir and Tara Lipinski couldnt stop giggling.
I dont think hes ever had the giggles like this, ever, said Lipinski, as Weir walked away to compose himself.
Soon enough, the former Olympic figure skaters-turned-commentators, known for their fun Olympic banter and colorful outfits, had their game faces on, ready to talk about their announcing gig for NBC and fashion at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang.
On camera, you have to bring it.
In this day and age of fashion bloggers and Vogue you really have to make sure that youre on point every day and not repeating, because people are waiting to see what were going to choose, said Weir, who packed 52 pairs of shorts, 37 pairs of shoes, 26 bathing suits, nine hats and and three pounds of jewels for the Rio Games in 2014.
The looks that we bring to the broadcast are completely our own and we love having fun with it, Weir added.
Johnny Weir's Wild, Winning Style Weir and Lipinski are heading to South Korea as NBCs prime-time figure skating announcers and the fashion-forward duo is already mulling their sartorial choices.
Expect a lot of high heels for both of them sparkles and wardrobe changes.
The first time Lipinski, the 1998 gold medalist, and Weir, a two-time Olympian, broadcast a Winter Games was at Sochi in 2014.
They were joined in the booth by play-by-play announcer Terry Gannon, offering live commentary on NBC Sports Network.
Viewers loved their figure skating insight and easy conversational style, mixed with fashion policing.
In October 2014, NBC named them prime-time announcers for Pyeongchang.
One of the most memorable moments of Sochi was when we all sat together in a little booth and it was the beginning of Tara, Johnny and Terry, Lipinski said.
It was our first, big event.
To sit there next to my best friend and be part of an Olympics again felt so overwhelming and so special.
Eat Like an Olympian in South Korea Their coordinating outfits in Sochi including a Valentines day number that had Weir dressed as diamonds and Lipinski as hearts gained them thousands of Instagram followers.
For Pyeongchang, Weir said they are choosing his clothes first and Lipinskis second so that they can match and create themes.
Theyre both planning to wear South Korean designers; Weir is working with people close to him on designing a few special pieces that he will reveal in Pyeongchang.
"People loved when we would describe how we were matching and what we wereWhen youre in a foreign country for a month broadcasting all the way back in America, you really have to get into that secular cocoon with your dearest ones and have a good time, Weir explained.
We always have adjoining hotel rooms and we can play with each others things and by the end of the month we know, 'That white shirt but not that white shirt,' or, 'Make sure you go with that necklace but not that necklace.'
Vonn, Shiffrin Look to Make Their Mark in Pyeongchang Lindsey Vonn is skiing in her last Olympics while Mikaela Shiffrin is just getting started in her career.
Hear from both skiers as they look ahead to Pyeongchang.
(Published Tuesday, Feb. 7, 2017) The breakout stars of Sochi became NBCs top figure skating team and went on to cover fashion at the Oscars, Super Bowl and Kentucky Derby, where Weir wore a hat made up of a bouquet of roses, complete with its own mint julep.
They also brought their act to the Rio Olympics as cultural correspondents.
"When we go to Pyeongchang it's going to maybe surpass any moment we've ever had at the Olympics.
This is prime-time.
We need options, we're going to need changes," said Lipinski of their wardrobe.
The best friends see the last three years as the perfect training ground for their prime-time jobs in Pyeongchang.
They've covered hundreds of hours of figure skating competitions for NBC.
We love this sport and were so passionate about it so the real work that we have to do is poring over stats and who changed coaches this season and [skaters'] programs, Weir said.
We like to watch skating live with our audience so that we have very organic reactions to what were seeing, and I think thats something that makes us very relatable to our audience.
If were over-prepared and too rehearsed, we wont be able to have as much fun with you guys, we wont be able to create the best TV show that there is.
American Olympians Jamie Anderson (left) and Gus Kenworthy sporting the uniforms for the closing ceremony of the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Games.
One hundred days before the Olympic Winter Games kick off in Pyeongchang, Team USA unveiled the Polo Ralph Lauren-designed red, white and blue uniforms its athletes will be wearing for the closing ceremony.
Olympic gold medalist snowboarder Jamie Anderson, Olympic silver medalist freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy and ice dancers Maia and Alex Shibutani debuted their uniforms on NBC's "Today" show Wednesday.
"It feels really special to represent our country, and wear all this amazing gear, too," Maia Shibutani said.
The uniforms combine a water-repellent down jacket in white with navy fleece pants with red stripes and a vintage ski-inspired sweater with red, white and blue stripes.
Among the accessories are wool gloves with a winter-inspired pattern, a matching wool ski hat with "Team USA" lettering, an American flag-printed bandana and brown suede mountaineering boots with bright red laces.
"Team USA's look for 2018 reflects Polo's iconic and authentic all-American style, infused with a modern sensibility," the U.S. Olympic Committee said in a statement.
It's the sixth time that Polo Ralph Lauren has outfitted the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic teams.
You don't have to be an elite athlete to get the gear and show support for the Olympic team.
The collection will be available in December at some Ralph Lauren stores and on RalphLauren.com and TeamUSAShop.com.
At Pyeongchang, Mike Tirico will take over for Bob Costas as primetime host of the Olympics on NBC.
Tirico has called some of the biggest events in sports and says the opportunity to broadcast the Olympics is a dream story.
How much do you remember from the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia?
We put together a little quiz to test your knowledge as we look ahead to 2018 in PyeongChang, South Korea.
Pop quiz, hotshot.
Where were you the evening of Feb. 25, 1994?
Well, if you're over the age of 35 it's a fairly safe bet you were huddled around a television that night watching Olympic figure skating.
But this wasn't just any Olympic ice skating.
It was appointment television because it was was Tonya Harding versus Nancy Kerrigan, the Super Bowl of ice skating showdowns.
And the appeal had nothing to do with their competition on the ice.
Their duel would become the third-highest-rated sporting event ever to that point.
Long before the days of Facebook or Twitter or any social media, when people still largely digested their information from newspapers and the evening news, the showdown between Kerrigan and Harding captivated the nation.
And to this day we're still not over it hence the upcoming film starring Margot Robbie and Amy Adams, "I, Tonya."
It was on Jan. 6, 1994 at the U.S.
Figure Skating Championships in 1994 just one month before the Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway that Kerrigan was clubbed in the knee leaving skating practice.
Video of her plaintively screaming "Why?
Why?"
amid sobs played on endless loops on the evening news for days afterward.
In a 2013 "Today" show interview, Kerrigan spoke about the horrific incident.
"Watching anything sort of horrific, its disturbing to see anybody in pain," Kerrigan said.
"To think its me its a lifetime ago.
It hurts to see anybody in such pain.
Its a long time ago.
I just moved on."
Check Out the New Olympic Skating Stadiums South Korea is ahead of schedule in constructing venues for the 2018 Winter Olympics and NBC got an exclusive tour of the arenas that will host skating events.
Some of the biggest events of the games will take place here.
(Published Monday, Oct. 30, 2017) It was later revealed that Jeff Gillooly, Harding's then-husband, had hired Shane Stant to maim Kerrigan in a bid to knock her out of the upcoming Olympics.
To this day, Harding disputes her level of involvement, but she was ultimately convicted of hindering the investigation.
Harding received three years' probation, 500 hours of community service and a $160K fine, and was banned from the U.S.
Figure Skating Association for life.
But before all that, she was free to compete in Lillehammer, and she did.
After a series of mishaps, Harding came eighth.
Kerrigan, healed from the attack, took home silver.
Not surprisingly, over the past 23 years, the lives and careers of Harding and Kerrigan careened along distinctively different paths.
Kerrigan was inducted into the Figure Skating Hall of Fame in 2004, has served as a special correspondent covering various Olympic Games and this year, at age 47, returned to spotlight by competing on "Dancing with the Stars."
Welcome to Pyeongchang: A Look Inside the 2018 Olympic Venue The years weren't as kind to Harding.
She released a sex tape showing her with Gillooly, was arrested on domestic violence charges in 2000 and appeared on Fox's "Celebrity Boxing" in 2002.
Now, thanks to the upcoming film, a new generation will get to relive the Kerrigan-Harding feud.
This is the VERY FIRST LOOK at @itonyamovie also starring @imsebastianstan and #allisonjanney Coming soon to theaters!
A post shared by @margotrobbie on Oct 19, 2017 at 8:34am PDT "To be honest, when I read the script, I didnt know who Tonya Harding was, and I didnt realize it was a true story," Robbie, who plays Harding, told Vanity Fair.
"I thought it was entirely fictionalized and our writer Steve was so creative to come up with the quirky characters and absurd incidents."
Robbie is not the first to portray Harding onscreen.
Both Melanie Hutsell and Amy Poehler parodied her on NBC's "Saturday Night Live," in 1994 and 2002, respectively.
Tina Yothers played the athlete in Comedy Central's spoof, "Spunk: The Tonya Harding Story" in 1994, as did Alexandra Powers in NBC's drama, "Tonya & Nancy: The Inside Story" in 1994.
Robbie told Vanity Fair after the film was completed she and the director screened it for Harding, who was moved to tears.
"I think it is a lot for someone to have the most traumatic events of their life encompassed in a two-hour film," Robbie said.
"I feel like you have to be very brave to let someone do that.
I dont know if I could do that, and she handled it incredibly."
Pyeongchang 2018: The Comebacks
The Woljeongsa Temple is a short drive from the Olympic Stadium.
Visitors walk through an ornate temple gate.
A serene path lined with fir trees leads visitors to 60 temples and eight monastaries, some dating back nearly 1,400 years.
Thousands of sports fans from all over the world will descend on Pyeongchang, South Korea, for the 2018 Olympic Winter Games in February, and many will book traditional accommodations.
But why book a hotel room or an Airbnb when you can stay in a Buddhist temple?
South Korea's tourism organization is encouraging tourists to lodge in sacred temples for part of their stay during the games to learn about traditional Korean Buddhism and culture, experience the daily life of a monk and breathe fresh mountain air.
More than 30 Buddhist temples around South Korea open their doors to visitors, at least five of them in Gangwon Province, where the Winter Games will take place.
Sometimes, we want to escape from everyday life and rejuvenate our minds and bodies in nature, reads the official Pyeongchang Olympics website.
One of the best ways to do so is to take a temple stay trip.
...
It could be a perfect time to refresh your mind and body.
When the world conceives of South Korea, it usually thinks of its military standoff with North Korea, K-pop music and global brands such as Samsung and Hyundai, said David A. Mason, an American professor of Korean tourism at Sejong University in Seoul.
Mason has lived in South Korea for more than 30 years, and was part of the committee that helped create the Temple Stay program that opened up the South Korea.
With our Temple Stay program, we can show an entirely different and balancing side of Korea: the quiet simplicity and subtle beautiful artworks, charming aspects like the green tea ceremony, beautiful mountains and a profoundly deep enlightened spirituality with roots 1,600 years deep -- the Outside-of-the Seoul-urban part of Korea, Mason told NBC in an email.
On a typical day in a temple, guests are awoken at 4 a.m. by a moktak, a wooden percussion instrument used for the morning chanting ceremony.
Visitors can practice Buddhist meditation and other traditions such as lotus flower making, wood block printing and cooking communal meals of rice and vegetables are cooked and served in moderate amounts so there is no waste.
Leisurely walks through the forest are encouraged.
Despite the tranquil imagery, tourists should keep in mind that staying in a mountain temple in the depths of winter wont be as comfortable as in spring or fall, except for people who love cold, Mason said.
But on the other hand, having this unique and very pleasant experience of authentic Korean traditional culture might well be the most memorable part of many tourists visit, he said.
'These Spiritual Burpees Are a Real Test' Mohammed Sami, who stayed at the Woljeongsa temple in Pyeongchang in January of 2015, said not everything went as expected during his stay with his girlfriend.
The couple, visiting from Toronto was looking forward to guided meditation sessions and making lotus flower lanterns, but neither of these activities were offered at the time of their stay because there were too few people, they were told.
Still, they took part in bead making and prayer services and enjoyed breathing the fresh mountain air, and Sami said he'd recommend that others stay there as part of the Temple Stay program.
Even in the bone-chilling winter, it's a wonderful place to experience, especially when the entire place is covered in snow, Sami said in an email.
The pagoda in the middle of the the temple is beautifully lit up at night.
The ceremonious ringing of the bells and banging of the drums by the monks is definitely something to experience; you do get to strike the bell yourself.
The pine tree forest close by is really calming.
It occurred to one temple visitor that his temple would actually be more work than relaxation when he realized how often he would have to sit cross-legged.
Journalist Andrew Sun, who described himself as a "meat-eating, Facebook-addicted non-believer" in an article in The South China Morning Post, stayed at the Beomosa temple near Busan.
Making prayer beads, which was meant to be a sort of meditation in motion, was more of a physical struggle than he had expected, Sun wrote.
"The drill is that for each bead we insert the string through, we must perform a full prostration from a standing position," Sun wrote, adding that there were 108 beads total and they had to maintain a strict tempo.
"These spiritual burpees are a real test and most of the group fall behind or resort to a kneeling bow."
Sun said he only managed to clear his mind toward the end of his 24-hour stay.
"Im not sure I feel enlightened, but at least Ive stopped caring that my phones battery is almost dead," he wrote.
Buddhism's Revival in South Korea The idea of foreign tourists staying in their temples was not originally welcomed by the Jogye Order, the representative order of traditional Korean Buddhism.
They were imagining drunken European soccer hooligans burning down their temples, Mason said.
But Mason and the rest of the special tourism committee, created in 2001 by former president Kim Dae-Jung to build new tourism initiatives, convinced the order to try out the concept when they presented it as a missionary opportunity for tourists interested in Buddhism and as a means of spreading the heritage of Korean Buddhism and traditional Korean culture.
For 500 years, Buddhism was suppressed in South Korea, forcing monks to take refuge in monasteries deep in the mountains and exiled from most of civilization.
But as of the late 20th Century, when paved roads and electric lines were brought into those temples (and now full internet and cellphone access, with other luxuries), these are now some of the best places to live -- grand monasteries right inside national parks and provincial parks, amidst the best scenery of the nation, Mason said.
Foreign tourists aren't the only ones taking advantage of this program.
South Koreans from Seoul often stay in these temples as a low-priced health spa option and to reduce the stress from urban life, Mason said.
A night in a temple starts at about $44 per night for an adult, with stays ranging from two days to up to a month.
Day trips are also available starting at $27.
The the official Temple Stay website provides more details and reservation information.
Although it was created by the government, the Temple Stay program was handed over to the Jogye Order in 2005 after a few years of operation.
Mason calls this "a textbook excellent case of how religious tourism should be run by the religion themselves, even if government and commercial interests help get the program going, in order to keep it 'authentic' and not 'Disneyfied.'"
How much do you remember from the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia?
We put together a quiz to test your knowledge as we look ahead to 2018 in PyeongChang, South Korea.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 17, 2017) The Olympic torch will soon journey to Pyeongchang, South Korea, to kick start the 2018 Winter Olympics.
Top athletes from around the world will vie for a cherished gold medal in 15 different winter sports when the competition starts Feb. 8.
As sports fans gear up for the Winter Olympics and the internet anxiously awaits what new memes will surface, take a look back at some of the top Sochi social media moments from the 2014 Winter Olympics.
The top 10 viral moments from Sochi include puppies, toilets and more: 10.
Missing Olympic Ring: The Opening Ceremony Snowflake That Never Was The opening ceremony is a time for the host country to showcase its pomp and the worlds first glance at the Olympic athletes.
With years of preparation and billions of dollars and resources put into its production, its no wonder a malfunction during the ceremony might draw attention.
That's what happened during Sochi's -- a lighted snowflakes that was supposed to open into the fifth Olympic ring did not work.
The stubborn snowflake became a meme, but the Russians took it in stride, making fun of it in their closing ceremony festivities.
9.
Oshies Shootout Goals Help U.S.
Beat Russia's Hockey Team Sharpshooter T.J. Oshie made four out of six shootout goals to propel the United States to victory over Russia in an opening round hockey match that eliminated the hosts.
The U.S. mens team still left Sochi without a medal, but Oshie's epic performance brought him plenty of fame on social media.
Within an hour of the game ending, T-shirts saying "Oshie Owns Sochi" were for sale online.
8.
#SochiFail and #SochiProblems Journalists and athletes used their social media accounts to document their Olympics experiences, but shortly after the Sochi Games started, #SochiFail started to appear on timelines.
The run-up to the Olympics featured report after report of shoddy or partially completed construction, and sure enough, some infrastructure wasn't ready for showtime.
Brown water and broken elevators were among the problems that helped propel the daily musings also posted as #SochiProblems.
7.
Bob Costas Gets Red Eye Legendary sportscaster Bob Costas was sidelined from live television coverage for five days due to an eye infection.
"My apologies to everyone for the unavoidable but uncomfortable circumstance of a broadcaster's ill-timed affliction getting in the way, even for just a moment, from what we all came here for," Costas said.
A post shared by TODAY (@todayshow) on Feb 21, 2014 at 6:00am PST 6.
Johnny Weir's Fashion Former Olympic skaters Tara Lipinski and Johnny Weir are well known for their fashion and commentary as analysts for NBC Sports.
From donning a fur coat to tiny shorts, Weir's breakthrough Sochi fashion moment was arguably a hot pink tailored jacket.
Hes perfected sporty fashion and slays on his social media timeline, too.
5.
That Surprised Face: American Ashley Wagner Reacts to Score Figure skater Ashely Wagner joined the likes of gymnast McKayla Maroney with her "unimpressed" #wagnerface.
After finishing her figure skating short routine in Sochi, she looked up to the board and reacted to her score 63.10 with surprise written all over her face.
The internet loved it.
4.
Olympians Adopt Stray Puppies Some Olympians brought awareness to Russias stray dog problem as they opened their hearts and homes to man's best friend.
United States slopestyle skier Gus Kenworthy shared moments he spent with five stray pups he found at the Gorki Press Center.
He announced he was going to adopt the puppies on social media.
Snowboarder Lindsey Jacobellis joined Kenworthy and also adopted a dog.
3.
Twin Toilets BBC reporter Steve Rosenberg used the bathroom at the cross-country skiing and biathlon center and found one stall and two toilets.
He snapped a photo and posted it to Twitter, resulting in others sharing similar "twinning toilets" around the globe.
2.
Russian Speedskater Unzips Her Race Suit Adrenaline and satisfaction exuded from speedster Olga Graf after she won the first medal for Russia in the womens 3,000-meter at Sochi.
She celebrated during her warm-down lap by unzipping her racing suit.
Shortly thereafter she realized she had nothing underneath her suit and zipped it back up.
The internet went wild and praised her for her free spirit.
1.
#Quinning: Bobsledder Breaks Down the Door U.S. bobsledder Johnny Quinn found himself in the center of a social media frenzy during Sochi.
He got trapped inside his hotel bathroom after showering, and with no one nearby to help him, he took matters into his own hands.
He punched a hole in the door, climbed through it and took to Twitter to share the ordeal: "With no phone to call for help, I used my bobsled push training to break out.
Quinn had a second chance at internet fame when he found himself stuck again this time in an elevator.
He was left with no choice to pry the doors open.
The internet agreed his heroics deserved their own hashtag and #Quinning was born.
Most Memorable Moments of the Sochi Games
The NHL will not allow its players to participate in the 2018 Winter Olympics.
Mens head coach Tony Granato is up for the challenge of putting a competitive team on the ice with players from college and other leagues.
The Winter Olympics are approaching against a backdrop of nuclear-armed tension, NHL players won't be playing in the hockey tournament and the men's team from Russia is the distinct favorite to win gold.
What was true in 1980 is also shaping up as the situation for Team USA at the 2018 Olympics.
The NHL has refused to let its players represent their countries at the games, but the bona fide Russian stars playing in the world's second-best hockey league, the Russian-based Kontinental Hockey League, can still make the trip to Pyeongchang.
Bookies have Team Russia as the front-runner in the run-up to the 2018 Games, while some of the Americans playing may be unknown even to serious hockey fans.
Still, if you ask the captain of the "Miracle on Ice" team, it won't count as a miracle if the group of American college kids and professionals playing in minor leagues or abroad beats Russia this time around.
Olympians Try Korean Snacks In preparation for the Olympic Winter Games, NBC gave Team USA some of the most popular Korean snacks to see what they thought of them.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 31, 2017) "We're a good team, we're not unknowns anymore.
The days of the 'Miracle on Ice,' those days are over," said Mike Eruzione, now director of special outreach at Boston University.
"1980 will never happen again."
Russia has won four world championships in the last decade, but it's a perennial underachiever at the Olympics, last medaling in 2002 and only winning silver before that.
Russia was eliminated by the U.S. in the first round at the 2014 Sochi Games despite being on home ice.
The Soviet team, by contrast, won gold in seven of nine tries.
But Russia's time may be at hand, after the NHL said in April that it would not disrupt its season for 17 days to accommodate Olympic play.
NHL players have participated in the Olympics since 1998.
The KHL, which features teams from across Europe and one in China, has plenty of Russian players who were all-stars back in North America.
Ilya Kovalchuk, who once led the NHL in goals, retired from the New Jersey Devils in his prime to move to Russia.
He could have returned to the U.S. over the offseason this year, but has called the Olympics "one of the main factors" in deciding against it.
His SKA Saint Petersberg teammates, Pavel Datsyuk and Slava Voynov, won Stanley Cups with the Detroit Red Wings and L.A. Kings, respectively.
(Voynov went to jail on a domestic violence charge in 2015, then decamped for Russia.)
Meanwhile, the all-time highest-scoring foreigner in the KHL is Brandon Bochenski, a Minnesota native who's relatively unknown stateside but was the captain of Barys Astana in Kazakhstan.
He retired this year with 154 goals in seven KHL seasons, after scoring just 28 goals in five years in the NHL.
Bochenski last played for the Kazakh national team he's a newly minted citizen.
Olympic Torch Lighting Starts Relay to Pyeongchang Games The torch for the 2018 Winter Olympics was lit among the ruins of Olympia, Greece, marking the start of its 100-day journey to the Pyeongchang Games.
Skier Apostolos Aggelis, of Greece, was the first torch-bearer.
(Published Monday, Oct. 30, 2017) U.S. men's coach Tony Granato is picking players for his roster among Americans playing abroad, in domestic minor leagues (unless their contract would allow them to play in the NHL) and in colleges.
The list will be announced around Jan. 1.
The Team USA line-up for an international Olympic tune-up tournament this November offers a glimpse into who will be playing in Pyeongchang, and it lacks the star power of their Russian rivals.
Brian Gionta, who won a Stanley Cup in 2003 with the New Jersey Devils, is the most recognizable name on the list, but the 38 year old is eligible for the Olympics only because no NHL team signed him this year.
The other player on the list with prior Olympic experience is Ryan Malone, 37.
He last played in the NHL in 2014 and retired before suiting up again this year for the Iowa Wild of North America's top minor league, the American Hockey League.
He has one assist in eight games, in which his team has been outscored by eight goals when he's been on the ice (excluding power plays).
But navigating the Olympics without NHL players isn't bothering coach Granato.
"I think we have a tremendous talent pool of players that are available to us," Granato said.
"We'll be able to put together a fun team, an energetic team and a skilled team that'll make the Americans proud."
Granato noted the way players in the U.S. grow up dreaming of wearing the jersey: "You're playing in the basement of your house and you're pretending like you're Mike Eruzione and Jim Craig and Mark Johnson."
Eruzione is, of course, familiar with winning against a much-hyped team from Russia, scoring the game-winning goal in the "Miracle" game and taking the gold-medal podium as Team USA's captain.
But despite the long odds, he always thought they could make the podium.
"I always tell people, if you think you're going to lose, you probably will," Eruzione said.
He knows all the ex-NHL stars that Russia will have in 2018, while the U.S. will be missing guys like Patrick Kane and budding stars Auston Matthews and Jack Eichel.
But he noted some very big differences between his team and today's that make it hard to compare the two.
For one thing, his 1980 team had six months of training to gel as a team, while none of the top Olympic teams will train together for anything like that much time.
Eruzione's team had an average age of 21, while this team will probably be much older.
Oh, and the U.S. junior players, some of whom are in contention to make the team, are the reigning world champions, having beaten Canada in a shootout.
Team USA Concerned About N. Korea, But Trusts USOC With tensions high between North Korea and the U.S., how do Olympic hopefuls feel about traveling to South Korea for the 2018 Olympic Winter Games?
(Published Friday, Oct. 27, 2017) "I don't see this as being a super huge challenge, other than coming together as a team," Eruzione said.
He knows one of the college players who starred on that victorious world junior team, Jordan Greenway, from his work at Boston University, where Greenway is a junior.
He's an "awesome kid," big and competitive, Eruzione said, and definitely has a chance of making the team.
"It's obviously a big change," Greenway said of the NHL's decision not to participate in the Olympics.
"I think everyone's really excited just to kind of see how it turns out."
Eruzione didn't have too much advice for the collegiate players who may end up taking the ice against some of the best Russian players of their generation with the whole world watching.
They already have plenty of international experience, he said.
"You're still playing on a sheet of ice.
Who's in the crowd is really irrelevant," Eruzione said.
"Just go out there and play."
In this July 18, 2016, file photo, South Korean students react to the mascot for the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, a white tiger named "Soohorang," during the mascots' first public staging event at Hoenggye elementary school in Pyeongchang.
The mascot for the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics is a white tiger named Soohorang, and there's a rich symbolism and culture behind the animal, which is closely tied to Korean mythology and culture.
A familiar symbol in the host country's folk tales, the tiger often represents trust and strength.
It is seen as a guardian that helps protect the country and its people, according to the Olympic announcement unveiling Soohorang.
His white fur also has meaning, calling to mind the snow and ice found at the sports that will be played at Pyeongchang.
Pyeongchang Winter Olympics Venue Pronunciation Guide As we get closer to the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, here is a pronunciation guide for some of the venues at the Winter Games.
(Published Monday, Oct. 30, 2017) The name Soohorang is derived from a few Korean words and phrases.
"Sooho" is the Korean word for "protection," as in the protection of the Games' athletes, spectators and other participants.
"Rang" comes from "ho-rang-i," meaning tiger.
It also comes from "Jeongseon Arirang," the traditional folk music of South Korea's Gangwon Province, home to Pyeongchang.
"It's a beautiful animal," IOC member Gunilla Lindberg said in a statement.
"It also symbolizes the close link between the Olympic Winter Games and the natural environment."
Soohorang can be seen in the icons representing the different sports being played at the Games, trying his hand at each.
Photo credit: PyeongChang 2018 He isn't the first tiger to serve as an Olympic mascot in Korea.
Hodori, an orange Amur tiger, was the mascot for the 1988 Seoul Summer Games.
Soohorang also has a friend, the mascot for the 2018 Paralympic Games in Pyeongchang: a black Asian bear named Bandabi.
Pyeongchang 2018: The Comebacks With the Winter Games six months away, we take a look at some of the athletes who fell short of their goals at the Sochi Games and are looking to make comebacks in South Korea.
(Published Monday, Oct. 30, 2017) "The mascots have been designed to embody the collective will of everyone for the successful hosting of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2018," PyeongChang 2018 Organizing Committee President Lee Hee-beom said in a statement.
The first official Olympic mascot was a dachshund named Waldi for the 1972 Games in Munich.
Dachschunds are popular animals in Bavaria, known for their endurance and agility.
Olympic Hopefuls Gear Up for Winter Games American Olympic hopefuls are doing everything they can to be ready for the 2018 Winter Games in Pyeongchang.
Tiger Woods plays his shot from the 15th tee during the first round of the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines North on Jan. 27, 2017 in San Diego, California.
Tiger Woods announced Monday that he will return to competitive golf at the Hero World Challenge, set for Nov. 30-Dec. 3 in the Bahamas.
Woods, who underwent fusion surgery in April, the fourth procedure on his ailing back, hasnt played since a European Tour event in Dubai in February, according to the Golf Channel.
Woods, whose TGR Live organization manages the Hero World Challenge, is a five-time winner of the event.
Earlier this month, Woods pleaded guilty to reckless driving and agreed to enter a diversion program, five months after he was found passed out in his Mercedes with prescription drugs and marijuana in his system.
RAW VIDEO: Tiger Woods Jail Video Released After Memorial Day Arrest Video of Tiger Woods inside Palm Beach County Jail after his arrest on Memorial Day was released Thursday.
(Published Thursday, June 1, 2017)
A file photo of Breanna Stewart of USA Basketball Women's National team during a game at Galen Center on July 25, 2016, in Los Angeles.
Stewart says she was the victim of sexual abuse as a child.
The Seattle Storm forward describes the abuse in an essay posted Monday, Oct. 30, 2017, on the Players Tribune website.
Former UConn basketball star and current forward for the Seattle Storm Breanna Stewart detailed in a blog post Monday that she suffered sexual abuse as a child.
Simply titled "Me Too," a nod to the social media movement started following abuse allegations against Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein, Stewart wrote about a two-year period of sexual abuse that took place at a relative's house, beginning when she was 9 years old.
"I don't know how to say this part.
I haven't told many people," she wrote.
"I'm not the most vulnerable person - I don't talk about my feelings much - so this is uncomfortable."
The blog appeared Monday morning in The Players' Tribune, a website that allows professional athletes to connect with fans in their own words, according to the site.
Stewart included details of how the abuse would happen and how she felt helpless.
"I couldn't sleep.
I was always on guard."
She talked about the night she decided, as an 11-year-old, to wake up her mother and tell her what had been happening to her.
Stewart's parents called police and the man, who she describes as a construction worker who smelled like cigarettes and dirt, confessed and was arrested, according to Stewart.
She said she immersed herself in basketball.
In fact, the day of her predator's arrest, she told her father she wanted to go to basketball practice that night.
Her basketball skills took her from her home near Syracuse, New York, to UConn, where she won four National Championships and left as one of the most popular players in Huskies' history.
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) Now with the WNBA's Seattle Storm, Stewart says she still carries horrible memories with her.
"Even though I play in front of thousands of people or talk to reporters all the time, I have quiet moments every day that no one sees," she wrote.
"Thats often when I think about it.
I could be surrounded by my teammates or friends or complete strangers, living life as I normally would, and memories like lightning will strike."
She said after recently reading Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney's account of sexual abuse she feels "less alone."
Stewart said her father has always told her that one day she might be comfortable enough to talk publicly about what happened to her and that she may even save someone's life.
"That's why I'm writing this," she added.
"This is bigger than me."
Stewart, the first overall pick in the 2016 WNBA Draft, was named WNBA Rookie of the Year for the 2016 season.
'Tonight': Millie Bobby Brown Raps 'Stranger Things' Recap
Robinson joined the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947.
The padded cap protected him from racist pitchers.
A Brooklyn Dodgers cap worn by Jackie Robinson has been auctioned for a record amount.
The blue cap sold for $590,000 Saturday after a monthlong online auction through the sports auctioneers Lelands.
It's the most money ever exchanged for a hat at auction.
Lelands says Robinson wore the hat when he broke baseball's color barrier in 1947.
That year he joined the Dodgers and became the first black athlete to play in the segregated MLB in the 20th century.
Robinson endured constant racist taunts during his rookie year, and pitchers frequently threw at his head.
The specially-padded cap helped protect him from beanings by the pitchers.
The padded cap came with a letter from Robinson's widow, Rachel, describing the three protective plates sewn inside the lining.
The 95-year-old Rachel Robinson was in Los Angeles on Tuesday to throw out the ceremonial first pitch at Game 1 of the World Series between the Dodgers and the Houston Astros.
Batting helmets didn't become mandatory in the Major Leagues until 1956.
Top Tri-State News Photos
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017) Americans are split in a new poll on rules that would require professional athletes to kneel for the national anthem, a real shift in favor of their right to protest, NBC News reported.
Fifty-one percent of respondents to an HBO Real Sports/Marist poll said they opposed leagues requiring that players stand, while 47 percent supported such rules.
The four-point difference is within the Oct. 15-17 poll's margin of error, which makes it a statistical tie.
But when the poll was conducted a year ago, a clear majority supported rules requiring players to stand, by a mark of 52 to 43.
Since then, President Donald Trump threw a spotlight on the athletes following the example of former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who began kneeling for the anthem in August 2016.
Star-gazing isn't just for the red carpet!
Take a look at some celebrities who've been spotted in the stands and on the sidelines rooting for their favorite sports teams and athletes.
The Houston Astros and the Los Angeles Dodgers battle it out for the 2017 World Series title.
The Dodgers haven't won the championship series since 1988, while the Astros have never won it.
But this is perhaps a series without an underdog both teams finished the regular season with over 100 wins, which hasn't happened since 1970.
Here are some of the top moments from the Fall Classic:
That Bat Yasiel Puig Has Been Flipping Is Made in Southern California Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig has had a hot bat throughout the playoffs.
One of the bats he uses is made locally in Southern California.
Former MLB player Ray Knight, a Washington Nationals analyst for MASN, was charged with assault and battery over the weekend.
Meagan Fitzgerald reports.
(Published Monday, Oct. 23, 2017) Washington Nationals TV analyst Ray Knight was charged with assault and battery after a fight at his home early Sunday, police said.
Police went to Knight's home in the 7500 block of Ashby Lane in the Alexandria section of Fairfax County about 4 a.m. Sunday.
An argument between Knight and a 33-year-old man he knew became physical, police said.
Both men had visible injuries and were taken to the hospital for treatment, police said.
Knight told News4 he was home alone when four men came over long after the New York Yankees and Houston Astros playoff game ended.
He said he knows two of the men but had never seen the other two before.
"It was actually inside my apartment, but the games were pretty much over," Knight said.
"It was late."
Knight and one of the men fought, and someone called 911.
"When the officers arrived and did their investigation, there was enough probable cause to make an arrest on one party, and that was Mr. Knight," said a member of Fairfax County Police.
After the hospital police took Knight to a Fairfax County jail.
He paid a $2,000 bond and is scheduled to appear in court Jan. 8.
Knight, a former major league player, hosts the Nationals' pregame and postgame shows, Nats Xtra, on the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network.
MASN had no comment about the charge.
Knight was the World Series MVP for the New York Mets in 1986, scoring the winning run in the 10th inning of Game 6 on the ball that famously went through Boston Red Sox first baseman Bill Buckner's legs.
With Halloween a week away, members of Team USA talk about their favorite Halloween candy - and the worst things to get when trick-or-treating.
Nick Saban told reporters this week that he couldn't care less about the first College Football Playoff selection committee rankings.
But nobody will blame him if he gives a sideways glance at the top four.
For motivational purposes, of course.
Georgia took the No.
1 spot in the rankings released Tuesday night, ahead of SEC stalwart Alabama.
The Bulldogs have the better overall r?sum?
and the better win -- over No.
3 Notre Dame.
As such, the rankings are justifiable based on the criteria the committee uses to evaluate teams.
But Saban loves to find ways to get his players' attention.
Remember what happened to Vanderbilt when the Commodores thought they might have a chance earlier this season?
Alabama won 59-0.
How about Ole Miss, the team that had given the Tide problems the past several seasons?
Alabama won 66-3.
If positive press is rat poison, then perhaps this No.
2 ranking could be a slight that Saban uses to his advantage.
As for the rest of the top four, the committee opted for Notre Dame at No.
3 and Clemson at No.
4, ahead of one-loss Oklahoma and one-loss Ohio State.
Notre Dame has posted two impressive back-to-back wins over ranked teams USC and NC State.
The Irish's body of work helps, too.
They are seventh in strength of schedule, and their only loss came by one point to undefeated Georgia.
Clemson, with six wins over Power 5 teams that are .500 or better, has the advantage in overall body of work, despite the loss to Syracuse (4-4).
The Tigers are the top-ranked one-loss team in the ESPN strength of record metric, and they have played the third-toughest schedule among FBS teams so far this season, with wins over two Top 25 teams (Virginia Tech, Auburn).
Overall, the case for the top four is easy to make.
But Ohio State and Oklahoma have arguments of their own, and they could use this first ranking for motivation.
Let's start with the No.
6 Buckeyes.
Ohio State had the most impressive win of the weekend with a come-from-behind victory over then-No.
2 Penn State 39-38.
Behind Georgia's win over Notre Dame, that victory over the Nittany Lions stands as the best one among the top 10 teams.
If Ohio State runs the table, it has a valid argument to be in the top four.
But so would Oklahoma, the team in the No.
5 spot, thanks to a head-to-head win over Ohio State in Week 2.
After losing to Iowa State earlier in the season, the Sooners appeared to be on the outside looking in.
But their win doesn't look so bad now that the Cyclones have emerged as one of the biggest surprises this college football season.
Oklahoma just needs a team ranked ahead to lose and to run the table, and voila!
Perhaps another playoff appearance.
After all, only seven of the eventual 12 playoff teams of the past three seasons were ranked in the first top four.
What about the other unbeaten teams?
There's plenty of motivation there, too.
No.
9 Wisconsin and No.
10 Miami have won all their games.
In college football worlds of the past, that used to count for more.
But given the evaluation of overall schedule and strength of wins, both teams will have a hard time convincing many that their overall bodies of work are as impressive as those of some of the one-loss teams ranked ahead of them Still, there are opportunities.
What if Wisconsin ends up as an undefeated Big Ten champion despite a weaker r?sum??
Miami hasn't beaten a top-25 team, either, but could add two to its r?sum?
the next two weekends, with home games against No.
13 Virginia Tech and No.
3 Notre Dame.
Say the Hurricanes beat Clemson in the ACC championship game for three top-25 wins and an undefeated season?
It would be tough for the committee to leave Miami out.
Having said that, it's easy to get overexcited about the first ranking, and it's important to keep perspective.
This is the fourth straight season that featured two SEC teams in the first ranking.
But we have yet to see multiple teams from one conference represented in the final ranking.
Even so, this first one gives a snapshot of what the committee could face in the weeks to come.
What if Alabama and Georgia go undefeated and meet in the SEC championship game?
What if Notre Dame ends up with one loss?
Would the committee put two teams from one conference, plus an independent, in and leave three Power 5 conferences out?
This is what makes debate so fun.
In the grand scheme, these first rankings won't amount to much.
It's the final rankings that matter most.
On the other hand, Saban has exactly what he needs to give his team yet another edge.
Game 7 of the World Series at Dodger Stadium will be one of the most expensive tickets in baseball history.
Ticket reseller StubHub said Wednesday morning that the average ticket sold to Wednesday night's winner-take-all game between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Houston Astros was purchased for $1,795.
While it falls some $300 short of last year's Game 7 between the Chicago Cubs and the Cleveland Indians, it more than doubles the price paid on StubHub for a Game 7 ticket in 2014 (Giants-Royals, $887) and nearly triples what was paid for a Game 7 in 2011 (Cardinals-Rangers, $696).
Wednesday night's average is particularly impressive, considering that Dodger Stadium has the largest capacity in the majors at more than 54,000 seats, which is roughly 16,000 tickets more tickets than Cleveland's Progressive Field, where last year's Game 7 was played.
That doesn't mean the prices will sustain through the first pitch.
Brokers own more tickets to Dodgers games than any other Major League Baseball team.
More than 16,000 tickets, roughly 30 percent of the stadium, were posted for resale at 8:20 a.m.
ET on Wednesday, 12 hours before first pitch.
That's the main reason why, instead of going up after the Dodgers win, prices plummeted.
The cheapest pair of tickets available on StubHub at game's end was $2,880 including fees.
Some nine hours later, at 8:30 a.m.
ET on Wednesday, the prices were cut by 25 percent, with the cheapest pair at $1,800.
Another factor is traffic.
With the start of the game coming right in the middle of rush hour, getting there likely means leaving work early.
The disaster of a season continues for the New York Giants.
They suspended a starting cornerback Tuesday for the second time in three weeks after Janoris Jenkins failed to return from the bye week on time.
Jenkins is suspended indefinitely.
He will miss the game Sunday against the Los Angeles Rams.
"As a member of this team, there are standards and we have responsibilities and obligations," coach Ben McAdoo said in a statement.
"When we don't fulfill those obligations, there are consequences.
As I have said before, we do not like to handle our team discipline publicly.
There are times when it is unavoidable, and this is one of those times."
Jenkins was one of three players that were not at practice Monday.
Running back Paul Perkins and Eli Apple were the others.
McAdoo said they were excused for personal reasons.
But the Giants had not spoken to Jenkins and he didn't arrive at the facility until the following day.
"At that point, neither myself nor any of the coaches had heard from Jackrabbit," McAdoo said.
"I did not speak with him directly until Tuesday morning."
Jenkins' suspension is the second for the Giants in recent weeks.
Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie was also suspended indefinitely for a violation of team rules after he was told he would be benched for his actions late in a loss to the Los Angeles Chargers and then eventually walked out of a team meeting.
The Giants (1-6) are in the midst of a disappointing season where they have dealt with multiple suspensions and the loss of a good chunk of their receiving corps.
Star wide receivers Odell Beckham Jr. and Brandon Marshall are out for the season.
Jenkins was signed prior to the 2016 season as a free agent after four years with the Rams.
He made the Pro Bowl in his first season with the Giants.
Joc Pederson sliced a drive over the left-field wall, pounded his chest and danced around the bases , taking as many twists and turns as this World Series itself.
Of course, the Los Angeles Dodgers forced the Houston Astros to Game 7.
Chris Taylor hit a tying double off Justin Verlander during a two-run rally in the sixth inning , Corey Seager followed with a go-ahead sacrifice fly and the Dodgers beat the Astros 3-1 on Tuesday night to push this dramatic Fall Classic to the ultimate game.
Pederson homered in the seventh against Joe Musgrove, connecting off the right-hander for the second time in three games and making it a record 24 long balls that have been hit in this Series.
Pederson pranced all the way to the plate, pointing at the Dodgers' dugout and rubbing his thumbs and index fingers together to indicate what a money shot it was.
"You kind of black out in a situation like that.
So I'm going to have to re-watch it to see what I did," Pederson said.
It was the third home run of the World Series for Pederson, demoted to the minors from mid-August until early September, then left off the NL Division Series roster.
He had hit just one previous opposite-field homer in the big leagues this season, and teammates offered to pay him to go the other way.
"People are trying to get me encouraged to using the whole field," he said.
"I'm not very good at it."
Yu Darvish starts Wednesday for the Dodgers, trying to win their first title since 1988, and Los Angeles ace Clayton Kershaw will be ready in the bullpen after getting knocked out in the fifth inning of Game 5.
"I can give you 27 innings," Kershaw said.
"I'll be ready to go, whatever they need."
Lance McCullers Jr. gets the ball for the Astros in the first World Series Game 7 ever at Dodger Stadium and the first since 1931 between teams that won 100 games during the regular season.
Darvish was chased in the second inning of Game 2, when McCullers pitched Houston to a 5-3 victory.
"You've got two teams with a bunch of dogs in the clubhouse.
No one is afraid," McCullers said.
Two nights after a 13-12, 10-inning slugfest under the roof at Minute Maid Park, pitching dominated.
George Springer's third-inning home run against starter Rich Hill had given a 1-0 lead to Verlander and the Astros, trying for the first championship in their 56-season history.
On Halloween night, a title for a team with orange in its colors seemed appropriate.
But it served only to set up the 10th blown lead of the Series, the fifth by Houston, as Verlander fell to 9-1 with the Astros.
Dodgers relievers combined for 4 1/3 scoreless innings.
Brandon Morrow retired Alex Bregman on a grounder to strand the bases loaded in the fifth, winner Tony Watson got Marwin Gonzalez to line out to leaping second baseman Chase Utley with two on and two outs in the sixth , and Kenta Maeda escaped two-on trouble in the seventh when third baseman Justin Turner gloved Jose Altuve's grounder and made a short-hop throw that first baseman Cody Bellinger scooped just in time.
"The pick is big," Houston manager A.J.
Hinch said.
After wasting a ninth-inning lead in Game 2 and losing Game 5, Kenley Jansen retired six straight batters on 19 pitches for the save and ended it by striking out 40-year-old pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran.
This will be the third World Series Game 7 in four years.
The home team had won nine straight since 1979 before San Francisco triumphed at Kansas City in 2014 and the Chicago Cubs captured their first title since 1908 at Cleveland last year.
Ten of the last 12 teams that won Game 6 to force a seventh game also won the title, but the Dodgers lost the previous six World Series in which they trailed 3-2.
They have won just one of their six championships at home, in 1963.
A heat wave over and the skies overcast, the temperature dropped to 67 degrees at game time from 103 for last week's opener, and there was a slight drizzle in the middle innings.
Los Angelenos with a laid-back reputation were on their feet for two-strike counts against Astros batters, a wave in Pantone 294 also known as Dodger blue.
"We feed off the crowd, for sure," Taylor said.
"We feel we have a huge home-field advantage."
Yuli Gurriel, who made a racist gesture toward Darvish in Game 3, was booed loudly during introductions and each time he batted, and Hill stepped off the rubber to allow the crowd extra time to jeer.
Verlander has 11 postseason wins but dropped to 0-4 in the Series with Detroit and Houston, which acquired him from the Tigers on Aug. 31 to win on nights like this.
He allowed just one baserunner before Austin Barnes singled leading off the sixth.
Verlander bounced a pitch that hit Utley on the front of his right foot, and Taylor sent a 97 mph fastball down the right-field line as Barnes came home.
Seager followed with a sacrifice fly to the warning track, a ball that likely would have landed in the pavilion in last week's hot air.
Verlander prevented more damag e when Turner fouled out and the right-hander fanned Bellinger, who struck out four times for the second time in the Series.
Springer homered for the third straight game and fourth time in the Series, one shy of the record set by Reggie Jackson in 1977 and matched by Utley in 2009.
Brian McCann singled leading off the fifth and Gonzalez doubled past Turner and down the left-field line.
Hill struck out Josh Reddick and Verlander, and Springer was intentionally walked to load the bases.
Morrow relieved as the crowd booed manager Dave Roberts' decision, and Hill slapped at four cups of liquid in the dugout, sending them spraying against the wall "With Verlander on the mound, that was going to be the game," Roberts said.
Appearing in his sixth straight Series game, Morrow got Bregman to ground to shortstop on his second pitch.
Watson walked Reddick leading off the seventh, Evan Gattis pinch hit for Verlander and Maeda relieved.
Gattis bounced to shortstop, just beating Utley's throw from second to avoid a double play.
Springer reached on an infield single, and Bregman's fly to deep center allowed pinch-runner Derek Fisher to tag up and advance to third, bringing up Altuve.
Walking down the dugout steps after his groundout, Altuve slammed his helmet.
Afterward, attention quickly turned to Wednesday.
"I think it seems fitting," Roberts said.
"These two teams mirror one another."
Pederson sat in the interview room with his older brother, Champ , who has Down Syndrome.
"I have a feeling that everything is possible," Champ said.
"I'm not going to say they have it, but I'm just going to say they will find a way."
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
Interested in MLB?
Add MLB as an interest to stay up to date on the latest MLB news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Kenley Jansen blew a 94 mph pitch past Carlos Beltran to wrap up a six-out save Tuesday night, and Dodger Stadium roared with equal elements excitement and anticipation.
This World Series is just too good to go anything less than seven games.
The Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros will play for a championship in Chavez Ravine on Wednesday night, wrapping up two outstanding seasons in Game 7 the biggest stage in North American team sports.
Two 100-win teams will play a winner-take-all finale to the baseball season for the first time since 1931.
"This is a great series," said Houston's George Springer, who hit his fourth homer of the Series on Tuesday.
"I know we lost (Game 6), but this is awesome."
For the fourth time in seven years, the Fall Classic is going to Game 7.
It's the 39th time since baseball went to a best-of-seven World Series format, and the first time it has happened in back-to-back seasons since 2001-02.
"I think you dream about that as a kid," said Dodgers outfielder Joc Pederson, whose third homer in four games powered Los Angeles past Houston in Game 6.
"I think it's going to be big for ... all of us to just remember it's still a baseball game.
You've got to slow it down.
Still play the same way that we've been playing all year that got us to here."
Game 5 was a fascinating spectacle in Houston, a 13-12 win in 10 innings that put the Astros on the brink of their first championship.
Game 6 merely was superbly played, with Los Angeles calmly snatching a crisp 3-1 victory from the edge of defeat.
The Dodgers and Astros have played one of the most memorable postseason series in recent history and now they even get the chance to top the finale of last year's World Series.
Just a year ago, the Chicago Cubs ended their 108-year championship drought with a 10-inning thriller in Game 7.
Chicago got extra-inning RBIs from MVP Ben Zobrist and Miguel Montero in a landmark victory over the Cleveland Indians, whose own drought reached 68 years last fall.
Another significant drought will end at Dodger Stadium, which has never hosted a World Series Game 7 in its storied history.
The Astros haven't won a title in 56 seasons of existence, while the Dodgers haven't raised the trophy in 29 years.
"This series has been back and forth," Houston manager A.J.
Hinch said.
"Two incredible teams trying to get to the finish line.
And so now, obviously, it's good for our sport.
Necessarily bad for us, because we wanted to win (Game 6).
...
Both teams will be ready to play with about as much energy as you could possibly imagine in Game 7."
The Astros, who began life as the Houston Colt .45s, had only reached one World Series and never won a game in the Fall Classic until this year.
They have moved to the brink of reversing a curse of sorts leveled in 2014 by the noted jinx artists at Sports Illustrated, who put them on the cover as "Your 2017 World Series Champs" in a story about the franchise's rebuilding project.
The Dodgers won one World Series in Brooklyn and five more on the West Coast between 1959 and 1988, but hadn't returned to the World Series since.
With the majors' highest payroll and innovative manager Dave Roberts directing a mix of veteran stars and young talent, the Dodgers have returned to championship contention with five straight NL West titles but the group has never been this close to winning it all.
Los Angeles will attempt to become the 23rd team to rally from a 3-2 deficit to win the World Series.
The Dodgers have never accomplished the feat in six previous tries, but they haven't been in this situation since 1978.
After leading the majors with 104 wins during the regular season, the Dodgers have home-field advantage in Game 7 but only because of a change in baseball's new labor contract.
The winning league in the All-Star Game was given home-field advantage in the World Series from 2003-16 before the change.
Without it, Game 7 would have been in Houston due to the AL's 2-1 victory in 10 innings over the NL in July.
"The home-field advantage, having the last at-bat, it's definitely huge," Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner said.
"Especially in this series, you see how many times it's gone back and forth.
So to be able to have that last at-bat is huge."
The Game 7 matchup of starting pitchers appears to favor the Dodgers but only to people who didn't watch Game 3.
Yu Darvish, the Japanese star acquired by Los Angeles from Texas at the July 31 trade deadline, will be looking for redemption after turning in the shortest start of his big league career in Houston last week.
With his famed slider doing almost nothing, he couldn't get through the second inning of Game 3, giving up six hits and four runs while getting only five outs.
"If it was the regular season, I probably would have kept going," Darvish said through a translator Tuesday.
"I wouldn't say it was the worst outing I ever had.
I can't pay that much attention to what happened last time.
Just focus on (Wednesday's) outing and have a good game."
The Astros will counter with All-Star Lance McCullers Jr., whose victory in Game 3 was his first win in 12 appearances since June.
But McCullers has been in solid form in his last two appearances, including his outstanding four-inning save in Game 7 of the AL Championship Series against the New York Yankees.
After Game 6, McCullers spent about 10 minutes long-tossing in the right-field corner at Dodger Stadium, keeping his arm loose for plenty of his signature curveballs in the big finale.
"I was hot and ready to go (in Game 6), if the situation came up where they needed me," he said.
Both starters will have plenty of help at the first sign of trouble, however.
Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw expects to pitch as a reliever in Game 7 after a short Game 5 start on Sunday.
Alex Wood, the 16-game winner who pitched one-hit ball into the sixth inning of Game 4 last Saturday, will also be ready to go.
And closer Kenley Jansen, who picked up a smooth six-out save in Game 6, is eager to get on the mound one last time.
"I'm not trying to be a hero or anything, but there's no tomorrow," Jansen said.
"You've got to go out there and fight."
The entire Houston pitching staff will be available behind McCullers, including Dallas Keuchel and possibly even Game 6 starter Justin Verlander.
"I think all of our guys are going to have the adrenaline on their side," Hinch said.
"They're all going to be ready to pitch.
How we use them, how much we use them we'll get to the field, they'll do their throwing program.
If it's one pitch or 100 pitches, I think we're going to have to have all hands on deck."
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
Interested in MLB?
Add MLB as an interest to stay up to date on the latest MLB news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Game 7 of the World Series.
It's a chance to make history whether you're a star like Madison Bumgarner or a role player like Sandy Amoros.
The Dodgers and Astros will play Wednesday night on the biggest stage baseball has to offer, and in a one-game, winner-take-all scenario, just about anything is possible.
This series has featured both home run binges and pitching duels, blown leads and surprising saves.
"I don't anybody here is shocked that it's going to Game 7," Houston ace Justin Verlander said after Tuesday night's 3-1 loss at Dodger Stadium.
Here's a look back at Game 7 of the World Series, through the years: THE CLASSICS These games need no introduction.
One name is often enough.
Bill Mazeroski.
Jack Morris.
Luis Gonzalez.
In 1960, Mazeroski led off the bottom of the ninth inning in Game 7 with a homer that gave Pittsburgh a 10-9 win over the New York Yankees.
That slugfest was a wild one, with 10 runs scored in the final two innings.
The 1991 finale between Minnesota and Atlanta at the Metrodome was tense for different reasons.
Morris pitched all 10 innings for the Twins, who finally won 1-0 on Gene Larkin's bases-loaded single .
Gonzalez's RBI single in 2001 capped a two-run, ninth-inning rally by Arizona against Mariano Rivera and the Yankees.
The Diamondbacks won 3-2, denying New York a fourth straight championship.
Nearly a century ago, in 1924, Washington rallied from a two-run deficit in the eighth and eventually beat the New York Giants 4-3 in 12, with Walter Johnson pitching the final four innings in relief.
Amoros made his mark as a defensive sub in 1955, running down Yogi Berra's drive in left field to halt a sixth-inning rally by the Yankees.
Brooklyn held on for a 2-0 victory and finally won its first crown.
Cleveland hasn't won a World Series since 1948 but came agonizingly close in 1997 and 2016, losing Game 7 in extra innings both years.
Edgar Renteria's 11th-inning hit won the '97 Series for Florida, and the Chicago Cubs outlasted the Indians last year, winning 8-7 in 10 to take their first title since 1908.
THE ROUTS Sometimes, Game 7 turns into a blowout.
Detroit fans threw things at Joe Medwick of the Cardinals in 1934, as St. Louis was on its way to an 11-0 win over the Tigers.
In 1985, the Cardinals were on the other end of an 11-0 drubbing, and this time they were the ones venting their frustration against the Royals.
A missed call had gone Kansas City's way near the end of Game 6, and St. Louis fell apart in Game 7.
Manager Whitey Herzog and pitcher Joaquin Andujar were ejected.
OVERSHADOWED Sometimes, the finale feels anticlimactic compared to what happened in Game 6.
The 1975 World Series is remembered for Carlton Fisk's game-winning homer for Boston that forced Game 7 even though that last game was pretty special in its own right.
Cincinnati beat the Red Sox 4-3 in Game 7, with Joe Morgan driving in the winning run in the top of the ninth.
After winning Game 6 on Bill Buckner's error in 1986, the New York Mets made the most of their reprieve, rallying from a 3-0 deficit to beat Boston 8-5 in Game 7.
In 2011, the Cardinals were down to their last strike in the ninth and 10th innings of Game 6.
But they won that one, and Game 7 a 6-2 St. Louis victory wasn't nearly as memorable.
THE STANDOUTS Only one player has homered twice in Game 7 of the World Series.
That was Berra in 1956, when the Yankees beat Brooklyn 9-0.
Four players have had four hits Max Carey (1925), Ripper Collins (1934), Willie Stargell (1979) and George Brett (1985).
Their teams all won.
The most strikeouts for a pitcher in Game 7 is 10, by Hal Newhouser (1945), Sandy Koufax (1965), Bob Gibson (1967) and Roger Clemens (2001).
Koufax's gem a 2-0 shutout of Minnesota was the last time the Dodgers played in Game 7.
Only two pitchers have thrown shutouts in Game 7 since then Bret Saberhagen in '85 and Morris in '91.
FALLING SHORT A World Series that ends on a hit will be remembered for a while, but sometimes the final out is what goes down in history.
In 1926, Babe Ruth tried to steal second base for the Yankees in the ninth inning of Game 7.
He was caught for the final out in the Cardinals' 3-2 win.
In 1962, the Yankees were the team trying to hold on against San Francisco.
The Giants had runners on second and third with two outs in the ninth when Willie McCovey lined out to second base to end it.
New York won 1-0.
The Giants were on the other side of a finish like that in 2014.
With San Francisco up 3-2, Kansas City's Alex Gordon lined a single and went all the way around to third on an error by outfielder Gregor Blanco.
But Gordon was stranded when Salvador Perez fouled out to third against Bumgarner, who completed a remarkable five-inning save.
Information from Baseball-Reference.com was used in this report.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball Follow Noah Trister at www.Twitter.com/noahtrister
Justin Verlander held the possibility of a lifetime in his big, right paw.
Totally in control, nursing a narrow lead, a most elusive World Series win for the Houston Astros and himself getting closer and closer with each toss.
And just like that, it was all gone.
"I thought I did a pretty good job pitching," he said later, "but baseball will get you."
In a result that's become way too familiar for the All-Star ace, Verlander let this chance slip away.
The Los Angeles Dodgers rallied past Verlander and the Astros 3-1 Tuesday night, forcing a Game 7.
Besides, who knows?
He might not be done.
Asked if he'd be available in relief Wednesday night, the 34-year-old workhorse smiled.
"Right now, yeah, I feel great.
But I've got to sleep on it," he said.
Verlander was so calm in the clubhouse, it was hard to tell he'd even played.
He spoke for more than 15 minutes, then sat in his chair and checked his phone, without a single sign of stress or despair.
"I'm not going to go home tonight and be like, 'I pitched horribly,'" he said.
Verlander had been unbeatable since being traded from Detroit to Houston on Aug. 31, winning nine straight decisions.
Then, at the worst time, a loss.
The defeat dropped Verlander to 0-4 with a 5.67 ERA in five World Series starts, having previously gone this far with the Tigers.
Overall, he's 11-6 in the postseason it's only these games in October, like this outing on Halloween night, that bedevil him.
Or maybe some other power.
In a back-and-forth Series, and the Astros in position to clinch, Verlander reckoned "the baseball gods said, 'Here we go, Game 7.'"
With fianc?e Kate Upton watching in an Astros jacket with throwback rainbow colors, he came out blazing.
Mixing an occasional hook with his 97 mph heat, Verlander dominated for five innings, nicked for a mere single while striking out eight.
Occasionally, he threw a ball out of play, having said last week that he is convinced the specially stamped World Series balls are more slick than usual.
He wasn't having any trouble with Dodgers hitters, though.
"He was obviously cruising," manager A.J.
Hinch said.
But in the sixth, with a 1-0 lead and the Astros getting nearer to a first Series championship in their 56 seasons, things got away from Verlander.
Eighth-place batter Austin Barnes singled and hard-nosed veteran Chase Utley stood fairly still while a bounced pitch hit him.
Hinch came out, but there was no doubt this was Verlander's game this was the moment they got him for.
Chris Taylor was up to the challenge, too, especially after manager Dave Roberts let him hit away.
"I'm thankful he didn't give me the bunt sign," Taylor said.
Taylor went the opposite way, looping a soft RBI double down the right-field line that tied it.
Corey Seager followed with a long sacrifice fly, and in a flash, the Astros' edge was gone.
Verlander left after the sixth, having allowed only three hits.
He stoically walked off the mound, his night done.
Needing to catch up, Hinch pulled him for a pinch hitter after Josh Reddick drew a leadoff walk in the seventh.
Verlander pitched well in Game 2 at Dodger Stadium, when Los Angeles came back from a 1-0 deficit.
The Astros eventually won in the 11th, spurred by Verlander hollering encouragement at them in the dugout in the late innings.
On this cool evening in LA, no one could save Verlander or his teammates.
"I wasn't trying to be the hero tonight.
I was just trying to pitch," he said.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
All you fans who hated the rule that linked the All-Star Game to home-field advantage in the World Series, guess what?
This is your year.
The Los Angeles Dodgers are set to host the Houston Astros in Game 7 on Wednesday night, thanks to a change that went into effect this season.
Now, teams earn the right: Los Angeles posted the most wins in the majors, so the all-or-nothing matchup is at Dodger Stadium.
"The home-field advantage, having the last at-bat, it's definitely huge.
Especially in this Series, you see how many times it's gone back and forth, so to be able to have that last at-bat is huge," Dodgers star Justin Turner said.
No more giving home field to the league that wins the All-Star Game.
This summer, in fact, the AL won 2-1 at Miami on Robinson Cano's home run in the 10th inning under the old rules, this Game 7 would've been at Minute Maid Park, home of the Astros.
It was a concept that drove many fans crazy.
Any method would be better, they argued alternating sites like the old days, best interleague record, coin flip, anything.
But that's the way it had been since a 2002 fiasco in Milwaukee when the AL and NL both ran out of pitchers after 11 innings and the game was declared a 7-7 tie.
In that span, the American League went 11-3 in All-Star play.
The edge and the ability to use the designated hitter helped a little, maybe of those 11 times they had home field, AL clubs won six titles.
Before this season, that provision was scrapped.
As part of the new labor deal between owners and players, World Series home field goes to the team that wins the most games in the regular season.
The Dodgers won 104, including a major league-high 57 at home, and those victories added up to a final game at their place.
Houston won 101, and matched Cleveland for the most road wins with 53.
"We feed off the crowd, for sure.
Especially at home," Los Angeles leadoff man Chris Taylor said.
"We feel we have a huge home-field advantage."
The complex schemes to get first dibs on teenage athletes with pro potential can resemble the drug trade.
There are sophisticated mazes of runners acting as go-betweens separating athletes from unscrupulous sports agents and financial advisers.
Unraveling those ties to get at the corruption in college sports takes time, money and dedicated manpower resources often in limited supply for authorities seeking to enforce sports agent laws that exist in at least 40 states.
These laws are designed to regulate agents' conduct, deter them from providing college athletes with eligibility-jeopardizing improper benefits and punish violators.
But state-level investigators and prosecutors face a dilemma of how these cases fit in when violent crimes and high-level felonies fill court schedules as clear priorities.
"If (lawmakers) decide something's a high-level felony, that's going to get more attention," said Jim Woodall, a North Carolina district attorney whose office got a criminal conviction under the law this year.
"And in these athlete agent cases, what we're usually looking at is a Class I felony, which is the lowest we have in North Carolina.
"Even though it's a felony, it's still a very low-level felony and we can't justify the resources and time it would take to prosecute those cases when we have other higher-priority cases that we have to deal with."
The recent federal fraud and bribery scandal that rocked college basketball led to charges in September against 10 people, including four power-conference assistant coaches.
Eight defendants face charges carrying a maximum 80 years in prison while two face up to 200 years, though they likely would face sentences measured in years rather than decades if convicted.
The charges came amid an ongoing two-year investigation that included wiretaps and help from a cooperating insider .
It showed how much work goes into untangling those murky connections.
It also showed that authorities possess results-producing tools such as search warrants and subpoenas the NCAA just doesn't have.
That explains why two major figures in college sports Atlantic Coast Conference Commissioner John Swofford and Southeastern Conference Commissioner Greg Sankey recently told The Associated Press they support authorities pursuing these cases.
"There's clearly a role for the states," Sankey said.
Swofford would prefer a federal law instead of relying on states.
"It's understandable that it's difficult," Swofford said.
"It's one thing to have the law.
It's another thing to really put it into service, so to speak, because of the lack of resources and manpower at the state level."
In North Carolina, Woodall's office is still prosecuting cases investigated by the Secretary of State's office since 2010 into whether agents or runners broke state law by providing Tar Heels football players with improper benefits .
The stiffest penalty so far came in a plea deal for former NFL agent Terry Watson, who received probation, a $5,000 fine and a suspended jail sentence.
It's hard to find many examples nationally of criminal prosecution for violations of the Uniform Athlete Agents Act Woodall can't name another.
A version of the UAAA exists in at least 40 states, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
That's according to the Uniform Law Commission (ULC), an organization that works to standardize state laws.
There have also been separate agent laws in California, Michigan and Ohio, according to the NCAA.
Woodall said North Carolina authorities have notified other states of relevant information from their investigation, but believes "most of them just don't pursue these criminally."
"There was at least one state when we contacted them," Woodall said, "they said, 'We do pursue these things' but ... they had something like a $25,000 fine associated with it, and they just collected the fines."
The Uniform Athlete Agents Act's structure and penalties can vary from state to state.
Created in 2000, it typically requires agents to register with states and prohibits them from luring collegiate athletes into contracts by providing them money, gifts or other items of value.
There have been efforts to create harsher penalties.
The ULC strengthened the act in 2015 by broadening the scope of who falls under its requirements and recommending a higher financial penalty.
The changes include requiring schools to report violations to authorities, potentially leading to more prosecutions.
Work is underway to get state legislatures to adopt the updated act.
It has been enacted in eight states and introduced in seven others this year, according to the ULC.
Dale G. Higer, who helped craft the revised act, hopes headlines from the federal case can help beef up the state laws.
His goal: have the updated act adopted in more than half the states by 2020.
"I think part of it depends on how far the legislatures want to go in terms of penalties for violating the act," said Higer, an attorney from Boise, Idaho.
"To me, the more serious ones should be felonies where jail time would be the result of violating the act.
But some legislatures may not want to go that far."
Alabama and Tennessee adopted the updated act last year.
Alabama deputy attorney general Brent Beal and Tennessee Secretary of State's office spokesman Adam Ghassemi told the AP that officials sought to regulate more than simply agents.
"They broadened that," Beal said, "which we hope will ... give it more teeth and to actually get people that have done things to ensnare student-athletes into something that they wouldn't have knowingly gotten into."
Ghassemi declined to comment on past or current cases, noting the Tennessee office is authorized to investigate and "assess appropriate civil penalties" outlined in the statute.
"We can affirm that we have exercised these powers under the Act," Ghassemi said in an email.
"The good news is that we have a large slate of athlete agents who are registered with our office, and we believe that the vast majority of them are acting in good faith and following the law."
But there is enough unethical agent conduct that schools are desperate for help.
Athletics officials from 66 schools in 32 states including numerous power-conference programs and five NFL agents signed onto a 2013 memo pushing for stronger penalties and a broader reach in the UAAA's update.
The NCAA and former Nebraska football coach Tom Osborne also issued statements supporting it.
"I think law enforcement should be involved," Notre Dame basketball coach Mike Brey said.
"I mean, there's no question about it.
And of course law enforcement sure is involved now, aren't they?
... Yeah, if there can be another layer there, there should be.
Because it's criminal activity, it really is."
Whatever happens in courtrooms, Tennessee basketball coach Rick Barnes said it comes down to individuals because no law plugs every hole.
"I've also been in it long enough to know that if people want to get to somebody," Barnes said, "they're going to figure out a way to try to get to somebody."
AP Sports Writers Steve Megargee in Nashville, Tennessee; and John Zenor in Montgomery, Alabama; contributed to this report.
Follow Aaron Beard on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/aaronbeardap
Mike Tirico will fill the 100 days before the Pyeongchang Games with football and figure skating.
With speed skating and downhill skiing.
Curling and hockey.
Tirico will be NBC's prime-time host for the Winter Olympics, which begin a few days after the Super Bowl in February.
Indeed, in that role for the first time Tirico had some hosting duties at the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro, but Bob Costas was the primary anchor Tirico will miss the NFL's title game in Minneapolis.
By then, he'll be hunkered down in South Korea.
"I have never watched a Super Bowl on a Monday morning," Tirico joked recently before heading to Pyeongchang this week for some prep work and reports for NBC News.
"Of course I would have loved to do both, but logistically it so unrealistic.
If I leave Minneapolis on Sunday night after the Super Bowl, I'm not at the IBC (international broadcast center) until Tuesday in the middle of the day in South Korea, and Thursday we are on the for the first prime-time show.
If you have one bad weather day, what are you going to do?
"And we're embarking on 18 straight nights of prime-time television and want to do it the right way.
And this is my first time doing this.
"The Olympics are the biggest event over an extended period given the number of consecutive nights in prime time.
So reality sets in, and it's great that Bob will be able to host the Super Bowl and do as good or better a job than has ever been done."
Tirico isn't stepping away from his Thursday night football gigs or his work on Notre Dame games, so he's had to mix in research and interviews on luge and bobsled, freestyle skiing and ski jumping.
Several Olympic hopefuls train at a rink in Canton, Michigan, near where he lives, so Tirico has spent a few hours there watching figure skating practices for the first time in his life.
While he won't be calling any events in Pyeongchang and notes that everyone at NBC is heavily reliant on the experts the network uses for the various sports, Tirico recognizes the need for more than a passing knowledge of a stone (curling) or a sit-spin (figure skating).
"On the TV side, I've been going back and watching the last few Winter Olympics piecemeal over the last several months to see how it plays out," he says.
"I have watched it as a fan, and you get one sense of it.
But now with the eye of being a host, seeing different things and how the Olympics will play out as a host.
"I won't be asked for technical aspects of skeleton or luge, but I need to understand the story lines of what we are looking for.
And in prime time, that means really knowing the prominent sports."
Not that the Winter Olympics are filled with prominent sports.
Hockey would fit that category, except that the NHL is not sending players for the first time since 1994.
Otherwise, it's likely that a vast majority of viewers rarely if ever have tuned in to see the other sports since, well, the Sochi Games in 2014.
But that adds to the cachet of the Olympics.
"The athletes, by and large, are in our lives for 2 1/2 weeks," Tirico said.
"The other 200 or so weeks between Olympics, they mostly are off our radar.
The cycle of even the greatest of Olympians is a couple of games or three, max.
You constantly are introducing new stars and stories.
That's one thing our place has thrived on.
That is at the core of any of us who got into this business; we love telling stories.
It's part of our curiosity to introduce personalities to America, or with a Lindsey Vonn or Mikaela Shiffrin to update their life story leading up to that few minutes that impact the rest of their lives."
While at ESPN, Tirico had no involvement with the Olympics.
He moved to NBC in the summer of 2016 and has established himself as the premier sports broadcaster on television if he hadn't already done so at ESPN.
And now, a huge new challenge.
He's clearly stoked for his first Winter Games and the role he will have.
He's eager to see which stories basically jump off the ice and snow and straight onto the tube.
"That is what makes it must-see TV, those moments are so dramatic," Tirico says.
"There's four years of buildup to a downhill run or slalom run or short and long program.
How you will be referred to in the future is on the line.
Those things stay with people for life."
The term "Winter Olympian" is something of a misnomer given how hard these athletes train in summer.
Although there is no telling who will scoop up medals at the Winter Games in South Korea, it's already pretty clear who won't: those athletes who didn't sweat buckets, hone their skills and perfect new tricks long before the first snows fell.
When vacationers hit the summer beaches, winter athletes hit the gym .
"A medal at the Olympic Games in February is primarily won with work done in the summer," says Frederic Jean, a biathlon coach for the French national team.
Atop biathletes' 'to-do' list in the long off-season from mid-April to the end of October: "A big base-layer of weight-training, roller-skiing, cycling, running, and also a lot of shooting," Jean said.
"This is really when a medal is won," Jean added, speaking at a summer biathlon championship in eastern France that served as a tune-up for Pyeongchang-bound athletes.
"The athlete accumulates hours of hard training, so he enters the start of winter with improving form and peaks for his goal of the Olympic Games in mid-February."
Here's a look at how some expected top contenders trained this summer: DAVID MORRIS, aerials skier, Australia During five grueling months of somersaulting into a pool in Utah, the 2014 silver medalist perfected a new trick three flips with five twists that could help him medal again.
"I haven't done it on snow yet.
This year will be the first time that I'll attempt five twists on snow.
I'm very terrified," Morris said in a phone interview upon his return to Australia.
He logged every jump 846 in all.
And he counted the stairs he climbed back to the top each time: 155 for the big ramp; 135 on the smaller one.
"That's with wet soaking boots, carrying skis, with a life jacket and a wet suit and all this stuff," he said.
"All the cardio that I need to do for the whole summer.
I don't need to get on a bike or anything.
It's hours of just walking stairs."
Summer training builds the confidence needed to perform in the cold.
"Very rarely will someone do a new skill on snow for the first time.
It's just too dangerous," Morris said.
"The chances of you landing on your head or busting your knees or breaking your neck are quite high.
It's calculated risk, but only because we've done so many (jumps) in the summer."
"You can make all your mistakes on water and get away with it, so that you don't have to make them on snow," he added.
"You set yourself up for a good winter by having a good summer."
BEN CAVET, moguls skier, France The 23-year-old wants to land a jump at the Olympics that no-one has successfully performed in competition: the devilishly difficult off-axis quadruple spin known as the 'cork 1440.'
He practiced it hundreds of time this summer into water, "big sessions of 10 times this trick a day, 15 times of this trick a day."
"I've been obsessed with this thing since this spring, you know?
Just thinking about it a lot," he said.
"Then taking it to (the) water jump, and then working hard on it on water jump and then doing it this summer on snow."
In South Korea, he expects to go head-to-head with Canadian Mikael Kingsbury, a 2014 silver medalist who posted video of himself in August doing the 1440.
"If I do it, he's going to do it.
So it will be fun," Cavet said.
"To be on the podium, I don't think we can say that we need it, but it would be pretty cool to do."
KELSEY SERWA, freestyle skier, Canada Forget summer vistas: The 2014 ski-cross silver medalist largely saw the inside of a gym.
"We spend, I would say, upward of 10 hours a day, six days a week, training on our strength and endurance and coordination and balance, agility," she said in a phone interview.
"Hopefully, it translates when we get on snow."
Video she posted from training in September showed the 28-year-old impressively negotiating a row of giant inflatable balls, precariously jumping from one to the next in a demonstration of the strength and balance she will need to stay on her skis in rough-and-tumble Olympic races, elbow-to-elbow against other competitors over big jumps and banked bends.
"We do a lot of gym strength-training, a lot of mountain biking, gymnastics as well, and I like to balance that all with yoga, it helps my body stay nimble and loose," she said.
"Basically, anything goes.
I have a paddleboard also.
I like to get out on the water.
That's great for core stability."
"At the Olympic level, every athlete is very similar in terms of their dedication and their technical abilities and strengths," she added.
"Often, on race day, a lot of it comes down to who is mentally the fittest."
MARTIN FOURCADE, biathlon, France The double-gold medalist in 2014 finds summer training mentally taxing: Tough seeing friends and family leave for vacation while staying back to work.
"The hardest thing to do is to keep the motivation," he said.
"Biathlon preparation is six or seven months, out of the snow, far from your goals."
"Most of the job is done before the winter starts," Fourcade said.
John Leicester is an international sports columnist for The Associated Press.
Follow him at: https://twitter.com/johnleicester
A couple of games played during week two of the season had a major effect on the first College Football Playoff rankings.
Georgia, Alabama, Notre Dame and Clemson were the top four teams in the selection committee's initial top 25 released Tuesday night.
Oklahoma, Ohio State and Penn State were next as the committee members let head-to-head results and strength of schedule be their guide.
The final rankings that will determine the participants in the College Football Playoff semifinals come out Dec. 3.
Georgia and Alabama, Southeastern Conference rivals, are both 8-0 and have been dominating their competition.
The Bulldogs' one close game was at Notre Dame in September, a 20-19 victory.
Committee chairman Kirby Hocutt, the athletic director for Texas Tech, said the Bulldogs had a slight edge over the Crimson Tide because of their victory against the Irish on Sept. 9.
The Fighting Irish (7-1) have not lost since, including blowouts of Michigan State (24th), Southern California (17th) and North Carolina State (20th).
Those victories and the close loss to Georgia made the Irish the highest ranked among one-loss teams.
"The teams ranked three through seven are very evenly matched," Hocutt said.
Hocutt said Clemson's six victories against teams with winning records, including Virginia Tech (13th) and Auburn (14th), outweighed a loss on the road to a Syracuse team that is 4-4.
That's been a fairly consistent trend in the short history of the selection committee.
The members tend not to get too caught up in the notion of a bad loss.
Hocutt also said Clemson (7-1) playing the second half against Syracuse without injured quarterback Kelly Bryant was a factor for the committee.
On the same night Georgia beat Notre Dame, Oklahoma (7-1) won 31-16 at Ohio State.
"For the teams five through seven, their head-to-head results were very important to the committee," Hocutt said.
Ohio State (7-1) rallied to beat Penn State (7-1) last Saturday, 39-38.
In the latest AP Top 25, Ohio State was No.
3, Penn State No.
7 and Oklahoma was No.
8.
Those rankings had some Sooners wondering if the committee would do something similar.
"We all just watched it as a team just now," Oklahoma linebacker Ogbonnia Okoronkwo said.
"We were all just jumping around yelling.
Everybody's hungry.
We feel like our foot's in the door, so we want to go ahead and make it happen."
The rest of the top 10 was TCU at eight, followed by unbeatens Wisconsin and Miami.
Hocutt pointed to strength of schedule as the problem for the Badgers, who were ranked fourth in the latest AP Top 25, and Hurricanes.
The strongest team Wisconsin has defeated, Hocutt said, is Northwestern (5-3).
Miami has only two victories against teams with winning records.
Over the first three seasons of the playoff, a total of five teams have been ranked in the top four of the initial ranking and gone on to reach the semifinals: Florida State (which was second) in 2014; Clemson (first) and Alabama (fourth) in 2015; and Alabama (first) and Clemson (second) in 2016.
WHAT WE LEARNED When the playoff rankings come out, the phrase that gets thrown around a lot is: This thing will work itself out.
The combination of contenders knocking each other off and a few upsets will make it relatively easy to identify the final four.
This year, the thing might be more difficult to work out than before.
The prospects for Georgia, Alabama and Notre Dame are tied together.
Their success works in each other's favor and they all seem to be very much in control of their paths to the playoff.
The Bulldogs and Tide eventually could play in the SEC championship game.
If both arrive 12-0 in Atlanta, and the independent Irish finish 11-1, the SEC championship could be for seeding and the Big Ten, Big 12, Atlantic Coast Conference and Pac-12 would be vying for one spot.
Another point for possible chaos: The Big Ten and ACC both have the possibility of staging conference title games between two legitimate playoff contenders.
The Big Ten could match Ohio State with one loss and Wisconsin with none.
The ACC could have Clemson with one loss and unbeaten Miami though unbeaten Miami would mean another loss for Notre Dame.
The Big 12 has three possible one-loss champions (Oklahoma, TCU and No.
11 Oklahoma State), though OU still must play both.
And the newly restored conference title game has to be a rematch.
Meanwhile, in the Pac-12, it is pretty much Washington or bust, but the Huskies have a path to 12-1 that is just tough enough to build a solid case to be back in the playoff for a second straight season.
There's a lot of work to be done to work this thing out.
AP Sports Writer Cliff Brunt in Norman, Oklahoma, contributed to this report.
Follow Ralph D. Russo at https://twitter.com/ralphDrussoAP More college football: http://collegefootball.ap.org and https://twitter.com/APTop25
The NFL trade deadline finally featured some big-name buzz.
The winless San Francisco 49ers acquired New England backup quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo , and the NFL-leading Philadelphia Eagles bolstered their running attack Tuesday by adding Jay Ajayi from Miami.
The Buffalo Bills, who at 5-2 are off to their best start since 1993, upgraded their receiving group by acquiring Kelvin Benjamin from the Panthers for their third- and seventh-round picks in next year's draft.
The trades came a day after the Seattle Seahawks agreed to send cornerback Jeremy Lane and two draft picks to Houston for left tackle Duane Brown .
Midseason trades rarely bring much excitement or shake up the playoff races.
Most years the NFL trade deadline comes and goes without much happening.
In each of the past two years, the biggest name bandied about was 10-time Pro Bowler Joe Thomas, but he never left Cleveland for a contender.
It wasn't even a possibility this season after the star left tackle tore his left triceps Oct. 16, an injury that required season-ending surgery and ended his consecutive plays streak at 10,363.
The Niners agreed to send a 2018 second-round pick to the Patriots in the deal that will be official once Garoppolo passes a physical.
San Francisco (0-8) had been expected to either draft a quarterback high in the first round next year or try to acquire a proven starter such as Kirk Cousins in free agency.
Instead, coach Kyle Shanahan and general manager John Lynch decided to strike early and put the fate of their franchise in the hands in a quarterback who has started just two games in four NFL seasons.
Garoppolo, a second-round pick in 2014, is in the final year of his contract.
By acquiring him now, San Francisco gets a head start on negotiating a long-term deal to keep him or can use the franchise tag on him in free agency.
Garoppolo won two starts in place of a suspended Tom Brady at the start of the 2016 season.
He completed 42 of 59 passes for 496 yards, four touchdowns and no interceptions.
He got hurt in the second quarter of his second start and has thrown just four passes since then.
The Eagles sent a 2018 fourth-round pick to the Dolphins for Ajayi, who has 465 yards rushing and is averaging 3.4 yards per carry with no touchdowns.
He went to the Pro Bowl last season after running for 1,272 yards, including three 200-yard games.
Dolphins coach Adam Gase signaled his displeasure with Ajayi last week after Miami was routed 40-0 at Baltimore, noting missed blocking assignments in pass protection.
LeGarrette Blount leads Philadelphia with 467 yards rushing and is averaging 4.7 yards a carry with two touchdowns.
The Eagles (7-1) have the fifth-ranked run offense and have won six straight games heading into Sunday's game against Denver (3-4), which has lost four of five.
Benjamin immediately becomes the Bills leading receiver with 32 catches for 475 yards and two touchdowns this season.
Overall, he's scored 18 touchdowns in 40 games, and the 6-foot-5, 245-pound Benjamin provides quarterback Tyrod Taylor a big target, particularly in the red zone.
It's the fourth significant trade by Buffalo since August, when the Bills dealt starting receiver Sammy Watkins to the Los Angeles Rams and starting cornerback Ronald Darby to Philadelphia.
On Friday, Buffalo traded its highest-paid player, defensive tackle Marcell Dareus, to Jacksonville.
Also, the 49ers sent cornerback Rashard Robinson to the New York Jets for a 2018 late-round draft pick.
It was unclear if Robinson would be available for the Jets' game Thursday night against Buffalo.
He provides depth and a potential starter for New York.
Morris Claiborne is dealing with a sore foot and Buster Skrine is in the league's concussion protocol.
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL Follow Arnie Melendrez Stapleton on Twitter: http://twitter.com/arniestapleton
Do you need Darren McFadden?
Or Alfred Morris?
Maybe you already have two or three stud running backs, and you're lacking some wideouts.
Find out who is desperate, and start with the Ezekiel Elliott owner.
If his six-game suspension does indeed stand, Elliott won't return until Week 15.
In most
Kenley Jansen looked like his All-Star self.
The Dodgers closer got redemption by earning a six-out save Tuesday night, helping Los Angeles beat the Astros 3-1 to force a Game 7 in the World Series.
"I'm not trying to be a hero or anything, but there's no tomorrow," he said.
"You've got to go out
Joe Girardi said he is "surprised" and "disappointed" that he will not return as the New York Yankees ' manager next season, telling The Athletic that he "wanted to finish what we had started this year."
Girardi, in his first interview since Thursday's announcement that he wouldn't be back with the
Joe Girardi said he is "surprised" and "disappointed" that he will not return as the New York Yankees ' manager next season, telling The Athletic that he "wanted to finish what we had started this year."
Girardi, in his first interview since Thursday's announcement that he wouldn't be back with the
The complex schemes to get first dibs on teenage athletes with pro potential can resemble the drug trade.
There are sophisticated mazes of runners acting as go-betweens separating athletes from unscrupulous sports agents and financial advisers.
Unraveling those ties to get at the corruption in
WNBA star Breanna Stewart said she was sexually abused as a child in an essay published Monday morning by The Players' Tribune.
Stewart wrote that she was abused for two years, starting when she was 9 years old, by a man who "lived in one of the houses" of a relative.
She did not reveal her alleged
