Wal-Mart and Hudsons Bay-owned department store Lord & Taylor just announced an interesting partnership Lord & Taylor will start selling its catalogue of high-end fashion merchandise on Walmart.com this Spring.
Of course this deal doesnt mean that youll see designer pants on the same page as $19.97 Wranglers.
Instead, Lord & Taylor will have its own flagship store on Walmart.com which essentially will be a section on Wal-Marts website dedicated to goods sold by Lord & Taylor.
For Wal-Mart, this partnership is a way to drive traffic from customers looking for high-end items, that otherwise may not be shopping on Walmart.com.
And for Lord & Taylor the deal is also about traffic department stores are struggling, and opening a store on Walmart.com will give them a bunch of new eyeballs (and potential shoppers) they otherwise wouldnt have gotten.
Its almost like the modern day version of renting retail space on 5th Avenue in NYC.
Lord & Taylor will keep their existing ecommerce site at lordandtaylor.com, so this new store is really just to attract new customers that wouldnt otherwise shop with them online.
High-end fashion has been a category notorious for being hard to sell online, especially as expensive brands have been reluctant to let sites like Amazon and Wal-Mart carry their items.
Of course this doesnt mean the ecommerce giants arent trying Amazon just launched Prime Wardrobe and Wal-Mart recently bought fashion sites Bonobos and ModCloth.
So this digital store within a store approach is interesting, and could be the best way for for high-end fashion retailers to take advantage of the online traffic and sales being generated by sites like Amazon, without sacrificing their own brand by just listing their items in a sea of millions of alternatives.
If the deal proves to be successful look to see a lot of copycats doing the same thing because theres certainly no shortage of department stores and brick and mortar retailers struggling for sales today.
Hello and welcome to another Equity Shot, a quick-hit episode of our venture-capital themed podcast.
(Equity, released every Friday, focuses on the money behind the headlines.)
This week Katie Roof and I Alex Wilhelm sank our teeth into the story that roiled the tech communitys weekend and continued to cause waves today.
Yes, the Uber-SoftBank story which we might want to call the Uber-SoftBank-Dragoneer story now, but thats getting ahead of ourselves.
A quick refresher is in order, I think.
Without further ado: And, it was that deal that seemed to be underway this weekend.
Until, of course, SoftBank decided that it might not be fully committed.
Or perhaps thats just a head-fake.
Ah, boom times.
What a joy you are.
Hit play and lets unspool this particular thread together.
Equity will be back on Friday as normal.
Boston Dynamics hasnt talked much since it changed hands from Googles ailing robotics wing to the deep pockets of SoftBank, but the cutting-edge robotics firm happily gave the world a sneak peek of what its been working on in the meantime.
The company posted a 24-second teaser trailer showcasing a sleek new version of its latest offering, the electric-powered SpotMini.
Weve reached out to the company for more information on the project, but BD always plays things pretty close to the vest.
It also knows how to ride a good viral video for all its worth.
Meantime, what weve got to work with here is a really quick video of the updated robot doing a familiar bit of dressage across a newly mowed lawn, quickly staring down the camera and then sauntering off behind a wall.
From that cursory glance, the underlying hardware appears mostly the same from the earlier iteration of the companys first all-electric quadrupedal bot.
The exterior, however, has been given a pretty dramatic makeover making the new SpotMini far and away the most polished product out of the company yet.
That could be keeping in line with SoftBanks goal of commercializing its robotics, along the lines of what its done with Pepper though, as adorable as the new Spot is, its probably not going to be greeting Wal-Mart shoppers anytime soon.
The new bot features a bumble bee-colored paint job with a plastic outer coating that make it look a bit like its wearing Uma Thurmans Kill Bill jumpsuit.
Spots quick glance at the camera also reveals what appear to be a pair of Kinect-style 3D cameras sitting in for its eyes.
The company recently posted a listing for a Senior Perception Software Engineer with experience in stereo cameras and LIDAR, which could go a ways toward highlighting more autonomous versions of its robots moving forward.
The caption on the video isnt much help either, unfortunately, simply asking viewers to stay tuned.
So, stay tuned, I guess.
A new study out from health startup Cardiogram and the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) suggests wearables like the Apple Watch, Fitbit and others are able to accurately detect common but serious conditions like hypertension and sleep apnea.
Cardiogram and UCSF previously demonstrated the ability for the Apple Watch to detect abnormal heart rhythm with a 97 percent accuracy.
This new study shows the Watch can detect sleep apnea with a 90 percent accuracy and hypertension with an 82 percent accuracy.
Sleep apnea affects an estimated 22 million adults in the U.S., with another 80 percent of cases of moderate and severe obstructive sleep apnea undiagnosed, according to the American Sleep Apnea Association.
This is a serious condition where the person affected stops breathing in their sleep and can lead to death.
Another 75 million American adults have high blood pressure (hypertension), according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), putting them at risk for heart disease and stroke, the top causes of death in the United States.
Being able to detect sleep apnea and hypertension in the comfort of our homes with just a simple device could be a game-changer in medicine.
Right now most patients must go to the doctor and wait to be tested at sporadic intervals, making it hard to detect if theres a spike in blood pressure in the moment when it becomes critical, and even harder to tell if someone is suffering from sleep apnea, as that is something that happens while the person is asleep.
The new N=6,158 study recruited 6,115 participants through the Cardiogram app to test using their Apple Watch over a period of time.
Study leads were then able to detect sleep apnea in 1,016 of the participants and hypertension in 2,230 of the subjects using a trained deep learning algorithm called DeepHeart.
DeepHeart was trained on data from 70 percent of participants, and then tested on the remaining 30 percent who were not used in training, according to Cardiogram co-founder Brandon Ballinger.
Though the study was conducted through the Apple Watch, Cardiogram co-founder and study lead Johnson Hsieh believes it shows promise for most wearables that incorporate a heart-rate sensor as they basically all have the same technology built inside, he told TechCrunch.
The idea here is that by screening continuously you would identify people with hypertension who might not know they have it, said Hsieh.
And then youd guide them through the appropriate final diagnosis, which would be through a blood pressure cuff and then treatment.
Cardiogram and UCSFs study on heart health is the third major study of deep learning in medicine, following Google Brains results on diabetic eye disease in December of 2016 and a Stanford study on skin cancer this January.
Tampas goal to become a smart city was on display on Monday, as the Tampa Hillsborough Expressway Authority hosted the first public demonstration of a connected vehicle technology research project that will launch into pilot testing in 2018.
The project involves outfitting a fleet of 1,600 privately owned vehicles with technology that will communicate with roadways and other cars in order to receive various warnings and alerts about roadway conditions, speed limit changes, dangers and more.
The project also will connect 10 buses in the area to communicate with traffic signals, which will then prioritize the buses movements so they can stay on schedule.
Ten streetcars will use the technology to detect when another connected vehicle is about to cross their tracks, in order reduce the chance of collisions.
An accompanying app for 500 pedestrian testers will be a part of the project, too, but was not on display today.
This app will issue walk alerts at various intersections and will audibly signal if a bus or streetcar begins moving nearby.
Above: a roadside unit installed on Tampas Meridian Ave.
The deployment of this technology is part of the Tampa Connected Vehicle Pilot, one of only three large-scale connected vehicle system implementation efforts taking place across the U.S.
Funded through a grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation, related pilots are also underway in New York City and Wyoming, each with a different set of objectives.
In New York, for example, the goal is to test connected vehicles in a dense, urban environment.
Meanwhile, the project in Wyoming is focused on outfitting trucks along I-80 a stretch of roadway where conditions are often hazardous due to extreme weather like blowing snow, fog and high winds.
Tampa, however, is the only one of the three Connected Vehicle projects involving local residents driving their own cars.
Above: an antenna on a connected car The city had beaten out others like Charlotte, NC and Pittsburgh, PA, for the DOTs $21 million in grant funding, we understand.
The project, notably, represents a big win for Tampa, given its goal to become known as a hub for smart city technologies.
The citys size and ability to close down some of its roadways during the day has already made it ideal for hosting autonomous vehicle driving tests.
Tampa also recently launched an UrbanTech accelerator focused on smart city startups in partnership with Dreamit.
The incubator is part of a larger, $3 billion downtown revitalization effort backed by real estate developer and Tampa Bay Lightning owner Jeff Vinik and Bill Gates Cascadia fund.
Tampas unique traffic congestion issues and medium-sized downtown also helped it earn the U.S.
DOT grant for connected vehicles.
For example, inbound commuters on Tampas Lee Roy Selmon Expressways reversible lanes often experience delays and rear-end crashes during morning commutes.
The whole idea is to have drivers aware of their environment when a light is about to change, or if theres congestion ahead, or if theres a pedestrian in the crosswalk, explained Vic Bhide, Chief Traffic Management Engineer for the City of Tampa.
This pilot is about vehicles, about infrastructure, about pedestrians, and eventually, about bicycles as well, he said.
In Tampas project, volunteer drivers will have their vehicles outfitted with a smart rearview mirror that communicates a variety of alerts, including when the vehicle detects other traffic ahead has slowed or stopped; if the driver is going the wrong direction on a roadway; if the speed limit changes; if a pedestrian is in their path; and other information.
Cars also will have antennas for sending and receiving data, a speaker for audio alerts and a short-range radio for communicating with other cars, lights and crosswalks.
Siemens is developing the 40 roadside units that will communicate with the connected vehicles, as well as with the citys Transportation Management Center using a dedicated short-range communication technology (DSRC).
Above: the Siemens roadside unit, close up The roadside units installed cost is around $11,000 to 12,000, were told, and theyre expected to last 10 to 20 years, given that the SIM card inside can be swapped out as newer wireless technologies are available.
Data from the vehicles will be displayed on a dashboard-like interface at Tampas Transportation Management Center, showing things like travel times, speed and congestion.
The dashboard, a part of Siemens Concert software, can also incorporate CCTV feeds, and can be upgraded to include parking availability information.
Before, this sort of traffic data would have been collected manually, across sources.
The new dashboard will pull in the connected vehicle information into an easy-to-read interface.
Above: Tampas Transportation Management Center; Siemens Concert software Another vendor, Brandmotion, is working with radio providers Savari, Commsignia and Sirius XM to supply the on-board units that are installed in the cars.
On Monday, the Tampa Hillsborough Expressway Authority (THEA) allowed attendees to ride as passengers in connected cars on a closed roadway, to show how the alerts worked for things like stopped traffic, wrong way warnings and speed limit changes.
The system worked as promised during the tests, flashing warnings to drivers on the smart mirror, and signaling them with audible alerts, at times.
The larger goal with Tampas project, which runs for 18 months, is to collect information about connected vehicles in a real-world environment, including everything from the systems interoperability with different vendors, how the interface for drivers should look, what sort of infrastructure is required by cities and what impact it has on traffic patterns and roadway incidents.
But its also the first step toward a future system that would combine connected vehicle technology with autonomous vehicles.
This would allow for smarter cars that arent just sensing things around them while driving themselves, but are also aware of their place within the larger flow of traffic.
Of course, with internet-connected technology in general, there are always privacy concerns.
However, were told the data collected from the project does not include personally identifiable information, like drivers names, license numbers, VIN numbers, etc.
Instead, cars are only assigned an ID number to differentiate themselves from one another.
Above: example warning messages displayed on a demo unit Beyond the driver safety component associated with this technology considerations that may one day see insurance companies incentivizing the use of such systems the collected data can help cities make better decisions about infrastructure needs.
A simple example is that we design facilities based on safety factors like how many crashes have been there, said Bhide.
If there arent enough crashes, we dont recommend certain improvements.
But there might have been a lot of near-misses, he added.
Do we really need to wait for crashes for [improvements] to happen?
Tampa is still recruiting drivers to volunteer for the project, and is offering a 30 percent discount on select tolls as an incentive.
Any vehicle under 10 years old is eligible to be outfitted with the technology, with the exception of convertibles (due to where antennas have to be mounted).
Already, 1,300 drivers applied via the pre-screening process, and some 800 have scheduled an appointment to have the system installed by technicians at Hillsborough Community Colleges trade school.
The Tampa Connected Vehicle Project kicks off in early 2018, beginning with equipment installations into volunteers vehicles.
The app for pedestrians will be made available in spring 2018, as well.
Touted as the iPhone Xs new flagship form of device security, Face ID is a natural target for hackers.
Just a week after the devices release, Vietnamese research team Bkav claims to have cracked Apples facial recognition system using a replica face mask that combines printed 2D images with three-dimensional features.
The group has published a video demonstrating its proof of concept, but enough questions remain that no one really knows how legitimate this purported hack is.
As shown in the video below, Bkav claims to have pulled this off using a consumer-level 3D printer, a hand-sculpted nose, normal 2D printing and a custom skin surface designed to trick the system, all for a total cost of US$150.
For its part, in speaking with TechCrunch, Apple appears to be pretty skeptical of the purported hack.
Bkav has yet to respond to our questions, including why, if its efforts are legitimate, the group has not shared its research with Apple (well update this story if and when we hear back).
There are at least a few ways the video could have been faked, the most obvious of which would be to just train Face ID on the mask itself before presenting it with the actual face likeness.
And its not like Apple never considered that hackers might try this methodology.
As the company explains in a breakdown of Face ID: Face ID matches against depth information, which isnt found in print or 2D digital photographs.
Its designed to protect against spoofing by masks or other techniques through the use of sophisticated anti-spoofing neural networks.
Face ID is even attention-aware.
It recognizes if your eyes are open and looking towards the device.
This makes it more difficult for someone to unlock your iPhone without your knowledge (such as when you are sleeping).
Bkavs method claims to use both 2D images and masks, two tactics that Apple seems pretty confident that Face ID can defend against.
Also, its worth remembering that in a normal use case, the iPhone X would lock after five failed attempts to log in using Face ID, but its unclear how many tries Bkav made, though the company says it applied the strict rule of absolutely no passcode when crafting the mask, a scenario that would preclude a scenario in which the researchers entered a passcode after five failed attempts and expanded the devices training to include the mask data.
Its alarming to hear of any workaround for sophisticated consumer security tech, but even if some kind of mask hack ends up working, it doesnt exactly scale to the average consumer.
If youre concerned that someone might want into your devices badly enough that theyd execute such an involved plan to steal your facial biometrics, well, youve probably got a lot of other things to worry about as well.
A hack like this would take considerable time and resources, the kind that are more likely to be employed by state-sponsored actors or other hacking teams with specific targets far from the usual lowest common denominator vulnerabilities that threaten the privacy of everyday users.
Bkav admits this openly in a Q & A on its hack, noting that Potential targets shall not be regular users, but billionaires, leaders of major corporations, nation leaders and agents like FBI need to understand the Face IDs issue.
Prior to the Bkav video, Wired worked with Cloudflare to see if Face ID could be hacked through masks that appear far more sophisticated than the ones the Bkav hack depicts.
Remarkably, in spite of their fairly elaborate efforts including details like eyeholes designed to allow real eye movement and thousands of eyebrow hairs inserted into the mask intended to look more like real hair Wired and Cloudflare didnt succeed.
Wired also reported on the Bkav hack, comparing its own efforts against what we can glean from the video.
If the notion that a $150-mask with far less detail could fool Face ID strains credulity, that healthy skepticism is probably merited.
At the same time, Bkav isnt a totally random name in security research: the company published a report on weaknesses in Asus, Lenovo and Toshiba facial recognition tech back in 2009, so its clearly been thinking about this kind of stuff.
Why it might undermine any potential credibility with a bogus FaceID hack is beyond us, but we eagerly invite the company to share additional technical details of its hack if the effort is indeed legitimate.
Featured Image: TechCrunch
Steve Jurvetson, the venture capitalist who invested in companies like Tesla and SpaceX, is leaving his role as partner at Draper Fisher Jurvetson, Recode reports.
TechCrunch has since confirmed the news.
I am leaving DFJ to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me, Jurvetson said in a statement to TechCrunch.
His resignation comes after DFJ began investigating allegations of sexual harassment against the founding partner in August.
DFJ announced Jurvetsons departure in a letter to the firms limited partners today, according to Recode.
While the letter reportedly did not mention why Jurvetson is leaving, Recode cites sources saying the investigation found instances in which Jurvetson behaved in an unacceptable way toward female entrepreneurs.
Jurvetson also is reportedly on a leave of absence from the SpaceX and Tesla boards, according to CNBC.
Ive reached out to DFJ and will update this story if I hear back.
A group of 15 top Democratic senators are pushing the Federal Election Commission to expand disclosure requirements on political ads to include commercials distributed online.
After months of investigations on Capitol Hill, politicians on both sides of the aisle are focusing their questioning on the role that online advertising distributed by Facebook, Twitter and Google played in Russias attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election.
In a letter today sent to the FEC on the last day of a month-long public comment period regarding the issue, Senate Democrats argued that FEC exemptions of online political advertising from including disclaimers about the organizations responsible for the ads played a role in the Russian disinformation efforts.
The senators wrote: Over the past year, our country has come to realize the ease with which foreign actors can interfere in our elections, undermining the integrity of and reducing public confidence in the electoral process.
As part of a wide-ranging interference campaign during the 2016 election, Russian operatives used advertisements on social media platforms to sow division and discord, distorting public discourse and coarsening our political debate.
The actions undertaken by Russia should not be considered an anomaly; they will be the norm in future elections if we do not take immediate action to improve the transparency and security of our election process.
The 15 Democratic senators included: Mark Warner (D-VA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bob Casey (D-PA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Jack Reed (D-RI) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD).
They called on the FEC to take immediate action to ensure that future online advertising would require disclaimers on the organizations or individuals that purchased the commercials.
The lack of transparency of digital ads is a threat to our national security, the senators wrote.
Without change, the misuse of online advertisements during the 2016 election will serve as a template for other foreign powers who wish to influence our elections.
Failure to act threatens the very foundation of our democracy.
Pressure to change the ways online ads are treated is also coming in the form of Senate legislation.
The longtime Arizona Republican Senator John McCain recently joined Senators Warner and Klobuchar in sponsoring legislation called The Honest Ads Act to ensure that political ads sold online are covered by the same rules as ads sold by television, radio and satellite stations.
Featured Image: Jaime Glasser / EyeEm/Getty Images
Uber said Sunday that it agreed to move forward on a proposed investment from SoftBank Group.
But SoftBank Investment Advisors sent a statement to reporters on Monday on behalf of CEO Rajeev Misra, emphasizing that it could still walk away.
After a long and arduous process of several months it looks like Uber and its shareholders have agreed to commence with a tender process and engage with SoftBank.
By no means is our investment decided.
We are interested in Uber but the final deal will depend on the tender price and a minimum percentage shareholding for SoftBank.
In other words, the price has not been determined for the tender offer and SoftBank wants to make it clear that its still negotiating.
The company would potentially buy $9 billion worth of shares from existing shareholders at this price and it would include both common and preferred shares.
SoftBank would also be investing $1 billion directly in Uber as an extension of the last Series G round, at its last private valuation of nearly $70 billion.
SoftBank is said to want to own 14 percent of the company.
Update: SoftBank issued a release later on Monday, further clarifying the situation with Uber.
The Uber board and its shareholders, as well as the SoftBank Group side, have come to a basic agreement on a process for the SoftBank Group to make a future investment in Uber.
However, while the SoftBank Group side is considering an investment in Uber, there is no final agreement at this stage.
If conditions on share price and a minimum of shares are not satisfactory for the SoftBank Group side, there is a possibility the SoftBank Group may not make an investment.
SoftBanks first Monday statement was in response to Ubers Sunday statement about moving forward on an agreement with SoftBank.
This is what we were provided with from Uber: Weve entered into an agreement with a consortium led by SoftBank and Dragoneer on a potential investment.
We believe this agreement is a strong vote of confidence in Ubers long-term potential.
Upon closing, it will help fuel our investments in technology and our continued expansion at home and abroad, while strengthening our corporate governance.
Uber and SoftBank have been discussing this potential deal for months.
Part of the delay has related to determining former CEO Travis Kalanicks board role.
Sources tell us that investor Benchmark Capital has agreed to drop the lawsuit against Kalanick if the SoftBank deal goes through.
The lawsuit related to his power to appoint three board seats, including Kalanicks.
Ursula Burns and John Thain were recently appointed to the seats, without board consensus.
Should one of them give up their spot, Kalanick will now require a board vote to approve the replacement.
Kalanick was pressured to step down in June after concerns were raised about Ubers company culture.
Uber has also had a slew of legal battles, including a patent lawsuit with Waymo, Alphabets self-driving car division.
The new funding would help Uber accelerate growth ahead of an IPO, which recently named CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said is expected to happen in 2019.
Featured Image: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images
Just as many people enjoy a nice cold Goose Island pale ale but hate the beer megacorp AB InBev which owns it, so too is the rage palpable against Electronic Arts, which owns many a beloved franchise but is far less than the sum of its parts.
Today, that dislike is slightly more quantifiable thanks to a comment on Reddit from the account EACommunityResponse, which sought to defend the companys decision to shield popular characters from being immediately available to users who purchase Battlefront II, which has its worldwide release later this week.
The comment was made about 24 hours ago and has become the most downvoted comment in the history of Reddit by a margin far-and-wide.
At the time of writing, the posting had a total score (upvotes minus downvotes) of over -394,000.
For perspective, the second-most downvoted post had a score of -24,333.
In 2015, Reddit detailed that they were receiving about 2 million comments per day on average, and given how awful so many of them are, this is undoubtedly a major feat.
This post is almost certainly getting downvoted en masse a little help from bots as well, regardless the post has been gaining a lot of attention with thousands of responses mostly lambasting EA for messing with the gaming industry.
Gaming is something Redditors are undoubtedly passionate about, the r/gaming subreddit has over 17 million subscribers and is the 9th most-popular group on the site overall.
The impending threat of mobile caused video game creators to adapt and shape how they thought about the future of gaming; for EA and many of the other parent companies which lorded over studios possessing beloved franchises, this adaptation was far from subtle.
While entities like Nintendo have survived and thrived in the face of these existential threats by continuing to craft epic, complete storylines while tacitly embracing DLC to occasionally add to glorious experiences like Breath of the Wild, EA has gone the more overt route.
This particular referenced instance highlights how gamers are upset that EA has adopted freemium pay structures into games that are, in fact, full-priced.
Not being able to play as central Star Wars characters in a game solely focused on playing as central Star Wars characters unless you unlock them after dozens of hours of gameplay or through paying a fee is not a great way to foster loyalty and admiration.
Amazon is making a Lord of the Rings TV show, but it isnt a straight adaptation of the greatest fantasy series of all time its a prequel.
The show, which already carries a multi-season commitment, will explore new storylines preceding J.R.R.
Tolkiens The Fellowship of the Ring.
Of course, The Hobbit precedes Fellowship by many years, but that story was tainted so ably by the absurd trilogy it was inadvisedly extended into that it will probably be some years before anyone feels like revisiting it.
Its possible the new series will mine the ponderous but rich Silmarillion for material, as fan fiction writers and lore aficionados have done for decades.
The exploits of the Elf-Lords of old would make for a stirring epic, while many would thrill at the possibility of seeing Moria at the height of its grandeur.
So much depends on the quality of the adaptation, though.
Amazon has been pretty good about its Originals, but this will be an undertaking far beyond the scope of anything its studios and partners have yet attempted.
Amazon is partnering with New Line Cinema, which of course was the film company behind the much-loved trilogy that began in 2001, and the Tolkien Estate, as well as HarperCollins for some reason.
The deal also includes a potential additional spin-off series, presumably if its popular enough.
Of course it will all be available exclusively to Prime members.
As a fan, Im cautiously optimistic.
Elendiiil!
Facebook is combining its Snapchat Stories clone with features Snapchat cant match in a bid to boost usage.
Starting today, users of Facebook Groups and Events will be able to contribute to a Facebook Story visible to the rest of the members and moderated by the admins.
This could be fun for parties, weddings, meetups and more.
In essence, these collaborative Stories will work like a private hashtag so multiple people can add content but only those involved can see it.
Facebook product manager Connor Hayes tells me the features Give multiple people the opportunity to tell a Story from multiple different angles.
People will see Stories on their Event and Group pages, as well as atop their News Feed.
Theyll be able to post while inside Events and Groups, or get the option to share there on the Facebook Stories share sheet.
Snapchat has its own private groups feature, but this is more akin to a group chat thread you can send Stories to.
Facebook is enabling Groups around hobbies, professions, ideologies and locations to create niche Stories content that might not appeal to friends but is appealing to fellow members with a particular interest.
You can see how collaborative Event Stories work in the video below: Meanwhile, Facebook is also launching Facebook Stories for its stripped app for the developing world, Facebook Lite.
For now, users on the low-data-usage version of Facebooks main app can only view Stories, but the company tells me posting is coming soon.
The announcements come alongside a big overhaul of Facebooks Stories products.
Its replacing Messenger Day with Facebook Stories, and syncing both cross-posting and viewing.
Its also killing off the Facebook Direct ephemeral messaging feature in favor of handling Stories replies and messages via Messenger.
Facebook Stories posts will follow rules set by admins for the standard wall posts.
So admins can either allow posts from everyone and delete ones they dont like, or they can require approvals of posts.
And to encourage people to kick off a Story, Facebook will show an open bubble atop the News Feed for you to add to if youre RSVPd for an event happening right now.
By integrating Stories with Events and Groups, Facebook has gone beyond copying Snapchat.
And its proving that its serious about Stories for the long-run.
Rather than just bolting on Stories, its intermingling the feature across the Facebook app.
That could create sharing opportunities Snapchat lacks, spur usage by different demographics and encourage original content sharing rather than generic link sharing.
Facebook is cleaning up the redundancy in its Snapchat Stories clones.
Today Facebook is killing off the Messenger Day brand and merging the chat apps stories feature with Facebook Stories.
Now, just called Stories, 24-hour ephemeral posts in either Facebook or Messenger will appear in both apps, and viewing will be synced, too, so you wont see a Story as unviewed in one app if you already watched it in the other.
To be clear, Messenger will still have Stories, theyre just called Stories instead of Day.
We needed to make it easier for people to share Stories across different apps, Facebook product manager Connor Hayes tells me.
Some people actually thought these experiences were already connected.
We feel like it would make sense.
However, the cameras in Facebook and Messenger will remain distinct, with Facebooks focused on augmented reality masks and effects, while Messenger focuses on adding captions and stylized text inviting friends to hang out.
But Hayes says now that were connecting the two experiences, it makes sense for them to have the same name.
Simplifying the Stories offering and giving posts more exposure across the apps without manual cross-posting could boost usage of Facebook Stories, which hasnt exploded with popularity like Instagram Stories.
As we first reported last month, Instagram has been rolling out a cross-post to Facebook Stories feature that will now populate to Messenger too, though theres no current plan to allow Facebook Stories to be pushed to Instagram.
Facebook hasnt given guidance on the popularity of Facebook Stories but it said Messenger Day had 70 million daily active users in September, versus 300 million on Instagram Stories and WhatsApp Status, and 178 million on Snapchats whole app.
But looking forward, with all the new launches, Hayes says were very optimistic.
Ditching Facebook Direct ephemeral messaging Meanwhile, Facebook is also getting rid of its Facebook Direct feature for private ephemeral messaging, and instead will route all Stories replies and Facebook Camera messages through Messenger.
For now, that means theres no longer a disappearing messaging option on Facebook, as Direct used to delete photos and videos after they were watched and the conversation around them had died out.
Facebook is making the change after doing research on users.
They prefer Story replies to land inside Messenger, says Messenger product manager Paulina Bozek.
At face value, the end of Facebook Direct could appear to be a win for Snapchat, which sees ephemeral messaging as its primary use case and differentiator after all of Facebooks apps cloned its Stories feature.
But it could foreshadow Facebook launching a more legitimate ephemeral messaging feature inside Messenger, which already has 1.3 billion monthly users.
Direct was building a user base from scratch and never seemed to catch on, so putting disappearing messages in Messenger could be a much bigger threat to Snapchat.
For now though, Facebook tells me ephemeral messaging is not an option in Messenger and it doesnt have anything to share on future plans here.
Also announced today, Facebook is launching collaborative Facebook Stories for Groups and Events where members can contribute posts that the rest can see, which could be great for parties, weddings, and meetups.
Plus, looking to boost usage of Facebook Stories in the developing world, which Snapchat hasnt prioritized until now, Facebook is allowing users of its stripped-down low-data-usage Facebook Lite app to view Stories.
The ability to post will come to Facebook Lite soon.
You can read our full write-up about Facebook Stories for Groups, Events and Lite here.
Beyond cross-posting and synced viewing, Facebook is also implementing new privacy controls for Stories that run across both its main app and Messenger.
Youll be able to make Stories visible to the public, friends only, friends and connections (which includes non-friends youve added on Messenger) or a custom list of specific friends.
If there was any doubt that Facebook is in it to win it in the Stories war against Snapchat, that should be laid to rest now.
Facebook isnt retreating from Stories, even as it cleans up the product line.
Though usage may be slim to date, the company is betting that its not just U.S. teens that want to share ephemeral slideshows of photos and videos.
Even if it takes years, the prominent placement across its apps could slowly lure in late adopters to share their daily lives, not just the big highlights.
People are vain.
They crave attention.
Show their selfies atop another billion-plus user app with no additional chore, and theyll feel more compelled to share.
KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo wrote a new report about Apples plans for next year.
According to him, the company is going to release three new iPhone devices next year.
Theyll all have edge-to-edge displays with a notch.
The successor of the iPhone X could be roughly the same size and shape.
According to Kuo, this new iPhone would feature a 5.8-inch display with a density of 458 pixels per inch.
This is exactly the same specifications as the current display in the iPhone X.
But if a 5.8-inch display is not enough, KGI Securities thinks there will be a bigger phone with a 6.5-inch display.
Itll also be an OLED display with a pixel density of 480-500 pixels per inch.
In other words, there might be a second-gen iPhone X Plus.
Thats not all.
Apple doesnt plan to focus on high-end phones that cost $1,000 or more.
The company is also going to release a successor to the iPhone 8.
But Apple plans to bring some of the innovations in the iPhone X to this new device.
This lower-end iPhone (but still very expensive) could cost between $649 and $749 and feature an edge-to-edge display with a notch.
But there will be tradeoffs.
For instance, you can expect a traditional LCD display with a lower resolution (roughly 320 to 330 pixels per inch).
It could have a 6.1-inch display, which would make it slightly bigger than the iPhone X.
And it could have all the sensors for Face ID and face tracking.
Apple works on new phones years before unveiling them.
But, as always, this report might not be perfectly accurate.
Well learn more about Apples 2018 iPhone lineup in the coming months.
Missouri is launching an investigation into whether Google has broken its consumer protection and antitrust laws.
In a statement, the states attorney general, Josh Hawley, said that his office has issued a subpoena to the search giant earlier on Monday.
The investigation will seek to determine if Google has violated the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act its principal consumer-protection law and other state antitrust laws, according to a statement.
Hawley, whos running for U.S. Senate next year, is launching the investigation at a time when Americas largest tech companies are facing considerable scrutiny from both parties for their position in both Americas corporate and civic spheres.
Today, I am announcing a new investigationwe are issuing Civil Investigative Demands to Google Inc. seeking documents and information related to the companys business practices and whether they violate the Missouri Merchandising Practices Act and Missouris antitrust laws.
pic.twitter.com/iO27KEhX27 AG Josh Hawley (@AGJoshHawley) November 13, 2017 Late last month in hearings before the House and Senate, representatives from Facebook, Google and Twitter were taken to task for their potential role in distributing Russian propaganda during the last Presidential election.
With the investigation, the states top lawyer will examine Googles collection, use and disclosure of personal information; its alleged misappropriation of online content from the websites of its competitors; and its manipulation of search results to preference websites owned by Google and to demote websites that compete with Google, according to a statement.
There is strong reason to believe that Google has not been acting with the best interest of Missourians in mind, Hawley said in the statement.
My Office will not stand by and let private consumer information be jeopardized by industry giants, especially to pad their profits.
In the announcement, Hawleys office emphasized the historic $2.7 billion in fines leveled by the European Union against Google for its anti-trust practices and a complaint filed by the Electronic Privacy Information Center with the Federal Trade Commission on Googles consumer tracking practices.
Also of interest to Hawleys investigation is the roughly 70 percent of all card transaction information that Google collects.
When a company has access to as much consumer information as Google does, its my duty to ensure they are using it appropriately, Hawley said in the statement.
I will not let Missouri consumers and businesses be exploited by industry giants.
Weve reached out to Google with a request for comment and will update when we hear back.
Featured Image: Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP
A proposed tax that charges people as their startup equity vests instead of when they cash it out and actually have money to pay the taxes could wreck how tech companies recruit talent.
And the industry doesnt have much time to mobilize to get this tax changed.
The U.S. Senate released its proposed tax reform bill late last week under the aggrandized Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
It includes a tax on stock options and Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) that applies as they vest, rather than using the existing scheme that taxes stock options when theyre exercised or when the underlying shares are released for RSUs.
As famed VC Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures explains, What this would mean is every month, when your equity compensation vests a little bit, you will owe taxes on it even though you cant do anything with that equity compensation.
You cant spend it, you cant save it, you cant invest it.
Because you dont have it yet.
Thats a huge problem.
Because if youre not already quite wealthy, you might not be able to afford to pay those taxes until you actually liquidate your equity for cash.
The proposed tax could prevent wide swaths of tech employees from accepting stock options and RSUs.
This breaks the whole incentive structure for top talent to take intense jobs at companies with a risk for failure because thered no longer be the potential for massive upside.
If theres no shot at getting rich for grinding it out as an early employee at a startup, top talent wont take those jobs.
Companies would have to shift to higher salaries and big bonuses to attract the best employees.
But startups often dont have the cash to do that.
In order to attract talent they rely on equity thats free to dole out at the time and only worth a lot if the company succeeds.
This could push top product, design, engineering and sales people to work at bigger, established companies that can afford juicy salaries and bonuses.
And with fewer equity-made millionaires and billionaires, there will be fewer people investing in the next generation of startups.
This in turn could reduce innovation, prevent the disruption of aging giants and lower the U.S. tech sectors competitiveness with the world.
Theres no doubt that the tech industry is frothy, tons of people are accumulating huge wealth via equity and they could probably afford to pay higher taxes.
But thats only after theyve earned their fortune by liquidating equity.
A tax on vesting dissuades people from ever taking a swing for the fences.
[Update: One policy option would be to follow Canadas lead, where vesting is taxed but smaller private corporations like startups get an exemption.
Otherwise, if the law goes into place, startups might have to adopt profit sharing models to attract talent.
But that would only help certain fast-to-profit startups, not the build/grow now and monetize later startups that often become the biggest.]
Wilson recommends that people who want to fight this should call their senator, speak with the aide covering tax reform and ask for this tax on vesting to be changed or removed from the Tax Cuts And Jobs Act.
The Senate could potentially try to push the Act through before years end.
And if the vesting tax becomes law, it could wreak havoc on the startup world.
It takes courage to say you were wrong about almost everything.
But thats what Snap Inc. CEO Evan Spiegel did this week, and thats what it will take to save Snapchat.
From algorithmic feeds to partnerships to target markets to recruiting adults, Snap is planning a 180-degree turn across the board.
Headwinds and face wins Its warranted.
The Q3 earnings report was a blood bath, with Snaps share price down 18 percent.
User growth slowed to a 2.9 percent crawl.
Revenue fell $30 million short.
$40 million of Spectacles sit unsold.
The company lost another $443 million.
And the head of engineering just bailed.
On the outside, Snapchat Stories clones WhatsApp Status and Instagram Stories now have 300 million daily users each.
Snaps whole app has just 178 million.
Instagram now has its own augmented reality face filters.
Facebook is pushing its own Stories feature hard.
Facebook Messenger has become ubiquitous with 1.3 billion users.
And Facebook is willing to buy any startup that gives it an edge with teens, like its new acquisition tbh.
Netflix and YouTube keep getting better at original premium video.
Creators and influencers want money, not just audience, so theyre turning to Patreon.
More details keep emerging about Apples AR glasses that could trounce ones Snap makes.
And Snaps sagging share price makes it harder to convince startups to sell to it.
Keep on keeping on is no longer a viable strategy for Snap, and Spiegel knows it.
After reinventing messaging and social media with ephemerality, now he has to reinvent Snapchat.
The product.
The user base.
The philosophy.
Here are the big flip-flops Snapchat is planning.
Influencers Before: Snapchat spent years shunning social media influencers despite huge interest from these creators.
A week after Snapchat Stories launched in 2013 I wrote Whos going to be the first Snapchat Stories Celebrity?
But the company denied influencers like Mplatco official ways to monetize, provided weak analytics on viewers, ignored their requests, refused help with account lock-outs and only started verifying their accounts like real celebrities in August.
Many Snapchatters eventually left for YouTube and Patreon where they could earn money directly.
Snapchat is a close friends network, making ads more influential and interactions more meaningful, the company wrote on its For Business blog.
Personal, one-to-one Snaps sent directly to friends are what make Snapchat a close friend network not a broadcast network for reaching the largest number of people, it explains.
Now: Spiegel announced on the Q3 earnings call that shunning creators was a mistake, and it needs them to keep viewers coming back.
We have historically neglected the creator community on Snapchat .
.
.
In 2018, we are going to build more distribution and monetization opportunities for these creators .
.
.
Developing this ecosystem will allow artists to transition more easily from communicating with friends to creating Stories for a broader audience, monetizing their Stories, and potentially using our professional tools to create premium content.
The question is if its too late to lure creators back to an app with sluggish user growth.
The developing world/android Before: Snap relies on high-bandwidth video that doesnt load as well in the developing world, where ads also command lower rates.
But rather than embrace the engineering challenge of improving load times, shift the product to focus on photos in these regions or commit to building ad value and prices, Snap largely abandoned the Rest of World market.
That ignores the network effect Snapchat needs to survive, and cedes the developing world to Instagram where its feed is already popular.
In its February IPO filing, Snap wrote: We expect growth to continue to come from developed markets with readily available high-speed cellular internet and high-end mobile devices, and on the Q1 call Spiegel said: Historically weve really focused our efforts on markets where both of those are available.
Snaps average revenue per user increased just one cent from $0.29 to $0.30 in the Rest of World this quarter.
Though the company disputes the claim, Snapchat is being sued by a former employee who stirred controversy by accusing Spiegel of saying This app is only for rich people.
I dont want to expand into poor countries like India and Spain.
Snap also admitted in its IPO filing that although our products work with Android mobile devices, we have prioritized development of our products to operate with iOS because thats where its early users were.
But by Q1 Spiegel was saying Overall, especially in the last half of last year, we had a really tough time with Android, blaming sign-up flow bugs for slowed user growth.
Now: Snap finally acknowledges that it needs to enhance its network effect and lay a foundation for the future by winning users everywhere on every device despite the challenges.
Its also starting to play videos before theyre fully loaded and may seek zero-rating deals for free data use on certain networks.
On the Q3 call Spiegel said: In order to further scale our user base, we need to accelerate the adoption of our product among Android users .
.
.
and users in the Rest of World markets.
We are taking action both internally and externally to improve connectivity for our community.
Internally, we are focused on product improvements like our new streaming architecture for Story playback .
.
.
Externally, we are exploring partnerships with select wireless carriers who can help us to provide our service at a lower cost to our community.
And to attract more Android users, we are building a new version of our Android application from the ground up.
But many of these users have already been burned by poor Snapchat app performance.
Adults Before: Snapchat has viewed itself as a cool app for teens that could be turned off if adults signed up, even though this excludes a massive potential audience.
It proudly didnt label its buttons, leading confused adults to abandon the app after install.
On the Q1 earnings call, Spiegel said: We do tend to market our products directly to younger people because, frankly, they are more interested in learning how to use new technology products.
And thats sort of is partly inspired by trying to teach my grandma how to use email; and shed really prefer to just talk on the phone .
.
.
And so I think, over time, that strategy has worked for us.
Now: Snapchat seems to have suddenly woken up to the fact that its plummeting daily active user growth per quarter (once over 17 percent before Instagram Stories launched, now a weak 2.9 percent) is exacerbated by it avoiding adults.
On the Q3 earnings call, Spiegel said: In order to further scale our user base, we need to accelerate the adoption of our product among .
.
.
users above the age of 34.
This means that we will have to make some changes to our product and business.
Gracefully, coordinating this shift without scaring off loyalists will be a huge challenge.
Usability Before: Snap actually thought having a confusing interface was a value-add because it made it viral amongst school kids whod show each other the tricks to using the app.
Adults in particular had a hard time understanding the app, leaving them vulnerable to competitor Instagram that built a more obvious Stories interface and that already had an easy-to-use feed thats popular with adults.
In the IPO filing, Snap wrote: Even when we have the right solution, its often in the form of a new product that might take a while for our community to learn how to use.
Just because products are sometimes confusing when theyre new doesnt mean we are going to stop building innovative products for our community.
.
.
These new behaviors .
.
.
are not always intuitive to users .
.
to date, this has not hindered our user growth or engagement, but that may be the result of a large portion of our user base being in a younger demographic and more willing to invest the time to learn to use our products most effectively.
Now: With Snap desperate for growth, its going to risk alienating existing users with a massive design overhaul.
Rather than gradually simplifying the interface over the years, the usability problem now requires drastic action, which is both commendably bold but also more dangerous.
This is why Facebook avoids backlash by only changing design elements slowly and steadily.
On the Q3 call, Spiegel said: One thing that we have heard over the years is that Snapchat is difficult to understand or hard to use, and our team has been working on responding to this feedback.
As a result, we are currently redesigning our application to make it easier to use.
There is a strong likelihood that the redesign of our application will be disruptive to our business in the short term, and we dont yet know how the behavior of our community will change when they begin to use our updated application.
Were willing to take that risk for what we believe are substantial long-term benefits to our business.
Algorithmic feed Before: Snapchat at first succeeded by being the opposite of Facebook, with content that disappeared instead of lasting forever.
But a source close to Snap Inc. tells me Spiegels anti-Facebook orthodoxy kept him from embracing a News Feed-style algorithmically relevance-sorted feed, even as Instagram and Twitter saw engagement improve after adopting this curational method.
Instagram Stories shows the people youre most likely to watch first, and thats led it to 300 million daily active users dwarfing the 178 million of the app it cloned.
Snapchat has always ranked its Stories list purely by which of your friends posted most recently.
Thats useful if you want to read the pulse of where friends are right now.
But as peoples Snapchat social graphs grow, this sorting buries your best friends and favorite content creators in favor of constant oversharers.
Plus Snap now has Snap Map for real-time location.
I wrote a piece in April about how Snapchat is stifled by its un-algorithmic feed, advocating for at least adding a relevancy sorted tab or a section of your favorite people to watch at the top.
Now: Snap has realized that sorting its content to show the most engaging stuff first is its best chance to revive user growth.
On the Q3 call, Spiegel announced a personalization effort, saying: We are going to make it easier to discover the vast quantity of content on our platform that goes undiscovered or unseen every day.
We are developing a new solution that provides each of our 178 million Daily Active Users with their own Stories experience, leveraging the tremendous benefits of machine learning without compromising the editorial integrity of the Stories platform that we have worked so hard to build .
.
.
We hope that showing the right Stories to the right audience will help grow engagement and monetization for our partners and for Snapchat.
According to a source speaking to Business Insider, Snapchat is planning to launch this new design around December 4th that puts all messages and Stories from friends to the left of the camera, and all celebrity, publisher, search and Snap Map content to the right.
Snap will use algorithms to personalize the endless feed of videos to the right of the camera, Alex Heath writes.
The question is whether Snap will also algorithmically sort Stories from friends, which could go a long way to making the app more enjoyable for new users.
Philosophy Before: Spiegels strategy has always been to go with his instincts over data, and try to surprise people rather than foreshadowing Snaps movements or publicly beta testing products, sources close to Snap have told me in the past.
While Facebook rigorously A/B tests features on segments of its user base and implements what boosts engagement, Spiegel has preferred to trust his gut.
Thats what led to ephemeral messaging and Stories, after all.
But as Snap scales, that strategy is wearing thin.
Spiegel initially refused to accept there was a user growth problem caused by Instagrams competition despite the evidence, sources told The Information.
He eliminated the Auto-Advance feature that made watching Stories easier without any data showing that would help growth.
While not all of our investments will pay off in the long run, we are willing to take risks in an attempt to create the best and most differentiated products on the market, Snap wrote in the IPO filing.
And on the Q1 call, Spiegel confidently joked that Were kind of famous for not giving guidance on the product pipeline.
Now: Spiegel spent most of the Q3 call giving guidance on the product pipeline, as noted throughout this article.
2018 promises to be a productive and exciting year for Snap, with many changes coming to our products and platform, he explained.
To pull off such a broad flip-flop of strategy, Spiegel will have to learn to trust the data alongside his instincts, test products widely to avoid a disastrous misstep with the redesign and communicate with the world to boost confidence while Snaps share price sags.
As early shareholders sell, Spiegel is slated to gain sole control of the company, and that leaves investors to only be able to vote with their wallets.
They have to believe in Spiegels newly plotted course.
And navigating it will take as much a reimagining of the companys philosophy as its app.
[Featured Image Credit: Contently via TechCrunch]
The Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) announced today that 36 members have agreed to a set of certification standards for Kubernetes, the immensely popular open source container orchestration tool.
This should make it easy for users to move from one version to another without worry, while ensuring that containers under Kubernetes management will behave in a predictable way.
The group of 36 is agreeing to a base set of APIs that have to underly any version of Kubernetes a member creates to guarantee portability.
Dan Kohn, executive director at CNCF, says that they took a subset of existing Kubernetes project APIs, which are treated as a conformance test that the members who have signed on, are guaranteeing to support.
In practice this means that when you spin up a new container, regardless of who creates the version of Kubernetes, it will behave in a consistent way, he said.
Kohn said that the organization has been able to bring together many of the industrys biggest names onboard.
We are thrilled with the list of members.
We are confident that this will remain a single product going forward and not fork, he said.
Forking is the act where some companies break off on their own in an open source project, creating a new and possibly incompatible version of the software.
The CNCF wanted to ensure this didnt happen, and so apparently did many of its powerful members including Microsoft, Red Hat, Alibaba, Oracle, Google and IBM along with many others.
AWS, the biggest force in public cloud computing was not among the companies signing, but the CNCF says this is simply because the company has yet to create its own version of Kubernetes (although it supports Kubernetes clusters running on AWS).
When AWS joined the CNCF in August, it was a major proof point that the CNCF and Kubernetes had arrived.
Make no mistake, this a huge and somewhat miraculous occurrence to have this many diverse technology companies agree to anything, but Kohn says most of the organization came together fairly quickly around the forking concern.
Kubernetes is skyrocketing and everyone is adopting it.
When you have a high level of engagement and adoption, there is a concern whether the project is going to fork.
If I have an app that works on one version, will it work on another one, Kohn told TechCrunch.
Kubernetes has indeed become a defacto standard in the last year with just about every big name in tech joining the CNCF.
Todays announcement is about bringing some level of discipline to a growing project and its a significant step forward in the maturation of Kubernetes as an open source project.
Featured Image: Stan Olszewski/SOSKIphoto/Flickr UNDER A Copyright LICENSE
Sometimes the simplest ideas make the biggest difference.
Take SnapType, for example.
Created by a husband and wife team Ben and Amberlynn Slavin this app lets kids take pictures of their homework and simply type in answers instead of having to hand-write them.
Amberlynn, a pediatric occupational therapist, works with kids with ADHD, Autism, Down Syndrome, and dyslexia.
Many of these students are unable to write in answers on basic school worksheets for various reasons.
In order to help them with their homework, then, she and her husband created an app that lets them take a picture of the sheet and simply tap to type in the answers.
The company is completely bootstrapped except for a $10,000 grant.
from World Domination Summit Foundation.
Ben is a programmer and built the entire app himself.
The free app has seen 1.5 millions downloads so far.
I met the duo in Muscat where they stopped over during a fourth-month long bicycle trek through the Middle East.
They were excited to tell the SnapType story.
Amberlynn came up with the idea for SnapType during her occupational therapy graduate fieldwork.
She worked with a 5th grade student diagnosed with dysgraphia, a learning disability that made his handwriting extremely messy, said Ben.
His occupational therapist tried many things to help him improve his penmanship, but nothing worked.
The determined occupational therapist even scanned his worksheets into a computer so he could type in answers to questions, but it was too time consuming so she stopped doing it.
He was frustrated about getting left behind in class because he couldnt complete the worksheets with the rest of his peers.
The app is as simple as it sounds.
A Pro version lets students and teachers connect to send homework directly upon completion but you can export your homework and send it by email or any other file sharing system.
Its a solid, simple idea with a lot of heart.
How did the student fare after he got SnapType?
The students occupational therapist, teacher, and parents are thrilled!
said Amberlynn.
However, the real joy comes from seeing him use the app.
It is easy for him to take a picture of a worksheet and use the iPad keyboard to answer questions.
He no longer falls behind in class and is more confident about his abilities.
Featured Image: snaptype
With Stitch Fixs IPO on the horizon, Wall Street and the rest of the tech industry is going to be keeping a close eye on this next big consumer IPO as both a signal for the future of e-commerce startups like Stitch Fix and the consumer IPO market as a whole heading into the back half of the year.
So one of the big metrics Wall Street and others will be focusing on is how Stitch Fixs business is going to look moving forward beyond just their current financials which look good according to Goodwater Capital partner Eric Kim.
After surveying around 3,000 people over the past few quarters, the firm found that while a tiny fraction of the people surveyed are Stitch Fix users, more than half of those people expect their use of Stitch Fix to increase.
Its a rounding error compared to Amazon, of which 91% expect to increase their usage, but its still a positive signal going forward for the company.
The company focused on that, among a large number of other data points, in a big report it released today ahead of the companys IPO.
This benchmarks pretty well and is pretty high compared to other startups and late-stage e-commerce companies, Kim said.
This is a key customer sentiment number were gonna pay attention to over the quarters, this has been getting better according to our data.
But we know the best-in-class is 91% with Amazon, and Stitch Fix is at 54%.
What well be paying attention to as a leading indicator is Stitch Fixs ability to create this positive NPS.
Kim said based on their research that the retention rate can be as high as four times that of other fashion-oriented e-commerce startups.
But while the ramp looks good for Stitch Fix right now, the consumer IPO market is still more or less in hangover mode following Blue Apron and Snaps poor performances.
Theyre obviously different businesses, but Stitch Fix is going to test Wall Streets appetite for consumer IPOs, and thats going to require selling the companys future potential versus their current performance, Kim said.
Stitch Fix is showing aggressive revenue growth right now based on its S-1 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which companies release before they are about to go public.
Stitch Fix showed a slight dip in its net income, but thats mostly a product of beginning to invest in new businesses to increase the total addressable market for the company which needs to be big if its going to impress Wall Street.
Another big data point is that a majority of its users also give some kind of feedback to Stitch Fix, Kim said.
Stitch Fix, while an e-commerce company that at the end of the day leans on stylists to send personalized clothing, is very much touted as a data play alongside an e-commerce business.
But that means it also has to build a defensible data set for the company that makes it able to outmaneuver other competitors like Trunk Club, and that requires a lot of feedback from its user base.
What they really need to do as a company is set expectations well with Wall Street, Kim said.
Theyve been growing so fast, everything is working right now, theyve seen operating margin increasing, theyve seen gross profit margin increasing, and I think theyll likely be messaging to the street theyre gonna be investing in the business for the long term.
They cant be short-sighted on just profitability in the future or maximizing profit.
They just need to message it so the streets expectations are not sky high on a dimension that would be in the companys best interest to make sure they have enough leeway to invest in other categories.
Stitch Fix is also nearly break-even on the first purchase, which gives it a lot of freedom to maneuver into new businesses without having to worry too much about profitability, Kim said.
Goodwater Capital invests in consumer startups, but Kim said it hopes by releasing reports and information like this will help bridge the gap between Wall Street and founders in Silicon Valley.
Indeed, many founders and investors look at these upcoming IPOs closely as they look to set their expectations for comparable markets and startups and where they should value those startups, especially as they approach IPO status.
Its similar to the kinds of reports that most banks issue with ratings for the stocks, which themselves can sometimes move the stock price of those companies.
Stitch Fix set the price range for its initial public offering last week, setting a potential valuation for the company at nearly $2 billion at the top end of the price range.
Correction: the previous version of this story said that Goodwater Capital invests in consumer IPOs.
It does not, and invests in consumer startups.
Featured Image: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images
The money-saving deals wont end on Nov. 24.
Cyber Monday shoppers can look forward to more special promotions in the wake of Black Friday.
Cyber Monday known as the day when companies offer a wide array of discounts online is set to take place this year on Nov. 27.
Here are some deals already available or will soon be: Banana Republic Looking for clothing for the family?
All items at the retailer are going to be half-off on Nov. 27, Glamour reports.
Dell "Cyber Week deals will be available starting Nov. 26, and rolling Cyber Monday doorbusters will launch Nov. 27 at 8 a.m.
ET with new deals posting hourly until 8 p.m.
ET.," the company said in a release.
Both Cyber Week deals and the rolling Cyber Monday doorbusters will be here and here, Dell said.
Cyber Week will run until Dec. 3.
BLACK FRIDAY'S BIGGEST DEALS AND SAVINGS H&M If you need to stock up on wardrobe pieces, consider H&M: there will be a sitewide 30 percent discount Nov. 27, according to Glamour.
Old Navy Old Navy is already offering Cyber Monday deals on clothing for women, men and children on its website.
Some of those items include: Broken-In Khaki Shorts for Men (10"), $10.97 (regular price: $24.99) Raw Hem Denim Skirt for Women, $15 (regular price $29.99) A number of graphic t-shirts for boys are also listed online for $8.97 each, as opposed to $16.99.
Overstock.com The online retailer is offering a variety of "Pre-Cyber Monday Deals," including limited time sales on some bathroom furniture and rugs.
The company is also currently offering deals on home office furniture that run until Thursday.
Some of those include: Harper Blvd Ellenda Midcentury Adjustable Height Desk - Salem Oak, $413.09 (reduced from $573.49) Harper Blvd Adelie Mirrored Writing Desk, $305.98 (reduced from $354.99) Americana Black Pedestal Desk by Home Styles, $535.49 (reduced from $749.99) Check back for more Cyber Monday deals as the shopping day gets closer.
And the Guinness World Record for Fastest Speed Over 100 Meters in a Body Controlled Jet Engine Powered Suit goes to Richard Browning, who soared above the earth in Reading, England, last week in his Iron Man suit a souped-up jacket with six kerosene-filled gas turbines, each packing 48-and-a-half pounds of thrust.
PYRAMID DISCOVERY: SCIENTISTS USE COSMIC RAYS TO FIND MYSTERIOUS CHAMBE INSIDE ANCIENT EDIFICE Browning, the founder and chief pilot of Gravity Industries, hit a speed of 32.02 miles per hour in his third timed run.
And it was no easy feat, because his contraption has no steering device its controlled by human body movement alone.
He had to master core strength exercises to make sure he could balance and hold his position while flying.
Whats next?
Maybe landing on his own two feet.
Browning concluded his run by plopping down gently into a lake.
SECRET AGENT FISH?
ROBOT INFILTRATES AQUATIC SCHOOLS, INFLUENCES THEIR BEHAVIOR But the records his, and his alone.
What better way to celebrate Guinness World Records Day?
For eons, students have found ways to cheat on exams and tests looking at someone else's test or paper, getting the answers beforehand or plagiarizing someone else's work.
Now, in an age where technology is pervasive in every facet of life, some have been accused of using an app to help them cheat.
The Ohio State University has accused 83 of its students of cheating by using the GroupMe app to work on classwork together.
SNAPCHAT IS GETTING A NEW LOOK BECAUSE IT'S 'TOO HARD TO USE' Ohio State University said the students abused the code of conduct, citing unauthorized collaboration on graded assignments.
Students charged with academic misconduct violations may accept responsibility for the charges or request a hearing... Ohio State University spokesman Benjamin Johnson said in a statement obtained by news outlet WCHMH.
If found in violation, students receive sanctions based on the nature and severity of the violation in accordance with university standards and protocols.
The app, which lets users send chats to large groups of people simultaneously, is permitted to be used by the school's rules, but is subject to the same scrutiny as any other form of communication.
GroupMe is not among the top 50 apps in the App Store or Google Play, but it is ranked 14th among social networking apps in the App Store.
Fox News 8 in Cleveland noted that the investigation began after a professor in the university's business school reported the allegations this past April.
The names of the students have not been released.
Potential penalties range from warnings to expulsion.
GroupMe has not yet responded to a request for comment for this story.
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia.
The Associated Press contributed to this story.
Alongside the growing amount of original content, signing up for one or more streaming video subscription services such as Netflix or Prime Video comes with the added bonus of no ads.
However, Amazon is apparently working on a completely free version of its Prime Video service, but it will be full of ads.
According to AdAge, Amazon is currently in talks with movie studios, media companies, and TV networks to plan content for a free video streaming service.
Where as Prime subscribers pay $99 a year and gain access to Prime Video without adverts, this service wouldn't cost consumers a dime.
In return for that free viewing experience, Amazon would surround content with advertising to cover the costs of the service.
Earlier this year, the number of Amazon prime subscribers went past 80 million, but that still leaves tens of million more who don't or even won't pay for access to streamed content.
A free service may entice them to try Amazon's platform, at which point Amazon could regularly try and upsell them to a Prime subscription as well as introducing all the other perks paying for Prime offers.
And don't forget, free viewers will likely still need to buy a Amazon Fire TV device to watch.
If this free service sounds like a return to regular ad-funded TV, think again.
Amazon is apparently planning a much more lucrative deal to content owners.
For example, it has been suggested Amazon will share advertising revenue with content creators by allowing them to setup their own channels and provide a set number of hours of content each week.
We could effectively have the equivalent of YouTube, only each channel would be from an approved and established movie studio, TV network, or media company.
As to what content we should expect to see on a free Prime Video service, expect a little of everything from children's programming, travel, and cooking, to classic TV shows and the thousands of old movies the studios have to offer.
For now, Amazon is choosing not to comment and the focus remains on Prime subscriptions.
If a free service does appear, do you think it will use the Prime Video name or some alternate and new branding?
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
When Apple announced it was getting rid of Touch ID for facial recognition, the company said it was a more secure option with only a one in 1,000,000 chance of being hacked.
If you happen to have an evil twin, you need to protect your data with a passcode, marketing vice president Phil Schiller joked during Apples iPhone X announcement.
Well, it turns out you dont need an evil twin because Apples Face ID can be hacked using a mask, according to IT security researchers at Bkav.
The researchers didnt use any special software or hacks to bypass Face ID, instead using a 3D printed frame, makeup, a silicone nose and 2D images, along with special processing on the cheeks and around the face where there are large areas of skin.
The security experts said they were able to bypass the system because they had understood how Apples artificial intelligence worked.
Everything went much more easily than you expect.
You can try it out with your own iPhone X, the phone shall recognise you even when you cover a half of your face, the hackers explained.
It means the recognition mechanism is not as strict as you think, Apple seems to rely too much on Face IDs AI.
We just need a half face to create the mask.
It was even simpler than we ourselves had thought.
The researchers claim the entire mask used to trick Face ID cost less than $A200 to create.
We used a popular 3D printer.
Nose was made by a handmade artist.
We use 2D printing for other parts (similar to how we tricked Face Recognition 9 years ago).
The skin was also handmade to trick Apples AI, they wrote.
In closing, the security experts had a scary warning for owners of the iPhone X.
After nearly 10 years of development, face recognition is not mature enough to guarantee security for computers and smartphones, they wrote.
As for biometric security, fingerprint is the best.
This story originally appeared in news.com.au.
The latest target of pro-ISIS hackers is none other than 800 school websites across the United States.
The widespread hack occurred last Monday, and lasted two hours, in which visitors were redirected to a YouTube propaganda video featuring Arabic audio, the text, I love Islamic State (ISIS) and images of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.
Unless we have irrefutable evidence to suggest otherwise, we need to assume confidential data has been compromised, Hamid Karimi, vice president of business development and the security expert at Beyond Security.
That should be a cause for concern.
To remedy the situation, all schools and institutions that serve minors must submit to (a) stricter set of cybersecurity rules.
The breached school websites, which spanned nationwide from New Jersey to Arizona and Virginia to Connecticut, are all powered by a company called SchoolDesk.
The company since has handed over its server which runs out of Georgia to the FBI for investigation and also has hired external security firms to trace the hackers.
The Atlanta-based company said after the hack that technicians detected that a small file had been injected into the root of one of its websites.
The websites were redirected to an iframed YouTube video.
No data was lost or altered in any way.
Because were currently working with the FBI in an active investigation of this incident, as well as forensic team from Microsoft, we cannot yet discuss any technical details or exact methods of access to SchoolDesks network or software, a spokesperson for SchoolDesk told Fox News.
The company has insisted that no personal or student information was exposed, but some security experts say the matter should be closely monitored, especially as minors are involved.
In most hacks, organizations do not have full visibility into what happened or what information was compromised, surmised Eric Cole, who served as commissioner on cyber security for President Barack Obama, and was formally a senior vice president at MacAfee and the chief scientist at Lockheed Martin.
In almost every breach, what is initially reported is usually extremely conservative and over the weeks following a breach, it is always worse than what was originally reported.
The proud culprits of the hack?
A shadowy pro-ISIS hacktivist outfit known as Team System DZ.
Lorraine Murphy of The Cryptosphere, a specialist hacking and malware news site, which long has been tracking Team System DZ, said that the group generally speaking is focused on making public deface rather than penetrating systems and getting information, and has been in-motion pre-dating ISIS, going back to at least 2013.
They used to support freedom for Palestine, #OpFreeGaza, and freedom for Kashmir, and now they support ISIS, Murphy said.
Team System DZ basically has one trick: take advantage of outdated WordPress sites, and make bold, scary-looking defaces.
Its a trick that has been working for them for three years, and there is no reason to believe that it will stop working anytime soon.
Over the course of more than three years, the group has hacked vast and a seemingly arbitrary range of thousands of websites across the world from scores of U.S. government sites including the Washington State Department of Health, the Ohio Department of Administrative Services and the Howard County, Maryland government site, which were replaced with a black screen, Islamic calligraphy, the Call to Prayer and the words: You will be held accountable, Trump, you and all your people every drop of blood flowing in Muslim countries.
Canadas Prince Albert police station also was targeted last week, and the city council in Aberdeen, Scotland, and even a local West Yorkshire, England rugby team have been apprehended in the past.
The wide range of targets all had one common characteristic: they had weak network and web protection, Karimi pointed out.
It appears that Team DZ was acting opportunistically as opposed to surgically.
'JIHADI COOL': HOW ISIS SWITCHED ITS RECRUITMENT AND SOCIAL MEDIA MASTER PLAN Cyber forensic data has indicated that the attacks waged by the group initially came from Algeria, also indicated by the use of the DZ, which is the countrys internet domain code.
However, it is likely that they have franchised their defacing operations without a central command, Harimi explained, thus have become both global and difficult to track.
For example, Alex Kassirer, director of counterterrorism at intel firm Flashpoint, told Fox News that the group is known to have at least one member from Jordan based on the actors pseudonym zilzal jordan, with zilzal being the Arabic word for earthquake.
The threat they pose is largely limited to the propaganda and messaging war, he continued.
The FBI long have been reported to be investigating the notorious Team System DZ, but declined to comment on the matter.
It is believed that no one directly part of the sympathizer hacking group, despite how long they have been operating, are believed to ever have been made.
What they typically do is cyber-graffiti, they are attempting to spread propaganda on behalf of ISIS to garner support, noted Dan McNemar, director of threat intelligence at Binary Defense Systems.
A number of pro-ISIS groups have come and gone, Team DZ has certainly been around the longest.
LEAVE NO MAN BEHIND: EXPERT TEAM PREPARES TO RETRIEVE REMAINS OF FALLEN WWII SERVICEMEN FROM UP TO 350 FEET BELOW ICE But alliance ties between Team System DZ and ISIS itself remain murky.
To date, ISIS has not formally acknowledged the group or indicated they have any authority over the cyber outfit.
Yet as long as such hacking groups remain unscathed, so too does the propaganda and recruitment machine along with their potential to go beyond the realm of website defacement.
They have not been arrested primarily because they are a low-level operator that is more nuisance than genuine threat at this point.
Why waste time on a web defacer, when we can spend time on high value targets instead?
But we should be thinking about how these attacks could evolve in the future, added Jeff Bardin, chief information officer of Treadstone 71, a security firm specializing in cyber-threat intelligence and analyzing online jihadists and extremist groups.
To go beyond mere propaganda into more serious territory like cyber extortion and threats.
A real estate investment firm owned by Bill Gates recently bought a giant plot of land in Arizona for $80 million to be developed into a smart city.
Arizona-based Belmont Partners, one of Gates investment firms, purchased close to 25,000 acres of land in Tonopah, around 50 miles west of Phoenix, to create a smart city called Belmont, KPNX reported.
SELF-DRIVING SHUTTLE CRASHES IN LAS VEGAS HOURS AFTER LAUNCH Belmont will create a forward-thinking community with a communication and infrastructure spine that embraces cutting-edge technology, designed around high-speed digital networks, data centers, new manufacturing technologies and distribution models, autonomous vehicles and autonomous logistics hubs, Belmont Partners said in a press release, according to KPNX.
The community will transform a raw, blank slate into a purpose-built edge city built around a flexible infrastructure model, according to Belmont Properties.
Itll reportedly include space for 80,000 residential units, in addition to 470 acres for public schools and 3,800 acres designated for offices, commercial buildings and retail outlets.
BILL GATES PREDICTS POLIO WILL BE ELIMINATED THIS YEAR The purchase is a smart move, Arizona Technology Councils Ron Schott told KPNX.
He said the projected citys location is the right place -- near the newly opened Interstate-11 freeway, which is expected to expand its route to run through Belmont, to Las Vegas.
It remains unclear when Belmont would be built.
Gates smart city would follow in the footsteps of a similar metropolis being built in Columbus, Ohio.
People love to mooch Wi-Fi.
They dont mean any harm.
They just find an unprotected signal and sign on.
Why not?
Its free, and nobody will even know.
Your neighbor wont mind if you steal a little broadband to watch Netflix, right?
But criminals also love unsecured Wi-Fi, and they do mean harm.
They use your network to attack your gadgets and steal your personal information.
They download illegal files through your router, making you vulnerable to a police investigation.
To add insult to injury, intruders slow down your connection, causing buffering and making it harder for you to finish online tasks.
Still, it may not be mooches causing a pokey connection.
Click here for three router tweaks to speed up your Wi-Fi.
Wardriving has been going on for years.
Hackers drive around hunting for an unprotected Wi-Fi network they can exploit.
How do you protect against such random attacks?
Here are a few tips for securing your Wi-Fi router against unauthorized hitchhikers.
Check for connected gadgets Time to look at your network.
First, youll want to log in to your routers administration console.
Basically, you are logging in to your router, the same way youd log in to any computer.
Every router has a different way of doing this, so check your manual for specific instructions.
(If you don't have your manual anymore, check the manufacturer's site.
Or tap here to visit a fantastic site that has thousands of manuals for anything under the sun, including routers.)
Make sure your device is connected to your router wirelessly or by cable.
Open a browser and type in the router's IP address, a set of numbers whose default depends on the router's manufacturer.
The common IP addresses are 192.168.1.1, 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.2.1.
Check the DHCP Client List or Attached Devices section that shows what gadgets are connected to your router.
Typically, they are listed by IP address, MAC address and/or Name.
Once youve surveyed this list of connected gadgets, figure out which ones belong to you.
You should recognize the name of your main computer, and your tablet or smartphone should have the name of the manufacturer or model.
If you can't make sense of the list or you cant identify certain devices, simply turn off each gadget one by one.
You can also disable each gadget's Wi-Fi.
For tracking purposes, jot these network details down or take a quick pic using your smartphone so you can reference them later.
If youve switched everything off and still see unknown gadgets, you know you have a culprit.
Now, theres a much simpler way: You can use the aptly named Wireless Network Watcher, a free program that gives you a list of gadgets connected to your Wi-Fi network.
You can quickly fire it up whenever you want to check or just leave it open for real-time monitoring.
Easy.
Encrypt your connection You may find intruders, or you may not.
Either way, you can protect your Wi-Fi connection (and your personal data) by encrypting your connection.
Every router on the market offers several encryption options.
One type to avoid is WEP, which is outdated and easy to circumvent.
Instead, look for any encryption that starts with WPA2, the most recent being WPA2-PSK AES.
The WPA2 family of encryption should protect your router from any run-of-the-mill hacker.
Click here for more detailed instructions for securing your Wi-Fi against intruders.
Its possible that your network is already encrypted, yet outsiders are still accessing your Wi-Fi.
If so, change your password immediately.
You can also reset your router to factory settings (consult your manual) and set up your Wi-Fi signal from scratch.
This will mean changing the default password, enabling encryption, picking a new network name (SSID) and turning off any remote management features.
Just remember, if you change your encryption password, youll have to update the password on all your devices as well.
Even WPA2 encryption isnt perfect.
Cybersecurity experts recently discovered a massive Wi-Fi hack called KRACK.
Click here to learn how to protect your network from this new attack.
Fence out your guest network Friends and family always want to use your Wi-Fi.
They ask politely, phone in hand because they hate to burn up their data plans when they can just use your connection.
Instead of handing them your real password, use your routers Guest Network.
This feature lets you share your internet connection with your guests while keeping them off your main network, preventing them from seeing your shared files and services.
To avoid confusion with your main network, set up your guest network with a different SSID and password.
Although the guest network is available to guests, maintain the same level of security as your primary network.
This means developing a strong password and restricting access to your shared files and devices.
Make sure that local access is set to off, which will prevent guests from tampering with your system.
Want a really cool tip?
You dont have to give out your passwords at all.
Heres a way that you can share your network's password using a QR code.
Turn off remote administration Remote administration is a feature that allows you to log in to your router and manage it over the internet.
If youve ever called tech support, you may have experienced something similar: A faraway technician speaks with you on the phone and operates your computer as if hes sitting right next to you.
Remote administration is a handy tool, especially when you need to fix a problem, but it leaves your computer vulnerable to hackers.
Unless you absolutely need it, turn this feature off.
You can find it under your router settings, usually under the Remote Administration heading.
You can always switch it on again if the need arises.
The last thing you need is to invite strangers on to your home network.
What questions do you have?
Call my national radio show and click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer.
From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.
Copyright 2017, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment.
All rights reserved.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
Credit cards on the dark web Q: How do hackers buy credit card numbers on the dark web?
A: Many people believe hackers use stolen data themselves, that they find a bunch of Social Security numbers and then create fake passports and open bank accounts for their purposes.
But hackers do not need these things; they just want to sell the data to someone else.
This includes credit card numbers, which are bought and sold on the dark web like any other commodity.
Want to be shocked?
Click here to see what you can buy for just a few bucks on the dark web.
Black Friday deals Q: Do you have any thoughts on what deals we can expect on TVs on Black Friday?
A: Gadget sales are always full of surprises, and hot-ticket items from January may have lost their luster by the time November rolls around.
Other items take months or even years to attract a following, which can dramatically affect their Black Friday price tags.
Around the holidays, a lot of gift-givers veer toward entertainment, and every year I pay close attention to the door-buster sales on wide-screen TVs.
Click here for Black Fridays TV price predictions.
Google Maps hacks Q: I use Google Maps.
Can you share how you use it?
Id like to learn a few tricks.
A: Most people use Google Maps for quick directions.
Thats great, but like everything Google creates, Maps is capable of so much more.
You can search by category, save venues and even use the maps offline.
As someone who often finds herself in busy airports, I love the share location feature, because its stressful to explain where you are when someone is trying to pick you up.
Perhaps the least-known option allows you to chart the path youve already taken, which can be handy or creepy, depending on how you look at it.
Click here for 12 useful tricks for using Google Maps.
Facebook swap meets Q: I heard you mention Facebook swap meets on your national radio show.
What are these?
A: When it comes to free exchanges online, almost everything gets compared to Craigslist.
After all, Craigslist was the first major website to list classified ads for free, and millions of people still use its stripped-down interface to find babysitters, motorcycles and acting gigs.
But, as everyone knows, Craigslist is a crapshoot, and con artists are everywhere.
So whats a safer alternative?
Check out Swip Swaps.
Unlike Craigslist, Swip Swaps has a certain level of accountability.
Click here for cheaper, safer deals on Facebook.
Dirt-cheap Apple watches Q: My sister told me that I could buy an Apple Watch for $25 from my insurance company.
Is she making stuff up again?
A: I have to laugh because I can only imagine the yarns your sister has spun in the past.
But rest assured that this one is true, as long as you are enrolled in one particular insurance company.
To paraphrase Hippocrates, the best thing you can do for yourself is get a little exercise, and the Apple Watch is a great motivator.
The device can record your movement, your heart rate and sleep data, and you can easily learn how many calories youve burned in a day.
If youre already signed up with John Hancock, you may be able to nab an inexpensive new toy.
Click here to learn about this $25 Apple Watch opportunity.
What questions do you have?
Call my national radio show and click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer.
From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.
Copyright 2017, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment.
All rights reserved.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
Wounded warriors may soon have extremely miniature devices injected into them that can trigger the body to self-heal from invisible war wounds.
In the future, ElectRx tech could potentially detect the onset of disease.
Once detected, the tech would immediately react and stimulate the peripheral nerves to restore health by course correcting the performance of the brain, spinal cord and internal organs.
This program could deliver an entirely new system to defeat post-traumatic stress, chronic pain, inflammatory disease, and other illnesses that may not respond to current and conventional treatments.
It could revolutionize the way illness and disease are diagnosed and treated.
Currently neuromodulation is a last resort.
ElectRx could make it the first thing and the only thing needed to restore health.
Invisible wounds Approximately 20 veterans commit suicide every day, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
This is a much higher rate than civilians.
NORTH KOREA: WILL MINI NUKES BECOME AN OPTION FOR TRUMP?
Invisible wounds from war such as post-traumatic stress, depression and chronic pain are believed to be contributing factors to this tragic loss of life.
The bastion that gave rise to life-changing innovations like the internet and GPS, DARPA, is seeking solutions.
DARPAs brainboxes are turning their genius to solving the challenges of invisible war wounds.
And theyve enlisted other medical pioneering superstars from all over the country, drawn from academia and the private sector, to join them in finding solutions to PTSD, depression and chronic pain.
The program is called Electrical Prescriptions, or ElectRx.
And they are determined to create groundbreaking miniature devices that will initiate self-healing of body and mind.
This futuristic tech will use the bodys nervous system to restore and maintain health.
If successful, it could mean entirely new treatments for illnesses that replace the traditional go-to drugs.
And even solutions for illnesses that have no current viable treatment.
It is believed that much of the mental health and chronic inflammatory diseases involve abnormal activity in the peripheral nervous system.
The peripheral nervous system plays a central role in organ function.
WILL THE US UNLEASH REVOLUTIONARY 'LIGHTNINGSTRIKE' DRONE ON FUTURE ENEMIES?
If the nerve signals of the peripheral nervous system could be somehow monitored - and targeted then there could be great potential to restore health without drugs or surgery.
PODCAST: MEET PRINCE HARRYS HEROINE + US MARINE AMPUTEE Commandeering the human body superhighway The peripheral nervous system is the bodys information superhighway.
Motor and sensory signals constantly zoom through this superhighway communicating information regarding our health status.
These signals play a role in triggering changes in the brain and other organs to maintain health.
A key part of this initiative is unlocking the mysteries of the bodys data superhighway the nervous system.
Experts are going to figure out specific neural circuits and their role in health and disease.
The teams will map neural circuits and develop revolutionary bio-electrical interfaces.
The initiative will need to master how the nervous system regulates many aspects of our health.
It will also need to develop the tech to measure and stimulate nerve signals.
ElectRx will be able to change lives by controlling the human bodys superhighway.
DARPA will own the road and use it to restore health to our wounded warriors.
POWERFUL TINY TANKS WITH VR AND FUTURISTIC COCKPITS COULD REVOLUTIONIZE THE BATTLEFIELD Heres an example neurochemicals regulate learning and memory in the brain.
Peripheral nerve stimulation could be used to regulate neurochemical production.
This could mean entirely new treatment options for post-traumatic stress and other mental health challenges.
How would it work?
The devices, called neuromodulation tech, will be so small they could be injected with a needle.
They can both monitor and respond from inside the body.
Once inside the body, the ElectRx device would harness its advanced sensing and stimulating technologies to target specific peripheral neural circuits that control organ functions.
They would monitor the persons health status and then intervene when necessary.
If intervention is required to restore health, then the device would deliver therapeutic patterns of stimulation tailored specifically for the patient.
SLIME OF 300-MILLION-YEAR-OLD CREATURE MAY BE USED FOR BODY ARMOR A simple example of this sort of tech and approach is the pacemaker, which uses brief pulses of electricity to stimulate the heart to beat at a healthy rate.
ElectRx devices will do something similar, but for other organs, whether the stomach or the brain.
This could even provide entirely new ways of treating inflammatory diseases like rheumatoid arthritis.
It may also even help to safely and reliably instruct the peripheral nervous system to fight disease.
DARPA has selected seven teams of researchers.
Heres a nutshell on 3 of these exciting projects underway.
PODCAST: FIND OUT HOW THIS INSPIRING SPECIAL FORCES AMPUTEE ACHIEVED THE IMPOSSIBLE Defeating biomolecules to conquer depression For depression, some research suggests that depression might be caused in part by excess levels of inflammatory biomolecules.
Fighting inflammation with ElectRx may also provide new treatments.
Eliminating chronic pain with light inside the body Circuit Therapeutics is working with optogenetic methods to treat neuropathic pain.
In simple terms, they are using a combination of gene therapy and a light device.
By harnessing the power of light and targeting specific regions with it inside the body, they are hoping to put an end to chronic pain.
Theyre transducing the specific circuit and making exciting progress.
Ending PTSD using the neck PTSD is when individuals are reminded of a traumatic event and feel anxiety and panic.
Approximately 8 percent of the U.S. population will have PTSD at some point in their lifetimes, according to the National Center for PTSD.
A University of Texas team, led by veteran Robert Rennaker and Michael Kilgard, is using vagal nerve stimulation to induce neural plasticity for the treatment of post-traumatic stress.
VNS has already had success with depression.
To reduce the fear response, they are using targeted VNS during exposure therapy.
The vagus nerve is in the neck.
They send a mild electric pulse through it and it relays data about the status of the body to the brain.
Delivering medical supplies into the heart of the Amazonian rainforest is no easy feat.
So a group within BD, a medical technology manufacturer, is testing whether drones will do the trick.
The company worked with WeRobotics, an international NGO that promotes the use of drones for social good around the world, and UAV del Peru, a local affiliate.
for its first set of field tests.
At the Exponential Medicine conference in San Diego, California, last week, the groups showed off their solution, which includes a special pouch for diagnostic tests, blood collection kits and other supplies, that fits neatly into the drone.
Juan Bergelund, a manager of UAV del Peru, said the drones are designed to land in soccer fields.
And that the company is training locals on the ground about the technology, so they understand how to work and use it.
It's still early days for the technology, which isn't as accurate and precise as it needs to be.
But both BD and UAV del Peru see major potential to use drones to deliver potentially life-saving supplies in the most remote parts of the world.
Tesla's a bit nervous about its Autopilot autonomous driving technology and now I know why.
When I first engaged Autosteer in the settings menu, I was greeted by a wall of legalese explaining the responsibilities I have as a driver while operating the system.
In case that wasn't enough, Tesla also insisted that I first try Autopilot with a communications executive in my passenger seat ensuring I was ready to operate it safely and correctly ahead of my Model S P100D review.
You can't really blame Tesla.
The company has encountered serious backlash for the system.
Some have blamed it for crashes, others have criticized the cavalier marketing strategy and allegedly misleading name.
Elon Musk has also declared his intention to one day morph Autopilot into a fully-autonomous system, and he's already selling cars marketed as having the hardware necessary for full self-driving capabilities.
Typically, when I review cars with semi-autonomous capability, I add a few sentences under the "driving" section to critique the systems.
But as you can see, there's far too much to unpack with Autopilot.
I decided to do a separate article, focusing on what Autopilot does and what it fails to do.
Amazon may not sell real tanks or fighter jets, but the Pentagon could soon be looking to buy other items in bulk from the e-commerce giant, according to a pending bill.
The bill, formally known as the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, is part of an annual measure that sets defense policy and authorizes spending on particular defense programs.
The final version of the NDAA was announced last week in a House-Senate conference report, and the House is set to vote as early as Tuesday on the legislation.
"The fiscal year 2018 NDAA conference report has something for everyone," Jefferies analyst Sheila Kahyaoglu said in a research note.
She said Lockheed Martin looks like "the biggest winner," noting that funding levels for the F-35 stealth fighter are more than $2 billion above the administration's request.
There's a total of 90 F-35 fighters that the NDAA conference report provides for, up from the 70 aircraft requested by the White House.
But it's the acquisition provision in the NDAA that allows the Department of Defense to buy "commercially available off-the-shelf items" from online marketplaces that is especially interesting and could be far reaching since the Pentagon buys not just high-priced weapon systems but ordinary goods such as office supplies.
"The Pentagon is one of the largest organizations in the world," said Todd Harrison, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington-based think tank.
"If you look at it, they employ like 2.2 million people full time and another 800,000 part time.
It's a big organization with a lot of bases and office space, so there's there's a lot of these mundane purchases of pencils and whatever."
The reform is designed to "improve the way the Pentagon buys commercial off-the-shelf goods, ranging from bottled water to treadmills or even forklifts," according to the NDAA summary report prepared by the House Armed Services Committee.
It said the DoD has two options today for purchases, through the contracting process or from the General Services Administration.
Under the change, the government would be allowed "to use online commercial sites such as Amazon, Grainger, Staples, or Walmart just as businesses do," the NDAA summary stated.
"These portals function like mini-marketplaces, ensuring that the buyer gets the best price without a lot of red tape."
"It could be very significant over a number of years," said Roman Schweizer, a defense analyst at Cowen.
"Just initially there's going to be sort of a learning process.
Also, the government is going to have to set up the rules of the road and set up some thresholds and procedures on how to do it."
The federal government's independent GSA would have a prominent role in helping to create the ground rules for the DoD's program to buy from online marketplaces.
"I'm curious to see how this will actually work in practice," said Dan Grazier, a defense industry expert at the Project On Government Oversight, a Washington watchdog group.
"There's been all kinds of issues over the years with people abusing the government charge cards, which is exactly how this system will be used."
The NDAA also contains other acquisition reform provisions, including to give the Pentagon better oversight and understanding of their service contracts, which includes everything from base maintenance such as painting buildings, mowing laws and other support areas.
The NDAA is more of a policy bill for national defense priorities and programs but not an appropriations bill.
Slightly more than half of the Pentagon's annual contract obligations are for what's categorized as contracted services, which includes facility, construction, R&D, transportation, logistics and other services.
Meantime, besides Lockheed's F-35 being a beneficiary of the NDAA there's good news in the legislation for Boeing.
The bill authorizes the procurement of more of the company's F/A-18 fighters, V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and Chinook CH-47 helicopters than the administration had asked for in its May budget.
Kahyaoglu also said the NDAA includes "broad support across ships."
Specifically, the bill authorizes just over $26 billion for shipbuilding to fund 14 ships, some $6.3 billion above the president's request or 5 more battle force ships.
The Senate could vote on the NDAA before Thanksgiving holiday but no vote is imminent, according to a congressional source.
Once the conference version is approved by both chambers it can go to the president for consideration.
Overall, the NDAA includes $692 billion in defense spending, which includes around $66 billion for the so-called Overseas Contingency Operations warfighting fund and a base budget of $626 billion, as well as $8 billion for other defense activities.
But the base discretionary spending amount exceeds the $549 billion allowed under the current budget caps.
"Not only is it well in excess of the budget caps, it's in excess of what the president submitted in his budget request," said CSIS's Harrison.
Getting rid of the budget caps will require at least 60 votes in the GOP-controlled Senate, or support of every Republican and eight Democratic senators.
Another hurdle to still overcome is getting Congress to agree on a appropriations bill to fund the fiscal 2018 defense spending.
There's a chance the appropriations could end up at a lower level than the NDAA's total of $700 billion.
"You can authorize whatever level of funding you want in the NDAA," said Harrison.
"You still have to wait on appropriations to come, and that can end up at a very different level of funding.
And they are not making any progress on the appropriations right now."
In fact, it was Jia's grand ambition what he and others called a "sharing ecosystem" that is "way far ahead" that finally triggered the fall of the the once flamboyant tech icon, former employees and outside experts told CNBC.
The high-flying company was brought down to earth both domestically and internationally, largely because of its heavy reliance on debt to fund an ever-increasing stable of projects, which mostly failed to pan out.
One former LeEco employee, who asked to remain anonymous so as not to damage their reputation, pointed to that gamble when reflecting on the company's struggles.
"Jia's strategies for the company have always been extremely advanced, but those require extreme executions," the woman, who previously worked in LeEco's U.S. office, told CNBC.
"It's rare for ordinary companies or employees to execute strategies perfectly, not to mention that the company was experiencing such a rapid expansion," she said.
Value investor Seth Klarman's Baupost Group hedge fund has eliminated its stake in Qualcomm just two quarters after taking it.
Baupost acquired 5.2 million shares of Qualcomm in the first quarter, and sold them all in the third quarter, according to a required quarterly filing Monday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Sometimes compared to Warren Buffett, investor Klarman is reclusive and tends to focus on the long-term.
Klarman has generated tens of billions of dollars in gains for his clients across decades.
The hedge fund also initiated a stake in AMC Entertainment with 3.6 million shares, the third quarter filing showed.
Qualcomm shares fell almost 9.6 percent between the end of the first quarter and the end of the third quarter, although it's unclear from the filings exactly when Baupost bought and sold.
Shares fell nearly 6.7 percent on Oct. 31 after The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple was designing products for next year that would not include Qualcomm components.
Both companies declined to comment.
But Qualcomm shares have subsequently surged 30 percent to their highest since January.
Broadcom made a more than $100-billion unsolicited takeover bid for the rival chipmaker, which Qualcomm rejected Monday.
Qualcomm shares closed up nearly 3 percent.
CNBC's Tae Kim contributed to this report.
As dramatic as the downturn in bitcoin's price was over the weekend, history indicates future returns will likely be greater.
Bitcoin fell about 20 percent over the weekend before recovering much of its losses.
The last four times bitcoin has fallen more than 20 percent this year, it has gained an average 28 percent in the two weeks following, according to digital currency trading firm Genesis Global Trading.
Four weeks out, the digital currency has gained an average 61.5 percent, the data showed.
Bitcoin performance in the weeks after a drop of more than 20% Source: Genesis Global Trading The digital currency plunged to a low of $5,507 this weekend amid uncertainty over bitcoin's future.
Developers have disagreed over the best way to improve bitcoin's transaction speeds and costs, resulting in splits in the digital currency.
After some developers last Wednesday called off an upgrade proposal called SegWit2x, investors began buying "bitcoin cash," the bitcoin offshoot formed in August.
Another alternative version of bitcoin, "bitcoin gold," launched Sunday in an effort to make the process of creating, or "mining," the digital currency less dependent on specialized hardware.
The original bitcoin has proved resilient so far this year.
Bitcoin hit record highs after the August split into bitcoin and bitcoin cash.
Bitcoin also more than recovered from a $2,000 drop in September after a Chinese crackdown on digital currencies.
Digital currency enthusiasts attribute the gains to growing interest from institutional investors, especially as the planned launch of bitcoin futures later this year may allow other products such as a bitcoin exchange-traded fund to launch.
Bitcoin this year Source: CoinDesk Bitcoin traded more than 9 percent higher, near $6,392, Monday afternoon, according to CoinDesk.
Fundstrat's Tom Lee predicts bitcoin could hit $25,000 or more by 2022.
Former Fortress hedge-fund manager Mike Novogratz also said on CNBC's "Fast Money" in October that bitcoin will likely top $10,000 in the next six to 10 months.
But that's no guarantee that bitcoin will keep rising.
Novogratz has also said the digital currency "is going to be the largest bubble of our lifetimes."
He's just willing to bet on gains on the way up, before a crash.
With reporting by CNBC's Seema Mody.
Venture capitalist Steve Jurvetson, co-founder of DFJ, is on leave from the boards of Tesla and SpaceX after being forced to leave his venture firm due to claims of sexual harassment.
"Steve Jurvetson is on a leave of absence from the SpaceX and Tesla boards pending resolution of these allegations," a Tesla spokesperson said in a statement.
Jurvetson took to Twitter to confirm that he's leaving DFJ and also to say that he's preparing "legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me."
Roku's ultimate goal to be the TV platform: Analyst 6:11 PM ET Wed, 8 Nov 2017 | 02:24 Roku CEO Anthony Wood is a brand-new billionaire after an impressive three days of trading for the streaming company.
Roku has spiked more than 70 percent since market open Thursday as investors jumped on the company's first earnings report since going public in September.
The stock closed Monday at $42.71, putting the company's market cap at $4.15 billion and the personal stake of Wood who owns 27.3 percent of outstanding common stock, according to company filings at $1.13 billion.
Roku reported a 48 percent year-over-year increase in active accounts and a 58 percent yearly increase in streaming hours in its quarterly earnings results.
Spacecraft builder Sierra Nevada Corporation completed a critical flight test of its Dream Chaser orbital vehicle on Saturday, moving a step closer to supplying the International Space Station.
Launched unpowered from a Chinook helicopter above the California desert, Dream Chaser flew autonomously on a planned path before landing at Edwards Air Force Base.
Dream Chaser proved "its atmospheric flight performance along with its return and landing capability," Mark Sirangelo, a vice president at SNC, said in a statement.
"The Dream Chaser flight test demonstrated excellent performance of the spacecraft's aerodynamic design and the data shows that we are firmly on the path for safe, reliable orbital flight."
Sirangelo told reporters on a conference call that the free flight test version of the aircraft "is a full-scale version of what we will fly to orbit."
When asked about plans for the manned variant of the craft, Sirangelo said the current cargo program's testing "makes those other options more viable."
Former NASA astronaut and SNC senior director Steve Lindsey said on the call that the test included not only orbital vehicle designs and processes, but also specific orbital vehicle equipment.
If you want to hedge your bets on media, Comcast is your best choice according to IAC/InterActiveCorp and Expedia chairman and senior executive Barry Diller.
"Of all those companies, Comcast is the most perfectly positioned because they are really on the distribution side in a significant way, and they're on the production side also in a significant way," Diller told CNBC's "Power Lunch" at the Internet Association's Virtuous Circle Summit on Monday.
"Whichever one you bet on for having the ability to grow in the period when big technology companies take over almost anything, that's a pretty good bet."
The era of a handful of traditional media companies dominating the landscape is over as more technology giants get in the game, Diller said.
Existing media companies can still survive, but they'll never have the monopoly over entertainment and advertising while Facebook and Google have such large user bases.
Cord-cutting is less of a risk for companies like Comcast, Diller explained.
If people stop buying its cable bundle, it still owns the data pipeline.
Diller also applauded Disney's current strategy of investing in ways to bring its content direct to consumers through streaming services and moving its content off other services like Netflix.
It will need a lot of original content to pull it off so reports Disney was interested in buying most of 21st Century Fox make sense, Diller said.
However he added he has no idea if the deal will take place.
Note: Comcast owns CNBC parent company NBCUniversal.
Amazon will not use pharmacy licenses it obtained from Tennessee and Indiana to sell prescriptions, but will use them to sell medical devices and supplies instead, the company has told regulators.
Amazon has kept mum about its ambitions in health care, despite reports that it's exploring getting into the prescription drug business.
But it has been quietly talking to regulators.
Analysts from the investment firm Jefferies uncovered correspondence between the company and regulators in Tennessee and Indiana.
Excerpts from these documents, which Jefferies obtained in a Freedom of Information Act request, show that Amazon intends to sell medical devices and supplies in its Indiana fulfillment center, but would not be storing or distributing prescription drugs.
"Applicant (Amazon) will not store or ship drugs," the application clearly states.
That said, most industry experts aren't ruling out the possibility of Amazon entering the prescription drug market.
Instead, they maintain that it's a matter of if, not when.
"There has been a massive overreaction to the Amazon threat," said Adam Fein, president of Pembroke Consulting and a drug supply chain expert, to CNBC.
"I would never underestimate Amazon," he continued.
"But I remain somewhat skeptical of Amazon's ability and desire to fundamentally alter the drug channel (as) the incumbents will have many opportunities to defend their position, capture value from internet technologies, and streamline distribution."
Jefferies analysts stress that Amazon could navigate the complexities of the prescription drug space, but that it will be likely to disrupt some lower-hanging fruit first.
And that includes selling medical supplies, such as surgical equipment and devices.
That would be a more immediate threat to medical distribution companies, like McKesson and Cardinal Health, rather than to pharmacies and pharmacy benefits managers.
Amazon is expected to make a decision about whether it will get into the prescription drug business in the coming weeks.
Famed venture capitalist Steve Jurvetson is leaving his job at Draper Fisher Jurvetson in the wake of an investigation into sexual harassment.
DFJ announced the move in a letter to limited partners on Monday.
The firm released a statement to Recode that read: As of today and by mutual agreement, Steve Jurvetson will be leaving DFJ.
DFJ's culture has been, and will continue to be, built on the values of respect and integrity in all of our interactions.
We are focused on the success of our portfolio companies, as well as the long-term vision for the firm and will continue to operate with the highest professional standards.
The firm did not specify the reason for the ouster in the letter, but sources said that the investigation uncovered behaviors by Jurvetson that were unacceptable related to a negative tone toward women entrepreneurs.
In a one-sentence statement to Recode, Jurvetson said: "I am leaving DFJ to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those who have defamed me."
The departure comes as Jurvetson, one of the highest-profile entrepreneurs on Sand Hill Road, was being investigated by his own firm for harassment.
An entrepreneur had alleged predatory behavior was "rampant" at DFJ.
The woman, Keri Kukral, did not name Jurvetson in her Facebook post.
DFJ responded at the time that it had never received such a complaint from any of its partners or investors.
"Earlier this summer we became aware of indirect and secondhand allegations about one partner, Steve Jurvetson," a DFJ spokeswoman said.
"We immediately opened an independent investigation, which is ongoing at this time."
Jurvetson currently sits on the boards of SpaceX and Tesla.
By Theodore Schleifer, Recode.net.
CNBC's parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Recode's parent Vox, and the companies have a content-sharing arrangement.
More from Recode: It was the White House that gave Elon Musk 'verbal' approval to build a hyperloop sorta Blue Apron is the worst-performing major U.S. IPO this year SoftBank is insisting it could walk away from an Uber deal
A firm tied to Bill Gates is involved in an $80 million investment in a "smart" city in Arizona, according to property records viewed by the Arizona Republic.
The yet-to-be developed community on the west side of Phoenix would have a freeway running to Reno, Nevada, and would be developed around "solar power and electric distribution systems, autonomous auto testing, broadband, and data centers," according to a press release.
A press release from real estate investment group Belmont Partners only names the investor as "Mt.
Lemmon Holdings."
The Republic discovered the connection to Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates through property records.
The records showed that the attorney for a company called Cascade Investment was involved in the sale of the stake in the development.
SEC filings list Gates as the "reporting person" of that investment firm.
An office for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is also listed as a mailing address on the property records, the Republic reported.
Yount's attorney did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
A representative of the ownership of the project declined to comment.
For more on the development, see the story in the Arizona Republic.
The retail stock carnage will only get worse as Amazon continues to mow down certain corners of the sector, according to Bernstein.
"We are currently in the midst of a generational shift in consumer behavior and how companies bring their goods to market," the firm's analyst Ali Dibadj wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"The only thing one can be certain about is that things will change and companies will be disrupted, and when it comes to disruption there has never been a company quite like Amazon."
The retail sector is having a rough year so far as the industry struggles under the Amazon onslaught.
The SPDR S&P Retail ETF's declined 9 percent year to date through Friday compared to the S&P 500's 15 percent gain and Amazon's 50 percent surge in the same time period.
Dibadj shared his imminent Amazon disruption predictions for each consumer subsector: 1.
Consumer packaged goods: "We think beverages/snacks companies will fare better than household & personal care companies, while packaged food companies are likely most at risk."
2.
Restaurants: "The benefits of a potential national delivery network through Amazon Restaurants outweighs the relatively modest risk presented by Amazon's placing possible downward pressure on food prices (proteins appear more insulated)."
3.
Transportation: "Structural volume growth in e-commerce will benefit the network carriers, and the significant hurdle posed by the costs of last mile delivery is likely to result in better pricing."
4.
Broadline retailers: "We think the scale of Walmart's existing network of distribution centers, stores, and new pick-up points we expect ... will allow them to adapt well to the higher costs, while smaller grocers will be more damaged."
5.
Specialty apparel retail: "We see the off-price retailers retaining their competitive advantage in apparel, for now."
6.
Healthcare services: "We think Amazon's entry into pharmacy would be negative for independent pharmacies, somewhat negative for national pharmacies and distributors, and we increasingly see this as long term negative for" pharmacy benefit managers.
The analyst also explained how the internet and social media have generally hurt the power of traditional brands, further adding to the companies' difficulties.
Investors who want to bet against bitcoin's massive price gains can likely do so beginning in mid-December, according to the head of the world's largest futures exchange.
"When can you be able to short this product, I think sometime in the second week in December you'll see our contract out for listing," Terry Duffy, chairman and CEO of CME, said Monday on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
CME announced on Oct. 31 it would launch bitcoin futures by the end of the year, pending regulatory review.
The futures contract will be cash-settled according to the daily settlement price of the CME CF Bitcoin Reference Rate (BRR), which tracks a few major bitcoin exchanges.
Futures allow traders to bet on the price of an asset at a point in the near future.
If a trader sells a futures contract in anticipation of a decline in bitcoin, the trader locks in a gain if bitcoin subsequently drops.
Trading to profit off a price drop is known as shorting.
Bitcoin three-month performance Source: CoinMarketCap Bitcoin had a wild weekend, plunging more than $1,000 from Saturday's high of $6,827.72 to Sunday's low of $5,507.29, according to CoinDesk.
The digital currency then nearly recovered all those losses to hit a high of $6,770.37 Monday, before trading near $6,360.
"I'm not trying to rein in the volatility of bitcoin," Duffy said.
"But what I want to do is give it a place for other people to lay out that risk.
Today you cannot short bitcoin.
So there's only one way it can go.
You either buy it or sell it to somebody else.
So you create a two-sided market, I think it's always much more efficient."
CME's website lists special price fluctuation limits of 7 percent and 13 percent above and below the bitcoin futures' prior settlement price, and a price limit of 20 percent above or below that level.
Duffy said Monday the CME's system of "velocity logic functionality" might halt the bitcoin market for an hour if the digital currency is too volatile.
"I think that's going to add a lot more structure to the marketplace," he said.
Digital currency enthusiasts see the launch of bitcoin futures as another step towards establishing bitcoin as a legitimate investment asset.
Institutional investors who may be prohibited from directly purchasing bitcoin will be able to use the futures as a way to buy into the digital currency trend.
Bitcoin futures could also pave the way for a bitcoin exchange-traded fund.
Several long-time investors in traditional stocks and bonds are already moving into digital asset investing, illustrating how far bitcoin has come in less than a decade.
The digital currency was once only the focus of a small group of cryptocurrency enthusiasts and the online marketplace for illegal goods.
Now, an entire industry has also emerged with multiple businesses creating bitcoin through a "mining" process, selling digital mining equipment and offering bitcoin trading services.
More than 120 "crypto-funds" have also launched, according to financial research firm Autonomous Next.
What was once a fringe item has become a globally-traded digital asset.
The Missouri attorney general's office is investigating whether Google has run afoul of consumer protection or antitrust laws in the state.
Attorney General Josh Hawley's office said on Monday that it issued a subpoena to investigate if Google's use of information that it collects about consumers is appropriate and if the company stifles competing websites in search results.
Google has largely steered clear of antitrust problems in the U.S. That's not the case in Europe, where the company faces a fine of about $2.7 billion over the display of its shopping ads.
Google has challenged the decision in Europe, citing competitors like Amazon and eBay and arguing that its process doesn't favor "ourselves, or any particular site or seller" but rather is "the result of hard work and constant innovation, based on user feedback."
The Federal Trade Commission has come to rely more heavily on states attorneys general for enforcement.
The FTC sometimes comments on state regulations or coordinates a joint investigation, and state attorneys general can bring federal antitrust suits on behalf of a citizen of their state.
Google Spokesperson Patrick Lenihan told CNBC that Google has not yet received the subpoena.
"[W]e have strong privacy protections in place for our users and continue to operate in a highly competitive and dynamic environment," Lenihan said.
Uber's board may have reached a deal to allow Softbank to invest up to ten billion dollars in the company, but Softbank says its investment is "by no means decided."
In a statement to CNBC, Rajeev Misra, CEO of Softbank Investment Advisors and a Board Director of Softbank Group, said, "After a long and arduous process of several months it looks like Uber and its shareholders have agreed to commence with a tender process and engage with SoftBank.
By no means is our investment decided.
We are interested in Uber but the final deal will depend on the tender price and a minimum percentage shareholding for SoftBank" Over the weekend, Uber cleared the way for Softbank's tender offer to proceed, but sources tell CNBC that its success is far from guaranteed given Uber's fractured board.
Pricing is also an issue.
Talks on the tender offer have reportedly centered on a valuation of around $50 billion.
Uber has a current paper valuation of nearly $70 billion.
It's uncertain whether existing shareholders will want to sell at the price Softbank wants to pay.
And if Softbank isn't able to buy at least 14 percent of Uber, it can walk away.
According to a source, eligible employees with stock options are capped at selling half their holdings.
Benchmark and former CEO Travis Kalanick are two of the largest shareholders, and it's uncertain whether either party wants to sell any of their stake.
Sources say the deal was only able to go forward because they finally put aside their latest feud.
Benchmark has agreed to suspend its lawsuit against Kalanick, and drop it completely once the tender offer goes through.
In return, Kalanick has agreed that his two board seats -- currently held by John Thain and Ursula Burns -- would need majority approval from the board if they were to open up.
The stakes are high.
If Softbank's tender offer is successful, it will pave the way for major governance changes at Uber and brings it closer to a 2019 IPO.
The newest TV installment from Middle Earth is headed to Amazon.
Amazon Studios in conjunction with the Tolkien Estate and Trust, HarperCollins and New Line Cinema will produce a new "The Lord of the Rings" TV series, the company announced Monday.
Amazon acquired multiseason, global television rights to the project.
The show will be available for Amazon Prime members.
The series will be a prequel to the J.R.R.
Tolkien book "The Fellowship of the Ring," and is based on new story lines.
There is also potential for spinoffs.
The financial terms and series release timing were not disclosed, although a Deadline report said Amazon paid close to $250 million just for the rights without any production costs.
Amazon did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the price.
The race for acquisition of premium franchises is tightening, as more tech companies and streaming platforms acquire content.
Netflix has had a long-standing relationship with Marvel, and acquired comic book company Millarworld in August.
(Though Disney is pulling its Marvel movies off Netflix in 2019, the joint Netflix-Marvel TV show productions will remain.)
Meanwhile, earlier reports said Amazon and Apple were bidding for the "James Bond" franchise, along with traditional entertainment companies.
Bill Gates says he's giving $50 million to help fight Alzheimer's disease.
The Microsoft co-founder said Monday that the donation to the Dementia Discovery Fund is personal and not through his charitable foundation.
The London-based private fund is backed by government, charities and pharmaceutical firms and seeks new treatments for the progressive, irreversible neurological disease.
In a statement , Gates says men in his family have suffered from Alzheimer's.
He says he's hopeful that in time Alzheimer's could be a chronic condition treatable with medication.
Gates says the first treatments for the disease might not be feasible for a decade or more and would initially be expensive.
He says the Gates Foundation might consider how to expand access in poorer countries when treatments are developed.
Amazon Web Services is gearing up to launch more services targeted at the hot topic of artificial intelligence at its re:Invent conference in Las Vegas later this month, according to a new report.
AWS will introduce a service called Ironman that's meant to simplify AI tasks involving lots of different kinds of data, The Information said on Monday.
In addition, AWS plans to make it easier for people to use a Google-created technology called TensorFlow, an open-source framework for deep learning a trendy type of AI that companies can use for image recognition, speech recognition, language translation and other processes.
Google made TensorFlow available under an open-source license in 2015, and the library is now widely used among researchers.
AWS is the world's largest public cloud infrastructure provider, ahead of Microsoft Azure, the Google Cloud Platform and clouds from Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent.
In the most recent quarter, AWS brought Amazon $4.58 billion in revenue, up 42 percent year over year.
In the domain of AI, AWS has made a commitment to an open-source deep learning library called MXNet, but at the same time it does maintain a special page about TensorFlow on its website and includes a version of TensorFlow in a suite of software that people can deploy on top of computing resources that they rent out by the second.
Google offers a cloud service that provides a managed version of TensorFlow.
Additionally, Google's data centers are equipped with custom-built tensor processing unit chips that the company has said are "tailored to TensorFlow."
So far AWS has not introduced any custom silicon that's meant to accelerate TensorFlow or any other kinds of AI workloads.
Venture capital continues to flow into the burgeoning satellite industry.
Loft Orbital is the latest entrant, offering a "rideshare service" of buying satellites and then leasing space onboard to multiple customers.
The company announced Monday it raised $3.2 million in a recent seed funding round led by Uncork Capital.
"We want to make the experience of accessing space as easy as buying cloud services from Amazon Web Services," CEO Antoine de Chassy told CNBC.
"Instead of building or buying a satellite for your sensor, just lease space onboard one of our satellites and fly with us."
With its first satellite launch planned for 2019, de Chassy says Loft will now focus on purchasing satellites from manufacturing partners and bringing on more customers.
He says Loft is tapping into an underserved market, due to the traditionally complex and capital-heavy requirements for launching a satellite.
"We're targeting the smaller, more fragmented landscape of smaller sensors roughly $1 million to $2 million per year deal size for us," de Chassy said.
"It's similar to how Boeing and Airbus sell aircraft directly to large customers ... but also sell to aircraft leasing companies who lease aircraft to smaller airlines."
One of the investors in the most recent round, MDI Ventures, is an arm of Telkom Indonesia the largest telecom company in the southeast Asian country.
CEO Nicko Widjaja says his venture capital group has been looking to invest in the space industry for two years, looking at over half a dozen companies throughout the San Francisco bay area and Texas.
"While most are still in early deployment, Loft has already attracted customers and it's related to what we do at Telkom Indonesia," Widjaja said.
"What Loft offers makes sense for our corporate customers."
Loft aims to fly 12 to 15 satellites per year, negotiating the launch contracts with rocket companies for its customers and operating the units once in orbit.
While recent buzz has focused on the development of smaller cubesats, Loft will fly "washing machine-sized satellites."
"We want to use standard satellites because it enables us to create a USB-like interface," de Chassy added.
"Our interface will ultimately be able to accommodate any sensor looking for a ride to space [which] dramatically reduces the cost and time to integrate and test the satellite."
Apple will launch three new iPhones in 2018, including a high-end flagship with a giant 6.5-inch display, according to a note from KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo obtained by MacRumors.
That would be the largest iPhone display ever.
The iPhone X has a 5.8-inch screen and the iPhone 8 Plus has a 5.5-inch display.
Kuo said the 6.5-inch version and a new 5.8-inch model will use OLED screen technology that's similar to what's in the iPhone X.
The OLED panel is one reason the iPhone X is more expensive than the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus.
To hit a more affordable price point, Apple will launch a 6.1-inch model with a more traditional LCD display, he said.
"We believe the major hardware difference in the two new OLED models is size, in a bid to satisfy various needs of the high-end market," Kuo said.
All three phones are expected to feature a full-screen design and 3-D sensing, Kuo said, suggesting that Face ID will replace the home button entirely in 2018.
Apple was not immediately available to comment.
Read the full report at MacRumors.
Correction: This story was revised to correct the source of the name iPhone X Plus.
It was speculation from MacRumors.
Investors should not overlook Intel's artificial intelligence prowess, according to one Wall Street firm.
Barclays reiterated its overweight rating and raised its price target for Intel shares, predicting the chipmaker will thrive in multiple secular growth markets.
The company's shares are roughly flat midday Monday after the report.
"Intel has a better position in the AI inference market than they get credit for, which we expect to begin to play out in 2018," analyst Blayne Curtis wrote in a note to clients Monday.
Intel is the market leader in CPUs [central processing units], while Nvidia dominates the GPU [graphics processing units] chip industry.
The company has an "unappreciated advantage vs. GPUs While a GPU can show performance advantages vs. a CPU in a controlled favorable setting, a CPU offers a greater ease of use and better real world performance" for AI applications.
Curtis increased his price target for Intel shares to $55 from $45, representing 21 percent upside to Friday's close.
The analyst noted Intel's Skylake chip platform doubled machine learning performance.
"We expect large improvements in future generations as that workload takes off," he wrote.
The analyst is also optimistic on the company's acquisition of Mobileye, a leader in autonomous driving technology solutions and Intel's wireless modem business.
"With the PC market stabilizing and a declining piece of the overall mix, we believe DCG [Intel's data center group] can increasingly drive top-line growth along with other diversification initiatives," he wrote.
"We also look for a rotation into Intel as it is one of the cheapest names in the large cap semi space."
Intel's stock is up 26 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.
Cadillac is expanding its subscription car service to Los Angeles and Dallas, the company said Monday.
Cadillac launched the month-to-month subscription service, called BOOK, in New York City earlier in 2017.
It is one of a growing number of all-inclusive subscription services launched by companies luring car buyers who want the benefits of owning a car without the hassles of buying, maintaining and selling them.
Subscribers pay a one-time $500 initiation fee and a flat monthly fee of $1,800 to access a "curated selection of vehicles," including the CT-6 plug-in sedan, Cadillac's "V" performance sedans, and SUVs such as the Escalade, the company said.
All of the vehicles are 2017 and 2018 Cadillac models with the brand's higher-end Platinum and Premium Luxury trims.
The monthly fee includes registration, taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Subscribers can exchange vehicles up to 18 times a year.
They are, however, limited to driving 2,000 miles a month.
Users manage their accounts and select vehicles through an app.
A white-glove concierge service will drop off a chosen car to a specified location.
Other car companies are creating their own subscription plans for customers who might not want to commit to a purchase or a long-term lease.
For example, Volvo has the service Care, and also said it would offer its upcoming Polestar electric vehicles through a subscription service.
Ford also recently expanded its Canvas service to Los Angeles, from its pilot market of San Francisco.
Hyundai offers a $275-a-month subscription for its Ioniq electric car, but so far only in California.
Porsche has a pilot subscription program for its vehicles in Atlanta, Georgia, where its North American offices are based.
Companies that do not make cars are also getting into the market, though.
Companies such as FlexDrive and Clutch make the software that individual dealerships need to set up subscriptions for their own fleets.
Start-ups are worried about one part of the Senate's tax reform proposal that would hurt their ability to compete: taxing stock options when they vest, instead of when they are exercised, as is currently done.
Companies, often Silicon Valley start-ups such as Twitter, typically compensate employees with the promise of being able to cash out on the company's stock in the future.
Usually, the right to those shares is distributed over time, a process known as vesting.
Stock options are currently taxed when they're exercised, or sold at a set price.
The Senate bill if it became law "would be the end of equity compensation in startups as we know it," Fred Wilson, managing partner at venture capital firm Union Square Ventures, said in a blog post Monday.
"If this provision becomes law, startup and growth tech companies will not be able to offer equity compensation to their employees," Wilson said.
"We will see equity compensation replaced with cash compensation and the ability to share in the wealth creation at your employer will be taken away.
This has profound implications for those who work in tech companies and equally profound implications for the competitiveness of the US tech sector."
Lee knocked down an argument that the jobs lost will create new ones to service and program AI and robots.
"Robots are clearly replacing people jobs.
They're working 24 by 7.
They are more efficient.
They need some programming.
But one programer can program 10,000 robots."
Besides taking jobs beyond factory floors, robots and AI are already starting to takeover some of the mundane tasks around people's homes.
Lee pointed to the Amazon Echo as an example.
"The robots don't have to be anthropomorphized.
They can just be an appliance," he said.
"The car that has autonomous driving is not going to have a humanoid person [driving].
It's just going to be without a steering wheel."
Lee said that while economic growth "will go dramatically up because AI can do so many things so much more faster" than humans, it'll force everyone to rethink the practical and social impact of fewer jobs.
"If a lot of people will find happiness without working, that would be a happy outcome."
But in a Washington Post op-ed last month, Lee argued against universal basic income, the idea of governments providing a steady stipend to help each citizen make ends meet regardless of need, employment status, or skill level.
UBI is being bandied about as a possible solution to an economy that won't have nearly enough jobs for working-age adults.
"The optimists naively assume that UBI will be a catalyst for people to reinvent themselves professionally," he wrote.
It may work among Silicon Valley and other highly motivated entrepreneurs, he added, "but this most surely will not happen for the masses of displaced workers with obsolete skills, living in regions where job loss is exacerbated by traditional economic downturn."
Lee sees a different plan of action.
"Instead of just redistributing cash and hoping for the best we need to retrain and adapt so that everyone can find a suitable profession."
Some of the solutions he offered in his commentary include developing more jobs that require social skills such as social workers, therapists, teachers, and life coaches as well as encouraging people to volunteer and considering paying them.
Lee wrote, "We need to redefine the idea of work ethic for the new workforce paradigm.
The importance of a job should not be solely dependent on its economic value but should also be measured by what it adds to society."
"We should also reassess our notion that longer work hours are the best way to achieve success," he concluded.
Snapchat its getting its first daily sports show, courtesy of "SportsCenter."
"SportsCenter" on Snapchat will be an original three- to five-minute version of ESPN's flagship program, the companies said on Monday.
The debut episode, which posts at 5 p.m. Monday, will be hosted by Katie Nolan.
Other future hosts will include Elle Duncan, Cassidy Hubbarth, Jason Fitz and Cy Amundson.
New episodes will debut twice a day on weekdays at 5 a.m. and 5 p.m., and 5 a.m. on weekends.
"There's a huge opportunity to reimagine "SportsCenter" for this new medium and we're thrilled about the team and talent ESPN has assembled to do it," Snap head of original content Sean Mills said in a release.
Though it is possible certain highlights and stories will be featured on both, the Snapchat show is a different production from its TV counterpart.
The company wants the two series to be complementary, and it hopes the Snapchat show will find a new audience.
"Highlights will definitely be cut and presented differently, and some things that will be highlights here may not be in a traditional show," said ESPN spokesperson Paul Melvin.
"We want to really think about this as a show that needs to be true to the core mission of 'SportsCenter' to serve fans, to inform and entertain but that also is, and can be, entirely re-imagined for this audience and platform."
The new show comes as ESPN attempts to attract a digital audience moving away from cable.
Disney recently announced plants to create a stand-alone digital ESPN service next year.
Sources close to the situation also told CNBC the company plans to layoff 100 staffers after Thanksgiving, with many tied to the "SportsCenter" TV show.
At the same time Snap is trying to bounce back from a disastrous earnings report last week and a general souring of sentiment from Wall Street.
The company introduced shows on its Discovery feature about one year ago.
About three-quarters of viewership are ages 13 to 24, according to Snap.
It's most popular show E!
's "The Rundown" averages about 8 million viewers an episode.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Snap.
Airbus is making progress on its new electric-powered vertical take-off and landing aircraft colloquially (and incorrectly) known as a "flying car."
The European aerospace giant posted a series of photos today from its Vahana project, showing its team working on a pair of single-seat, tilt-rotor vehicles with a paint job that would make a Stormtrooper envious.
Airbus has said it wants to build a fleet of electric, autonomous, multirotor VTOL aircraft that can be used to fly from rooftop to rooftop in dense cities where traffic is often at a standstill.
The project launched in early 2016 as one of the first pursuits of A (pronounced A-cubed), its Silicon Valley subsidiary.
(Vahana is a Sanskrit word that refers to the vehicle or mount of a god.)
Since then, the company has reported regular updates, including a concept video of the user experience.
In its post, the company says that a full-scale demonstrator is currently under production, with the goal of taking flight by the end of the year.
The prototype was recently moved from California to a new flight test center in Pendleton, Oregon, where it will conduct its first demonstration.
A has said it plans to have a production-ready version by 2020.
Airbus, which competes with the US-based Boeing, is best known for large jetliners like the double-decker A380.
However, the flying car project shows that the Toulouse, France-based company is not above dabbling in some high-concept, and perhaps unrealistic, aviation ideas.
Vahana is only the latest attempt to achieve the long-held desire for personal flight.
At least 19 companies are developing flying car plans, including legacy manufacturers like Boeing and Airbus, and small startups like Kitty Hawk, owned by Google founder Larry Page.
Uber recently announced it would be working with NASA to realize its goal of testing an aerial taxi service in 2020.
More from The Verge: A new book examines German influence on modern day graphic design UPS is hoping to convert most of its New York City fleet from diesel to electric Faraday Future issues bombastic statement accusing former CFO of 'malfeasance and dereliction of duty'
Wall Street rarely talks about its mistakes, but BMO Capital Markets admitted in a note to clients that it messed up with its bearish call for Nvidia shares.
The firm's analyst raised his rating for the chipmaker to market perform from underperform, saying his predictions and forecasts were way off base.
"We have been reluctant to change our view, but now recognize that our underperform call did not work out," BMO's Ambrish Srivastava wrote in a note to clients Sunday.
"Our negative stance to date was based largely on our view that the gaming business would see a marked deceleration in CY17 vs. CY16.
However, the diversity in the business with wins at Nintendo, and help from the cryptocurrency market, has enabled the business to sustain at a higher level than what we were modeling."
Nvidia shares closed at an all-time high Friday, a day after it reported stronger-than-expected third-quarter earnings results.
The stock is up 102.5 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.
That performance ranks No.
4 in the entire S&P 500.
Srivastava raised his price target for Nvidia shares to $200 from $135.
The new target is 7.5 percent below Friday's closing price.
About 19 percent of Nvidia's sales are in its data center segment, where its cards are used for machine learning and artificial intelligence applications.
"NVIDIA has done a very good job in capitalizing on the demand for AI/ML, and primarily on the training side, where the company really has no competition," Srivastava wrote.
"While we are ourselves believers in the secular trend to heterogeneous computing, we have been wrong on the tailwind for NVIDIA's business in this market."
Srivastava lowered his rating for the company's shares to underperform from market perform on Feb. 23.
Nvidia stock is up 115 percent since the downgrade through Friday.
"Additionally, NVIDIA has also demonstrated a far higher amount of leverage in its model than we had been anticipating.
The recently-reported quarter was an example of the earnings power in the model," he wrote.
Nvidia stock traded down 1.3 percent on Monday.
The ride-hailing war between Uber and Lyft is moving international for the first time, with Lyft soon offering rides in Toronto, its first expansion outside the U.S. Lyft announced plans on Monday to expand its service to Toronto in time to "help ring in the holidays."
"From brunch in Bloordale and belly laughs on Mercer St to polishing off some late-night poutine at your favourite burger joint out in Woodbridge, we know Toronto is the place to be," the company said in a statement, employing Canadian spellings to mark the occasion.
Lyft has long been trying to carve out an equal share of the American ride-hailing market, but has struggled to match up against Uber.
Both companies have been eyeing IPOs, which could provide another frontier for competition as Wall Street weighs in on valuations.
Uber this weekend announced a plan to sell a stake to Japanese investment firm Softbank, potentially expediting the public offering.
With a leak of intelligence methods like the N.S.A.
tools, Mr. Panetta said, Every time it happens, you essentially have to start over.
Fifteen months into a wide-ranging investigation by the agencys counterintelligence arm, known as Q Group, and the F.B.I., officials still do not know whether the N.S.A.
is the victim of a brilliantly executed hack, with Russia as the most likely perpetrator, an insiders leak, or both.
Three employees have been arrested since 2015 for taking classified files, but there is fear that one or more leakers may still be in place.
And there is broad agreement that the damage from the Shadow Brokers already far exceeds the harm to American intelligence done by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A.
contractor who fled with four laptops of classified material in 2013.
Mr. Snowdens cascade of disclosures to journalists and his defiant public stance drew far more media coverage than this new breach.
But Mr. Snowden released code words, while the Shadow Brokers have released the actual code; if he shared what might be described as battle plans, they have loosed the weapons themselves.
Created at huge expense to American taxpayers, those cyberweapons have now been picked up by hackers from North Korea to Russia and shot back at the United States and its allies.
Photo Millions of people saw their computers shut down by ransomware, with demands for payments in digital currency to have their access restored.
Tens of thousands of employees at Mondelez International, the maker of Oreo cookies, had their data completely wiped.
FedEx reported that an attack on a European subsidiary had halted deliveries and cost $300 million.
Hospitals in Pennsylvania, Britain and Indonesia had to turn away patients.
The attacks disrupted production at a car plant in France, an oil company in Brazil and a chocolate factory in Tasmania, among thousands of enterprises affected worldwide.
American officials had to explain to close allies and to business leaders in the United States how cyberweapons developed at Fort Meade in Maryland came to be used against them.
Experts believe more attacks using the stolen N.S.A.
tools are all but certain.
Inside the agencys Maryland headquarters and its campuses around the country, N.S.A.
employees have been subjected to polygraphs and suspended from their jobs in a hunt for turncoats allied with the Shadow Brokers.
Much of the agencys arsenal is still being replaced, curtailing operations.
Morale has plunged, and experienced specialists are leaving the agency for better-paying jobs including with firms defending computer networks from intrusions that use the N.S.A.s leaked tools.
Its a disaster on multiple levels, Mr. Williams said.
Its embarrassing that the people responsible for this have not been brought to justice.
Video In response to detailed questions, an N.S.A.
spokesman, Michael T. Halbig, said the agency cannot comment on Shadow Brokers.
He denied that the episode had hurt morale.
N.S.A.
continues to be viewed as a great place to work; we receive more than 140,000 applications each year for our hiring program, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Compounding the pain for the N.S.A.
is the attackers regular online public taunts, written in ersatz broken English.
Their posts are a peculiar mash-up of immaturity and sophistication, laced with profane jokes but also savvy cultural and political references.
They suggest that their author if not an American knows the United States well.
Is NSA chasing shadowses?
the Shadow Brokers asked in a post on Oct. 16, mocking the agencys inability to understand the leaks and announcing a price cut for subscriptions to its monthly dump service of stolen N.S.A.
tools.
It was a typically wide-ranging screed, touching on George Orwells 1984; the end of the federal governments fiscal year on Sept. 30; Russias creation of bogus accounts on Facebook and Twitter; and the phenomenon of American intelligence officers going to work for contractors who pay higher salaries.
Photo One passage, possibly hinting at the Shadow Brokers identity, underscored the close relationship of Russian intelligence to criminal hackers.
Russian security peoples, it said, is becoming Russian hackeres at nights, but only full moons.
Russia is the prime suspect in a parallel hemorrhage of hacking tools and secret documents from the C.I.A.s Center for Cyber Intelligence, posted week after week since March to the WikiLeaks website under the names Vault7 and Vault8.
That breach, too, is unsolved.
Together, the flood of digital secrets from agencies that invest huge resources in preventing such breaches is raising profound questions.
Have hackers and leakers made secrecy obsolete?
Has Russian intelligence simply outplayed the United States, penetrating the most closely guarded corners of its government?
Can a work force of thousands of young, tech-savvy spies ever be immune to leaks?
Some veteran intelligence officials believe a lopsided focus on offensive weapons and hacking tools has, for years, left American cyberdefense dangerously porous.
We have had a train wreck coming, said Mike McConnell, the former N.S.A.
director and national intelligence director.
We should have ratcheted up the defense parts significantly.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Americas Cyber Special Forces At the heart of the N.S.A.
crisis is Tailored Access Operations, the group where Mr. Williams worked, which was absorbed last year into the agencys new Directorate of Operations.
Photo T.A.O.
the outdated name is still used informally began years ago as a side project at the agencys research and engineering building at Fort Meade.
It was a cyber Skunk Works, akin to the special units that once built stealth aircraft and drones.
As Washingtons need for hacking capabilities grew, T.A.O.
expanded into a separate office park in Laurel, Md., with additional teams at facilities in Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii and Texas.
The hacking unit attracts many of the agencys young stars, who like the thrill of internet break-ins in the name of national security, according to a dozen former government officials who agreed to describe its work on the condition of anonymity.
T.A.O.
analysts start with a shopping list of desired information and likely sources say, a Chinese officials home computer or a Russian oil companys network.
Much of T.A.O.s work is labeled E.C.I., for exceptionally controlled information, material so sensitive it was initially stored only in safes.
When the cumulative weight of the safes threatened the integrity of N.S.A.s engineering building a few years ago, one agency veteran said, the rules were changed to allow locked file cabinets.
The more experienced T.A.O.
operators devise ways to break into foreign networks; junior operators take over to extract information.
Mr. Williams, 40, a former paramedic who served in military intelligence in the Army before joining the N.S.A., worked in T.A.O.
from 2008 to 2013, which he described as an especially long tenure.
He called the work challenging and sometimes exciting.
T.A.O.
operators must constantly renew their arsenal to stay abreast of changing software and hardware, examining every Windows update and new iPhone for vulnerabilities.
The nature of the business is to move with the technology, a former T.A.O.
hacker said.
Long known mainly as an eavesdropping agency, the N.S.A.
has embraced hacking as an especially productive way to spy on foreign targets.
The intelligence collection is often automated, with malware implants computer code designed to find material of interest left sitting on the targeted system for months or even years, sending files back to the N.S.A.
The same implant can be used for many purposes: to steal documents, tap into email, subtly change data or become the launching pad for an attack.
T.A.O.s most public success was an operation against Iran called Olympic Games, in which implants in the network of the Natanz nuclear plant caused centrifuges enriching uranium to self-destruct.
The T.A.O.
was also critical to attacks on the Islamic State and North Korea.
It was this arsenal that the Shadow Brokers got hold of, and then began to release.
Like cops studying a burglars operating style and stash of stolen goods, N.S.A.
analysts have tried to figure out what the Shadow Brokers took.
None of the leaked files date from later than 2013 a relief to agency officials assessing the damage.
But they include a large share of T.A.O.s collection, including three so-called ops disks T.A.O.s term for tool kits containing the software to bypass computer firewalls, penetrate Windows and break into the Linux systems most commonly used on Android phones.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Evidence shows that the Shadow Brokers obtained the entire tool kits intact, suggesting that an insider might have simply pocketed a thumb drive and walked out.
But other files obtained by the Shadow Brokers bore no relation to the ops disks and seem to have been grabbed at different times.
Some were designed for a compromise by the N.S.A.
of Swift, a global financial messaging system, allowing the agency to track bank transfers.
There was a manual for an old system code-named UNITEDRAKE, used to attack Windows.
There were PowerPoint presentations and other files not used in hacking, making it unlikely that the Shadow Brokers had simply grabbed tools left on the internet by sloppy N.S.A.
hackers.
Photo Some officials doubt that the Shadow Brokers got it all by hacking the most secure of American government agencies hence the search for insiders.
But some T.A.O.
hackers think that skilled, persistent attackers might have been able to get through the N.S.A.s defenses because, as one put it, I know weve done it to other countries.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
The Shadow Brokers have verbally attacked certain experts, including Mr. Williams.
When he concluded from their Twitter hints that they knew about some of his hacks while at the N.S.A., he canceled a business trip to Singapore.
The United States had named and criminally charged hackers from the intelligence agencies of China, Iran and Russia.
He feared he could be similarly charged by a country he had targeted and arrested on an international warrant.
He has since resumed traveling abroad.
But he says no one from the N.S.A.
has contacted him about being singled out publicly by the Shadow Brokers.
That feels like a betrayal, he said.
I was targeted by the Shadow Brokers because of that work.
I do not feel the government has my back.
The Hunt for an Insider For decades after its creation in 1952, the N.S.A.
No Such Agency, in the old joke was seen as all but leakproof.
But since Mr. Snowden flew away with hundreds of thousands of documents in 2013, that notion has been shattered.
The Snowden trauma led to the investment of millions of dollars in new technology and tougher rules to counter what the government calls the insider threat.
But N.S.A.
employees say that with thousands of employees pouring in and out of the gates, and the ability to store a librarys worth of data in a device that can fit on a key ring, it is impossible to prevent people from walking out with secrets.
The agency has active investigations into at least three former N.S.A.
employees or contractors.
Two had worked for T.A.O.
: a still publicly unidentified software developer secretly arrested after taking hacking tools home in 2015, only to have Russian hackers lift them from his home computer; and Harold T. Martin III, a contractor arrested last year when F.B.I.
agents found his home, garden shed and car stuffed with sensitive agency documents and storage devices he had taken over many years when a work-at-home habit got out of control, his lawyers say.
The third is Reality Winner, a young N.S.A.
linguist arrested in June, who is charged with leaking to the news site The Intercept a single classified report on a Russian breach of an American election systems vendor.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Martins gargantuan collection of stolen files included much of what the Shadow Brokers have, and he has been scrutinized by investigators as a possible source for them.
Officials say they do not believe he deliberately supplied the material, though they have examined whether he might have been targeted by thieves or hackers.
But according to former N.S.A.
employees who are still in touch with active workers, investigators of the Shadow Brokers thefts are clearly worried that one or more leakers may still be inside the agency.
Some T.A.O.
employees have been asked to turn over their passports, take time off their jobs and submit to questioning.
The small number of specialists who have worked both at T.A.O.
and at the C.I.A.
have come in for particular attention, out of concern that a single leaker might be responsible for both the Shadow Brokers and the C.I.A.s Vault7 breaches.
Then there are the Shadow Brokers writings, which betray a seeming immersion in American culture.
Last April, about the time Mr. Williams was discovering their inside knowledge of T.A.O.
operations, the Shadow Brokers posted an appeal to President Trump: Dont Forget Your Base.
With the ease of a seasoned pundit, they tossed around details about Stephen K. Bannon, the presidents now departed adviser; the Freedom Caucus in Congress; the deep state; the Alien and Sedition Acts; and white privilege.
TheShadowBrokers is wanting to see you succeed, the post said, addressing Mr. Trump.
TheShadowBrokers is wanting America to be great again.
The mole hunt is inevitably creating an atmosphere of suspicion and anxiety, former employees say.
While the attraction of the N.S.A.
for skilled operators is unique nowhere else can they hack without getting into legal trouble the boom in cybersecurity hiring by private companies gives T.A.O.
veterans lucrative exit options.
Got a confidential news tip?
The New York Times would like to hear from readers who want to share messages and materials with our journalists.
Young T.A.O.
hackers are lucky to make $80,000 a year, while those who leave routinely find jobs paying well over $100,000, security specialists say.
For many workers, the appeal of the N.S.As mission has been more than enough to make up the difference.
But over the past year, former T.A.O.
employees say an increasing number of former colleagues have called them looking for private-sector work, including graybeards they thought would be N.S.A.
lifers.
Snowden killed morale, another T.A.O.
analyst said.
But at least we knew who he was.
Now you have a situation where the agency is questioning people who have been 100 percent mission-oriented, telling them theyre liars.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Because the N.S.A.
hacking unit has grown so rapidly over the past decade, the pool of potential leakers has expanded into the hundreds.
Trust has eroded as anyone who had access to the leaked code is regarded as the potential culprit.
Some agency veterans have seen projects they worked on for a decade shut down because implants they relied on were dumped online by the Shadow Brokers.
The number of new operations has declined because the malware tools must be rebuilt.
And no end is in sight.
How much longer are the releases going to come?
a former T.A.O.
employee asked.
The agency doesnt know how to stop it or even what it is.
One N.S.A.
official who almost saw his career ended by the Shadow Brokers is at the very top of the organization: Adm. Michael S. Rogers, director of the N.S.A.
and commander of its sister military organization, United States Cyber Command.
President Barack Obamas director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., and defense secretary, Ashton B. Carter, recommended removing Admiral Rogers from his post to create accountability for the breaches.
But Mr. Obama did not act on the advice, in part because Admiral Rogerss agency was at the center of the investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 election.
Mr. Trump, who again on Saturday disputed his intelligence agencies findings on Russia and the election, extended the admirals time in office.
Some former intelligence officials say they are flabbergasted that he has been able to hold on to his job.
A Shadow War With Russia?
Lurking in the background of the Shadow Brokers investigation is American officials strong belief that it is a Russian operation.
The pattern of dribbling out stolen documents over many months, they say, echoes the slow release of Democratic emails purloined by Russian hackers last year.
But there is a more specific back story to the United States-Russia rivalry.
Starting in 2014, American security researchers who had been tracking Russias state-sponsored hacking groups for years began to expose them in a series of research reports.
American firms, including Symantec, CrowdStrike and FireEye, reported that Moscow was behind certain attacks and identified government-sponsored Russian hacking groups.
Photo In the meantime, Russias most prominent cybersecurity firm, Kaspersky Lab, had started work on a report that would turn the tables on the United States.
Kaspersky hunted for the spying malware planted by N.S.A.
hackers, guided in part by the keywords and code names in the files taken by Mr. Snowden and published by journalists, officials said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Kaspersky was, in a sense, simply doing to the N.S.A.
what the American companies had just done to Russian intelligence: expose their operations.
And American officials believe Russian intelligence was piggybacking on Kasperskys efforts to find and retrieve the N.S.A.s secrets wherever they could be found.
The T.A.O.
hackers knew that when Kaspersky updated its popular antivirus software to find and block the N.S.A.
malware, it could thwart spying operations around the world.
So T.A.O.
personnel rushed to replace implants in many countries with new malware they did not believe the Russian company could detect.
In February 2015, Kaspersky published its report on the Equation Group the companys name for T.A.O.
hackers and updated its antivirus software to uproot the N.S.A.
malware wherever it had not been replaced.
The agency temporarily lost access to a considerable flow of intelligence.
By some accounts, however, N.S.A.
officials were relieved that the Kaspersky report did not include certain tools they feared the Russian company had found.
As it would turn out, any celebration was premature.
On Aug. 13 last year, a new Twitter account using the Shadow Brokers name announced with fanfare an online auction of stolen N.S.A.
hacking tools.
We hack Equation Group, the Shadow Brokers wrote.
We find many many Equation Group cyber weapons.
Inside the N.S.A., the declaration was like a bomb exploding.
A zip file posted online contained the first free sample of the agencys hacking tools.
It was immediately evident that the Shadow Brokers were not hoaxsters, and that the agency was in trouble.
The leaks have renewed a debate over whether the N.S.A.
should be permitted to stockpile vulnerabilities it discovers in commercial software to use for spying rather than immediately alert software makers so the holes can be plugged.
The agency claims it has shared with the industry more than 90 percent of flaws it has found, reserving only the most valuable for its own hackers.
But if it cant keep those from leaking, as the last year has demonstrated, the resulting damage to businesses and ordinary computer users around the world can be colossal.
The Trump administration says it will soon announce revisions to the system, making it more transparent.
Mr. Williams said it may be years before the full fallout of the Shadow Brokers breach is understood.
Even the arrest of whoever is responsible for the leaks may not end them, he said because the sophisticated perpetrators may have built a dead mans switch to release all remaining files automatically upon their arrest.
Were obviously dealing with people who have operational security knowledge, he said.
They have the whole law enforcement system and intelligence system after them.
And they havent been caught.
Steve Jurvetson, a founding partner of one of the best-known venture capital firms in Silicon Valley and a board member of Tesla and SpaceX, is leaving the firm after it began an investigation into his behavior with women, the firm told investors on Monday.
As of today and by mutual agreement, Steve Jurvetson will be leaving DFJ, said a confidential letter sent to investors in the venture capital firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, and obtained by The New York Times.
It continued, DFJs culture has been, and will continue to be, built on the values of respect and integrity in all of our interactions.
The firms spokeswoman, Carol Wentworth, confirmed his departure, and a Tesla spokeswoman said he is taking a leave of absence from the Tesla and SpaceX boards pending resolution of these allegations.
Last month, the firm said it became aware of indirect and secondhand allegations about Mr. Jurvetson and was looking into them.
The acknowledgment came after Keri Kukral, a tech entrepreneur, wrote on Facebook: Women approached by a founding partner of Draper Fisher Jurvetson should be careful.
Predatory behavior is rampant.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Heidi Roizen, an operating partner at DFJ, defended the firm last month.
I dont need an investigation to state with certainty that this is patently wrong, she wrote in a Tumblr post.
She added that the firm had never received an official allegation of misconduct.
Quantum computing systems are difficult to understand because they do not behave like the everyday world we live in.
But this counterintuitive behavior is what allows them to perform calculations at rate that would not be possible on a typical computer.
Todays computers store information as bits, with each transistor holding either a 1 or a 0.
But thanks to something called the superposition principle behavior exhibited by subatomic particles like electrons and photons, the fundamental particles of light a quantum bit, or qubit, can store a 1 and a 0 at the same time.
This means two qubits can hold four values at once.
As you expand the number of qubits, the machine becomes exponentially more powerful.
Todd Holmdahl, who oversees the quantum project at Microsoft, said he envisioned a quantum computer as something that could instantly find its way through a maze.
A typical computer will try one path and get blocked and then try another and another and another, he said.
A quantum computer can try all paths at the same time.
The trouble is that storing information in a quantum system for more than a short amount of time is very difficult, and this short coherence time leads to errors in calculations.
But over the past two decades, Mr. Schoelkopf and other physicists have worked to solve this problem using what are called superconducting circuits.
They have built qubits from materials that exhibit quantum properties when cooled to extremely low temperatures.
With this technique, they have shown that, every three years or so, they can improve coherence times by a factor of 10.
This is known as Schoelkopfs Law, a playful ode to Moores Law, the rule that says the number of transistors on computer chips will double every two years.
Photo Schoelkopfs Law started as a joke, but now we use it in many of our research papers, said Isaac Chuang, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
No one expected this would be possible, but the improvement has been exponential.
These superconducting circuits have become the primary area of quantum computing research across the industry.
One of Mr. Schoelkopfs former students now leads the quantum computing program at IBM.
The founder of Rigetti Computing studied with Michel Devoret, one of the other Yale professors behind Quantum Circuits.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In recent months, after grabbing a team of top researchers from the University of California, Santa Barbara, Google indicated it is on the verge of using this method to build a machine that can achieve quantum supremacy when a quantum machine performs a task that would be impossible on your laptop or any other machine that obeys the laws of classical physics.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
There are other areas of research that show promise.
Microsoft, for example, is betting on particles known as anyons.
But superconducting circuits appear likely to be the first systems that will bear real fruit.
The belief is that quantum machines will eventually analyze the interactions between physical molecules with a precision that is not possible today, something that could radically accelerate the development of new medications.
Google and others also believe that these systems can significantly accelerate machine learning, the field of teaching computers to learn tasks on their own by analyzing data or experiments with certain behavior.
A quantum computer could also be able to break the encryption algorithms that guard the worlds most sensitive corporate and government data.
With so much at stake, it is no surprise that so many companies are betting on this technology, including start-ups like Quantum Circuits.
The deck is stacked against the smaller players, because the big-name companies have so much more money to throw at the problem.
But start-ups have their own advantages, even in such a complex and expensive area of research.
Small teams of exceptional people can do exceptional things, said Bill Coughran, who helped oversee the creation of Googles vast internet infrastructure and is now investing in Mr. Schoelkopfs company as a partner at Sequoia.
I have yet to see large teams inside big companies doing anything tremendously innovative.
Though Quantum Circuits is using the same quantum method as its bigger competitors, Mr. Schoelkopf argued that his company has an edge because it is tackling the problem differently.
Rather than building one large quantum machine, it is constructing a series of tiny machines that can be networked together.
He said this will make it easier to correct errors in quantum calculations one of the main difficulties in building one of these complex machines.
But each of the big companies insist that they hold an advantage and each is loudly trumpeting its progress, even if a working machine is still years away.
Mr. Coughran said that he and Sequoia envision Quantum Circuits evolving into a company that can deliver quantum computing to any business or researcher that needs it.
Another investor, Canaans Brendan Dickinson, said that if a company like this develops a viable quantum machine, it will become a prime acquisition target.
The promise of a large quantum computer is incredibly powerful, Mr. Dickinson said.
It will solve problems we cant even imagine right now.
In 2016, they monitored thousands of Twitter accounts that suddenly started using bots, or automated accounts, to spread salacious stories about the Clinton family.
They watched as multiple Facebook pages, appearing out of nowhere, organized to simultaneously create anti-immigrant events.
Nearly all of those watching were hobbyists, logging countless hours outside their day jobs.
Photo When I put it all together and started mapping it out, I saw how big the scale of it was, said Jonathan Albright, who met Ms. DiResta through Twitter.
Mr. Albright published a widely read report that mapped, for the first time, connections between conservative sites putting out fake news.
He did the research as a second job outside his position as research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University.
Senate and House staff members, who knew of Ms. DiRestas expertise through her public reports and her previous work advising the Obama administration on disinformation campaigns, had contacted her and others to help them prepare for the hearings.
Rachel Cohen, a spokeswoman for Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said in a statement that researchers like Ms. DiResta had shown real insight into the platforms, in many cases, despite efforts by some of the platforms to undermine their research.
Mr. Warner is a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee.
One crucial line of the questioning on how much influence Russian-bought advertisements and content had on users was the result of work by Ms. DiResta and others with a Facebook-owned tool.
Facebook has the tools to monitor how far this content is spreading, Ms. DiResta said.
The numbers they were originally providing were trying to minimize it.
Indeed, at the congressional hearings, the tech companies admitted that the problem was far larger than they had originally said.
Last year, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, said it was a crazy idea that misinformation on Facebook influenced the election.
But the company acknowledged to Congress that more than 150 million users of its main site and a subsidiary, Instagram, potentially saw inflammatory political ads bought by a Kremlin-linked company, the Internet Research Agency.
Ms. DiResta contended that that is still just the tip of the iceberg.
Minimizing the scope of the problem was a nave form of damage control, she said.
This isnt about punishing Facebook or Twitter.
This is us saying, this is important and we can do better.
Photo In response, Facebook said it had begun organizing academic discussions on disinformation.
We regularly engage with dozens of sociologists, political scientists, data scientists and communications scholars, and we both read and incorporate their findings into our work, said Jay Nancarrow, a Facebook spokesman.
We value the work of researchers, and we are going to continue to work with them closely.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A graduate of Stony Brook University in New York, Ms. DiResta wrote her college thesis on propaganda in the 2004 Russian elections.
She then spent seven years on Wall Street as a trader, watching the slow introduction of automation into the market.
She recalled the initial fear of overreliance on algorithms, as there were bad actors who could come in and manipulate the system into making bad trades.
I look at that now and I see a lot of parallels to today, especially for the need for nuance in technological transformations, Ms. DiResta said.
Just like technology is never leaving Wall Street, social media companies are not leaving our society.
Ms. DiResta moved to San Francisco in 2011 for a job with the OReilly Alpha Tech Venture Capital firm.
But it wasnt until the birth of her first child a few years later, that Ms. DiResta started to examine the dark side of social media.
When my son was born, I began looking into vaccines.
I found myself wondering about the clustering effects where the anti-vaccine movement was concentrated, Ms. DiResta recalled.
I was thinking, What on earth is going on here?
Why is this movement gaining so much momentum here?
She started tracking posts made by anti-vaccine accounts on Facebook and mapping the data.
What she discovered, she said, was that Facebooks platform was tailor-made for a small group of vocal people to amplify their voices, especially if their views veered toward the conspiratorial.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
It was this great case study in peer-to-peer misinformation, Ms. DiResta said.
Through one account she created to monitor anti-vaccine groups on Facebook, she quickly realized she was being pushed toward other anti-vaccine accounts, creating an echo chamber in which it appeared that viewpoints like vaccines cause autism were the majority.
Soon, her Facebook account began promoting content to her on a range of other conspiratorial ideas, ranging from people who claim the earth is flat to those who believe that chem trails, or trails left in the sky by planes, were spraying chemical agents on an unsuspecting public.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So by Facebook suggesting all these accounts, they were essentially creating this vortex in which conspiratorial ideas can just breed and multiply, Ms. DiResta said.
Her published findings on the anti-vaccine movement brought her to the attention of the Obama administration, which reached out to her in 2015, when officials were examining radical Islamist groups use of online disinformation campaigns.
She recalled a meeting with tech companies at the White House in February 2016 where executives, policy leaders and administration officials were told that American-made social media platforms were key to the dissemination of propaganda by ISIS.
It was during that time that she first met Jonathan Morgan, a fellow social media disinformation researcher who had published papers on how the Islamic State spreads its propaganda online.
We kept saying this was not a one-off.
This was a toolbox anyone can use, Ms. DiResta said.
We told the tech companies that they had created a mass way to reach Americans.
A year and a half later, they hope everyone is finally listening.
I think we are at this real moment, where as a society we are asking how much responsibility these companies have toward ensuring that their platforms arent being gamed, and that we, as their users, arent being pushed toward disinformation, Ms. DiResta said.
Photo If you miss NASAs space shuttles, you might like the Dream Chaser.
The compact space plane carries no crew, but will transport cargo to the International Space Station in the years ahead and conduct other missions in orbit around the Earth.
On Saturday, the vehicle completed an important milestone in its development.
A helicopter lifted Dream Chaser more than 2.3 miles off the ground, then dropped it.
Over the course of one minute, the craft accelerated to 330 miles per hour, made a couple of turns and glided 10 miles to a runway at Edwards Air Force Base in California.
It touched down at a speed of 191 miles per hour, rolling 4,200 feet before coming to a stop.
The vehicle is in perfect shape, no issues, Mark N. Sirangelo, the head of Sierra Nevada Space Systems, the maker of the Dream Chaser, said in an interview.
Mr. Sirangelo said he thought no more glide tests would be needed.
If NASA agrees, the very next flight of the Dream Chaser might be a return from orbit two or three years from now at the end of a mission taking cargo to and from the space station.
It is to land on the same runway at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida that the space shuttles once used.
Photo Last year, NASA awarded Sierra Nevada a contract for at least six cargo flights.
The Dream Chaser is an autonomous, self-flying spacecraft, and this iteration will not carry any people.
Saturdays test demonstrated that the software that guides the vehicle worked as designed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There was no problem with the landing gear, unlike the glide test four years ago when the left wheel never lowered and the Dream Chaser skidded off the runway.
That mishap proved beneficial in retrospect.
Photo SAN FRANCISCO Missouris attorney general has opened an investigation into whether Googles business practices violate its consumer protection and antitrust laws amid growing concern over the influence of powerful technology companies.
Josh Hawley, Missouris attorney general, said on Monday that his office had issued a subpoena to Google to seek information into the collection and use of users private information, the use of other content providers information on its sites and potential bias in search engine results.
Missouris investigation demonstrates how states and Europe have begun to take the lead on examining Google, which has avoided antitrust scrutiny from federal regulators.
In June, the European Commission levied the largest-ever antitrust fine against the company for unfairly favoring its own shopping services over others.
Mr. Hawley, a Republican who is running for Senate in 2018, said that the Federal Trade Commission had given Google a free pass and that it was critical for consumers to understand what was happening with their personal information.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story No entity in the history of the world has collected as much information on individual consumers as Google, he said in a news conference.
We should not just accept the word of these corporate giants that they have our best interests at heart.
We need to make sure that they are actually following the law, we need to make sure that consumers are protected, and we need to hold them accountable.
Q. I recently discovered the keyboard shortcut in Windows 10 that automatically zooms in the whole screen, but its often a little too close-up.
Is there a way to adjust this zooming?
A.
Pressing the Windows and plus (+) keys together automatically activates the Magnifier, the built-in Ease of Access utility for enlarging the screen, and yes, you can adjust the level of magnification.
(For those who have found the shortcut by accident, pressing the Windows and Escape keys turns off the Magnifier.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
To change the magnification level, press the Windows, Control and M keys to open the Magnifier settings box.
(You can also take the long way by going to the Start menu, clicking the gear-shaped settings icon on the left side, choosing the Ease of Access icon and then selecting Magnifier.)
When the settings box opens, go to the Magnifier options area and under Zoom level increments, select a smaller percentage than the default 100 percent.
Choosing a lower number like 25 percent gives you smaller degrees of magnification for zooming.
For example, instead of zooming in by 100 percent each time you press the Windows and + keys to turn on the Magnifier and then increase the zoom level of the screen, you can zoom in more gradually in 25-percent increments as you repeatedly press the keyboard shortcut.
Photo The Magnifier utility has quite a few shortcuts of its own, which can save you from fiddling with the mouse while you enlarge parts of the desktop for easier reading.
To see the list of commands, scroll down to the Keyboard Shortcuts section of the Magnifier settings box.
Mac users have a similar screen-magnification tool that comes with macOS.
To turn on the Zoom feature and adjust its behavior, click the System Preferences icon in the Macs desktop dock and in the System Preferences box, click Accessibility.
On the left side of the Accessibility box, click Zoom to get to the features settings.
Lyft has high hopes for the Toronto market.
John Zimmer, the companys president and co-founder, told The Toronto Star that he expected the Canadian city to eventually become one of Lyfts five largest markets.
To entice drivers, Lyft is offering a 25 percent bonus for the first 3,000 drivers who are approved and who complete 20 rides a week during the companys first three months of operation in Toronto.
In addition to Toronto, Lyft plans to operate in the citys suburbs and in nearby Hamilton, Ontario.
The company faces a variety of regulations as it prepares to do business in the area, which has a population of more than seven million people.
Mississauga, the largest of Torontos suburbs and home to the areas international airport, has let Uber operate only on a trial basis since March and plans to review its rules in 2019.
Uber, which began operating in Toronto five years ago, has encountered resistance in Canada.
Taxi drivers have protested against the company for not following the same rules as the taxi industry.
At one point, Toronto officials sought to ban Uber, but Ontarios Superior Court refused that request in 2015.
Uber has upended the taxi industry in Toronto since its arrival and has achieved a great deal of popularity and commercial success, but it nevertheless remains controversial and contentious, said Shauna Brail, the director of the urban studies program at the University of Toronto.
Professor Brail said it was unclear what impact Lyfts entry into the local market would have.
But she noted that the city was growing in importance as a center for research into artificial intelligence, an important technology in the self-driving cars that Lyft and others are working to develop.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Uber opened a research center in Toronto this year, and Google has established a branch of its A.I.
research center in the city.
General Motors announced last year that it would add 700 software engineers to offices in the Toronto area whose work would include developing autonomous cars.
Lyft made its announcement just hours after Uber completed a deal to sell a stake to the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank, a move that paves the way for sweeping governance changes at the ride-hailing behemoth, as well as for that companys own initial public offering.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Uber has been trying to repair its image, with Dara Khosrowshahi, the new chief executive, pushing a softer tone and a set of cultural values that includes the maxim, We do the right thing.
Period.
The company suffered a setback in London last week when a British employment tribunal rejected its argument that the companys drivers were self-employed.
The ruling, upholding an earlier court judgment, threatens Ubers hiring model in Britain.
In September, Londons transport regulator revoked Ubers license to operate in the British capital, its biggest market outside the United States, saying the company was not fit and proper to operate there.
Uber is appealing the ruling, and can continue to operate in London until the appeals process is completed.
Lyft, by contrast, has so far limited its expansion to the United States.
The company has, however, had several meetings with London transport officials, according to documents published by Transport for London, the citys transportation authority.
Lyft has given presentations about its business model and discussed the London mayors transport strategy, raising the prospect that it could seek to expand there as well.
The company has tried to project a friendlier image to distinguish itself from Uber.
Speaking to The Toronto Star, Mr. Zimmer said the company was focused on treating people well.
Kristine Hubbard, the operations manager for Beck Taxi in Toronto, said her family-owned firm would make no effort to block Lyft.
Bring it on I dont care, Ms. Hubbard said.
Weve had to compete before, and well continue to compete.
Photo The makeup artist Pat McGrath, considered by many to be at the top of her profession, is trying a new way to reach potential consumers.
On Monday, she will be selling a collection of cosmetics from Pat McGrath Labs via a most unlikely channel: the Spotify shop of the teenage pop star Maggie Lindemann.
In the last few years, beauty retail has shifted away from department stores and toward direct-to-consumer models driven by social media (Kylie Cosmetics, Glossier), multibrand stores made for play and engagement (Sephora, Ulta) and highly edited lifestyle selections at fashion chains (Madewell, Urban Outfitters).
Ms. McGrath is well versed in selling via social media, through her website and addictive Instagram (1.6 million followers), and she wields brick-and-mortar might through a Sephora partnership.
But rather than head to a fashion store to introduce her new makeup, as one might expect, Ms. McGrath chose Spotify because of her love for music.
Music permeates everything I do, she said.
I love everything from Grace Jones to Nicki Minaj to Underworld to D.J.
MikeQ and beyond.
Music is integral to my personal inspiration.
Photo Additionally, she wants to keep things fresh.
I have always believed in finding new ways to disrupt the marketplace and engage with my fellow beauty junkies where they live, she said.
And, surprisingly, Ms. McGrath chose a rising star to work with rather than reaching out to her stable of famous muses, among them Kim Kardashian, Naomi Campbell and Charli XCX.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I like a real mix, Ms. McGrath said.
Whereas traditional beauty campaigns may bet on household names, she finds it more modern day and interesting to feature girls of all different levels.
She points to her affiliations with less familiar names including the model Paloma Elsesser and the musician Maxine Ashley.
Such technology will improve health care in places where doctors are scarce.
But eventually, it will streamline care in the developed world as well.
Google is already running tests inside two hospitals in India, and the start-up Infervision has deployed similar technology in hospitals across China.
In the longer term, similar methods promise to rapidly accelerate drug discovery and so many other aspects of health care.
Everything from the nature of the food that we grow and eat to the drugs that we give ourselves to how we monitor the impact of these things is all being transformed by A.I.
in deeply profound ways, said Matt Ocko, a managing partner at DCVC, a San Francisco venture capital firm that has invested heavily in this area.
Conversational Computing Neural networks are not limited to image recognition.
Far from it.
These same techniques are rapidly improving coffee-table gadgets like the Amazon Echo, which can recognize spoken commands from across the room, and online services like Skype, which can instantly translate phone calls from one language to another.
They may even eventually produce machines that can carry on a conversation.
Recently, said Luke Zettlemoyer, a University of Washington professor, there has been a huge phase shift in the area of natural language understanding technology that understands the natural way people talk and write.
Companies like Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are at the forefront of this movement, which promises to fundamentally change how we interact with phones, cars, and potentially any machine.
Many companies are moving down the same path, including Replika, a San Francisco start-up.
With help from machine learning, Replika offers a smartphone chatbot that acts as a kind of personal confidante, chatting with you in moments when no one else is around.
But the hope is that these techniques will improve to where they serve you in so many other ways.
What if Alexa was truly conversational, if you could have a back and forth dialogue?
Right now, it is about basic questions and commands.
Today, it recognizes words very very well.
But truly understanding complex English sentences is beyond machines at this point.
What if machines could carry on a dialogue like Hal in 2001?
Photo Mind Control Some people argue there are even better ways of interacting with computers by using brain waves.
Rather than telling a computer what you want, many companies say they believe you could just think it.
Using electroencephalography, or EEG a longstanding means of measuring electrical brain activity from sensors placed on the head the start-up Neurable is building a virtual reality game that can be played with the mind.
EEG is limited for this kind of use, but other researchers, including at Facebook, aim to build a far more powerful systems using optical sensors.
Facebook hopes that, in a few years, this technology will let people type with their minds five times faster than they can with a smartphone keyboard.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
These techniques will also face physical limits, and that may bar the way to Facebooks goal.
But various start-ups, including Neuralink, founded by Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla, are going several steps further, hoping to read brain activity from chips implanted inside the skull.
At first, they will limit this technology to people with disabilities.
But ultimately, Mr. Musk and others hope to also implant chips in healthy people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It is implausible that this technology would go straight into healthy people, said Ed Boyden, an M.I.T.
neuroscientist who is also an adviser to Neuralink.
But there is a natural trajectory where, if a medical technology proves effective, it can move into normal individuals as well.
The Flying Car Want more science fiction in your everyday reality?
As entrepreneurs like Mr. Musk work to put a chip in your head, others are working to put cars in the skies.
Even as he sets the pace in the race to autonomous cars, Larry Page, the chief executive of Alphabet and a founder of Google, is backing Kitty Hawk, a start-up that wants to move commuting into the air.
And many others, including the start-up Joby Aviation, Uber and Airbus, are working on vehicles capable of flying above congested roads.
These vehicles take many forms, but generally, they carry a single rider and take off like a helicopter: straight up.
At first, Kitty Hawk will sell its vehicles to hobbyists.
But the company hopes it can eventually convince the general public, and regulators, that flying cars make sense.
That is no easy task.
After all, these cars will require a new kind of air traffic control.
Photo The Quantum Computer Even more outlandish?
Its the prospect of a quantum computer.
Drawing on the seemingly magical properties of quantum physics, such a machine would be exponentially more powerful than computers of today.
Think of it this way: A quantum computer could instantly crack the encryption that protects the worlds most private data.
The problem is that these machines are enormously difficult to build.
but progress has accelerated.
Google, IBM and Intel are investing heavily in this push, as are start-ups like Rigetti Computing.
Researchers say they believe that quantum machines eventually could accelerate drug discovery, streamline financial markets, solve traffic problems and more.
It is a completely different paradigm for processing information, said Robert Schoelkopf, who helped invent the techniques that are driving so much of quantum computing research.
So we think that known applications are just the tip of the iceberg.
We recognized that many luxury players were still reluctant to get into the 3-D printing market because they just didnt think the materials and production were of a good enough quality yet, Mr. Hartung said, adding that VOJD creates its own materials and does all finishing of products.
The idea behind the business, he said, was to show that traditional craftsmanship and future technologies are able to work together: After the initial printing process, products are completed manually at a factory in southwestern Germany, much like any luxury-goods workshop.
The long-term benefits for brands particularly when it comes to cost savings and production speed, the lack of need for mold making and the ability to customize pieces are all very significant, Mr. Hartung added.
And once we were able to show the types of product that we could create would be impossible using traditional manufacturing processes, more and more companies have started to listen to what we have to offer.
Now, VOJD has 15 employees in Berlin who specialize in the research and development of 3-D printed accessories and jewelry for the top tier of the global fashion and luxury market.
For Carolina Herrera, for example, they created bracelets, necklaces and brooches in the shape of jasmine flowers for the fall 2016 collection.
With Loewe, as part of the brands fall 2017 mens wear line, a new type of ceramic material was used to print chain bracelets that were single interlocking pieces and didnt require assembly.
Photo And for Akris, VOJD collaborated on a line of lightweight, architectural 3-D printed rings in silver and polyamide (it rarely works with metals).
The intricate pieces, shown at the Akris spring 2016 show in Paris, were inspired by the Naoshima Pavilion in Japan, a geometric meshlike steel structure by the architect Sou Fujimoto.
Albert Kriemler, creative director Akris, a Swiss fashion house, said, I am always thinking about how to bring new methods of creation into our studio, but when VOJD approached us in 2015 I was fascinated by what they thought was possible.
Once the rings were completed, and in a range of colors, I was even more impressed, he said, calling the project something that expanded the imagination.
The rings were sold in Akris boutiques for $245 each.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Kriemler said no further collaborations were planned but added that he continuedto be excited about 3-D printing and incorporating it into the Akris design process.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Of course, the higher the prices, the higher the product standard needs to be, putting constant pressure both on brands and their manufacturing partners to innovate.
Mr. Hartung said that a signature of VOJD work was intricate geometries and interlocking elements impossible to replicate elsewhere.
Many of the brands we work with have long had projects or concepts because of them being impossible, too difficult or expensive to realize traditionally, he said, noting that the cost of an average 3-D printed object had fallen roughly 10 percent a year since 2013.
So, for example, a piece could be printed now for 52 euros ($60) that would have cost 80 in 2013, allowing the savings to be spent on improving aspects like finishing and coloring.
And Mr. Hartung said his long-term aim was to create manufacturing programs that can be licensed to brands so they can use the technology themselves.
Three-D printing is revolutionizing processes in many industries outside the world of fashion, said Mr. Kriemler of Akris.
Traditionally, this has a been a sector resistant to embrace change.
But I think it is inevitable that once the technology is of the right standard, luxury will be next.
Drivers Training Trucks One afternoon in Florida, a 59-year-old career truck driver named Jeff Runions sat alertly in the cab of an 18-wheeler watching the road while his 11-ton cargo of stone tile made its way up the Ronald Reagan Turnpike.
He was watching his steering wheel, too, but his hands were at his side: A computer was in control.
Mr. Runions works for Starsky Robotics, a San Francisco start-up that for the past two years has been testing its self-driving technology by running freight up and down Florida.
The runs help collect data and hone the technology, in hopes of convincing regulators and the company itself that self-driving trucks are ready for business.
There are still plenty of kinks.
Sitting next to Mr. Runions was an Irish engineer named Rebecca Feeney Barry.
As the vehicle spent hours driving past swamps and billboards for accident lawyers, Ms. Feeney Barry balanced a laptop on her knees and watched how the trucks sensors interpreted the road and nearby cars.
At one point the computers vision briefly lost sight of the freeway because an overpass shaded the road.
Later, the truck didnt take a turn hard enough, prompting Mr. Runions to grab the wheel.
Ms. Feeney Barry logged all of it.
Later, after some computer code had been altered to tell the truck to tug the wheel a bit harder, it made a similar turn more smoothly.
Sometimes it kind of messes me up when I go back to driving because now Im used to the truck driving, Mr. Runions said.
Starskys ultimate plan, of course, is to eliminate Mr. Runionss job.
But they do not want him to be out of one.
Stefan Seltz-Axmacher, Starskys 27-year-old chief executive, foresees using self-driving technology to replace long-haul drivers on freeways, but having people like Mr. Runions navigate at either end of the trip with remote control consoles that look like an arcade racing game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Drivers would go off to work in offices and might spend their day driving trucks through the last few miles of several different routes in several different cities before heading home for dinner.
One driver can drive 10 to 30 trucks per day, Mr. Seltz-Axmacher said.
The March of Automation Starskys vision of a remote operation is unique.
But the basic idea having trucks drive themselves on highways and letting human drivers take over in complicated city environments is something of an industry consensus.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story One of the big misconceptions about self-driving technology is that it is going to emerge and be able to drive all the time in all circumstances, said Alden Woodrow, the product manager for Ubers self-driving truck unit.
As part of their partnership, Embark, Ryder and Electrolux are conducting what amounts to elaborate dry runs to imagine what self-driving-truck routes will look like.
The runs start with human drivers leaving an Electrolux warehouse in El Paso and driving to the edge of the city, where they hitch the trailer to one of Embarks autonomous trucks.
From there the truck drives itself for 650 highway miles (with a safety driver in tow) to Ontario, Calif., where the Embark drivers transfer their trailer to another Ryder driver, who drives the final few miles to one of Electroluxs California warehouses.
Its a mirror of what we would do if there werent a driver inside, said Mr. Rodrigues, the Embark chief.
A few miles from Googles headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., a company called Peloton Technology is betting that there is a business to be built in a less radical version of automation.
Peloton is on the cusp of rolling out a system that will make it easier and safer for trucks to travel one after the other on the highway, in a formation called platooning, helping them save gas by reducing wind drag.
Trucks with drivers already do this.
But Pelotons technology aims to make platooning safer with a mix of cameras, sensors and networking equipment, allowing the trucks to talk to each other and helping to prevent the second driver from ramming into the first truck after a sudden stop.
Josh Switkes, the companys chief executive, said that because Pelotons technology helps drivers get better at doing something they are familiar with, he thinks it can be quickly commercialized.
Our basic approach is lets bring real value to the fleet and society now, Mr. Switkes said.
And that is before the work of private and public scientific research institutions are taken into account.
Silk produced in a laboratory, for example, would not exist without the breakthroughs of the last 30 years that have enabled scientists to perfect ways to edit and replicate the DNA of living organisms.
Photo After studying spiders DNA and their webs, Bolt Threads engineers developed similar proteins that are injected into yeast and sugar and then subjected to a proprietary fermentation process.
The resulting liquid silk is turned into a fiber through a wet-spinning process that creates strands that then can be knitted into fabric.
Rivals, which are using similar technology but different production methods, have not produced marketable products yet either.
The Japanese company Spiber has an agreement with the North Face, the American activewear company (in 2016, they developed a Moon Parka prototype).
And AMSilk, a German company, has partnered with Adidas on products that they will not identify but say are expected to go on sale next year.
Adidas, however, s producing sneakers made with plastics recovered from beaches and oceanfront communities, part of a product line developed through its partnership with the activist anti-plastic group Parley for the Oceans.
(Ms. McCartney, an Adidas collaborator, provided some of the designs.)
Recycled fruit waste is another promising substance for the creation of alternative fabrics.
The Italian company Orange Fiber provided the material for Ferragamos capsule scarf collection.
Ananas Anam, based at the Royal College of Art in London, uses pineapple leaf fibers to create a nonwoven leatherlike material called Piatex and brands like Edun, the sustainable fashion label owned by LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton, are creating items from it.
And mycelium, the rootlike fiber of mushrooms, is being processed as a leather substitute by MycoWorks, a San Francisco start-up.
But some specialists say the material, which looks like suede, needs to be tested for durability.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In addition to bio-fabricated materials, the Stella McCartney brand and its founding partner, the luxury group Kering, are investing in ways to recycle fashion items and use fewer resources, such as water.
Ms. McCartneys Falabella Go bags are made of recycled polyester and Econyl, a nylon produced from recycled fishing nets, carpets and other such waste, manufactured by the Italian company Aquafil.
In recent years, several venture capital firms have supported the development of alternative fabrics, especially when biofuels, including corn and algae, failed to live up to their initial promise.
One of the latest and most high-profile investors is the Russian entrepreneur Miroslava Duma, founder of the fashion and lifestyle website Buro 24/7.
Photo In May, Ms. Duma introduced Fashion Tech Lab, a venture that funds and develops new technologies in sustainable fashion and wearable technologies.
It has $50 million in funding and the advisory services of Carmen Busquets, the e-commerce investor, and Diane von Furstenberg.
Orange Fiber and Vitro Labs, a company that is developing lab-grown variations of fur and leather from stem cells, were among the organizations initial beneficiaries.
Suzanne Lee, who has almost 20 years of experience in fashion technology, said, It feels like there has not been as much innovation in terms of new materials as in the past five years, with sustainability being the main driver.
She is now chief creative officer at Modern Meadow, a New Jersey-based company that specializes in laboratory-grown bio-fabricated leather materials.
Ms. Lee said that, just as shortages after World War II drove the development of fossil fuel-based materials like Lycra and polyester, the prospect of limits on natural fibers and leather are pushing the fashion industry to find alternatives.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Modern Meadow has developed a yeast that, when mixed with sugar, produces a collagen that then is purified, processed and tanned to create material with a look and feel similar to that of leather.
The company said that it was planning to unveil its first commercial product next year and that it had partnered with one major luxury player, which it declined to reveal now.
But, reflecting its luxury ambitions, the company has retained the advisory services of three fashion veterans: Mimma Viglezio, formerly the executive vice president of global communications at Gucci Group; Franois Kress, who left the chief executive position at Carolina Herrera in January; and Anna Bakst, formerly group president of shoes and accessories at Michael Kors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Similarly, some of fashions historic houses are pioneering in the field.
Chanel, known for putting a healthy dose of pressure on suppliers to create new yarns and fabrics every season, has been working with paper yarns and is researching the use of 3-D printing for ready-to-wear clothing.
The house, in what it said was a first, presented suits at its fall 2015 couture show that were made of material produced by a 3-D printer from sintered, or compressed, powder and then embellished with embroidery and braid by Lesage, one of Chanels mtiers dart houses.
Karl Lagerfeld says we should do things that are unimaginable, said Hubert Barrre, the creative director at Lesage.
Creativity is about being in tune with your time.
Last December, Uber clashed with California regulators when it tested its self-driving cars in San Francisco without permission from the California Department of Motor Vehicles.
The company was quickly ordered to shut down its trials.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ubers executives called Mr. Ducey.
We responded by saying we werent going to hassle them, Mr. Ducey said of Uber.
Id be remiss if I didnt thank my partner in growing the Arizona economy, Jerry Brown, the Democratic governor of California.
Days later, Uber loaded a fleet of driverless sport utility vehicles onto semi trucks headed for Tempe.
The company now has several dozen driverless cars in a garage there that is the size of two football fields, with plans to add more cars.
Governor Duceys prioritization of the sharing economy has made the Grand Canyon State an ideal environment for our self-driving pilot, Uber said.
Many Unknowns Under Mr. Ducey, driverless car experiments in Arizona have multiplied over the last year.
Ubers self-driving Volvo SUVs now pick up customers around Tempe on a daily basis.
Waymo has dispatched more than 100 Chrysler self-driving minivans to chauffeur select families and other residents as part of a closely guarded trial; the company plans to expand to 600 vehicles by the end of the year, with the majority in Chandler.
And dozens of vehicles for GM, Ford, Intel, and Lyft are also covering thousands of miles a day on the flat and sun-drenched roads around Phoenix.
Some residents are ambivalent.
Groups representing the blind are enthusiastic supporters of driverless cars, which could give their members more independence.
Others like the idea of tech-related jobs coming to the state.
But some are cautious.
Im on the fence, said Jake Guadarrama, 22, a Phoenix area resident.
What if the battery died on the car and it goes out of control?
And will it take way from the work force?
Those questions are not just academic.
Already, the incorporation of driverless cars into human-driven traffic has run into problems.
Around dusk on March 24, for example, Alexandra Cole, a Tempe resident, inched her 2008 Honda CRV into a busy suburban intersection in the city.
With five seconds left on the pedestrian crossing signal and no cars coming toward her in the two closest lanes, she began a left turn.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She did not see Ubers self-driving Volvo SUV darting through the yellow light in the furthest lane toward her.
The cars collided.
Ubers vehicle flipped onto its side and crashed into two more cars waiting in traffic.
The crash Arizonas first with a driverless vehicle was soon resolved.
There were no injuries and police said Ms. Cole, and not Ubers car, was to blame for failing to yield on a left turn.
Photo But what happened after the accident revealed a system that was unprepared for computer-operated vehicles.
Mr. Ducey, Tempe officials and state transportation regulators did not get briefed on the collision.
The self-driving task force set up by the governor, which has met twice in two years, also did not review the incident.
Uber sent its wrecked vehicle to its Pittsburgh-based autonomous vehicle center, which the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration officials visited to investigate.
N.H.T.S.A.
said it could not comment because its investigation is still in progress.
Ms. Cole and her insurance company declined to comment.
If the crash had turned into a criminal case, police would likely have asked for data from the self-driving cars.
If the carmakers refused, they might have sought warrants for the data a practice that put the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Apple into a fierce battle last year related to unlocking an iPhone used by a suspect in a mass shooting.
Waymo and Uber said their policies are to comply with local laws wherever they operate.
Insurance would also have been a question, with debate over who takes responsibility in a driverless car crash the company or the third-party software or parts makers or the passenger with a license since there is no driver.
The insurance companies need to figure out how they will insure this, said Stephen Briggs, a spokesman for Arizonas Department of Insurance.
Arizona hasnt changed its minimum insurance liability rules for self-driving car trials.
The government doesnt have the resources to do this.
Angel Carbajal, Tempes assistant chief of police, acknowledged there are many unknowns.
This is new, so there isnt a lot of legislation yet that explains how to respond to motor vehicle collisions involving autonomous vehicles, he said.
For Mr. Ducey, none of this is a problem.
He said the crash was handled properly and that even if driverless technology is not fully ready, the states bet on autonomous vehicles will continue.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story These are cultural opportunities for Arizona to be seen as a place to live, work and play, he said.
While critics of the arrangement cite rising insecurity, some of Liveops star agents like Emmett Jones in Chicago, who knows of his rivals primarily as numbers on a leader board say the opportunity has been transformative.
The earnest gratitude of the agents assembled here, not far from the Raleigh-Durham Airport, affirmed that.
To them, Liveops is a sustaining force, a way to earn a living while being present at home.
A few had driven hours to attend.
Many brought friends and family members who were considering joining Liveops Nation, too.
There were icebreakers (Liveops Nation Bingo).
Gift-card raffles ($150?
the chief executive quipped.
Who approved these things?).
Free enchiladas.
Everyone was invited to schmooze.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story John, I heard your story about how you got to us is pretty great, said the master of ceremonies, an impossibly sunny woman named Tara.
Would you mind telling all these people?
When the mic came to John, a former insurance claims adjuster with a gray beard and several earrings, there was a sense of imminent revelation.
I was working in another glass box over near here for six years, he began.
I reached the point where it was either jump off the roof or walk out the front door.
The other agents laughed knowingly.
He continued: My commute now is I walk down the hall, close the bedroom door behind me.
More laughter.
Then Johns voice softened: This is good, this is good.
I get paid for when Im working, instead of souring when you get paid for 40 hours and work some more.
So, Im here.
Awesome, Tara said, applause drowning her out.
I feel like Johns story mimics a lot of what we hear from people.
According to Greg Hanover, a longtime Liveops official who became chief executive this summer, the companys goal is to make agents feel as if theyre part of a movement, not just earning a wage.
Where we want to be with this is what Mary Kay has done, multilevel marketing companies, Mr. Hanover said, referring to the cosmetics distributor and its independent sales force.
The direction we need to head in for the community within Liveops Nation is that the agents are so happy, so satisfied with the purpose and meaning there, that theyre telling their story.
Photo Its an ambition that feels almost radical compared with Uber, whose best-known exercise in worker outreach is a video of its former chief executive berating a driver.
It was heartening to discover that on-demand work could be both financially viable and emotionally fulfilling.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That is, until I began to speak with Mr. Jones and some of his Liveops competitors.
The more you talk with them, the more you detect a kind of Darwinian struggle behind the facade of community and self-actualization.
You start to wonder: Is there really such a thing as a righteous gig-economy job, even if the company is as apparently well intentioned as Liveops?
Or is there something about the nature of gig work thats inescapably dehumanizing?
Just the Right Tone Mr. Jones, who lives in Chicago, was the top rated Liveops agent for an insurer called TruStage for much of this year.
An AT&T technician for decades, he decided that he needed to be at home not long after his wife was diagnosed with vertigo in 2008.
I cant work and be worried about how shes doing, he said.
A few years later, when his daughter told him of a friend who worked with Liveops, he was eager to sign up but refused to send in his required voice test until it was close to perfect.
I must have did the voice test four or five times, he said.
I wanted to make sure I gave the right tone that they were looking for.
As a Liveops agent, Mr. Jones sells life policies to callers, often those who have just seen a television commercial for TruStage insurance.
He estimates that he works roughly 40 hours each week, beginning around 8 most mornings, and that he makes about $20 an hour.
He is such a valued worker that TruStage invited him to its headquarters earlier this year for a two-day visit by an elite group of agents, in which executives pumped them for insights about how to increase sales.
Roughly two decades ago, Liveops and its competitors typically connected callers to psychic hotlines, and in some cases less reputable services.
Such businesses had frequent spikes in call volume, making it helpful to have an on-demand work force that could be abruptly ramped up.
The only thing people were interested in was the abandonment rate that is, the number of people who would hang up in frustration from being kept on hold said Kim Houlne, the chief executive of a Liveops rival called Working Solutions, which she founded in 1996.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The call center industry took a hit during the 2001 recession, when cost consciousness unleashed a wave of outsourcing to India.
But within 10 years, many companies decided that the practice, known as offshoring, had been oversold.
The savings on wages were often wiped out by lost business from enraged customers, who preferred to communicate with native English speakers.
People dont feel comfortable, Ms. Houlne said, alluding to the overseas agents.
By the early part of this decade, quality was in fashion.
The enormous amounts of data that companies like Liveops and Working Solutions collect allowed them to connect callers to the best possible agent with remarkable precision, while allowing big clients to avoid the overhead of a physical call center and full-time workers.
Today, in addition to sales calls, Liveops agents handle calls from people trying to file insurance claims, those in need of roadside assistance, even those with medical or financial issues relating to prescription drugs.
The agents must obtain a certification before they can handle such calls, which sometimes takes weeks of online coursework.
Liveops goes to great lengths to attend to their needs, addressing technical-support issues, even answering agents emails to the chief executive within 24 hours.
Mr. Jones, like many of his fellow agents, thinks of himself as helping others in need.
He said that many families will gather around a table after a loved one has died to discuss the burial.
If the deceased relative had no insurance, he said, A lot of times that table is going to clear.
If, on the other hand, he had even $2,000 in life insurance the minimum that TruStage sells the family members are more inclined to say, He did what he could, let me see what I could do to help out.
You end up with $5,000 to $6,000.
You can do a decent burial rather than none at all.
Still, there is undeniably a brass-tacks quality to the work.
Shortly after we hung up, I turned my attention to an assignment due that afternoon, only to receive more calls from Mr. Joness number.
When I finally answered, he apologized for interrupting me, then came to the point.
I have a question for you, he said.
Do you have life insurance?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Where the Price Point Is Like Uber, Liveops expends considerable effort calculating demand for its agents.
For example, if an auto insurance company is running a commercial on ESPN, Liveops will ask the companys media buyer that is, the intermediary that placed the ad to predict how many calls such an ad is likely to generate.
Liveops will adjust that prediction, using its own data showing how many calls similar ads have produced from similar audiences during a comparable time of year.
And like Uber, the Liveops focuses on utilization in the Liveops case, the percentage of working agents actually on a call.
Depending on the client, Liveops strives for rates of 65 percent to 75 percent.
Lower than that and the agents, who make money only when theyre on a call, will complain that theyre not busy enough.
Significantly higher and the system is vulnerable to a sudden increase in demand that could tie up the phone lines and keep callers waiting.
Liveops asks agents to schedule themselves in half-hour blocks, known as commits, for the upcoming week.
If the company expects demand to be higher than the number of commits, it sends agents a message urging them to sign up.
(Uber does something similar, except without formal scheduling.)
Sometimes it will even offer financial incentives, like a bump in the rate earned for each minute theyre on a call, or a raffle-type scheme in which people accumulate tickets for the giveaway of an iPad or a cruise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Again like Uber, Liveops relentlessly tests the effectiveness of these tools.
Referring to financial incentives, Jon Brown, the Liveops senior director of client services, said, Weve zeroed in on exactly what we need for an agent to go from 10 to 15 commits, from 15 commits to 20 commits.
We know where the price point is, what drives behavior.
And then there are the performance metrics.
Liveops agents are rated according to what are called key performance indicators, which, depending on the customer, can include the number of sales they make, their success at upselling customers, and whether a caller would recommend the service based on their interaction.
Liveops makes clear that its agents ability to earn more money is closely tied to performance.
Youve heard the term meritocracy?
said a Liveops official named Aimee Matolka at the North Carolina event.
When a call comes in, it routes in to that best agent.
Yes, our router is that smart.
You guys want to be that agent, I know you do.
Otherwise you wouldnt be here.
It allows the agents to track their rankings obsessively through internal leader boards.
(Liveops officials say that while the pressures of the job can preoccupy agents, it is up to them how much time to invest.)
I lost the No.
1 spot, now Im No.
2, Mr. Jones said in early August, acknowledging that he checks his ranking frequently.
I thought about researching to find out who it is you always want to know whos the competition but I said leave it.
He added: Im a competitive person.
We just toggle back and forth.
If they see me jump back in, they work harder.
They want that spot back.
This Is My Phone Call My flight to Bangor, Me., was due after 9 p.m., and apparently sensing my unease with the North Country, the firefighter seated next to me asked if I had far to drive when we landed.
About three hours north, I confessed.
Watch out for moose, he said.
I assured him Id driven around deer before.
He stopped me short: If you hit a deer, youll kill them, he said.
If you hit a moose, theyll kill you.
I found Troy Carter, the agent who had recently surpassed Emmett Jones, at his home in Fort Fairfield the next day, wearing jeans, a button-down short-sleeve shirt, and a New England Patriots hat.
There were no shoes on his feet, only white socks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Like Mr. Jones, Mr. Carter said Liveops had been a blessing, allowing him to earn a living in a part of Maine so remote that my cellphone carrier welcomed me to Canada shortly after I pulled into his driveway.
When I told Mr. Carter that I had been in touch with his top competitor, he quickly pulled up the latest monthly rankings of Liveops agents selling TruStage insurance.
He pointed out that while Mr. Jones, whom he recognized only by his identification number, 141806, had more sales 87 to his 82 he had far fewer paid sales, charged at the time of purchase rather than by invoice.
The real thing is the paid application rate they want it around 95 percent, Mr. Carter said.
He has 87 sales, but only 65 percent paid, compared to my 94 percent.
This, he explained, was why he enjoyed the right to call himself the top agent for the month.
Mr. Carter is what you might call a serial entrepreneur.
He once started an art supply website that folded within a few months, and a penny auction site called Bid Tree that foundered for lack of a marketing budget.
He sees Liveops, on which he spends 40 to 50 hours per week, as of a piece with these entrepreneurial efforts.
In fact, it is something of a family business.
His wife, Lori, handles incoming calls while hes busy with customers.
Im a housewife/secretary/receptionist, she said.
Even Mr. Carters 9-year-old son, Logan, plays a role.
At nighttime, he says the last part of his prayer based on how many sales I did today, Mr. Carter said.
If it was a lot of sales, hell pray, Dear Lord, help my dad get the same amount of sales tomorrow.
Though Liveops agents work from a script, Mr. Carter, like Mr. Jones, adds his own flourishes.
Before asking a callers gender, as he is required to do, he will say, Now I already know the answer to this question, but please confirm if youre male or female.
Upon receiving the answer, he will pause momentarily before saying, I told you I already knew the answer, and break into a laugh.
He might make this identical joke, with identical timing, dozens of times in a workday.
Its like a comedian has a little pause before a joke, he told me.
It relaxes them right off.
Even with these touches, results can vary widely.
Two days earlier, Mr. Carter had made seven sales, only a few shy of his record.
The day I turned up, he managed only one.
He said some callers had the impression they could receive $25,000 of insurance for $9.95 per month the commercial mentions both figures and begged off when Mr. Carter told them that their premiums would be substantially higher.
Photo Mr. Carter has done research on how to comport himself, including watching an instructional YouTube video by the former stockbroker who was the subject of the movie The Wolf of Wall Street.
He believes the key is to come off as the alpha presence.
The one that asks the most questions is the one in control, he said.
If they ask me questions How are you doing?
Ill come back, The question is how are you doing?
This is my phone call, as much as I can make it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But on this day he repeatedly ran up against the limits of his powers.
Even those who remained interested after 10 or 15 minutes of painstaking back-and-forth often demurred when Mr. Carter asked them for payment information.
This one guy was outside in a wheelchair, Mr. Carter said of a caller who couldnt produce his credit card.
He didnt want to go in and get it.
I said, Im fine waiting, but I cant push him.
These setbacks only seem to make Mr. Carter focus more.
At one point, he made a swiping motion between his face and his headset with his index finger and middle finger.
They recommend that you keep the microphone two fingers away, he said.
Im always doing that checking that its two fingers.
Ill do that for the rest of my life.
It seemed, all in all, like a grueling way to make the slightly more than $30,000 that Mr. Carter estimates he takes in before taxes.
The good thing is he can take hours off, Lori told me.
But then he can lose his spot.
Its always a fight for the top.
I was reminded of the Alec Baldwin monologue from the movie Glengarry Glen Ross, except that the prize for having the most sales wouldnt be a Cadillac, it would be a set of steak knives, because the Liveops analytics team had calculated that agents would give nearly as much effort for a prize worth a small fraction of the cost.
Of course, unlike the salesmen in that movie, the Liveops agents cant really be fired the third prize because they werent employees to begin with.
A while later, Mr. Carter described a recent initiative in which agents were promised a bonus if 95 percent of their collective sales were paid up front.
I knew it wasnt going to work as soon as they said it, he told me, because a handful of agents with low paid rates could ruin everyone elses chances.
They did do a pullover sweatshirt for the top two, he added, brightening.
I was second, so thats coming.
Singles Day the frenzied annual celebration of consumption and commerce that is Chinas much larger version of Black Friday began as a protest of sorts against Valentines Day, propelled by college students in the 1990s.
The events date, written numerically as 11/11, was associated with unattached singles, known as bare sticks.
This years shopping festival entered new territory, blazing past $1 billion within two minutes of the holiday, starting at midnight on Saturday.
By the end of the day, sales had hit a new record of $25.3 billion, more than 40 percent higher than sales on Singles Day 2016.
Photo Photo Singles Day is now inextricably linked with Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce leviathan that in recent years has turned the holiday into an online and occasionally brick-and-mortar mercantile extravaganza.
It routinely eclipses Amazons yearly Prime Day promotional event.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In July, Prime Day generated an estimated $1 billion in revenue during its 30-hour sale window, resulting in what Amazon called its biggest day ever.
Photo Photo The event has evolved into a cultural phenomenon.
On Friday night, Alibaba hosted a lavish gala in Shanghai, directed by one of the producers behind the 2016 Academy Awards.
Celebrities such as Nicole Kidman, Pharrell Williams and Maria Sharapova helped count down the moments before the 60,000 participating global brands released their Singles Day deals to shoppers.
Photo Photo One offer, from the Chongqing-based online alcohol brand Jiang Xiao Bai, allowed 33 fast-moving customers to make a single payment of 11,111 yuan, or $1,673, for a lifetime supply of a grain liquor known as baijiu.
Singles Day, which is largely powered through Alibabas Tmall marketplace, was a test of the companys logistics network.
The company promised delivery within an hour for certain products and, in advance of the shopping festival, converted nearly 100,000 stores across China into smart stores capable of processing payment using facial recognition and other advanced technologies.
Q.
How do I efficiently manage my email with three devices: computer, phone and tablet?
Do I have to read, save, delete email three times, or can I easily sync them?
A.
Most mail programs give you the choice of two ways to set up an account on a computer or mobile device either with the IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) standard or POP (Post Office Protocol).
If you want to keep your mailbox in sync across multiple devices, choose the IMAP method.
Photo Compared with POP, IMAP is a newer technology for managing messages and handles checking the same mail account on multiple devices much more smoothly.
With IMAP, even though you can see your mailbox in the mail program on your computer and devices, IMAP messages actually live on the mail server.
When you read, delete or flag a message, you are performing that action on the mail server.
The mail apps on your other devices see the change when you view the updated mailbox.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
In contrast, most POP mail systems in their default settings download messages directly to the device that checks in at the time, and then deletes those messages from the mail server.
When you check mail with your computer or other gadgets, those devices do not get the deleted messages, but they may download newer ones which then get deleted from the server, making your mailboxes out of sync.
As a workaround, some mail providers allow you to keep messages on the server without deleting them automatically after they download, but then you have to repeatedly delete a message on each device.
Additionally, the messages you send stay on the Sent mailbox of the computer or device that actually did the sending.
Most modern mail providers and programs support IMAP You can find instructions for setting up IMAP mail accounts for Googles Gmail, Microsoft Outlook and Mozillas Thunderbird program on their sites.
Apples iCloud mail does not support POP and uses IMAP by default.
In response, some men are forming all-male text groups at companies or in their industries to brainstorm on harassment issues.
Some said they planned to be a lot more careful in interacting with women because they felt that the line between friendliness and sexual harassment was too easy to cross.
Others are struggling to reconcile how these behaviors could happen even among men who believe in equal rights.
Joel Milton, 30, an entrepreneur in Denver with Baker Technologies, a platform for cannabis dispensaries, said he had recently decided to be more careful about corporate offsites after seeing the swell of #MeToo claims.
When I hear someone on my team is having a pool party, now Ill say, Hey, maybe no managers should be there, Mr. Milton said, relaying the type of information likely to be covered in many companies employment manuals.
He added that harassment was not something he had thought much about before, but that he was considering his own behavior more.
Like, did I ever do anything?
he said.
Many companies have long mandated anti-harassment training to educate men and women about the issue.
But in a report last year, the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission found that much of that training was ineffective and that workplace harassment was widely underreported.
Jonathan Segal, a lawyer who was on the commissions harassment task force, said he was now fielding odd questions from men about how to behave at work.
At a fund-raiser last month in Palm Beach, Fla., some men asked him if it was permissible to hug a woman and where the boundaries should be drawn.
Mr. Segal said he had explained to the men that the context mattered and that pretending there was a gray zone between collegial friendliness and sexual assault was absurd.
For instance, he told them, hugging an old friend is very different from going up behind a co-worker while she was at a desk typing.
Photo If someone cant understand that, then maybe they just shouldnt be hugging, he said.
Mr. Segal, who runs anti-harassment training, is now expanding part of the program called Safe Mentoring, which teaches men how to mentor younger women without harassing them.
At a recent session, a male supervisor talked about having an extra ticket to a sporting event and feeling he could invite only a male colleague; Mr. Segal went over how to invite a female colleague without sexually harassing her.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The answer to harassment cannot be avoiding women, he said.
Still, some workers said they were starting to follow the Pence rule, which was formerly known as the Billy Graham rule, after the evangelical preacher, but is now named for Vice President Mike Pence.
Mr. Pence has said he does not eat alone with women who are not his wife or attend an event without her if alcohol will be served.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
A conservative writer, Sean Davis, wrote that a lot of men in media should have effectively been heeding the Pence rule all along.
He said he had always followed it and that coastal, liberal America was finally waking up to how useful avoiding private meetings with women could be.
The former White House adviser Sebastian Gorka also made this argument.
What were seeing now is men are backing away from the role that we try to encourage them to play, which is actively mentoring and sponsoring women in the workplace, said Al Harris, who has been running workplace equality programs and writing on the topic from Chicago with his partner, Andie Kramer, for many years.
Theres apprehension on the part of men that theyre going to be falsely accused of sexual harassment.
Not everyone is practicing avoidance.
Some men said the best route is to ask female co-workers directly if they feel harassed.
Pat Lencioni, the founder of the Table Group in Lafayette, Calif., which does executive coaching for companies around issues like diversity, said he was doing just that and had asked the women at his office if they worried about harassment.
I came into the office and said, Hey, guys, Ive got a question for you: This sexual harassment stuff, all these things, do you guys ever worry its going to happen here?
Mr. Lencioni, 52, recalled.
And they were like: No, because we know you.
We know who you are.
He said he thought this approach could be adopted more broadly.
Other men said they had not talked about workplace harassment with anyone because they already knew what they needed to know.
This is a liberal town, said Philip Rontell, a real estate agent in Walnut Creek, Calif., who added that he supported the #MeToo campaign.
We all already know this stuff.
When men do want to talk about workplace harassment, some said, they dont know where to go.
I just dont know where those conversations are allowed to be had, said Ryan Ellis, 33, a sales manager for an e-commerce company in Santa Monica, Calif. Austin Gilbert, a recruiter in San Francisco for the company Gametime, said his industry had also had to deal with men talking in online chat rooms at work, which he said could bury and hide toxic comments.
His company has closed several high school in-group type of exclusionary work chats over the years, but he worries about more.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We have a policy of telling employees that were free to review all electronic communications, Mr. Gilbert, 31, said.
But thats typically not anyones job responsibility in a small company.
With women empowered to call out inappropriate behavior, some companies predict that boozy after-work events for the holidays could be combustible this year.
While many companies used to have the parties on Thursday or Friday evenings, some are moving them to late Monday or Tuesday afternoons, said Sarah Freedman, the vice president of operations for 23 Layers, an event planner in New York whose clients include Google and West Elm.
Open bars are being replaced with game zones.
One client recently asked for an extremely watered-down John Daly to be the partys signature drink, which Ms. Freeman found strange but probably wise.
After-work events are the front line when it comes to harassment, and companies want more safety precautions now, she said.
Globo is viscerally opposed to racism in all of its forms, the company said in a statement, adding that Mr. Waack had made comments that everything indicates were of a racist nature.
The video was leaked by a former video editor for Globo, who said he was appalled by the remarks at the time but was afraid he could lose his job if he released the video to the public.
The video editor, Diego Rocha Pereira, who no longer works for the network, said he had heard the comments as he sat in the networks control room.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
I rewound the video to be sure, I couldnt believe he would have said that, he told the Jovem Pan radio station.
I was so disgusted, I recorded it on my cellphone.
Mr. Waack has not publicly responded.
In its statement, Globo said, Waack affirms he doesnt remember what he said, given that the audio is not clear, but he offers sincere apologies to those who feel they have been offended.
On social media, the remark has been turned into a campaign, shining a light on the accomplishments of famous black Brazilians like the 19th-century novelist and poet Machado de Assis, as well as global leaders, including Nelson Mandela, and sports stars and artists.
Many people have written on Twitter about their own struggles in a country with a long history of slavery and racism.
One person wrote: #ItsABlackThing my mother, a black, single woman, raising 7 children without the help of a white man (my father).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brazil was the last country in the Americas to abolish slavery, in 1888.
Over three centuries, some four million Africans were brought here and forced to work in fields, mines and private homes.
Today, just over 50 percent of Brazilians identify as black or biracial, and many Brazilians say there is a racial harmony here that does not exist in the United States.
But others say the figures point to a different reality Brazil is a country where the life expectancy of black men is considerably lower than for their white counterparts, and where people of African descent earn 36 percent less than nonblack Brazilians.
In recent years, Globo and other television networks have used their powerful positions to combat racism with more prominent roles for black Brazilians on soap operas and reality TV shows.
When Brazils first black weather broadcaster on a prime-time news broadcast Maria Jlia Coutinho, known widely by her nickname, Maju was subjected to verbal abuse, her colleagues at Globo promoted the #WeAreAllMaju campaign.
In the case of Mr. Waack, a veteran journalist who gained the respect of his colleagues over the years with his coverage of the fall of the Berlin Wall and numerous conflicts in the Middle East, Globo said it was in talks with him about what would happen next.
So even though its only happening in Arizona, this is a big deal.
Waymo is clearly leading the pack in the race to produce self-driving cars, which makes sense because of Googles multiyear head start in the space.
Would you be comfortable being carted around in a self-driving car?
I was, but perhaps Im just used to it since its one of the main topics I write about.
Farhad: Because I live right near Waymos headquarters, this is all old hat for me.
I see the companys cars including the old panda-shaped ones that lack a steering wheel every morning during my commute.
Id have no problem riding in one, but I hope Arizonans know that its very annoying to share the road with these robot cars.
Theyre slow!
They follow the speed limit, they take ages changing lanes and they have a frustrating habit of obeying every single rule of the road.
Ugh, live a little, robot car STOP is just a suggestion, not some kind of law.
Mike: Yes, well, dont throw away your drivers license quite yet.
Or maybe do.
AT&Ts Megadeal Hits a Political Bump Mike: Moving on, a bigger piece of telecom and media news.
This week, our DealBook team scooped that the Department of Justice under the Trump administration is pushing Time Warner and AT&T to sell off Turner Broadcasting Company, which owns CNN, or DirecTV as a condition of a negotiated merger that has long been in the works.
Its a huge ask, and hard to see how its not politically motivated.
As we all well know, President Trump is no fan of CNN.
Also, Im curious to know what legal grounds the D.O.J.
would use to block a merger of this size.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Farhad: The move makes for complicated politics.
On the one hand, many liberals who are growing wary of ever-larger corporations might agree with the federal government putting stringent conditions on this deal.
And yet its hard to tell if these conditions are legitimate, or if theyre being imposed to please a president who has repeatedly vowed to go after businesses that havent toed his line.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I wonder how this sort of thing affects liberals efforts to police big tech.
In a speech this week, Senator Al Franken called for greater regulations on tech giants.
Trump has suggested some affinity for that stance; during the campaign, Trump often said that The Washington Post, which is owned by Amazons C.E.O., Jeff Bezos, was covering him critically because Amazon was worried that Trump would start antitrust proceedings against the company.
Now, imagine if something like that happens would the left cheer Trump, or would they side with Amazon?
I truly wonder.
Mike: Right, well, we all saw how well the last huge Time Warner merger went, so lets hope this one goes better!
Oh, I wanted to note a fantastic story from The New York Times Magazine this week, basically on the opacity of Facebooks algorithms and how its advertising can be so effective at targeting small groups of users that some start-ups are spending all their cash there and nowhere else.
Its like Russia and the 2016 election, but for brands!
Is Facebook Ruining Our Lives?
Farhad: Speaking of Facebook, there was a startling admission this week by Sean Parker, the Napster co-founder and former Facebook executive (played by Justin Timberlake in The Social Network).
In an interview with Axioss Mike Allen, Parker said that hed become a conscientious objector on social media, which he said had been built to addict us all.
It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways, he said.
God only knows what its doing to our childrens brains.
Watch for more of this.
More and more people both in and out of Silicon Valley are worried about the long-term psychological effects of our digital age.
I worry about you especially, Mike.
Mike: Too busy looking at Twitter.
Actually, the last thing I wanted to note: Will.i.am, the hip-hop artist and self-styled tech evangelist, has raised another $100 million in venture capital.
He started on wearables and gadgets, and has pivoted to work on chatbots and devices like Amazons Alexa and Google Home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So what do you think?
Is Will.i.am the next Steve Jobs?
Does raising venture capital actually require anything more than a hodgepodge of vague ideas and a series of pivots?
What even is capitalism anymore?
Farhad: I really dont get it.
We live in a world where anyone whos made it constantly gets showered with more and more money regardless of whether theyre doing anything useful.
Mike, when do we get to cash in?
Mike: Never.
Anyway, see you next week!
Farhad: Bye!
Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art.
Mike Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter.
You can follow them on Twitter here: @fmanjoo and @MikeIsaac
Photo SHANGHAI The only Chinese social media company to build a major network outside China will be taken over by a fast-growing Chinese upstart.
Musical.ly, a video-based social network popular with teenagers in the United States and Europe, is being sold for between $800 million and $1 billion to Bytedance, the company that controls the Chinese news aggregator Toutiao, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The deal knits together Toutiaos 120 million Chinese users with the roughly 60 million who use Musical.ly in the United States and Europe, ultimately linking a platform in China with a more global one.
Musical.ly will continue to operate a separate product, according to a statement on the deal, though the two companies will cooperate closely.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Despite the dominance of established social media services like Facebook and Snap, Musical.ly rose to prominence among a teenage and tween audience by enabling users to record quick videos set to music.
Young users of the app performed coordinated dance moves or lip-synced to the music.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Since then the company has branched out to other types of videos, including live streaming, and has even sought to attract short-form video shows.
You can hide behind technology, but the laws are there, and they need to be obeyed and respected, Mr. Aslam, 36, said in an interview after the tribunal issued its decision.
The impact of this ruling could affect thousands of drivers, and not just drivers but millions of workers across the U.K.
It just means we cant be exploited, he added.
The acting chief of Ubers British operations, Tom Elvidge, said the company would appeal the decision, either to the Court of Appeal or to Britains Supreme Court.
The employment case here is one of several challenges that Uber faces.
Although the company has expanded at a breakneck pace and grown into a behemoth valued at $70 billion, it has had to grapple with allegations that it does not do enough to vet its drivers, revelations that it used software to evade the gaze of the authorities and other issues.
Complaints about an aggressive workplace culture forced Travis Kalanick, a founder of the company, to resign as chief executive this year.
He was succeeded by the former chief executive of Expedia, Dara Khosrowshahi, who has displayed a more conciliatory style.
As part of his softer approach, Mr. Khosrowshahi went on a charm offensive last month in an effort to win over the London transport authorities.
Uber is appealing the London ban, which declared the company not fit and proper to operate in the city.
Uber was allowed to continue operating in the city until a final ruling was made in the case.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Khosrowshahis shift in tone comes at a crucial time.
Uber is aiming for an initial public offering in 2019, and working on securing a multibillion-dollar investment from the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank.
As part of its push to win over customers and drivers concerned about Ubers reputation, the company has introduced new measures and services, including allowing users to add tips to fares.
Uber has also promoted its efforts, particularly in Britain, to provide drivers with benefits like access to insurance and pensions.
Essentially, it has been outrunning employment law and legislators, said Andr Spicer, a professor at City Universitys Cass Business School in London.
Its having to become more like a normal company, rather than one that was able to evade existing legal frameworks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ubers operations in London are crucial to its global expansion.
The company started operating in the city in 2012, and now offers its services in dozens of cities nationwide.
About 40,000 people drive for Uber in the British capital, and the company says that three million customers have used the app in London at least once in the past three months.
Ubers arrival in London has, however, set off a clash with the citys famous black cabs.
Drivers in the centuries-old taxi system must pass an exacting test known as the Knowledge, which requires the memorization of around 25,000 streets and 100,000 landmarks.
A ride in a black cab is typically far more expensive than using Uber, which cabbies complain is too lightly regulated.
Opponents of Uber argue that it is able to undercut rivals on price largely because of its employment practices, which mean it can avoid paying some of the costs and contributions required by permanent employees.
But the companys business model is facing challenges across Europe.
The regions highest court is expected to rule by years end in a case involving whether Uber should be regulated as a taxi service, which would make it subject to rigorous safety and employment rules, or as a digital platform that simply connects independent drivers and passengers.
Labor experts say that laws in most countries have failed to keep pace with advances in technology and the rise of the gig economy.
In Britain, for example, the main piece of legislation that regulates how workers are treated was passed in 1996.
The legislation is old, said Susannah Kintish, a partner at the law firm Mishcon de Reya who specializes in employment law.
It came out when the Spice Girls had their first hit.
Its just way out of date.
The divorce shattered me.
My husband and I had met near the end of college and shared a huge circle of friends.
I was attracted to his fancy suburban background, a step up from my scrappier family where I was the first to graduate from college.
We lived in Hong Kong, saw Angkor Wat and Easter Island.
At first, our opposite natures felt complementary my curiosity, his need for the familiar.
The biggest difference, or so we thought, was that I wanted children and he didnt.
And if we werent going to have them, I wanted more of everything else: spontaneity and adventure.
Yet he was ready to settle down.
In suburbia, no less.
We started unraveling.
If wed had children, we would have had a reason to fight for the marriage.
At the time, I said the child issue was our undoing, but we knew it was more than that.
We couldnt make it past 10 years, when initial attraction often starts sliding into other kinds of marital love.
And we both had turned to others for emotional support.
Time really is the only thing that heals a wound like divorce.
I cant remember when I stopped thinking about my ex every day, but I realized as my Uber driver wound his way through traffic toward me that it had been ages since that whole mess had ruled my life.
I can conjure up my exs face but not his smell or his voice.
I dont recall what it felt like to wake up next to his body.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Over the past 12 years, I had barely thought of the guy whose face was now on my phone.
He had emailed me after we each separated, looking for commiseration or help in his divorce case.
I was too consumed by my own pain to reply.
When his car pulled up, I saw a big, familiar smile through the windshield.
He sprang out and said, I had a feeling it was you!
After a long embrace, we got into the car, with me in the passenger seat instead of the back.
It was oddly comfortable sitting next to him.
He canceled the ride share passenger and we went to a cafe, where we sat for nearly two hours, chattering.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We whipped out our phones to share photos.
Weddings.
Homes.
Trips.
A new wife and gaggle of stepchildren for him.
A new husband and French bulldog for me.
Full, happy lives.
Or at least thats what the photos suggested.
It made me wonder what photos from our previous marriages would have suggested about those lives.
Did we feel as contented then as we both appeared to feel now?
Would others have been able to see something shattering behind the smiles?
And thats when we turned to a subject that once cut deeply for us both, though I cant remember who asked first: Had our exes been physically involved before our splits?
He didnt know, and neither did I, though we didnt think they had, at least not technically.
Most startling, though, was how it no longer mattered to either of us.
That once-scalding question had lost its potency.
But it took seeing him and talking about it to make me realize that.
We quickly moved on.
He knew my mother and best friend and wanted updates.
I was thrilled to hear that his children were now promising young adults, details I could have gotten through my ex had I ever thought to ask in the occasional emails we trade.
Boys who would remember me as their stepfathers ex-wife.
Hes been a standup guy as a stepfather, my Uber driver said.
I assumed he was, even though it caused me terrible pain that he hadnt wanted children in our marriage.
They were meant for each other, we said nearly in unison, before rattling off the quirks that made them compatible and agreeing that we are all better off in our new couplings.
I have been with my new love for 12 years, almost exactly as long as I had been with my ex.
Two years ago we traveled to Italy.
As we packed, I couldnt help remembering another trip to Italy in my previous life, a trip for a 10th anniversary that marked the beginning of the end.
On our first night in Positano, I lost my footing on the cobblestone streets and knew I had broken something.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A local doctor confirmed it and gave me a shot of something alcoholic.
The next day we flew home, cutting our trip short.
The marriage never felt the same.
That foot never felt the same either.
Until recently, when I noticed my toes dont feel numb anymore.
When I met the man who is now my husband, I was 39 and he was 46; our window for having children was nearly closed.
I knew he didnt want them, yet I couldnt pull away.
I started to admit that maybe there was a reason I chose men who were skittish about fatherhood.
It was easy to assign the decision to someone else.
I still mourn that loss, but increasingly Im at peace with it.
Rather than going deep into a few key relationships, I have an ever-expanding collection of people in my life extended family, younger friends, mentors of all ages.
I have gratifying work, volunteering and time to read, travel, learn.
None of this came out in the wave of photos, but looking at them made me see it.
My Uber driver, whose tie to me still yearns for a name perhaps my ex-once-removed?
wanted to make sure I didnt miss my flight.
So we returned to the car and headed to the airport, where we hugged again and promised to keep in touch.
I immediately called my husband.
We rarely talk when I travel, preferring to text and email.
I come home to flowers and some little surprise near the mail.
If I have taken a red-eye, I jump into bed with the man and pooch I have gotten a real chance to miss.
This time I couldnt hold it in.
Youll never believe who my Uber driver was!
I said.
And then I spilled the whole story.
We were on so long, I nearly missed my flight.
My husband was rapt, wanting every detail, even though he would see me in a few hours.
And I was glad because, for years, he hadnt wanted to hear about my first marriage, studiously avoiding the subject.
But this had changed for him too, now that it was so far away.
That could have been a scene in a movie, he said.
In the movie version, though, I would have had a fling with the ex-once-removed.
In real life, I got closure from the most unexpected source.
I realized that connections at a distance, along with the passage of time, can offer telling reflections and a reminder that marriages can unravel in an instant.
How could I ensure this new life wouldnt break apart the way my last one had?
Months later, to protest Ubers business practices, I deleted the app, but with a twinge of regret.
In a strange way, Uber had helped me sort out my feelings about the most significant men in my life and moved my current relationship into a more honest place.
Who knew there was an app for that?
Randall L. Stephenson, AT&Ts chief executive, said on Wednesday that he had never offered to sell CNN.
On Thursday, appearing at The New York Timess DealBook conference, he said the company was ready to go to court against the Justice Department.
To suggest that selling some of the key franchises of the business that are the most desired for your business plan makes no business sense, Mr. Stephenson said.
The public spat has put a political cloud over the deal.
President Trump has been critical of CNN and the deal.
Several Democratic lawmakers have called for hearings to determine whether politics played a role in what is supposed to be an independent process.
Photo The Justice Department declined to comment on Thursday.
Pushing AT&T to unload a big part of its business to get the deal approved goes against Mr. Delrahims history, antitrust experts say.
His past comments have largely been in line with more free-market-oriented Republican views, and he was widely expected to be more lenient on mergers than predecessors in the Obama administration.
This is bold, said Diana Moss, president of the American Antitrust Institute, a nonprofit that generally favors stronger antitrust enforcement.
It signals they are willing to consider the anticompetitive effects of big deals, and on the remedy side they would use structural remedies, which would signal a potential change in policy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In an interview late last month, Mr. Delrahim strongly rejected the idea that the White House had tried to or could influence his thinking.
At the time, he would not discuss AT&Ts bid for Time Warner or any other pending mergers.
All enforcement decisions will be based on the facts and the law.
Not on politics, Mr. Delrahim said.
That would be antithetical to everything Ive stood for.
Mr. Delrahim, 48, was born in Tehran, but his family moved to Los Angeles when he was almost 10, around the time of the Islamic Revolution.
He attended the University of California, Los Angeles, as an undergraduate and then went to law school at George Washington University.
After a few years in corporate law, he spent time as an aide on Capitol Hill, working on some technology and antitrust issues.
President George W. Bush later nominated him to be a top official at the Justice Department, where he focused on international antitrust enforcement.
After his time there, he returned to corporate law in Los Angeles, representing numerous large technology, health and telecommunications companies.
In his recent interview, he said that the Justice Department did not need to intervene just because a company was big, even a monopoly.
He also said the government should not startle business markets with an abrupt change in its approach to antitrust legal theory.
There are people who think big is just bad, he said.
They dont understand why, but there is an instinctive reaction to big business these days.
He added that it was dangerous to go after companies without clear evidence that they were harming competitors.
Mr. Delrahim has said his comments last year about AT&T and Time Warner were taken out of context.
He has told lawmakers that the deal deserved a thorough review.
He said there could be antitrust concerns when a company like AT&T, which controls distribution of television content through DirecTV and internet content through its mobile and home broadband service, bought a big media company.
That view is more aligned with left-leaning consumer groups that have pushed for greater antitrust enforcement.
After the news this week that the Justice Department was taking a deeper look at the deal, some Democrats, including Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, praised the tough stance.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
AT&T and Time Warner is an enormous test because we are just seeing online video disrupting the dominant cable broadband providers, said Gene Kimmelman, president of the nonprofit organization Public Knowledge and an antitrust official during the Obama administration.
And it would be a disaster for consumers and the competitive landscape if those developments are wiped out or diminished by the approval of this deal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For years, though, antitrust officials have generally approved mergers of companies that do not have competing businesses.
These are known as vertical mergers, and because AT&T is a telecommunications company, while Time Warner creates media content like movies, their deal would fit that category.
Problems with those mergers have generally been resolved with settlements known as consent decrees, which restrict the new companys behavior or operations.
Mr. Delrahim is skeptical of such consent decrees, especially demands for behavioral remedies.
The Obama administration approved Comcasts purchase of NBC Universal in 2011 with a stack of behavioral requirements, including a requirement that Comcast make NBC content available to competing cable and streaming services.
During his interview last month, Mr. Delrahim said industries moved too fast for those remedies to be effective.
We have major parts of our industry that are regulated by consent decrees with the Justice Department, he said, referring to settlements with behavioral remedies.
I dont think Im smart enough to figure out where the market and consumer behavior will be 10 years from now, 20 years from now, 40 years from now, 100 years from now, he continued.
The agency, he added, is still overseeing consent decrees that are a century old.
Instead, Mr. Delrahim said, he prefers so-called structural remedies, like forcing a company to sell assets before approving a merger.
He said the ultimate test for healthy competition was the consumer welfare test, which looks at whether consumers are benefiting from lower prices and options.
Mr. Kimmelman said the Justice Department could be concerned about how the combined broadband, satellite and media company could hurt competitors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The satellite service DirecTV, for example, can reach all American homes.
The potential concern, Mr. Kimmelman said, is that the company may have an incentive to withhold valuable Time Warner content like HBO, TNT or CNN from rival cable and satellite providers or streaming services.
The company could also make it harder for rival media companies like Starz to reach AT&T customers.
The Justice Department has proposed various options to meet Mr. Delrahims demands, according to multiple people close to the discussions.
In the interview last month, Mr. Delrahim defended the presidents criticism of AT&Ts bid.
He said Mr. Trump was unfairly targeted for remarks about deals when other government officials were allowed to air their opinions.
Whats interesting is that you see the president getting criticized for commenting on certain mergers and you have senators who will write with comments on the same exact merger, Mr. Delrahim said.
I find that fascinating but maybe not new in Washington.
And while he insisted that his decisions would be made independently, it was clear that Mr. Trump was not totally out of mind.
When he arrived at the Justice Department in late September, Mr. Delrahim received a hat as a welcome gift.
It reads: Makan Antitrust Great Again.
Photo Baltimore County Public Schools has pursued one of the most ambitious classroom technology makeovers in the United States.
Now, some of its relationships with technology vendors are coming under intensified scrutiny.
A Maryland state legislator said Thursday that the state needed to investigate whether industry perks played a role in the awarding of the districts technology contracts.
The lawmaker, Senator James Brochin, called on the Maryland State Board of Education to conduct an audit of the contracts.
In 2014, the district committed $205 million for laptops for students and staff, and millions more since for math and language software.
The audit would cover the device contract, which was awarded to a vendor whose laptop came in third place in the districts hardware evaluations.
Last week, an article in The New York Times examined Baltimore County, the nations 25th-largest public school district, as a case study in how tech companies court and cultivate school leaders.
The Baltimore Sun has recently written about the former district superintendents travels to out-of-state events.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Times found that tech vendors or industry-funded groups paid for meals and rooms at fancy hotels for school leaders, as well as travel to conferences to promote the districts tech initiative.
And in February, the districts former superintendent participated in confidential meetings with school tech vendors companies whose contracts were later increased.
Evidence offered in the recent articles indicates digital education companies having unrestricted access to key decision makers in Baltimore County Public Schools and, in turn, the awarding of contracts to those companies, Senator Brochin, a Baltimore County Democrat, said in a letter sent to state officials.
This has created the illusion of impropriety, thereby eroding public trust.
An online petition called on Reddit to ban the incel community subreddit, noting that Elliott O. Rodger, a California man who killed six people in a 2014 rampage in Isla Vista near the University of California, Santa Barbara, before firing a bullet into his head, was referred to in the group as Saint Elliott.
Mr. Rodger had left behind a rambling history of videos and social media posts on sites popular with sexually frustrated men.
In one site, called PUAHate, for pick up artiste hate, Mr. Rodger expressed his disgust at women, questioning how they could resist his charms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
One day incels will realize their true strength and numbers, and will overthrow this oppressive feminist system, he wrote.
Start envisioning a world where WOMEN FEAR YOU.
Reddits move against the group fell into the same pattern that other companies, including Facebook and Twitter, and domain registrar services, such as the ones that banned the white supremacy site The Daily Stormer in August, have taken to address violent content.
I view this as part of that broader movement, Danielle K. Citron, a University of Maryland law professor who has studied the phenomenon of online hate, said on Thursday.
That there are communities like Daily Stormer that we find troubling and call for violence, and we dont want to aid and abet groups that call for violence.
It is not clear when the term incels was coined, but the link between misogyny and violence against women has emerged on sites where incel communities gather.
Mary Anne Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami, who has studied online abuse and harassment, said that when she read Mr. Rodgers manifesto she was reminded of George Sodini, a Pennsylvania man who shot dead three women in Pennsylvania in 2009, leaving behind an online diary that detailed his loneliness and lack of success with women.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story These men got angry at the women that they see as depriving them of something they are entitled to, Professor Franks said.
It was a trend in online forums, that they legitimately had a reasons to lash out, speaking of Mr. Rodger and Mr. Sodini.
Last month, after Reddit initiated the broader policy to clarify its rules on what content was banned, the first to go were subreddits for Nazi, racist and white supremacist groups.
The move to ban incels appears to be part of a wider sweep of subreddits that it has flushed out over the years, such as ones that encouraged people to covertly photograph women on the street, or one that promoted rape, which was banned for inciting harm.
Whether it is on this particular ecoystem or alternatively within the alt-right itself, it is part of the online world that has been growing very rapidly, Heidi Beirich, the director of the intelligence project for the Southern Poverty Law Center, said.
Misogyny is shockingly frequent to find on the web in these areas.
Photo SAN FRANCISCO On Tuesday afternoon, Twitter added a small blue check mark to the account of Jason Kessler, a move known as verification that indicates a prominent persons real account.
The action was quickly met with outrage.
Thats because Mr. Kessler is a well-known white supremacist who has used Twitter to spread his message and organize rallies like Unite the Rights march in Charlottesville, Va., where torch-wielding protesters marched through the streets chanting racist rallying cries.
Across the Twitterverse, people including the comedian Michael Ian Black came down on the company.
By Thursday morning, Twitter announced it would be halting its entire general verification program.
It was yet another situation that the company has had to make amends on, just a week after the accidental deletion of President Trumps Twitter account and testimony in Washington on how Russian agents used its service last year to sow discord.
The system is broken and needs to be reconsidered, Twitters chief executive, Jack Dorsey, tweeted on Thursday.
And we failed by not doing anything about it.
Working now to fix faster.
When Twitter puts a verified check mark next to a white nationalists name, is the company endorsing that person?
That was what Twitter was trying to figure out on Thursday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Verification was meant to authenticate identity and voice but it is interpreted as an endorsement or importance, the company said on Twitter.
We have created this confusion.
Photo Apple may anoint the winner of Broadcoms $105 billion bid for Qualcomm.
A dispute over iPhone royalties left Qualcomm vulnerable to an opportunistic offer from its acquisitive rival.
If Apple settles its dispute, it could preserve Qualcomms independence but it all depends on whether Apple thinks a bigger Broadcom would be slavishly devoted to its devices, or just surlier.
Qualcomm and Apple came to blows over royalties that the chip maker collects on mobile gadgets, most of which use its technologies.
The actual payments arent disclosed, but analysts generally peg them at about $10 per phone.
When Apple sued Qualcomm and told its suppliers to stop paying these fees this year, it helped push Qualcomms share price down by $10 per share, in subsequent months, to the $54.84 at which it traded last Thursday, the day before Broadcoms interest was reported.
Settling the lawsuit might make Broadcoms bid of $70 per share less compelling.
Analysts project Apple should sell around 250 million phones next year.
If it agreed to a lower royalty payment of, say, $7.50 per phone, with a post-tax margin of 85 percent, that would yield almost $1.6 billion in profit.
Put this on a multiple of 10, and thats worth about $16 billion or roughly $11 per share.
And thats before any catch-up payments for previously withheld sums that Qualcomm might be able to claw back.
Should Apple play along?
It depends on which chip maker it considers the more malleable counterpart.
Broadcoms chief executive, Hock Tan, is said to be open to renegotiating the Qualcomm contract should his company prevail.
The promise of $3 billion in annual cost savings from the merger more than defrays the opportunity cost of giving Apple a good deal.
Winning the good graces of Tim Cook, the Apple chief executive, might also result in additional chip sales to the tech giant.
Whatever Mr. Tan says, though, his priority is likely to be maximizing the returns on his new acquisition.
A big motivation for acquiring rivals is usually gaining heft over customers, and Broadcom already derives over 10 percent of its revenue from Apple.
Furthermore, the lengthy antitrust process for a Broadcom-Qualcomm merger means it might be a year before Mr. Tan could negotiate properly anyway.
The iPhone maker may prefer its serfs smaller and more squeezable.
Dr. King and his colleagues, Benjamin Schneer, of Florida State University, and Ariel White, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, spent almost five years on the study, with the first three years dedicated to observing, learning from and building trust with journalists.
Key to getting them on board, he said, was limiting his teams involvement to a part of the process that is often arbitrary: the timing of publication.
In some sense, youre flipping the coin already, he said, noting that for many non-breaking stories, publication timing is subject to the whims of editors or the news cycle.
At all times, the publications retained the right to bow out of the experiment, shelve the stories or publish them when they wanted.
The study is not without its critics.
Creative as it may be, the paper overstates its conclusion, said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, who studies political communication and is the director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania.
Is this methodologically ingenious?
Yes.
Do we know whether or not the findings are substantively important?
Not based on the disclosed information, she said.
Twitter is just one social media platform and social media itself is only one venue in which the national conversation takes place.
Tweets also hardly amount to discussion, Ms. Jamieson said.
Many people simply share links on Twitter, offering, at best, a few lines of commentary.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Without seeing the content of the articles or the tweets, its difficult to judge the studys findings, she said.
(While the authors provided the names of the outlets that participated in the experiment, they withheld the articles involved to protect the reputations of the publications.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To those who participated, though, the experiment offered a chance to better understand their influence, a crucial issue for media organizations.
When we had the opportunity to actually measure impact in a new way, we were really, really excited.
This is core to our mission, said Jo Ellen Green Kaiser, executive director of the Media Consortium, a network of independent news outlets whose members accounted for the majority of those involved in the study.
While most of the outlets the researchers worked with were small, independent publications, such as Truthout or In These Times, the study included some more well-known outlets, too, including The Nation, The Progressive, Ms. Magazine and Yes!
Magazine, according to the authors.
In all, 33 outlets participated in the final experiment, though more than a dozen more participated in earlier trial runs, which were designed differently.
The authors did not say which publications participated in which part of the study.
The researchers were principally involved at only two points in the publication process: the beginning and the end.
Each experiment began with them choosing from one of 11 broad policy areas, such as food, immigration, reproductive rights or jobs, which had been identified as already being of interest to the news organizations.
The researchers then asked a handful of outlets to volunteer to collaborate, in groups of two to five, on stories of their own choosing related to the topic.
For example, the authors said, with technology as a topic, the group might decide to write pieces about how Uber drivers feel about driverless cars.
The researchers then chose a two-week window in which to study discussion online, asking the outlets to publish the stories during either week, chosen at random.
They would then compare the discussion on Twitter related to that topic in the week in which the pieces ran to the week in which they did not.
The stories, typically published on Tuesday, could come in any form, be they straight news, investigations, interviews, opinion pieces, videos or podcasts.
The outlets treated them no differently and the researchers said that, as far as they were aware, their involvement went unnoticed by readers.
Awareness of the study varied at each outlet, but editors and reporters were often informed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We really had to get whole editorial teams on board, and then often the reporters knew, too, Ms. Kaiser said.
In the end, the authors conducted 35 experiments for the study over a year and a half beginning in October 2014.
The authors tried to anticipate some criticisms, too.
Many tweets are created by bots, they acknowledged, but they found that bot traffic was consistent each week, making it essentially background noise.
The researchers also avoided weeks when known world events, say a planned presidential speech on immigration, might have influenced the results.
Video Dara Khosrowshahi wants to make something clear: The new Uber will not look like the company he inherited.
Speaking publicly for the first time since he became Ubers chief executive in August, Mr. Khosrowshahi painted a rosier vision of the future of his company.
His aim: To escape from the shadow cast over the ride-hailing giant after a series of scandals shook the company to its core and resulted in the eventual ousting of former chief executive and co-founder, Travis Kalanick.
The culture went wrong, the governance went wrong, the board went in a very bad direction, Mr. Khosrowshahi said in conversation with Andrew Ross Sorkin at the DealBook conference on Thursday.
I think winning gives some excuses for bad behavior.
Indeed, when Mr. Khosrowshahi stepped into the role in August, he had to deal with a series of scandals.
Employee attrition was at a high, the companys board of directors was rife with infighting, the company faced no fewer than five federal inquiries into its business practices.
And, moreover, the brand and what Uber stood for was taking a beating.
The #DeleteUber hashtag surged across social media earlier this year, resulting in more than 500,000 deleted accounts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Now, Mr. Khosrowshahi is trying to put his own imprimatur on the company in what he calls Uber 2.0.
Q. I have decided to leave Google and move to another mail and file-storage service.
How do I get my mail, photos and other files stored in my Google account?
A. Google has a download page you can use to grab copies of your Gmail messages, uploaded pictures on Google Photos, calendars, contacts, Google Keep notes and more.
To use it, log into your Google account and go to your Takeout page; if you use Gmail and Googles other G Suite corporate services through your employer, talk to your companys system administrator about moving your data.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
On the Takeout page, you can select the Google apps and services you use, and add your personal content from each one to an archive file.
The pictures you download from Google Photos will be exported in the format you used when you uploaded the images.
As you move down the list of apps and services, click the downward-pointing menu arrow to get more information about exporting the data from that particular Google product.
Photo Once you have made your selections, click the Next button at the bottom of the page to choose the format for your archive the .zip format is probably the most universal here, as most computers can automatically open .zip archives.
You can also select your delivery method, including getting a mail message with a link for downloading the archive, or copying the archive file to Microsoft OneDrive or a Dropbox folder.
Keep in mind that downloading all your data does not remove it from the companys servers.
It also does not remove your Google-based web activity or delete your Google account.
After you make sure your archive has what you need, log into your Google account and, in the account preferences area, click the Delete your account or services link and follow the steps on the screen.
5 U.S.
They Voted for Trump.
One Year Later, They Still Believe.
In a phone interview from his home in Houston, Mr. Williams told me that he had created more than 10,000 YouTube videos over an eight-year period, posting as many as 20 monologues per day, and racking up an estimated 200 million views.
His hit productions have included fact-challenged videos like Barack and Michelle Obama Both Come Out The Closet, which garnered 1.6 million views, and Hillary Clinton Is On Crack Cocaine, which had 665,000.
He was admitted to YouTubes partner program, which allows popular posters to earn money by displaying ads on certain types of videos, and claims to have made as much as $10,000 a month from his channel.
I like to call myself a reporter who reports the news for the common person, Mr. Williams said.
Whether motivated by profit or micro-celebrity, the success of sensationalists like Mr. Williams has become a vexing problem for companies like Facebook, Twitter, and Google, which owns YouTube.
These companies sort and prioritize information for their users, and most have built ranking systems that boost news from mainstream outlets over stories from less credible sources.
But those algorithms can be gamed in breaking news situations by users who work fast, uploading their videos in the valuable minutes between when news breaks and when the first wave of legitimate articles and videos appears.
Before reliable sources put up stories, its a bit of a free-for-all, said Karen North, a professor studying social media at the University of Southern California.
People who are in the business of posting sensationalized opinions about the news have learned that the sooner they put up their materials, the more likely their content will be found by an audience.
Photo The phenomenon is not limited to YouTube.
After last months mass shooting in Las Vegas, a Facebook safety check page featured a story from a site called Alt-Right News that made false statements about the gunman, and Googles search results displayed a conspiracy theory from 4Chan, the notoriously toxic message board.
After last months terrorist attack in New York City, a trending topic page on Twitter briefly featured a story from Infowars, a conservative site that is popular among the conspiracy-minded.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Conservatives have argued that YouTube unfairly targets their videos while allowing liberal channels, such as The Young Turks, to post heated political commentary.
And some dispute that there is any conscious gaming going on.
There is absolutely no strategy, said Paul Joseph Watson, an editor-at-large at Infowars and a popular YouTube personality who has 1.1 million subscribers.
On the day of the Texas church shooting, one of Mr. Watsons tweets appeared as a result in Google searches for the shooters name, although it has since disappeared.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Tech companies, already under fire for the ease with which they allowed Russia to interfere in last years election, have also vowed to take a harder stance on domestic misinformation.
Twitters acting general counsel, Sean Edgett, told congressional investigators last week that the company would take steps to keep false stories from being featured on trending topic pages.
Its a bad user experience, and we dont want to be known as a platform for that, Mr. Edgett said.
YouTube, whose community guidelines prohibit hateful and threatening content, has begun using artificial intelligence to help identify offensive videos.
But conspiracy theories dont announce themselves, and machines cant yet handle the complicated business of fact-checking.
In Mr. Williamss case, human intervention seems to have been necessary.
On Tuesday, shortly after I asked YouTube some questions about Mr. Williamss account, all of his videos disappeared, and his profile was replaced by a message saying, This account has been terminated due to multiple or severe violations of YouTubes policy prohibiting hate speech.
Mr. Williams, who said he had recently left his job as an operations manager at a hazardous materials plant to focus on full-time punditry, has tangled with YouTubes hate speech policies before.
The company shut down one of his previous accounts for similar infractions, which he claimed cost him 250,000 subscribers and a lucrative income stream.
If YouTube didnt punish me, Mr. Williams said, I could easily be making over $30,000 a month.
In a statement, YouTube said that Mr. Williamss account was banned as soon as it was flagged to us, because its terms of service prohibit repeat rule-breakers from opening new accounts.
It also said that its terms prohibit advertising from appearing on videos featuring controversial and sensitive events, tragedies, political conflicts, and other sensitive topics.
Even before this weeks crackdown, Mr. Williams was branching out.
He sells cellphone ringtones on his website, and was considering starting his own paid streaming service.
Tuesday night, just hours after he was banned by YouTube, Mr. Williams posted a video on Vimeo, another video-hosting platform.
He pledged to keep insulting his favorite targets Democrats, Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and not shy away from controversy, no matter what the policies said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I dont want to be on YouTube anymore, Mr. Williams said.
Its too communist.
In an email, the leaders of several of the largest Bitcoin companies said that unfortunately, it is clear that we have not built sufficient consensus for a clean block size upgrade at this time.
The New York Times Explains...
The price of Bitcoin shot up immediately after the email went out, hitting a new high, above $7,800, before retreating.
The price has been steadily climbing and is up nearly 1,000 percent over the last year.
The rising price has attracted many new users, from places like Japan and South Korea and from big hedge funds, even as the authorities in places like China have cracked down on the currency.
All of the new people seeking access to Bitcoin have run up against a limit on the number of transactions that can flow through the system every 10 minutes, which was put in place during Bitcoins early years.
Because of the limit, the network can process only around five transactions a second.
That has led to delays on the network and has pushed up the price of getting a Bitcoin transaction through.
Companies that help process Bitcoin payments have been pushing to lift the limit on Bitcoin transactions for several years, arguing that it will be necessary if Bitcoin wants to compete with Visa or PayPal.
The opposing camp has argued that quickly expanding the number of transactions flowing through the network would mean only large companies could track Bitcoin transactions, taking power away from individual users.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The proponents of keeping the so-called blocks of Bitcoin transactions small said Bitcoin should be viewed more as digital gold: a secure place to keep money, even if it cant be moved around as quickly and cheaply.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Many of the programmers working on the basic Bitcoin software the so-called core developers said they would stop working on Bitcoin if the block size was increased.
They also complained that the companies pushing through the block size increase were doing so without properly consulting the community.
Leaders on both sides of the Bitcoin debate have complained about receiving death threats and hacking attacks, and some top developers have migrated toward other virtual currencies.
In August, some of the most outspoken proponents of expanding Bitcoin created their own version, known as Bitcoin Cash, which can handle more transactions than traditional Bitcoin.
The price of Bitcoin Cash has gone up since August, but it remains only a small fraction of the size of Bitcoin.
On Wednesday, the companies that had been pushing for big blocks said they were calling off their plans in order to restore some measure of peace to the community.
Although we strongly believe in the need for a larger block size, there is something we believe is even more important: keeping the community together, the email said.
The announcement said that the companies still believed that an increase in the size of Bitcoin blocks would be necessary, but that they were willing to wait until the community agreed on a way to deal with the issue.
The people opposed to quickly expanding the network say they still wanted to make it easier and cheaper to use Bitcoin.
But they hope this will be made possible by new networks built on top of Bitcoin, keeping the Bitcoin network itself more secure and decentralized.
Photo Maureen Dowd: You often get confused for the lead singer of Korn.
Jaron Lanier: No, never.
Im often confused with Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Im kidding.
Like others in Silicon Valley, you had cards printed up with the job title Visionary.
No, I certainly never did.
You once got a job application from Monica Lewinsky.
This was the 90s and the internet was really not happening for most people yet, so I needed a new executive assistant.
So we put an ad in The Times with a fax number and one of the faxes was from lawyers representing Monica Lewinsky.
I was like, Is this for real?
And they told me that it was real.
Angela Merkel turns you on.
You know, I think shes impressive.
Shes actually a kind of interesting figure to me because shes suffering now for trying to bring in immigrants, but at the same time her initial impulse was not to, and she suffered worse.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Al Gore invented the internet.
Confirm.
The packet-switched networks had been around for a long time.
But the internets a political invention.
And yeah, he should be remembered much more prominently than he is as a creator of it.
A New York Times story on virtual reality pornography raised the specter of revenge porn and stalking porn, talking about clients commissioning sex dolls that look exactly like people they know in real life, maybe an ex-girlfriend they never got over or someone about whom they fantasize.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The story also noted that, given how lifelike the technology is, certainly partners will also have to negotiate whether virtual reality sex constitutes cheating.
Mr. Lanier, who discourses eloquently on subjects like limerence and lust in his book, says: The future Id prefer to see is one where people use VR together to make really crazy imaginative experiences that might be sexual or might not.
Where you turn into fantastical creatures and that sort of thing.
Or when your bodies merge in some ways.
That to me is so much more interesting than the porn.
Porn is a product of the cinema era.
Its an old-fashioned way of thinking, locked in the 19th century.
More and more, we are wondering why, when we know the top Silicon Valley companies are not benevolent, we invite them into the most intimate areas of our lives, as Scott Galloway asks in The Four, a book about how Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google are refashioning the world.
Are these entities the Four Horsemen of god, love, sex, and consumption?
Mr. Galloway wonders.
Or are they the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse?
Even though hes prone to whimsical, esoteric tangents, I know I can get a straight answer on that from Mr. Lanier.
We sit down at his dining room table amid a wild cornucopia of stuff, including a lamp with a hot pink feathered shade and black cats lounging on chairs and hanging, Cirque du Soleil-style, from carpeted staircases.
There are also musical instruments a golden Wurlitzer pedal harp; a rare pre-Depression Mason & Hamlin piano that Mr. Lanier says has a uniquely American sound, a 19th-century Chinese opium bed filled with saxophones, flutes, clarinets, lutes and ouds; mandolins covering the walls, and over a thousand more instruments, from a medieval cornetto to a shakuhachi, a Japanese flute all of which Mr. Lanier can play.
Like his house, his new book is crammed full of strange and mesmerizing stuff.
Right after he was born, his mother, a Marlene Dietrich look-alike and Viennese pianist and stock trader who had talked her way out of a concentration camp by passing as Aryan, and his father, whose family had been mostly wiped out in Ukrainian pogroms, took Jaron someplace they thought would be safe: the westernmost corner of Texas.
There, he had to confront more than his share of bullies growing up, once by swinging a baritone horn at them.
His mother died when he was about 9, when her car flipped over on the freeway as she was coming back from getting her drivers license.
His father, who worked for a time as the science editor of Amazing, Fantastic and Astounding pulp science-fiction magazines, then let his 11-year-old son design their new house in New Mexico: a geodesic dome.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The design, Mr. Lanier writes, looked a little like a womans body.
You could see the big dome as a pregnant belly and the two icosahedrons as breasts.
He tosses out that his father may have been the one to start the rumor about alligators in the sewers of New York.
The wild stories about Mr. Laniers coming-of-age come in a rush, from playing piano at the Ear Inn in SoHo and avant-garde parties with John Cage and Laurie Anderson, and working for the Ear magazine, where editors would have to go up to the Dakota regularly and beg for cash from John and Yoko; to breaking out Timothy Leary from the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, Calif., to a failed first marriage to a beautiful woman who had a roommate who kept tarantula venom in their refrigerator.
(Carved by trauma and tradition, her demons dragged my demons to the courthouse, he writes of their divorce.)
After a takeout chicken and macaroni dinner, Mr. Lanier bids a loving good night to his wife, Lena, a child psychologist, and their 11-year old daughter, Lilibell.
Then he brings out his Microsoft HoloLens headsets and a big mug of chocolate milk.
Im more like the child than the parent, Im afraid, he says.
I spend some time wearing the headset painting graffiti in the air with my hand, and Mr. Lanier explains why the brain can see more than the eyes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
I ask about social-media sites getting hijacked by Russians pushing propaganda aimed at putting Donald Trump in the White House.
Vanity Fair has compared this juncture, with anxious lawmakers demanding accountability from the resistant tech companies, to the moment when we all had to start taking off our shoes at airports.
Expect some smelly feet, Mr. Lanier says.
Unlike many here, he does not think of humans as ants in his experiments.
Hopefully, in this period, when were dealing with this really crude and early stuff like Facebook feeds, Instagram, Snapchat, he says, well be able to get the politics straight and find a path for people to have dignity and autonomy before the hard-core stuff comes.
Unless we all kill ourselves through this other stuff, which is a possibility, too.
One of the great joys of the Trump era is having your 11-year-old say, The former head of NATO said theres a one in 10 chance of nuclear war.
Is that right?
And Im like, Oh, great.
Thank you, Trump.
Thats very nice.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Lanier believes that Facebook and Google, with their top-down control schemes, should be called Behavior Modification Empires.
The whole internet thing was supposed to create the worlds best information resource in all of history, he says.
Everything would be made visible.
And instead were living in this time of total opacity where you dont know why you see the news you see.
You dont know if its the same news that someone else sees.
You dont know who made it be that way.
You dont know whos paid to change what you see.
Everything is totally obscure in a profound way that it never was before.
And the belief system of Silicon Valley is so thick that my friends at Facebook simply still really believe that the answer to any problem is to do more of what they already did, that theyre optimizing the world.
The Facebook business model is mass behavior modification for pay.
And for those who are not giving Facebook money, the only and I want to emphasize, the only, underlined and in bold and italics reward they can get or positive feedback is just getting attention.
And if you have a system where the only possible prize is getting more attention, then you call that system Christmas for Asses, right?
Its a creep-amplification device.
Once Facebook becomes ubiquitous, its a sort of giant protection racket, where, if you dont pay them money, then someone else will pay to modify the behavior to your disadvantage, so everyone has to pay money just to stay at equilibrium where they would have been otherwise, he says.
I mean, theres only one way out for Facebook, which is to change its business model.
Unless Facebook changes, well just have to trust Facebook for any future election result.
Because they do apparently have the ability to change them.
Or at least change the close ones.
Why would Facebook change its business model when its raking in billions?
I would appeal to the decency of the people in it, he replies.
And if not to them, then the toughness of the regulators.
Its going to be one of the struggles of the century.
I point out that after the stunning Trump win, President Obama took Mr. Zuckerberg aside and warned him to take the threat of political disinformation seriously, but the young billionaire dismissed the idea that it was widespread.
Well, no one in Silicon Valley believes that anybody knows more than us, Mr. Lanier says dryly.
Surely not the government.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He continues: I think there are a lot of good people at Facebook, and I dont think theyre evil as individuals.
Or at least not the ones that Ive met.
And I know Google a lot better, and I feel pretty certain that theyre not evil.
But both of these companies have this behavior-manipulation business plan, which is just not something the world can sustain at that scale.
It just makes everything crazy.
I remark that Facebooks Sheryl Sandberg expressed surprise that their fiendish little invention could do something so nefarious.
Photo People in the community knew, Mr. Lanier says, adding that he wrote essays and participated in debates in the early 1990s about how easy it would be the create unreality and manipulate society, how you could put out a feed of information that would put people in illusory worlds where they thought they had sought out the information but actually they had been guided the way a magician forces a card.
So for somebody to say they didnt know the algorithms could do that, Mr. Lanier says in a disbelieving tone.
If somebody didnt know, they shouldve known.
So what happens when fake news marries virtual reality?
It could be much more significant, Mr. Lanier says.
When you look at all the ways of manipulating people that you can do with just a crude thing like a Facebook feed when people are just looking at images and text on their phones and theyre not really inside synthetic worlds yet when you can do it with virtual reality, its like total control of the person.
So what Im hoping is that were going to figure this stuff out so we dont make ourselves insane before virtual reality becomes mature.
He says that Silicon Valley has turned out both better and worse than he expected: As far as the worse part, creating a global behavior-modification empire is worse than I thought.
And creating a world thats more opaque instead of less opaque is worse than I thought we should do.
Its also a physically uglier place than I thought it would be.
Its really a shame.
If were the new Renaissance, why dont we make this amazing Tuscany here?
We have these gorgeous orchards.
Why dont we do something beautiful here instead of just filling it up with parking lots and horrible buildings?
He says sometimes his peers in the Valley seem perfectly nice but then they will say something I just cant believe.
He cites Eric Schmidts comment on privacy on CNBCs Inside the Mind of Google special in 2009, that If you have something that you dont want anyone to know, maybe you shouldnt be doing it in the first place.
Really?
Mr. Lanier asks.
It does give me this feeling sometimes that somethings going wrong with our culture in Silicon Valley and maybe its just that thing of power corrupting and absolute power corrupting absolutely, just losing perspective.
Like Zuckerberg might think, Well, I went around to a bunch of states and I ate barbecue and wrestled cattle so Ive been around all kinds of people.
But to have people who you respect and listen to have fundamentally different worldviews and question your core logic and think that you may be way off track, thats a much harder thing to do.
And there are people who can be very powerful and comfortable with that.
Ill mention one, whose name is Barack Obama.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I ask Mr. Lanier about the sexual harassment and gender inequity problems roiling the Valley.
Well, sometimes, I think theres a kind of emerging new male jerk persona of the digital age, which would be some kind of a cross between the Uber guy and the pharma bro and maybe Milo Yiannopoulos and maybe Palmer Luckey and maybe Steve Bannon, he says.
Because, theres this sort of smug, superior, Ive got the levers of power, and I know better than you.
Its sort of this weird combination of a lot of power and a lot of insecurity at the same time.
He believes that Gamergate led to the alt right.
It was one of the feeders, he says.
He talks about another personality that is emerging from the digital age.
If youre a mark of social media, if youre being manipulated by it, one of the ways to tell is if theres a certain kind of personality quality that overtakes you, he says.
Its been called the snowflake quality.
People criticize liberal college kids who have it, but its exactly the same thing you see in Trump.
Its this kind of highly reactive, thin-skinned, outraged single-mindedness.
I think one way to think of Trump, even though he is a con man and he is an actor and hes a master manipulator and all that, in a sense hes also a victim.
Ive met him a few times over 30 years.
And what I think I see is someone who has moved from kind of a New York character who was in on his own joke to somebody who is completely freaked out and outraged and feeling like he is on the verge of a catastrophe every second.
And so my theory about that is that he was ruined by social media.
Mr. Lanier plays me a song he composed to cheer up his wife when she was going through cancer treatments, a Cuban-style charanga flute solo played on a Japanese shakuhachi which is a crazy-hard thing to do and I pulled it off.
Then he confides his fear that one of his older cats, Loof, would have been a Trump supporter.
Loof is the sweetest cat in the world but shes really an anti-immigrant voter, he says.
She did not like the idea of young cats coming here.
She really didnt want the change.
She really felt like they ruined everything.
And I must point out that the new kittens who came are black kittens.
They appear to be Bombay cats.
Loof is not in a basket of deplorables.
Shes just in a basket of blankets.
As I get ready to leave, the grand illusionist offers an intriguing theory about why the internet is more obsessed with cats than dogs.
I think we know that Facebook is turning us into trained dogs, he says.
We know were being trained.
We can feel ourselves being turned into trained circus animals.
And we long for that independence that cats show.
So when you look at a cat video, what youre really seeing is this receding identity that you want to cling to and find again.
RELATED: Jaron Lanier submits to a round of Confirm or Deny, here.
If a user has enabled an iPhones data-erase function, someone trying to break into the device would have 10 attempts at typing in a password.
If all of those attempts failed, the iPhone would automatically wipe itself clean as a safeguard for its owners privacy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
After the F.B.I.s news conference on Tuesday, Apple said, it immediately reached out to law enforcement.
We offered assistance and said we would expedite our response to any legal process they send us, Apple said.
Past issues with passwords The situation is a reminder of last years fight between Apple and the F.B.I.
At the time, law enforcement wanted to get into the iPhone used by Syed Rizwan Farook, who along with his wife killed 14 of Mr. Farooks co-workers at a holiday party in San Bernardino, Calif., in late 2015.
In that case, a federal judge ordered Apple to help the F.B.I.
The judge asked Apple to bypass or disable the security feature that wipes a phone clean after 10 incorrect password attempts.
Apple argued that creating the technology to bypass its own security would compromise its users safety.
Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, penned a 1,100-word letter to customers, warning that the governments request would lead to a chilling breach of privacy.
What the authorities can do In the aftermath of the Sutherland Springs shooting, the authorities could have used Mr. Kelleys fingers for up to 48 hours after he last opened his iPhone to activate the biometric Touch ID function to gain access to the device.
It is unclear why officials did not do so.
After 48 hours, law enforcement would need a pass code to open the phone.
In the San Bernardino case, the F.B.I.
was ultimately able to open the iPhone without help from Apple.
Its unclear what methods law enforcement has tried in the Texas case.
Whether or not the government finds evidence on Mr. Kelleys iPhone, the case could again thrust Apple into the middle of a debate over how we balance the needs of citizens and their right to privacy with the needs of law enforcement working on tough cases.
Equally important, you need to know when to put all that technology away.
In the more paranoid corners of the Middle East, pulling out a glowing laptop in public is not a great idea.
How is connectivity in Cairo and in the region when you travel on assignment?
The internet can be teeth-grindingly slow in Egypt, to the point of me yelling, ridiculously, at the screen on deadline.
Photo In 2016, Egypt ranked 146th out of 150 countries for fixed broadband download speeds, according to Speedtest.
The only worse country in North Africa was war-torn Libya.
Its surprising given that a major data cable, linking hundreds of millions of users, passes through one sleepy Egyptian village.
The problem stems from a lack of investment in telecommunications infrastructure locally since the Arab Spring in 2011 and stifling state monopolies.
We get around this with dongles connected to the 4G cellphone network, which is better, if not perfect.
In conflict zones like Libya, where I covered an offensive against the Islamic State last year, I turn to my BGAN satellite data terminal and a Thuraya satellite phone.
But increasingly there is at least patchy cellphone coverage in even the more dangerous places, such as during the battle for Aleppo, Syria, last year.
That brings an immediacy that I once found jarring: the power to FaceTime with your mom, for instance, from a battlefront.
But now that feels normal, and choices are dictated less by technology than by what simply feels right.
Are Egyptians joined at the hip with their smartphones?
Egyptians adore their smartphones.
People have crazy-looking cases and a range of dramatic ringtones Quranic verses for conservatives, melodramatic pop tunes for everyone else.
Lionel Richies Hello and anything by Celine Dion are very popular.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
The flip side to the smartphone mania is that it also inspires deep paranoia among the police and some ordinary citizens, known popularly here as honorable citizens.
I know people whove been threatened with arrest for taking a photo of the Suez Canal (after the pyramids, one of Egypts most famous features).
A photographer friend was admonished by an honorable citizen for trying to take a photo of the Nile with her phone.
He accused her of being a spy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What are the favorite apps or gadgets in Egypt?
Are people on Facebook and using Google and Uber?
Egypt has the largest community of Facebook users in the Arab world.
Its a huge part of many peoples lives, at a time when the public square is dramatically shrinking.
Since President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi came to power in 2013, protest has been outlawed and the news media is largely in thrall to the government.
So people turn to social media to talk politics, mock their leaders and hunt for independent news.
If Mr. Sisi makes a slip-up on television, there will unfailingly be a flurry of mocking memes flying about on Facebook within hours.
It can be funny, dark or both jokes about the countrys pitiful human rights record, for instance.
Its not just Western apps.
Anghami is the Arab version of Spotify, Souq.com is the big online retailer (and was bought by Amazon this year), and theres a host of apps that tell pious Muslims when to pray or that help them to read the Quran.
On the streets of Cairo, Uber and Careem, a ride-sharing app that concentrates on the Middle East, are slugging it out for market share.
As a result, cab rides can be ridiculously cheap just a few dollars to cross town.
Photo How does the Egyptian government treat tech like social media and Western apps?
With wariness and frequent hostility.
Egyptian officials closely monitor Facebook, Twitter and other social media sites, and posting an irreverent comment can land a user in court or in jail.
A young army conscript is serving a three-year sentence for posting a photo of Mr. Sisi with a pair of Mickey Mouse ears.
Since May, the government has banned over 400 websites, including Human Rights Watch, the Egyptian news site Mada Masr and, bizarrely, Medium.
Earlier this year, I discovered the security services were seeking access to real-time information about ride-sharing customers once known inside Uber as God View through the Uber and Careem apps.
All told, its a pretty grim picture.
Beyond your job, what tech product do you love using in your daily life right now and why?
I love my Bose noise-canceling Bluetooth headphones, but the most satisfying tech product Ive started using is one that cancels out the rest.
A smart little alarm clock by the French designer Philippe Tabet sits on my bedside table, and means that I no longer need my smartphone to wake me up.
With the phone banished to another room, I cant mindlessly scroll Twitter or Instagram at 8 oclock in the morning, and I enjoy a tiny window of mental peace.
If Times editors need me urgently, they can still call my land line.
Sometimes, the old-fashioned tech is best.
Its blockbuster season for video games.
With the holiday season on its way, the games industry is pushing out a diverse lineup of titles, from new installments of long-running franchises like Activisions Call of Duty and Ubisofts Assassins Creed to EAs long-awaited Star Wars Battlefront II.
But the real crowd pleasers this year may be in hardware.
Microsoft and Nintendo are offering new or upgraded consoles after Sony rereleased its PlayStation 4 console and more powerful PS4 Pro last year.
The hottest hardware ticket is Nintendos Switch console, which offers gamers the option of plugging in at home or pulling it off its dock to play on the go.
Even though it was released eight months ago, the Switch is still so popular that supply is expected to be a problem at the end of the year.
The arrival this week of Microsofts new Xbox One X console featuring more processing power and 4K resolution, which means more defined picture quality is also expected to make waves.
The console supports hundreds of games from the Xbox back catalog, including all Xbox One titles, as well as select Xbox 360 titles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story All of this is expected to fuel spending on games, which rose 7 percent to $14 billion in the first half of the year from the same period in 2016, according to the NPD Group.
I expect this growth to continue to edge up through the holidays, said Mat Piscatella, who analyzes the video games industry for NPD.
Q.
My new iPhone does not have a little globe key on the keyboard like Ive seen on other peoples Apple phones.
Mine just has the happy face key.
Why is this?
A.
Along with the smiling face and other emoji pictographs, the iPhone can display keyboard layouts for dozens of languages.
When you add a new international keyboard, the happy face key used to insert emoji characters into text changes to the globe key.
When you press and hold the globe key, a menu pops up to display your alternate keyboard choices including emoji.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
If you would like to add a keyboard designed for use with another language, you can do so in the iPhones keyboard settings.
Tap open the Settings icon on the home screen, select General and then go to Keyboard.
Then go to Keyboards and select Add New Keyboard.
On the Add New Keyboard screen, scroll through the list and tap the language you want to use.
(If you are using the keyboard in an app, you can also go right to the settings by pressing and holding the emoji key for a few seconds until a menu pops up with an option for Keyboard Settings.)
When you return to using the iPhone keyboard in the Mail, the Notes or another text-heavy app, you should now see the globe key on the keyboard.
Press and hold the globe icon for a second or two until the list of keyboards appears like the emoji set or the international keyboard you just added.
Photo In addition to the Keyboard Settings shortcut (where you can adjust your preferences for auto-correction, predictive text and other typing-related tools), the pop-up menu includes icons you can use to switch to the one-handed keyboard that is part of iOS 11.
When you select either the left- or the right-handed layout, the essential keys slide over to your chosen side of the screen to make typing with your thumb easier.
Advertisement State of the Art What Reality TV Teaches Us About Russias Influence Campaign Image Credit Doug Chayka In May 2016, a Facebook page called Heart of Texas urged its nearly 254,000 followers to rise up against what it considered to be an urgent cultural menace.
A mosque in Houston had opened up a new library, and Heart of Texas planned to protest.
Stop Islamization of Texas, it warned.
Word of the protest spread quickly, but supporters of the mosque were also ready to mobilize.
Bigots are planning to intimidate through weaponized fear this Saturday at noon, one of them wrote on Reddit .
The post linked to a Facebook page for United Muslims of America, a group that said it was planning a counterprotest for the same time and place.
By now you might be able to guess the punch line here.
Heart of Texas wasnt a real group, as Business Insider later reported .
United Muslims of America is a real organization, but the Facebook page promoting the counterprotest was not run by the actual group, as The Daily Beast found .
Instead, according to documents made public last week by the Senate Intelligence Committee , both the pro- and anti-mosque protests had been planned and promoted by Russian trolls.
We may never know for certain if Russias campaign to influence American society through social networks changed the course of history in big ways if it altered the election results, say.
But it is already clear that Russias efforts did change the world in countless small ways.
A few dozen real Americans did protest that Saturday in Houston .
Videos of the protest show real emotion people on opposite sides of the street screaming, swearing and truly angry to have to share the country with the bozos on the other side.
A video of a demonstration over an Islamic library in Houston last year.
Credit Video by 4UTWO 2C As I watched these videos recently, I had an epiphany about the Russia influence campaign.
The Houston protest videos depicted a bunch of Americans duped into fighting each other in public, all at the whim of an unseen force that, through expert and surreptitious cajoling, had gotten them to lose control of themselves on camera.
Id seen this show many times before, and you probably have, too.
Its called The Bachelor.
And not just the The Bachelor, but every show like it.
The Russians are running a reality show through Facebook and Twitter, and their contestants are all of us .
Over the past few days, I reached out to several reality show producers, asking them to compare the Russian digital influence campaign and the world of unscripted TV.
The more they told me about reality shows, the more the metaphor seemed to explain Russias trolling campaign how it worked, what it aimed to do and why campaigns like it will be so difficult to fight.
The only thing that matters is drama.
One of the more surprising findings about the Russian influence campaign is its political incoherence.
The documents released so far suggest that, as in the Houston protest, the trolls didnt seem to care very much about pushing one political side over another.
They were happy to push all sides to get people to argue for and against the Islamic library which suggests their ultimate goal was to sow drama.
Why?
Reality TV offers a guide: Because drama is easy to produce, and because drama sells.
On a show where the action stems from the interplay of people living in close quarters like The Bachelor there are often producers on set who subtly, and sometimes less than subtly, prod the contestants into acting in certain ways.
How often this happens, and to what degree, varies greatly from show to show and is matter of great secrecy and controversy within the industry.
But pretty much everyone in the world of reality TV acknowledges that it happens to some degree on most shows, and that there are certain basic ways to manufacture drama.
Sarah Gertrude Shapiro, a former producer on The Bachelor who later created Unreal, a scripted show about the reality industry, said the key to manipulating contestants into acting a certain way was to tap into their fears, passions and ego.
Image Opponents of a mosques new library and counterprotesters at the demonstration in Houston last year.
Credit Jon Shapley/Houston Chronicle On reality TV, producers can do that because they keep detailed dossiers on everyone on set.
But guess what?
Russian trolls had detailed dossiers, too and they could consult them at scale.
Using Facebooks exquisitely detailed ad-targeting and viral propagation systems , trolls could create content that perfectly matched your fears, passions and ego.
Facebook pages are veritable instruction manuals for someone who wants to exploit you, Ms. Shapiro said.
Given these tools, the Russian plan was simple: You just poke the bears, put them in a cage and let them fight.
Case in point: In response to Heart of Texas Stop Islamization post, a Facebook user upset with the Houston mosque posted a comment suggesting that it be blown up.
That prompted a local civil rights group to contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which in turn led to a story in The Houston Chronicle about the threat and the law enforcement response.
Bear poked.
But it doesnt end there.
In the same way that cage-fighting bears sells on reality TV, such conflict also sells on Facebooks News Feed, which rewards posts that get a lot of engagement, as well as on Twitter and the larger ecosystem of amped-up cable news that feeds off viral content.
The Russian trolls clearly understood this.
They based their campaigns on well-known divisions racial, political, religious and the conflicts they generated spread far across social media, and were then widely covered by the news media.
If Simon Cowell once tapped into a main artery of negativity in American life, Facebook and Twitter and 24-hour news really picked that up, said Mike Duffy, a co-founder of Ugly Brother Studios, which produces many unscripted shows, referring to the acerbic judge of American Idol and Americas Got Talent.
Theyre pushing the same types of bombastic characters, and theyre seeing a ratings increase.
Well never know whats really real.
Theres a surprising amount of disagreement among experts about how real reality TV is.
One camp suggests its not real at all.
Jennifer L. Pozner, a media critic and author of Reality Bites Back: The Troubling Truth About Guilty Pleasure TV, said that reality producers go to fantastic lengths to manipulate contestants, denying them food and communication, plying them with alcohol and ultimately chopping up footage to make it look as if they have said and done things that they havent.
The contestants have zero ability to contribute narratives about themselves, she said.
Theres another camp that suggests that while the circumstances on most shows are contrived, the contestants emotional responses are deeply real.
The way we generate drama on reality TV is to put someone in the most extreme environment possible and then watch for their genuine reaction, said Troy DeVolld, a longtime producer and the author of Reality TV: An Insiders Guide to TVs Hottest Market.
In fact, he said, reality TV would be boring if that werent the case the whole reason we watch is we can tell how seriously everyone is taking whats going on, even in the most absurd of circumstances.
Im not here to adjudicate this debate.
But I will point out that it matches the question at the heart of the Russian-influence saga: Did Russias trolls persuade Americans to act in ways that they wouldnt have otherwise or were they merely providing us a framework for expressing our deeply held political and social ideas?
The answer is not obvious.
On the one hand, its clear that there are cases like the Houston protest where the Russian campaign prompted real people to take real action in the real world.
Whats less clear is whether we should discount those protesters actions and emotions simply because they were influenced by a Russian Facebook campaign.
After all, both sides were genuinely angry about the mosque; whoever inspired the campaign, their feelings werent fake news.
This happens on reality TV, too.
Though everyone understands The Bachelor is contrived, there are Bachelor winners who have been married for more than a decade .
At some point, reality TV becomes reality.
This gets to whats really pernicious about the Russian campaign.
It so deftly blended artifice and reality for so many people, across so many issues, in so many places that it is impossible, now, for any of us to tell where reality and fakery begin and end.
Is it the trolls world, or is it ours?
Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo Email: farhad.manjoo@nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo.
Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B 1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Drama of Reality TV, Brought to You by Russia Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Last week, executives from Facebook, Google and Twitter were grilled in Washington about Russias use of American social media platforms to influence the 2016 presidential election.
Photo During Facebooks time in the congressional hot seat last week, Senator John Kennedy, a Republican from Louisiana, asked whether China had also run ads to affect the United States election.
Facebooks general counsel replied that to his knowledge it had not.
There is no indication that China meddled in the American election, but the Communist governments use of Facebook is ironic given its apparent fear of the platform.
It also hasnt been reluctant to use it as a soapbox where Chinas relationship with the United States is concerned.
China has been a major priority for Facebook.
Mark Zuckerberg, the companys founder, has spent years courting it.
Facebook executives even set up a page to show CCTV, one of Beijings chief propaganda outlets, how to use the platform during President Xi Jinpings 2015 trip to the United States.
While Chinas propaganda channels on Facebook are not nearly as subtle as Russian groups when it comes to influencing opinion, their techniques are nonetheless instructive.
Rather than divisive advertisements, many of the Chinese Facebook posts replicate the sort of news propaganda delivered at home: articles stressing Chinas stability and prosperity mixed with posts highlighting chaos and violence in the rest of the world.
A similar blend of stories pandas and idyllic Chinese landscapes next to heavy coverage of the mass shooting in Texas has proliferated across Chinas official Facebook channels in the lead-up to Mr. Trumps visit to Beijing, which began on Wednesday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While much of it is unlikely to sway the average Americans mind, such posts reach people across the world, many of whom are newer to the internet and may have a less sophisticated understanding of media.
Chinas state media has Facebook channels dedicated to Africa and other regions of the world, and it seems evident that it is offering itself as an alternative to the Western media for a more global audience.
Photo Recently, for example, Xinhua posted an article titled Chinas IP protection system works well, says U.S. professional a rebuke of a congressional investigation into Chinese trade policies that critics say encourage intellectual property theft.
A more anodyne post offered a ham-handed attempt to find common ground between China and the United States, pointing to the basketball player Yao Ming, pandas and American students making dumplings as examples of the countries close relationship.
A video posted by Xinhua, which already has about 100,000 views, presents a series of man-on-the-street interviews with Chinese people talking about the United States.
It begins on a positive note, with questions about Mr. Trump and what they like about the United States.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
About halfway through the video, however, the tone changes and people are asked to describe the problems they see with the United States.
At that point, the interviewees get critical.
U.S.A. interferes with others lives arrogantly, one woman says.
Every person and nation has its own culture and customs, no need to interfere.
Another woman addresses America directly: Dont be so self-important and arrogant.
Before its market debut, Snap had been lauded as being hipper and more innovative than Facebook and other social media companies.
Since going public, however, it has had to address slower-than-expected user growth, rising costs and investor doubts about its strategy for dealing with both.
Other problems that the company has grappled with include overestimating demand for its Spectacles camera-equipped sunglasses, a once-hot product whose sales cooled rapidly.
During a call with analysts on Tuesday, Evan Spiegel, Snaps co-founder and chief executive, said that the company was focused on issues like simplifying the ad-purchase process on its platform and making its core app easier to use, a longstanding complaint.
He also promoted the companys efforts to expand its content and augmented-reality offerings.
I guess were just not afraid to make changes in the long-term interest of the business, Mr. Spiegel said on the call.
So I would expect us to continue learning as we grow the business and making changes that we think are in the best interest of growing the user base, growing revenue and, ultimately, providing our customers with a great product experience.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
That he spoke openly about his priorities marked a change for the Mr. Spiegel, who is normally tight-lipped about his strategy.
Such an approach has frustrated investors who have sought a better sense of where the company was headed.
But now, Snap has the support of Tencent.
The Chinese company has had a history of taking stakes in chat apps, such as Snap, in order to learn more about how they work and how they perform from a business perspective.
It has long held a stake, for example, in South Koreas Kakao.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Snap said that Tencent and its affiliates had recently acquired 145.8 million nonvoting shares through purchases in the open market.
That represents nearly 17 percent of Snaps class A shares, which hold no voting power, and about 12 percent of its total shares.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We have long been inspired by the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of Tencent, and we are grateful to continue our longstanding and productive relationship that began over four years ago, Snap said in the regulatory filing.
For its part, Martin Lau, Tencents president, informed us that Tencent is excited to deepen its shareholding relationship with us, and that it looks forward to sharing ideas and experiences.
A Tencent spokesman said at a company conference in Chengdu, China, that it viewed the Snap stake as a strategic investment.
We saw Snap as an innovative company with a huge user base that is mostly focused on Western, developed markets, he said.
Snap described Tencent as a long-term shareholder, but it did not disclose the Chinese companys total holdings.
It said it had no obligation to disclose changes in Tencents holdings of nonvoting shares because of Snaps ownership structure.
Tencent had the option to raise its stake in Snap in a fund-raising round before the companys initial public offering this year, but declined.
So far, stock market investors do not appear heartened by Tencents move.
Shares in Snap were down nearly 15 percent on Wednesday, to $12.91 well below the companys initial offering price of $17 a share.
In total, Snaps third quarter revenue was $207.9 million, up 62 percent from a year ago but below Wall Street estimates of $235.5 million.
Its net loss was $443.2 million nearly four times the size of the loss a year ago and more than twice as large as what analysts had predicted.
About half of that loss was because of the cost of stock-based compensation that the company pays its employees.
Snap added 5 million users to its Snapchat messaging service from the previous quarter, but that, too was below estimates from Wall Street, which expected 8 million new users.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Snaps chief executive, Evan Spiegel, said revenue growth had been hurt by the companys move to automate its ad-buying process.
That transition caused ad pricing to drop by about 60 percent from the previous year, he said, though the change is now largely complete.
I am grateful that this transition is nearly behind us, Mr. Spiegel said on a call with analysts.
This has been a good test for our business.
Mr. Spiegel also said that Snap was redesigning its app to make it easier to use and that the company would focus on user growth in 2018, as well as on content and augmented reality.
In the past, Mr. Spiegel has said little about Snaps product strategy.
Unlike many other companies, Snap also does not give an estimate for future revenue in its earnings report.
Mr. Spiegels talk of goals for 2018 and notes of contrition were a welcome change.
For the past two quarters, analysts have expressed frustration over Mr. Spiegels unwillingness to give guidance about the companys product strategy.
On stage at a recent conference, Mr. Spiegel said that he needed to do a better job communicating with investors.
Snap also indicated it was cutting back on Spectacles, its video recording sunglasses.
The company said it had misjudged strong early demand for Spectacles and wrote off $39.9 million of the sunglasses in the quarter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brian Wieser, a senior research analyst at Pivotal Research Group, said there remained reasons for optimism about Snap and he questioned Wall Streets focus on user growth.
The last time I checked this isnt a subscription business, he said of Snapchat.
Theyve done really well retaining their users.
Theyre doing well at what they say they can do.
Snap has also avoided the kind of criticism that other tech companies have faced over the use of their technology to spread false and misleading information.
Last week, Facebook, Twitter and Google faced questions from Congress about how they were turned into a distribution platform for bogus news during the 2016 presidential campaign.
Snap tightly controls the news and entertainment content that appears on its Discover news platform.
Photo Dara Khosrowshahi has spent the past two months learning the ins and outs of Uber, the embattled ride-hailing company where he took over as chief executive in August.
Now begins the hard work of repairing Ubers negative image.
On Tuesday, Mr. Khosrowshahi introduced a new set of cultural values for the company, replacing a list previously conceived by Travis Kalanick, the former chief executive who in June was pushed out of the start-up he had helped to create.
Introduced to employees at an all-hands staff meeting in San Francisco, the list is meant to strike a softer tone for the eight-year-old company, which has long been seen as hard-edged and combative.
It includes warmer, fuzzier goals like perseverance and celebrating differences.
Another entry reads: We do the right thing.
Period.
The list also represents something of a repudiation of the culture created under Mr. Kalanick.
Uber has long held a reputation for a willingness to fight any and everyone, from competitors like Lyft to lawmakers seeking stronger oversight of the company.
That aggressiveness led to difficulties in cities like London, where Mr. Khosrowshahi is scrambling to keep the service alive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its that forward-leaning, fearless approach that has underpinned much of Ubers success and has attracted many employees, including me, to the company, Mr. Khosrowshahi said in a LinkedIn post.
But its also clear that the culture and approach that got Uber where it is today is not what will get us to the next level.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ubers cultural baggage caught up to it this year after Susan Fowler, a former employee, penned a lengthy blog post detailing a history of sexual harassment by a superior and complaints to human resources that had fallen on deaf ears.
Ms. Fowlers post was the first in a series of events, including the discovery of a program to deceive law enforcement called Greyball, that eventually led to investors pushing Mr. Kalanick to step down.
Mr. Khosrowshahi has spent much of his tenure so far on an apology tour, trying to improve relations with the millions of people who drive for the company.
He is also working to improve relations with the hundreds of cities Uber operates in around the world.
Q. I recently discovered the keyboard shortcut in Windows 10 that automatically zooms in the whole screen, but its often a little too close-up.
Is there a way to adjust this zooming?
A.
Pressing the Windows and plus (+) keys together automatically activates the Magnifier, the built-in Ease of Access utility for enlarging the screen, and yes, you can adjust the level of magnification.
(For those who have found the shortcut by accident, pressing the Windows and Escape keys turns off the Magnifier.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
To change the magnification level, press the Windows, Control and M keys to open the Magnifier settings box.
(You can also take the long way by going to the Start menu, clicking the gear-shaped settings icon on the left side, choosing the Ease of Access icon and then selecting Magnifier.)
When the settings box opens, go to the Magnifier options area and under Zoom level increments, select a smaller percentage than the default 100 percent.
Choosing a lower number like 25 percent gives you smaller degrees of magnification for zooming.
For example, instead of zooming in by 100 percent each time you press the Windows and + keys to turn on the Magnifier and then increase the zoom level of the screen, you can zoom in more gradually in 25-percent increments as you repeatedly press the keyboard shortcut.
Photo The Magnifier utility has quite a few shortcuts of its own, which can save you from fiddling with the mouse while you enlarge parts of the desktop for easier reading.
To see the list of commands, scroll down to the Keyboard Shortcuts section of the Magnifier settings box.
Mac users have a similar screen-magnification tool that comes with macOS.
To turn on the Zoom feature and adjust its behavior, click the System Preferences icon in the Macs desktop dock and in the System Preferences box, click Accessibility.
On the left side of the Accessibility box, click Zoom to get to the features settings.
Q.
How do I efficiently manage my email with three devices: computer, phone and tablet?
Do I have to read, save, delete email three times, or can I easily sync them?
A.
Most mail programs give you the choice of two ways to set up an account on a computer or mobile device either with the IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) standard or POP (Post Office Protocol).
If you want to keep your mailbox in sync across multiple devices, choose the IMAP method.
Photo Compared with POP, IMAP is a newer technology for managing messages and handles checking the same mail account on multiple devices much more smoothly.
With IMAP, even though you can see your mailbox in the mail program on your computer and devices, IMAP messages actually live on the mail server.
When you read, delete or flag a message, you are performing that action on the mail server.
The mail apps on your other devices see the change when you view the updated mailbox.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
In contrast, most POP mail systems in their default settings download messages directly to the device that checks in at the time, and then deletes those messages from the mail server.
When you check mail with your computer or other gadgets, those devices do not get the deleted messages, but they may download newer ones which then get deleted from the server, making your mailboxes out of sync.
As a workaround, some mail providers allow you to keep messages on the server without deleting them automatically after they download, but then you have to repeatedly delete a message on each device.
Additionally, the messages you send stay on the Sent mailbox of the computer or device that actually did the sending.
Most modern mail providers and programs support IMAP You can find instructions for setting up IMAP mail accounts for Googles Gmail, Microsoft Outlook and Mozillas Thunderbird program on their sites.
Apples iCloud mail does not support POP and uses IMAP by default.
Q. I have decided to leave Google and move to another mail and file-storage service.
How do I get my mail, photos and other files stored in my Google account?
A. Google has a download page you can use to grab copies of your Gmail messages, uploaded pictures on Google Photos, calendars, contacts, Google Keep notes and more.
To use it, log into your Google account and go to your Takeout page; if you use Gmail and Googles other G Suite corporate services through your employer, talk to your companys system administrator about moving your data.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
On the Takeout page, you can select the Google apps and services you use, and add your personal content from each one to an archive file.
The pictures you download from Google Photos will be exported in the format you used when you uploaded the images.
As you move down the list of apps and services, click the downward-pointing menu arrow to get more information about exporting the data from that particular Google product.
Photo Once you have made your selections, click the Next button at the bottom of the page to choose the format for your archive the .zip format is probably the most universal here, as most computers can automatically open .zip archives.
You can also select your delivery method, including getting a mail message with a link for downloading the archive, or copying the archive file to Microsoft OneDrive or a Dropbox folder.
Keep in mind that downloading all your data does not remove it from the companys servers.
It also does not remove your Google-based web activity or delete your Google account.
After you make sure your archive has what you need, log into your Google account and, in the account preferences area, click the Delete your account or services link and follow the steps on the screen.
Equally important, you need to know when to put all that technology away.
In the more paranoid corners of the Middle East, pulling out a glowing laptop in public is not a great idea.
How is connectivity in Cairo and in the region when you travel on assignment?
The internet can be teeth-grindingly slow in Egypt, to the point of me yelling, ridiculously, at the screen on deadline.
Photo In 2016, Egypt ranked 146th out of 150 countries for fixed broadband download speeds, according to Speedtest.
The only worse country in North Africa was war-torn Libya.
Its surprising given that a major data cable, linking hundreds of millions of users, passes through one sleepy Egyptian village.
The problem stems from a lack of investment in telecommunications infrastructure locally since the Arab Spring in 2011 and stifling state monopolies.
We get around this with dongles connected to the 4G cellphone network, which is better, if not perfect.
In conflict zones like Libya, where I covered an offensive against the Islamic State last year, I turn to my BGAN satellite data terminal and a Thuraya satellite phone.
But increasingly there is at least patchy cellphone coverage in even the more dangerous places, such as during the battle for Aleppo, Syria, last year.
That brings an immediacy that I once found jarring: the power to FaceTime with your mom, for instance, from a battlefront.
But now that feels normal, and choices are dictated less by technology than by what simply feels right.
Are Egyptians joined at the hip with their smartphones?
Egyptians adore their smartphones.
People have crazy-looking cases and a range of dramatic ringtones Quranic verses for conservatives, melodramatic pop tunes for everyone else.
Lionel Richies Hello and anything by Celine Dion are very popular.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
The flip side to the smartphone mania is that it also inspires deep paranoia among the police and some ordinary citizens, known popularly here as honorable citizens.
I know people whove been threatened with arrest for taking a photo of the Suez Canal (after the pyramids, one of Egypts most famous features).
A photographer friend was admonished by an honorable citizen for trying to take a photo of the Nile with her phone.
He accused her of being a spy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What are the favorite apps or gadgets in Egypt?
Are people on Facebook and using Google and Uber?
Egypt has the largest community of Facebook users in the Arab world.
Its a huge part of many peoples lives, at a time when the public square is dramatically shrinking.
Since President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi came to power in 2013, protest has been outlawed and the news media is largely in thrall to the government.
So people turn to social media to talk politics, mock their leaders and hunt for independent news.
If Mr. Sisi makes a slip-up on television, there will unfailingly be a flurry of mocking memes flying about on Facebook within hours.
It can be funny, dark or both jokes about the countrys pitiful human rights record, for instance.
Its not just Western apps.
Anghami is the Arab version of Spotify, Souq.com is the big online retailer (and was bought by Amazon this year), and theres a host of apps that tell pious Muslims when to pray or that help them to read the Quran.
On the streets of Cairo, Uber and Careem, a ride-sharing app that concentrates on the Middle East, are slugging it out for market share.
As a result, cab rides can be ridiculously cheap just a few dollars to cross town.
Photo How does the Egyptian government treat tech like social media and Western apps?
With wariness and frequent hostility.
Egyptian officials closely monitor Facebook, Twitter and other social media sites, and posting an irreverent comment can land a user in court or in jail.
A young army conscript is serving a three-year sentence for posting a photo of Mr. Sisi with a pair of Mickey Mouse ears.
Since May, the government has banned over 400 websites, including Human Rights Watch, the Egyptian news site Mada Masr and, bizarrely, Medium.
Earlier this year, I discovered the security services were seeking access to real-time information about ride-sharing customers once known inside Uber as God View through the Uber and Careem apps.
All told, its a pretty grim picture.
Beyond your job, what tech product do you love using in your daily life right now and why?
I love my Bose noise-canceling Bluetooth headphones, but the most satisfying tech product Ive started using is one that cancels out the rest.
A smart little alarm clock by the French designer Philippe Tabet sits on my bedside table, and means that I no longer need my smartphone to wake me up.
With the phone banished to another room, I cant mindlessly scroll Twitter or Instagram at 8 oclock in the morning, and I enjoy a tiny window of mental peace.
If Times editors need me urgently, they can still call my land line.
Sometimes, the old-fashioned tech is best.
Its blockbuster season for video games.
With the holiday season on its way, the games industry is pushing out a diverse lineup of titles, from new installments of long-running franchises like Activisions Call of Duty and Ubisofts Assassins Creed to EAs long-awaited Star Wars Battlefront II.
But the real crowd pleasers this year may be in hardware.
Microsoft and Nintendo are offering new or upgraded consoles after Sony rereleased its PlayStation 4 console and more powerful PS4 Pro last year.
The hottest hardware ticket is Nintendos Switch console, which offers gamers the option of plugging in at home or pulling it off its dock to play on the go.
Even though it was released eight months ago, the Switch is still so popular that supply is expected to be a problem at the end of the year.
The arrival this week of Microsofts new Xbox One X console featuring more processing power and 4K resolution, which means more defined picture quality is also expected to make waves.
The console supports hundreds of games from the Xbox back catalog, including all Xbox One titles, as well as select Xbox 360 titles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story All of this is expected to fuel spending on games, which rose 7 percent to $14 billion in the first half of the year from the same period in 2016, according to the NPD Group.
I expect this growth to continue to edge up through the holidays, said Mat Piscatella, who analyzes the video games industry for NPD.
Q.
My new iPhone does not have a little globe key on the keyboard like Ive seen on other peoples Apple phones.
Mine just has the happy face key.
Why is this?
A.
Along with the smiling face and other emoji pictographs, the iPhone can display keyboard layouts for dozens of languages.
When you add a new international keyboard, the happy face key used to insert emoji characters into text changes to the globe key.
When you press and hold the globe key, a menu pops up to display your alternate keyboard choices including emoji.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
If you would like to add a keyboard designed for use with another language, you can do so in the iPhones keyboard settings.
Tap open the Settings icon on the home screen, select General and then go to Keyboard.
Then go to Keyboards and select Add New Keyboard.
On the Add New Keyboard screen, scroll through the list and tap the language you want to use.
(If you are using the keyboard in an app, you can also go right to the settings by pressing and holding the emoji key for a few seconds until a menu pops up with an option for Keyboard Settings.)
When you return to using the iPhone keyboard in the Mail, the Notes or another text-heavy app, you should now see the globe key on the keyboard.
Press and hold the globe icon for a second or two until the list of keyboards appears like the emoji set or the international keyboard you just added.
Photo In addition to the Keyboard Settings shortcut (where you can adjust your preferences for auto-correction, predictive text and other typing-related tools), the pop-up menu includes icons you can use to switch to the one-handed keyboard that is part of iOS 11.
When you select either the left- or the right-handed layout, the essential keys slide over to your chosen side of the screen to make typing with your thumb easier.
Q.
Do you need a paid subscription to use the Microsoft Office mobile apps?
I thought they were free for Android and iOS devices.
A.
The ability to use the Microsoft Office mobile apps without having to pay a subscription fee depends on the device you are using and what you want to do with the programs.
The free touch-screen editions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint allow you to do basic tasks (like create a file and enter text into it) on most smaller tablets and phones.
You do need to sign up for a free Microsoft account to use Microsoft Office Mobile for Android, or the iOS versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint on an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch.
The files are stored on Microsofts OneDrive cloud server.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
However, if you have an iPad Pro, you get a full-feature version of the software for a free 30-day trial.
After the trial ends, youd have to sign up for one of Microsofts Office 365 subscription plans.
Prices start at $6.99 a month.
Photo If you are working with the free versions of apps and want to unlock the rest of the editing features on an Android or iOS device, you also need to sign up for an Office 365 subscription.
Once you convert to a paid plan, you can do things like track and review changes made to documents, insert page and section breaks, use more colors, make maps out of Excel data, and take advantage of all the tools included in the Office Mobile suite.
A subscription for home or personal use does include other benefits, like one terabyte of OneDrive file storage, desktop applications and technical support.
If the price is too steep for you, Apple iWork, Google Docs, Dropbox Paper and Zohos office apps are among the free or inexpensive alternatives.
You can scan our up-to-date list of Cyber Monday 2017 deals in the US below, as we have scoured the web for the best online deals before the online shopping holiday officially starts less than two weeks from today.
Yes, Cyber Monday 2017 is officially November 27, 2017.
Scroll down to see the latest deep discounts at major US retail chains.
For some, it may feel a bit soon to start shopping, but these early deals are generally good news for bargain seekers.
If you're looking for a 4K TV or cheap laptop deal, you may already find it below.
Cyber Monday, sometimes called Cyber Week, tends to peak from Saturday at Amazon, Walmart, Target and GameStop, to name a few US retailers.
And it goes all the way to midnight on Sunday.
But, this year, with so many early deals happening right now, it's become a month-long deals-fest.
What's that mean for you, dear shopper?
Well, we're starting to see early Cyber Monday ad leaks from everyone, including Amazon, Dell, eBay and Walmart.
Put discounts for the PS4, Xbox One and large 4K TV sets on your shopping list, too.
And we're expecting to see deals like this last even longer in 2017, right up to the holidays, and even afterwards.
Not sure where to start?
That's where we come in since finding the best Cyber Monday deals can be overwhelming.
With so many price drops happening all at once, it's not easy to know who is offering you the lowest prices, with Best Buy, Toys R Us and Target competing all weekend long.
It's a game of savings one-upmanship if there ever was one (though this is good for those seeking competitive low prices).
Then there's the issue of seeing items sell out quickly.
Considering Cyber Monday this year will be the biggest shopping day in US history, according to several analyst predictions and last year's Adobe Digital Insights numbers, you're in for more than you bargained for.
That's why we'll keep a close eye on all the Cyber Monday 2017 deals at the usual stores, starting today and right on through Cyber Monday.
Early Cyber Monday 2017 deals Polk Audio Monitor40 Series QII speaker - 64% off You or someone you know likely sits at a desk all day, and if that's the case than these bookshelf speakers could make the long hours go by just a bit quicker.
Now on sale for $107.99, you save 64% off the regular retail price of $299.99.
Samsung 50-inch 4K TV is $549.99 (was $849.99) This eye-catching deal from Target is not only good for your wallet at 35% off, but 4K fans can bask in the 50-inch screen's vivid colors.
With support for HDR, this could be the perfect addition to any living room.
Buy a Google Pixel 2 at Target, get a $200 gift card If you're shopping around for a new phone, it's hard to go wrong with Google's new Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL.
And it's even harder to go wrong if you buy one from Target, where you can get a $200 gift card with your purchase.
Samsung 50-inch 4K TV - $300 off Samsung is known for its display tech, and this 50-inch 4K TV lives up to the reputation.
Vivid colors will pop off the screen, as will any HDR content you decide to play.
For the price of $549.99, you're getting a great bargain on a big, impressive TV.
Fitbit Flex 2 - $40 off Start on your New Year's resolution early with $40 off the thin and light Fitbit Flex 2 (Black).
Though it lacks the bells and whistles of more robust Fitbit devices, at $59.95, this tracker is just what you need to stay on top of your activity goals without spending a lot.
Fire TV Stick and Echo Dot bundle - $20 off Shoppers looking to do a little bit more upgrading around the home can get a Fire TV Stick and an Echo Dot bundled together for $20 off their regular price, making the pair just $69.
Fire 7 Kids 2 for $50 off Need tablets for the kids?
Amazon has a pair of new Fire 7 Kids Edition tablets with special Kid-Proof cases for $50 off.
Thats two 16GB tablets for $149 total.
Xbox One S 1TB + two free games - $349 Amazon has a great bundle for Ubisoft fans looking to get a new Xbox One.
For $349, gamers can get a 1TB Xbox One with copies of Assassins Creed Origin and Rainbow Six Siege.
MSI GS63VR Gaming Laptop - $450 off Newegg has gamers covered as well with a $300 discount and another $150 rebate for a total of $450 off a high-spec MSI gaming laptop.
The MSI GS63VR Stealth Pro-469 comes with a 6th-gen Core i7 processor, an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060, 16GB of RAM, a 1TB hard drive, a 128GB SSD, and a 15.6-inch Full HD display for $1,149.
Asus MG248Q 144Hz Free Sync monitor + free game ($80 off) Gamers can upgrade their experience with this 24-inch Full HD display from Asus thanks to its 144Hz refresh rate and Free Sync.
Newegg is selling it for $299 after a $80 discount, and it comes with a free copy of Assassins Creed Origins.
LG 29-inch curved ultra-wide monitor - refurbished for $209 Shoppers looking for a bigger display with great color quality and higher resolution may want to check out this 29-inch, curved LG monitor.
It has a resolution of 2,560 x 1080.
Newegg has refurbished models for $209.
When is Cyber Monday 2017?
Cyber Monday 2017 is November 27 this year.
If you couldn't tell, that date is a Monday.
It's always the Monday after Thanksgiving, which is also always the Monday after Black Friday.
The concept of Cyber Monday itself isnt as old as Black Friday; the term Cyber Monday was first coined in 2004, but since then has become a huge deal on its own, expanding outside of its US origins.
The weekend of Black Friday and Cyber Monday isnt just significant for sales - it also represents the beginning of the holiday shopping season.
It usually helps to have some idea of your holiday shopping lists before the weekend so you can take full advantage of all the sales at your disposal.
However, deals come in hot and fast on Black Friday and Cyber Monday, and you'll no doubt find great savings on tech and other items you didn't even know you wanted.
Cyber Monday 2017 predictions Now that you have an idea of what's already on offer, you can probably imagine the amazing deals that will be available this year.
From the latest phones to smart home devices to speakers and more, here are the best Cyber Monday 2017 deals we expect to see.
iPhone 8 and iPhone X deals We can expect Cyber Monday 2017 to do for the iPhone 8 and iPhone X what Cyber Monday 2016 did for the iPhone 7.
From mobile carriers offering BOGO deals or credits for installment plans to retailers chopping the price and tossing in freebies, there may not be a better time to buy the iPhone 8 or iPhone X.
If you do see a sale, don't expect it to last long.
Apple Watch 3 deals The iPhone 8 and iPhone X werent the only big announcements Apple had for us in September.
It also introduced the Apple Watch 3, the first iteration to feature its own cellular connection.
With a price tag of $399, getting to feel like Dick Tracy doesnt come cheap.
But you can rest assured that Cyber Monday 2017 will offer up discounts or deals to make the new smartwatch a far more compelling buy.
Samsung Galaxy S8 and Galaxy Note 8 deals Android users wont be left in the dark when Cyber Monday 2017 rolls around.
Samsung already has shown the kinds of killer deals its willing to offer on the Galaxy S8 and Galaxy Note, and those werent even during Cyber Monday.
Expect big discounts, especially on the Galaxy S8, and free mobile accessories thrown in.
PS4 Pro deals The latest and greatest version of Sonys PlayStation is the PS4 Pro, and its expected to feature heavily in Cyber Monday 2017 sales.
In fact, were all but sure it will be since during Cyber Monday 2016, we saw a ton of deals for its predecessor, the PS4 Slim.
Most notably, PS4 Pro Cyber Monday deals will include can't-miss bundles, complete with controllers, accessories, and games.
Xbox One X deals The Xbox One has undergone a transformation; Microsofts so-called Project Scorpio has been revealed as the Xbox One X, and its quite a console.
Not only does it feature full 4K gaming, but it also already has a massive 22 games to play, including titles like Forza 7, Anthem, and more.
At launch, the Xbox One X price is $500, but you can expect it to be a lot cheaper and bundled during Cyber Monday 2017.
Nintendo Switch deals A bigger focus will be placed on Nintendo this year as the company has finally unveiled the Nintendo Switch console.
The Switch features a ton of great games, including The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, but by the time Cyber Monday rolls around you can bet there will be a lot more ready to play, including Super Mario Odyssey.
Expect some serious Nintendo Switch deals this year.
The SNES Classic will likely pop up in deals as well, but you should expect it to go quick.
Everything with Amazon's Alexa smart assistant Amazon loves putting its line of inexpensive Fire tablets on sale, and it has frequently dropped the price of its Echo and Echo Dot devices, all of which feature Amazons digital assistant, Alexa.
And given Amazons dominance of the online market place, you can safely bet that its going to put its products front and center on Cyber Monday 2017 with hot deals that make them hard to resist.
4K TV deals Black Friday and Cyber Monday have traditionally been great times to buy TVs, and this year will be no different.
From LG to Samsung to Toshiba, expect massive deals on the best TV technology.
Youll get huge discounts on 4K TVs, as well as lower-resolution TVs such as 1080p screens, so no matter how much youre willing to spend there should be a TV set for you.
Camera deals Cameras may not be as heavily featured as TVs on Cyber Monday, but that doesnt mean they dont see solid savings later in the year.
DSLR cameras from the likes of Nikon and Canon, as well as GoPro cameras, will all get eye-catching discounts, namely through retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and more.
Laptop deals If youre looking for a new daily driver in terms of a computer, then Cyber Monday is a great time to go shopping.
As we mentioned, last year there were lots of discounts on gaming laptops, but whether youre into gaming or not youll be able to get a laptop for much cheaper than you otherwise would.
That includes discounts on Apples range of MacBooks, including the MacBook Pro, standard MacBook, and more.
Headphone deals From Beats to AKG, there are sure to be plenty of sweet savings on headphones.
This year, the so-called true wireless form factor is a little more popular, so its expected well see discounts on those headphones from the likes of Apple and Samsung.
If youre more into over-ear and on-ear headphones, youll still get access to plenty of discounts, so keep an eye on Amazon for those.
Cyber Monday 2017 FAQ What is Cyber Monday?
Cyber Monday is the biggest day for online deals of the year.
Its the Monday immediately after Thanksgiving, and the day when retailers shift their attention away from sales in-store and towards sales online.
When is Cyber Monday?
This year, Cyber Monday falls on November 27.
Black Friday is on November 24, and thats the day after Thanksgiving, which is on November 23.
Some deals may start at specific times on the day.
Where are the best Cyber Monday deals?
Cyber Monday deals happen all over the web, but the best place to stay on top of them is, of course, right here on TechRadar.
Well be updating this page with new deals as we find them, and well tell you whether the discounts are really worth it or if you should keep looking.
How do I get the best Cyber Monday deals?
There are plenty of things to keep in mind when youre shopping for new deals.
For starters, its best to make a list of things you actually want so you can avoid falling into sales traps during the day and buying products that give you buyer's remorse.
Its also a good idea to note beforehand how much youre willing to spend as its easy to spend more than you otherwise might.
How do I stay safe while buying things on Cyber Monday?
We recommend always buying from companies that you know are legit.
The likes of Amazon, Best Buy, B&H Photo Video, Walmart, Target and other big names like these are your best bet for safety online, but even then its a good idea to look into things like return policies.
Be very wary of phishing emails as these can be a big source of income for scammers during this busy shopping season.
In fact, even if an email does appear legitimate we recommend going straight to the website offering the products rather than clicking on links in emails.
While Toys R Us Cyber Monday deals in the US may not be here until the end of the month, that doesn't mean you can't save on kids gifts right now.
You know, the toys that are so cool you want to play with them yourself when the kids go off to bed?
All of this is a lot easier thanks to the mega-savings that Toys R Us promises and always delivers on.
This year, the US toy outlet is facing bankruptcy, and that means you may find even better Cyber Monday prices than you'd normally expect.
We've seen worthy discounts on Nerf blasters, Marvel action figures, kids tablets and even Power Wheel-style ride ons.
And Toys R Us is always a good source of movie and video game deals, according to Cyber Mondays of years past.
Oh, and have we mentioned Legos?
Yeah, those are popular come the biggest shopping days of the year.
The best part about Cyber Monday 2017 is that the Toys R Us deals will be just as good online as in person in almost every case.
You can shop the store without leaving the comfort of your couch.
That makes sneaking away to buy toys in the middle of the night or super early in the morning a lot easier than before, making the surprise when your kids open their gifts that much easier to achieve.
So, what are the best Cyber Monday deals at Toys R Us?
While we have time before we see big items like Nintendo Switch, PS4 and Xbox One on sale, we're already finding a lot of other early Cyber Monday deals you can consider putting away right now.
Toys R Us Cyber Monday quick link Early Cyber Monday deals in November RC cars, trains and Hot Wheels Save up to 40% on toy cars and trains Way before your kids ask for the keys to your actual car, get them a few fake ones (or trains) and avoid paying full price.
RC cars are always an exciting gift, especially when you rolled it off the store shelves thanks to a good Cyber Monday deal.
And you can never go wrong with Hot Wheels cars and track sets.
Dolls and Collectibles Save up to $30 on dolls and dollhouses Luckily, when it comes to purchasing dolls and dollhouses at Toys R Us, you don't have to shell out a lot of green.
That's because Toys R Us is currently slashing prices on Barbie, Wonder Woman, Beauty and the Best and every other doll collectible out there.
Bikes, hoverboards and scooters Save up to $100 on bikes and hoverboards This is the 'big gift' on every kid's wish list, whether they're going for the more traditional bike, or venturing onto a hoverboard, cause you're the 'cool' parent, you tell yourself.
Well, be the smart parent and don't overpay for these items on Cyber Monday.
Nerf guns and other 'outdoor' toys Save up to $70 on Nerf blasters today For some reason, these Nerf blasters are listed in the outdoor page.
Weird, right?
That's okay, especially since you want to protect your breakables.
Nerf toys are on sale, along with legit outdoor ride ons for up to $100 off, and there's nothing to stop you from shooting them inside the house.
Drones on sale for Cyber Monday Save up to $20 on a drone Your kid wants a drone, but these fliers are expensive and, let's face it, your kid will ultimately crash it.
Enter: Toys R Us and its early Cyber Monday deal for drones.
At these prices, you can buy replacements without too much concern.
Toys R Us ads to leak ahead of time There are no leaked ads detailing the Cyber Monday 2017 deals Toys R Us will have right now, but they should come in late November.
Since Cyber Monday comes after Black Friday, Cyber Monday ads may not be officially released until after Black Friday.
One place to keep an eye on is the Toys R Us Cyber Monday page.
You can bet that when deals do become available, they will be listed on this page.
Once the ads do arrive, however, they will offer the prime opportunity to figure out what deals are worth going after, and which you can skip.
If you do find something you like, remember theres no such thing as unlimited stock, and being able to quickly hop on the internet and press the buy button is the surest way to get the deal youre looking for before it vanishes.
If ads are available early from multiple retailers, then it's a good opportunity to compare prices and make sure youre buying products from the store with the deepest discounts.
Toys R Us will likely have a lot of good deals, but they may not be the very best ones available on Cyber Monday.
Sometimes ads detailing the deals coming on Cyber Monday leak early, so keep checking here, as well post these leaked ads when they become available so you can plan your shopping strategy and find the best Cyber Monday deals.
We're all about eliminating shopping stress, which is a good thing, right?
Pre-Cyber Monday Toys R Us deals A number of childrens tablets are on sale with heavy discounts right now.
The LeapFrog LeapPad Platinum is $30 off for a price of $99.99.
The Barbie 7-inch Kids Tablet is $26.50 off for $53.49.
And the Kurio Xtreme 2 Special Edition is $20 off for $79.99.
Lots of other cool toys are also discounted right now.
The Aura Drone with Glove Controller is $20 off for $79.99 and the Disney Pixar Cars 3 Service Station is $20 off for $49.99.
If you want something a bit bigger, Luke Skywalker's Landspeeder ride on is $100 off for $399.99.
Disney Infinity 3.0 Edition Starter Packs are discounted across the board, with the Xbox One version selling for $14.98 , the Wii U version for $9.98 and the PS4 version for $14.98 .
NBA 2K17 for Xbox One is $30 off for a total of $29.99, and NBA Live 18 for PS4 is $30 off for $29.99.
Expected Toys R Us deals Cyber Monday might be about online shopping, but for Toys R Us, there will likely be a lot of overlap with the deals happening at the toy store on Black Friday.
Video games and gaming consoles are often on sale for Cyber Monday, so expect Toys R Us to have some significant deals in this category.
The new Xbox One X is already out, and this fall is going to be full of new video game releases, like Star Wars Battlefront 2.
New games and consoles arent cheap, so any Cyber Monday deal on these items is worth looking at.
Lots of deals also include bundles of consoles and games together, so be on the lookout for those if you want the best prices on multiple products at the same time.
With a new Star Wars moving coming out later this year and Rogue One inventory getting old, expect some deals on everything Star Wars.
Lego has had The Lego Batman Movie and will have The Lego Ninjago Movie this year, so related products may be popular and discounted.
Disney and Barbie are also popular brands for deals, and should continue to be this year.
Cyber Monday may also be a good time to look out for big and expensive items you wouldnt want to schlep out of the store yourself.
If youre looking for trampolines and Power Wheels, Cyber Monday will be a good time to do it as these will be delivered to your door (no need to squeeze them into your car).
Toys R Us Cyber Monday advice Theres no pushing or shoving in online shopping, but theres still serious competition among shoppers.
Look for deals early and often if you know what you want to buy.
Doing so will not only help you spot the best Toys R Us Cyber Monday deals as soon as possible, but it will also help you known when the listed deal price is actually a change from the regular price.
If you just want to see the best deals and decide whether theyre to your liking, just reload this webpage regularly to see any updates Since Cyber Monday will have a lot of people visiting the same retailer sites at the same time, you might want to use a VPN to avoid internet congestion.
If the local servers for Toys R Us are too busy during Cyber Monday, you might not be able to access the site, but a VPN can help you route your internet traffic to another region where its not so busy, so you can get to the deals before they are all sold out.
One last thing you wont want to do is wait around when you see a deal on a product that you know you want.
If a product is popular and has a really great deal on it, chances are everyone else has seen it and it will sell out quickly.
You dont want to stare at that product all day only to click the purchase button and have the webpage tell you that its no longer in stock.
If you know what you want from Toys R Us during Cyber Monday 2017, dont wait until the following Tuesday to get it.
Newegg's Black Friday 2017 deals are still a few weeks away, but we're already anticipating amazing savings on some of the most expensive items you'll ever buy: electronics.
Come the Black Friday date of November 24, Newegg is one place where you'll save big.
Newegg has earned its reputation as a trusted retailer of all things computers and components, dealing in everything from laptops and desktops to motherboards and liquid cooling systems.
But Newegg's price cuts don't stop at PCs.
On Black Friday 2017, it will offer massive savings on phones, drones, home goods, smartwatches and car tech, just to name a few.
How do we know?
Because Newegg already has its Black Friday Sale page up.
Though there are no deals listed right now, this gives us an early look at all the price cuts Newegg will offer this Black Friday, including on products like the Samsung Galaxy S8 Plus and Asus Zenbook UX303.
If you're keeping an eye out for Newegg Black Friday ad leaks and promo codes and are ready to click 'Add To Cart' at a moment's notice, keep reading for the deals we anticipate at Newegg this holiday shopping season, plus products you can save on right now.
Newegg Black Friday ad leaks There currently aren't any Newegg Black Friday ad leaks to be found, though we'll add those to this page as soon as the ads begin to trickle out.
These will give us an idea of what savings the retailer has planned for the big shopping day.
Save before Black Friday: Newegg deals right now One of Newegg's signature features is its Daily Deals page.
It's here you'll find super savings that, as the page's tagline says, are "Deal Today, Gone Tomorrow."
Since these deals repopulate daily, you'll find savings every day leading up to Black Friday (and Cyber Monday, for that matter), but you have to act fast in order to get the deal you want before it disappears.
Here are some of the top product deals available on Newegg right now.
Just remember, many deals expire at the end of every day, so keep checking the Daily Deals page for the latest savings.
Asus ROG Zephyrus GX501 Now $2,299 (was $2,439) 6% off The Asus ROG Zephyrus GX501 is one of the most powerful and thinnest gaming laptops on the market, and of course it's one of the most expensive too.
Luckily there's a deal to get this laptop with a spectacular mouse and mouse pad at no extra cost.
WD My Book 8TB Now $198 (was $229) 13% off Between 4K games and the massive size of modern games you can never have enough storage.
External storage systems are a great way of expanding your data capacity and luckily for you Newegg is selling the WD My Book 8TB at a cool $30 off.
Polk Audio Monitor40 Series II speaker Now $107.99 (was $299.99) 64% off If you're someone who sits at your desk for a long time each day, you deserve a good set of bookshelf speakers.
This Polk model is steeply discounted right now, so act fast before it goes back to its regular price.
Acer Aspire E5-575G-728Q Now $699.99 (was $799.99) 13% off This Acer laptop with an Intel Core i7 processor and 8GB DDR4 memory is currently $100 off.
You won't find this laptop in this configuration anywhere else, so get it while you still have a chance.
Lenovo IdeaCentre Y710 Cube $1,449.99 (was $1,999.99) 28% off On the hunt for a new desktop?
Consider Lenovo's Y710 Cube with Intel Core i7 processor, 16GB DDR4 memory and a Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 GPU.
At $550 off, this discounted gaming desktop also comes with a free copy of Destiny 2 game thrown in.
This deal is so good you'll want to pat yourself on the back for scoring it.
Acer GN276HL Black 27" gaming monitor Now $279.99 (was $329.99) 15% off This Acer monitor offers a resolution of 1920 x 1080 and a refresh rate of 144Hz, making images pop off the screen for both working or gaming.
Whether you need a display, new monitor or second screen, with the price lowered by $50, now's a great time pick this deal up.
Samsung UN40MU7000FXZA 40" 4K HDR TV Now $497 (was $699) 29% off Getting onboard with the latest and greatest television tech doesn't have to cost you a boatload of cash.
Equip your home with a TV that's perfectly suited for gaming on the Xbox One X and PS4 Pro, in addition to being a showcase for all of that sweet HDR-ready content on Netflix and Amazon Prime Video.
Expected Newegg Black Friday deals Newegg is already teasing its Black Friday deals on its dedicated sales page, so we have a great idea of what deals to expect on November 24.
You should be able to find stellar savings on just about any electronic device you could want, including PCs, laptops, components, peripherals, gaming consoles and drones.
You really should check Newegg first before any other retailer to see what deals are available on Black Friday.
You may save more on Newegg than anywhere else on some items.
PC & laptop Newegg Black Friday deals: No shock here.
PCs and laptops deals from the likes of Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo, Microsoft, MSI and many more are likely to get huge discounts at Newegg on Black Friday.
Look for savings of between 5% - 15% in general, though some deals may take close to 50% off.
Desktop Newegg Black Friday deals: Black Friday will be a great time to save on a desktop at Newegg.
Once again, top manufacturers like ABS, Acer, Cyberpower, and Dell will almost certainly put their best sales forward.
You can look for deals that go up to 35% or higher.
4KTV Newegg Black Friday deals: Oh yes, you'll find plenty of 4KTV deals at Newegg this Black Friday.
Samsung, LG and Vizio are just some of the names you'll see with discounted high-res screens populating Newegg's pages.
The current trend of taking 28% - 35% off will likely carry over, though probably go even higher during the holiday shopping season.
Gaming Newegg Black Friday deals: Gaming deals and Black Friday go together like bread and cheese, and Newegg will undoubtedly partake with deals on systems like the Xbox One X and PS4 Pro.
Look for these popular consoles to get bundled with games for even more Black Friday savings.
More Newegg Black Friday deals to come This is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to Newegg Black Friday deals.
The retailer is sure to go even bigger than it has in years past with savings to one-up the competition.
And it won't just be sales on the "usual suspects" like PCs, laptops, game consoles and components, but also home goods like coffee makers, vacuum cleaners and power tools.
Newegg carries just about any kind of device you can plug into a wall or run on a battery, and Black Friday will see Newegg's already good prices go to the lowest level they will all year.
The retailer's current Daily Deals give us a good idea of what we can expect on November 24, but just know prices are sure to plunge even further.
Ah, GameStop on Black Friday, is there any place better in the entire world?
It's here on this day once a year that you're able to walk in with a crisp $100 bill and walk away with stack(s) of games - if you know what to buy.
Your best bet to walking away with a bundle of games and your wallet still in tact is to get there early - a whole day early, in fact.
GameStop will be open for a limited time on November 23 2017, one full day before Black Friday officially kicks off on November 24.
While November 23 will be a day filled with the typical Thanksgiving faire, it will now also be filled with great game deals, too!
Talk about a win-win.
GameStop's decision to open early speaks to just how big of a shopping event the week of Black Friday has become, with many customers opting to hit stores earlier than Black Friday itself.
This year, many folks will finish their turkey and mashed potatoes, then head to GameStop to get the best deals on products like the Xbox One X, Nintendo Switch, PS4 Pro and SNES Classic early.
So, where should you be looking for the best GameStop Black Friday deals?
Well, right here of course!
Throughout the next few weeks, TechRadar will host all the information you need to know about the deals at GameStop - what time stores open up on November 23, what exclusive deals you'll find in-store vs online and which fantastic games you need to snatch up when deals go live.
That said, another excellent resource is the GameStop Black Friday Sale web page.
Though no items are posted here yet, this will be where you'll find all of the GameStop Black Friday online deals when they go live in the next week.
So, are you ready to see what sales GameStop is likely planning for the biggest shopping day of the year?
Want to know what products you can save on right now?
Keep reading to find out.
GameStop Black Friday ad leaks There are currently no GameStop Black Friday ad leaks to be found, however, we'll update this page as soon as those become available.
Last year, the GameStop Black Friday ad flyer leaked two weeks before Black Friday, giving shoppers a complete look at all the console, game and accessory sales way ahead of time.
There's a good chance the GameStop Black Friday 2017 catalog will be out well in advance of Black Friday this year.
GameStop deals before Black Friday While Black Friday remains the definitive shopping day for the game retailer, it's not the only time you'll be able to catch a great deal on your favorite games (which, this year, should include Star Wars Battlefront II, Super Mario Odyssey, Destiny 2, Call of Duty WWII and Assassin's Creed Origins).
In fact, GameStop sales run every day of the week, every week of the year.
There are two places you can go to find the latest deals: the GameStop Weekly Ad page and the GameStop Deals page.
Both offer the latest GameStop deals, whether valid for a week or only one day and the trick is to check both pages regularly as the discounts on consoles, games and other swag change frequently.
Here are some of the top savings GameStop is offering right now.
Xbox One 500GB pre-owned with six-month Xbox Live Gold Membership for $229.99 (regularly $259.99) GameStop is a purveyor of pre-owned gaming machines, which are backed by a guarantee to work and a 7-day money back guarantee.
Considering this console retails for $299.99 elsewhere, you're getting a good bargain for a refurbished Xbox One, plus a six-month membership to Xbox Live Gold.
For Honor brand-new on PS4 or Xbox One for $24.99 (regularly $49.99) Fantasy fighting is the name of the game in Ubisoft's For Honor.
The game, which came out earlier this year, pits you against warriors from across time to see who has the strongest mettle.
Rise of the Tomb Raider: 20 Year Celebration Edition for $24.99 (regularly $39.99) Lara Croft has been raiding tombs, uncovering the mysteries of ancient civilizations and generally kicking butt for 20 years now.
To celebrate this accomplishment, the game's publisher Square Enix has compiled a special edition of Lara's latest adventure, Rise of the Tomb Raider, for PS4 owners looking to add a little adventure to their game library.
Kingdom Hearts 1.5 + 2.5 Remix for $24.99 (Regularly $39.99) If real-time strategy combat are more your scene, Square Enix has also published an HD remix of the first two Kingdom Hearts games - available exclusively on PS4.
Agents of Mayhem for PS4 and Xbox One for $24.99 (Regularly $39.99) Deep Silver is probably best known for its Saint Row series - an over-the-top parody of the Grand Theft Auto games that put you into the boots of a super-powered crime lord.
Agents of Mayhem, the spiritual successor to Saints Row, is cut from the same cloth but trades out the street lamp-lit cities of America for the neon-filled world of Seoul, South Korea.
Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain pre-owned for $14.99 (regularly $17.99) This edition in the classic Konami series can be yours for $3 less than its usual price, and $5 less than if you bought it new.
Expected GameStop Black Friday deals GameStop's Black Friday sales will focus on the big three consoles: the Xbox One X, PS4 and Nintendo Switch.
The SNES Classic, too, will be a hot-ticket item at GameStop this year but could be a bit harder to track down due to shortages.
Not only are we anticipating major price drops on the game machines themselves (the Xbox One S, for example, is dropping down to just $189 on Black Friday), but also tantalizing bundles and savings on standalone games that will make any shopper (and their wallet) smile.
Also look out for deals on VR headsets and older consoles and handhelds, like the Wii U, PS3 and Nintendo 3DS.
Nostalgia can make a really nice gift.
Xbox One X GameStop Black Friday deals: Calling it now: the Xbox One X will be one of 2017's hottest holiday gifts.
And with the Xbox One X release date happening on November 7, we expect Microsoft and retailers like GameStop to offer sizeable discounts and must-buy Xbox One X bundles by the time Black Friday rolls around.
You know, to keep the excitement going.
Also look for the older Xbox One S and standard Xbox One to get clearing-house prices.
PS4 GameStop Black Friday deals: In order to compete with its rival, the Xbox One X, Sony's system should see big price cuts on Black Friday 2017.
GameStop will no doubt be right there to offer shoppers the deepest PlayStation discounts it can.
PS4 bundles tend to be Sony's go-to strategy over Black Friday, and it's with these that you'll really save.
Nintendo Switch GameStop Black Friday deals: Not only will the Nintendo Switch likely have its price slashed at GameStop this Black Friday, but with Super Mario Odyssey releasing on October 27, we should see a discounted bundle that includes the game with the console/handheld hybrid come late November.
Overall, Black Friday 2017 is a chance for Switch to make a statement, and Nintendo would be wise to seize the moment with sales.
Game deals for Black Friday at GameStop: By now you probably get the picture that GameStop is all about deeply discounted games, including pre-owned titles at dollar-store prices.
Black Friday will be the opportune time to buy games like FIFA 18 and Super Mario Odyssey as stocking stuffers and to flush out your own collection without spending a fortune.
VR and accessory GameStop Black Friday deals: Last but certainly not least, sales and bundles for the Sony PlayStation VR, HTC Vive and Samsung Gear VR headsets are likely to be on offer at GameStop, especially considering Oculus Rift has permanently lowered its price to just $399.99.
You'll also find more accessory savings than you know what to do with, if last year's sales on headsets, controllers and chairs are anything to go buy.
More GameStop Black Friday deals to come With GameStop opening its retail stores on Thanksgiving, the gaming kingpin will essentially have four full days of Black Friday deals.
Of course, this is all before Cyber Monday, which will have its own set of mega sales on offer.
We're likely just a few weeks away from the GameStop Black Friday ad making itself public.
Armed with that info, you'll be able to get your Black Friday shopping game plan in order.
There will always be unanticipated surprise sales, however, and for those, we suggest you stick with TechRadar as we'll bring you all the deals as we uncover them.
It's a bit of a no-brainer that we'll eventually see Apple's Face ID on more future iPhones and iPads , but what about other devices like the upcoming HomePod smart speaker?
According to Japanese news organization Nikkei , we could be using our faces to unlock personalized settings on the device as soon as 2019.
Nor is this some sketchy rumor.
The source is David Ho, the president of Inventec Appliances, which is the company that's actually responsible for making both HomePods and Apple's AirPod earbuds.
Granted, it's a bit of a "could-be" thing, as Ho's exact words are that trends suggest that "engineers are designing smart speakers that will not only come with voice recognition but also incorporate features such as facial and image recognition."
Analysts, though, interpret this to mean that Ho is referring to the next generation of HomePods after the model we're supposed to see hit shelves in a few weeks.
Specifically, analyst Jeff Pu of Yuanta Investment Consulting thinks we'll see Apple's nifty 3D-imaging sensors on the speakers the year after next.
Next verse, same as the first Yet these speculations aren't entirely new.
As 9to5Mac points out, rumors that the HomePod could use facial recognition technology were swirling about as early as the middle of last year, but Face ID was nowhere to be found when we saw the actual device.
There's a chance, of course, that Apple was merely waiting to see what the response to the tech would be with the iPhone X before applying it to other products.
As for that first-generation of HomePods?
The year is almost up, and we still don't have a clear date from Apple as to when we'll see it.
At WWDC, though, Apple claimed it should start shipping at some point in December .
Clock's ticking.
Walmart Cyber Monday deals in the US are set for the end of November, but that hasn't stopped the biggest US retailer from offering its rollback prices well in advance of November 27.
Yes, early Cyber Monday deals have already landed at Walmart, and thanks to the immense success of its website sales in the last year, we're expecting an even bigger focus on online discounts.
That's good news for everyone, right?
Well, the news comes with a major caveat: sorting through Cyber Monday deals, on an online portal as big as Walmart's, is going to be next to impossible if you try to do it alone.
That's why we, your humble tech reporters, are here to save the day (the day specifically being Cyber Monday and all those so-called 'Cyber Week' days surrounding it).
Discounts on all sorts of products, from 4KTVs to computers to game consoles and even spare tires are ones we'll keep an eye on if they're really good.
After all, Cyber Monday is the only day you may be able to snag the SNES Classic or the iPhone X, and maybe get a great deal on the Xbox One X that just launched.
Any other day of the year?
Forget about it.
With new games like FIFA 18, CoD WW2 and Destiny 2 out in time for the holiday rush, you can expect some price drops and or even see them included in some console bundles.
But you may need our help in the matter.
Let's prove that right now by showing you where to find early Walmart Cyber Monday deals.
Walmart Cyber Monday deals quick link Walmart Black Friday deal categories Earlier Walmart deals and Cyber Monday ad leaks The Cyber Monday date is on November 27, which is the last Monday in November.
Right before that day, we expect to see Walmart Cyber Monday ads leak.
This means we'll see what's going to be on sale in advance, though not by much.
We also have a bit of a cheat in that the Walmart Black Friday ad is already here, giving us a good look at what will be on sale during the biggest retail shopping day of the year, and what we might expect on Cyber Monday, too.
But until the Walmart Cyber Monday ad leaks, we have a bunch of items on sale today (below), and they're all likely to be even cheaper come Cyber Monday.
It's usually how the holiday shopping process works.
Xbox One S Ultimate Halo Bundle (500GB) is $249 after $30 savings.
Now that the Xbox One X is out, we're seeing deals on the older generation Xbox consoles.
If you don't need a 4K game player, getting this Xbox bundle is a good way to save before the holiday rush.
Google Chromebooks start at $149 Chromebook discounts have grown with the popularity of Google's back-to-basics laptop.
It's a real threat to Windows 10 laptops with prices falling anywhere from $149 to $429 on discount.
Dell desktop computers at $457 give you enough power in a clean all-in-one design that used to cost a fortune.
It's close to dropping into the Under $400 category, and it's a safe bet Walmart's Cyber Monday deals will take it there.
50-inch Philips HDTV for $378 is a big-screen television that gives you a 1080p resolution without falling for 4KTV prices.
Walmart will have those too for Black Friday, but this deal is still plenty affordable right now.
iRobot's Roomba 680 for $299 is a step up from the robot maker's Roomba 614 for the same price that the latter is normally offered for.
This is a Wi-Fi connected vacuum that will do the job for you.
Not bad for the price!
Acer A3 15.6-inch laptop for $299 nets you an HD laptop with a spacious screen and some capable hardware behind it for $100 off the list price.
Not too shabby for an Intel Core i3 system with 4GB of RAM and a 1TB hard drive.
Vizio 55-inch 4K UHD TV for $398 is an even better value than the above TV deal when you consider the larger screen size for the price, which is $150 off its list price.
We'll take it for a set with a full-array LED backlight and three HDMI ports.
Expected Walmart Cyber Monday deals Cyber Monday is going to feature the above deals at even better prices, as well as new deals not yet seen.
At least those are our advance Cyber Monday Walmart predictions.
With so many items on sale across categories, it's safe to predict that Walmart will deliver deals on all its goods.
(Image: Microsoft) PS4 and Xbox One Cyber Monday deals: Sony and Microsoft wage a consumer-benefiting battle to price drop their respective home consoles during the online shopping period, and we could see another $50 off the systems in addition to multiple free games included.
Google Home deals: Walmart sells Google Home and it made the smart speaker even cheaper during Cyber Monday last year by reducing the price by $30.
The best part is it seems Walmart carries this out of spite for the Amazon Echo from its chief retail rival.
4KTV deals during Cyber Monday: You can't go wrong with buying a 4KTV on discount, and Walmart is going to be a major retailer that price drops televisions this upcoming holiday.
It's going to be a must-have if you're stuck in 1080p.
Walmart drones deals for Cyber Monday 2017: Drones with HD cameras will be just as popular this holiday season as they were last year, and we hope to see another DJI Phantom that was over $1,000 and went down to $447.
More Walmart Cyber Monday deals to come Cyber Monday is the semi-relaxed online shopping day where you don't have to go in to an actual Walmart store in order to find the very best deals.
That's a relief to everyone who wants to avoid 'The people of Walmart.'
The deals listed here are just a preview of what's likely to come from the No.
1 retailer in the US.
It may be known for its stores, but the website is what's popular come Cyber Monday every year.
If youre looking to completely revolutionize the way you watch movies or play games at home, one of the best 65-inch TVs might just be the fastest way to do it.
These massive displays are the closest thing you can get to a real movie theater experience without ever having to actually leave your living room.
Sure, they take up a lot of space, but when you get a chance to watch your favorite movie on that gigantic display, youll know that it was totally worth it.
Its not just about gigantic screen sizes, however.
Sony Panasonic and Philips are delivering amazing TVs with beautiful OLED display technology, which boasts fantastic contrast ratios.
Samsung has similar technology with their QLED screens.
On top of that, you cant really find a TV in 2017 that can be called the best 65-inch TV that isnt a 4K Ultra HD display with HDR capabilities.
The picture that these technologies offer is just too good to pass up.
So, without further delay, and with Black Friday right around the corner, we should probably get started with our list of the best 65-inch TVs you can buy today.
Every TV on this list has passed our rigorous testing, truly earning their spot above the myriad of other TVs that tried to make it.
Every display here will completely change the way you look at your living room.
1.
The Best 65-inch TV of 2017: LG OLED65C7 Stunning pictures at an affordable price puts OLED back on top Screen size: 65-inch | Tuner: Freeview Play | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: OLED | Smart TV: webOS 3.5 | Curved: No | Dimensions: 57.2 x 34.4 x 8.5 inches (W x H x D) Stunning contrast-rich pictures Gorgeous ultra-thin design Excellent operating system Lacks brightness vs LCD Standing far above the competition and sitting comfortably on the throne is the LG OLED C7, available in a 65-inch variety as well as a 55-inch.
This TV is a fantastic high dynamic range performer, thanks to its improved light control and brightness over last years C6, somehow achieving this without making any compromises to OLEDs fantastic standard dynamic range performance.
But, what really makes the OLED C7 one of 2017s most essential TVs is that it is able to deliver this exciting technology at a price that finally makes OLED an affordable alternative to high-end LCD TVs.
There are other OLEDs worth considering this year (see: Sony's A1E OLED or LG's B7 and W7) but when you sit down and think about just how much LG's OLED C7 offers for its price, there's just no TV this year that even comes close.
Read the full review for the 55-inch version: LG OLED C7 (OLED55C7) 2.
The best mid-range 65-inch TV: Sony XBR-65X900E Sleek, capable and almost what we'd consider affordable Screen size: 65-inches | Tuner: Freeview HD | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: Direct-lit LCD with local dimming | Smart TV: Android TV | Curved: No | Dimensions: 1,447 x 830 x 60 mm (W x H x D) Excellent motion handling Great contrast HDR isn't the brightest Remote doesn't feel as premium Unfortunately, you cant avoid the fact that LCDs are just incapable of reaching the same black levels that OLED displays can.
However, Sonys X900Es HDR capabilities do a lot of work to at least bring it close.
This is possible because of the panels direct LED backlight, which allows it to achieve a brightness uniformity that edge-lit displays are incapable of producing.
Add in phenomenal detail and motion handling, the Sony BRAVIA XBR-65X900E (called the KD-65XE90 in the UK) strikes a fantastic balance between price and performance for mid-range 4K TVs and is well worth considering ... even if its Android TV interface can feel a little clunky, and its remote a little flimsy.
Read the full review: Sony BRAVIA XBR-65X900E 3.
The best TV from last year: Panasonic TX-65DX902B 2016's best 65-inch screen holds on for a second year Screen size: 65-inches | Tuner: Freeview HD | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: LED | Smart TV: Custom Panasonic | Curved: Yes | Dimensions: 1,448 x 913 x 311 mm Astoundingly vibrant 4K HDR 4K Netflix and Amazon onboard Upscaling isn't the best Audio could use some work The first Ultra HD Premium-rated TV to land in the UK was a real head-turner.
We loved the vibrancy of its images, and the native HDR the picture performance bordered on breathtaking.
The full array backlight presented problems (don't think we forgot), but we reckon the visual benefits probably outweigh content-specific backlighting issues.
Having Netflix and Amazon 4K on tap is a major plus point, and more good news is that it can also look pretty great with Full HD content, particularly Blu-ray.
It might not have the hutzpah to overtake some of this year's best and brightest panels from LG and Samsung, but considering how well it performs for its price, it may very well be the screen to convince you that HDR is the next giant quantum leap in image quality we've all been promised.
Read the full review: Panasonic TX-65DX902B 4.
The best premium 65-inch TV: Sony BRAVIA A1E OLED Sony's brand-new flagship TV for 2017 is returning to OLED Screen size: 65-inch | Tuner: Youview | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: OLED | Smart TV: Android TV | Curved: No | Dimensions: 1228 x 711 x 86mm (W x H x D) Gorgeous picture quality Innovative and excellent sound Its not very bright Android TV is clunky If you have the money to bankroll them, the 65A1E and the A1E OLED series overall are crowd pleasers in just about every way.
Their picture only design has been beautifully realized, managing to be simultaneously subtle and dramatic.
Their vibrating screen delivers a far more powerful and effective sound performance than wed ever thought possible.
The real stars of the show here, though, are the A1s exquisitely detailed, contrast-rich and colorful pictures.
These prove emphatically what weve long suspected: More brands using OLED technology can only lead to good things.
Read the full review: Sony Bravia OLED A1E 5.
For bright HDR pictures: Samsung QE65Q9FAM Turns out 1,500 nits peak brightness really brings out the best in HDR Screen size: 65-inch | Tuner: Freeview HD | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: QLED | Smart TV: Tizen | Curved: No | Dimensions: 1450 x 829.3 x 24.9mm (W x H x D) Fantastic color levels Very bright screen HDR color banding can occur Backlight clouding can be an issue Samsung was the first brand to introduce an HDR-compatible screen way back in 2015, but it's not been resting on its haunches ever since.
It's latest flagship, the QN65Q9F (QE65Q9FAM in the UK), is a perfect example of this.
It ups the brightness to 1500 nits, 50% higher than the level required for UHD Premium certification, making it one of the brightest TV we've ever tested.
Outside of an impressive-sounding number this brightness has a real impact on the set's image quality.
Detail is preserved in even the brightest areas of the image, and colors are exceptionally vivid and bright.
That means even non-HDR content looks fantastic thanks to Samsung's SDR upscaling technology.
No TV is perfect, and the Q9F can occasionally suffer from some backlight clouding around bright objects and some settings cause color striping in HDR colors, but in all other respects this is the best television around at the moment.
Read the full review: Samsung Q9F QLED TV 6.
For the cinephile in your life: Sony XBR-65Z9D Don't forget about Sony's 2016 flagship 65-inch screen Screen size: 65-inch | Tuner: Freeview HD and FreeSat HD | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: LCD with direct LED lighting and local dimming | Smart TV: Android | Curved: No | Dimensions: 1462 x 847 x 78mm (W x H x D) Brilliant SDR picture quality Ground-breaking backlight LOOK AT THAT PRICE TAG Limited effective viewing angle Look, there aren't many people out there willing to drop a few months' of rent on Sonys 2016 flagship TV.
But those who are will be teated to some of best images this side of a high-tech movie theater.
In fact, it might just be the holy grail of television for 2016: a TV able to combine the extreme, high dynamic range-friendly brightness of LCD technology with a 600 LED backlight arrangement capable of getting LCD closer than ever before to the stunning light control you get with OLED technology.
If all that wasn't enough, the 65Z9D also sports the X1 Extreme video processing system and the latest version of Sonys reliable Triluminos wide color technology for unlocking the extended color spectrums associated with HDR sources a must-have if you want to get the most from your movie collection.
Read the full review: Sony XBR-65Z9D 7.
The best entry-level OLED: LG OLED65B7 LG's entry level OLEDs continue to impress Screen size: 65-inch | Tuner: Freeview Play, Freeview Satellite | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: OLED | Smart TV: webOS 3.5 | Curved: No | Dimensions: 57.1 x 34.7 x 8.9 inches (W x H x D) Excellent all-round image quality Complete HDR support No Dolby Atmos passthrough Mediocre onboard audio LG's 'B' line of OLEDs has consistently offered a great entry point into the display technology without compromising on what makes it so exciting.
And the B7 series is no different.
Contained within the TVs is exactly the same panel that's powering the more expensive C7, E7 and yes even the W7 LG televisions, which means an exceptional bump over last year's OLED panels at a much lower price.
So where has LG saved the money?
In a word, sound.
The B7's downward firing speakers are the worst all the company's OLED TVs.
Not only that, but the set is also currently unable to pass Dolby Atmos to an external sound system over HDMI (although a firmware update to fix this is on the way).
If however, you're content to put up with a standard surround sound experience, then the B7 is a fantastic entryway into a piece of TV tech that still feels futuristic in 2017.
Read the full review of the 55-inch vesion: LG OLED C7 (OLED55C7) 8.
For budget performers: Sony XBR-65X850E A 4K HDR TV that doesnt destroy your bank account Screen size: 65-inch | Tuner: FreeView HD | Resolution: 3840 x 2160 | Panel technology: LCD | Smart TV: Android TV | Curved: No | Dimensions: 1,454 x 905 x 266 mm Great value Good HDR pictures HDR isnt very bright Android TV is frustrating By introducing its exceptional X1 video processor further down its TV range than ever before and being brave enough to dial down the brightness a bit to deliver a more even, immersive backlight experience, Sony's struck mid-range gold with the XBR-65X850E (KD-65XE8596 in the UK).
While it's not the brightest or most colorful TV on the list, the simple fact is that few TVs weve seen in recent times have balanced price, contrast, brightness and color quite so all-round effectively as the 65X850E.
All that said, if you're looking for a great TV that doesn't destroy the bank account, Sony's X850E 65-inch star is the clear winner.
Read the full review: Sony XBR-65X850E
Update: Following fan feedback from the game's open beta, EA has announced that it'll be making changes to the loot box and progression system for the final version of Star Wars Battlefront 2.
Given the degree of controversy surrounding the system, this is probably an astute move.
The changes aren't monumental but they are significant.
Now, more rewards will be earned through play and fewer will come from lucky loot box openings.
The highest tier of Star Car has actually been removed from loot crates entirely and will only be unlockable through crafting (a level-locked ability).
This will make getting the most powerful Star Cards a much more difficult process and a reward for those who plug genuine effort into the game.
Weapons, aside from a "select few", are also now largely absent from loot crates.
Instead they'll have to be earned by play.
Many will also only be locked behind class-specific milestones so if you want a new weapon for your Heavy class character you'll have to grind up as that class to earn the relevant weapon.
We'll have to wait and see just how effective these changes will be at leveling the playing field.
EA has, however, said that more changes may come in the future and it will continually iterate and improve based on continued fan feedback.
Original Story continues below... November 17 is drawing ever closer and that means it's time to start ramping up the hype for Star Wars Battlefront 2.
The latest details have come from an interesting 20 minute round table posted to the official PlayStation blog.
DICE Producer Craig McLeod, Criterion Executive Producer Matt Webster, and Motive Creative Director Mark Thompson are all involved in the discussion and they touch on everything from the game's conception to its post-release DLC.
Some of the more interesting points from the chat include the fact that this game was strongly influenced by fan feedback from the first Battlefront.
Constructive criticism was, apparently, heard.
As a result, this time around players shouldn't face a shortage of long-term goals after only a few months thanks to increased depth and breadth.
Now that there are more film eras, space combat, character progression and free multiplayer updates the hope is that there's now enough to allow players to feel invested for longer.
These free multiplayer updates and all post-release DLC have been planned with the intention of keeping the Battlefront community together and invested according to McLeod: We decided to embark down a model of seasons, themed around content drops.
Well look to keep the community together, thats really important to us.
You can watch the round table in its entirety below: Things are pretty great for Star Wars fans at the moment: not only are new films coming on the regular, according to EA's Chief Financial Officer Blake Jorgensen there are going to be a handful of games from various studios too.
The next exciting title in the Star Wars franchise is, of course, EA Dices Battlefront 2, the sequel to the franchise reboot first released in 2015.
When it was first released, Star Wars Battlefront received a mixed reception with some praising how it captured the Star Wars atmosphere perfectly with its excellent cinematic visuals while others bemoaned its repetitive combat and limited depth and content.
In spite of criticisms, the game still sold over 14 million copies and counting.
With a sequel on the way, though, EA has the chance to learn from the first release and create something bigger and better.
If these words from EA CFO Blake Jorgensen are anything to go by, thats exactly what were going to get: If there was criticism, they just wanted more.
So we're taking that criticism to heart as we build the next game and trying to address any of the issues that they had.
And address it they have.
Cut to the chase What is it?
The sequel to the multiplayer-focused shooter Star Wars Battlefront The sequel to the multiplayer-focused shooter Star Wars Battlefront When can I play it?
November 17 2017 November 17 2017 What can I play it on?
PS4, Xbox One and PC Trailers and screenshots We have a new gameplay trailer from the E3 2017 press conference.
It's the multiplayer gameplay trailer, and the new Star Wars video shows that the new Star Wars story bridges the gap between Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens, according to Electronic Arts.
It's much bigger than the original game, with three times the content, more space battles and content from all Star Wars eras.
In fact, EA claims that there's so much to Star Wars Battlefront 2 that it "will have us playing together for years to come."
That's a pretty cold statement.
This is valid, because the game will bring out new content in the form of seasons, with the first first season of DLC starring Finn and Phasma.
It'll be free content this holiday season and if you buy the Star Wars Battlefront 2 on PS4 and Xbox One, you can enjoy split-screen co-op.
It wasn't said at EA's press conference, but there's no split-screen co-op on the PC version.
The same is true about the Star Wars BF2 Deluxe version of the game.
It's so far console-only.
One of the biggest changes to Star Wars Battlefront 2 gameplay comes from what EA calls Battlepoints buy upgrades, vehicles and special characters.
The new game will also feature customizations, not just from weapons.
It goes all the way down to the character's abilities.
The first trailer for the game gave fans a glimpse of the its single-player campaign which it appears will revolve around an "untold soldier's story" in the Empire.
As well as this single-player campaign that appears to be set in the period following the Empire's defeat at Endor, there'll also be a multiplayer mode of the game which will span "across all eras."
This means we'll see locations and characters from the series' original trilogy as well as the prequels and new films.
The trailer gives us a look at characters like Rey, Kylo Ren, Yoda and Darth Maul across a variety of locations.
It also looks like there will indeed be exciting space battles involved.
A new two minute feature called The Story of an Imperial Soldier has been released which gives more of an insight into the game's single player campaign and its protagonist.
In the video game director, Mark Thompson, and Lucasfilm creative exec, Steve Blank, discuss Iden Versio and more about the game's imperial-focused story.
The game's creators say they really wanted to get into the head of an imperial soldier through Iden Versio.
As commander of the elite Inferno Squad with an admiral father, Iden's belief in the good of the Empire runs in her blood.
Apparently the imperial army won't be a bunch of brainwashed soldiers and conscripts; it'll be a complex look at how people may want to fight for Palpatine.
We imagine it'd be hard to angle something called the Death Star positively, but we're more than willing to see an attempt to humanise the Empire.
The Friday before the big E3 reveal, we got another teasing look at the game's Naboo planet, too, with a blink-and-you'll-miss-it glimpse at the chatty-but-incompetent Battle Droids, courtesy of an official tweet from the PlayStation account: Tune in tomorrow to see the full new trailer for Star Wars Battlefront II.
pic.twitter.com/o6AJZkv6HQJune 9, 2017 News and features Thanks to the Star Wars Celebration panel, we now have expert insight into what we can expect when the game comes out.
There are two important new additions here: a story mode and space battles.
Single player campaign Let's start first by looking at the game's new single-player mode.
In it, you'll play as Iden Versio, a member of the Imperial Forces elite ops unit called Inferno Squad, a combination of expert Tie Pilots and covert commandos.
During the trailer for the game we watch Iden witness the destruction of the second Death Star above the moon of Endor.
Without direct missions from the now-deceased Emperor, Iden leads her squad on a mission of revenge to try and quell the Rebellion.
To that end, Battlefront II will occupy the time between the sixth film of the franchise, Return of the Jedi, and the seventh film, The Force Awakens.
After the battle on Endor, players will travel to Iden's homeworld, a planet that has been under Imperial control for the entirety of her life.
Instead of an martial law-loving Imperial city that we've seen in the past, however, Ida's homeworld has come to embrace and love the Empire.
This love hits home the theme that the single-player campaign is going for, which is that yes, the Rebellion had heroes, but so did the Empire.
In a recent interview with Eurogamer single player game director Mark Thompson and Criterion's Matt Webster revealed that the single player campaign will be a continuous story with a beginning a middle and an end rather than separate missions and war stories like Battlefield 1.
Players will follow Iden for 30 years, from the end of Jedi up to the Force Awakens at Starkiller base, though there will be moments in the story where the player will switch sides and play "from the perspective of one of the iconic heroes because [...] thats just part of Battlefronts DNA.
In the trailer it was revealed that Iden will have a droid.
According to Thompson, this droid will offer players a way to customize their play style while they're playing as Iden.
For example, he says it will offer them choice when it comes to how they engage in a combat scenario so we imagine the droid will be able to be used as back up in combat, as a scout or perhaps even as a tool for hacking.
Considering the Motive development team has been brought in to work on the single-player specifically, theres little chance of it feeling like a tacked on afterthought and we're excited to see how this will play out.
It's been confirmed that Battlefront 2 will explore characters, locations and events from the new films and prequel trilogy as well as the original trilogy.
That means that in addition to characters like Luke Skywalker, Darth Vader, Han Solo and Boba Fett, players will get to take control of characters such as Rey, Kylo Ren, Yoda and Darth Maul.
The other interesting addition in this iteration will be space battles.
These will be developed by Criterion and will allow players to engage in epic dogfights over some of the most iconic battlefields in the Star Wars universe.
Combat with depth In a recent interview with PC Gamer, Star Wars Battlefront 2's creative director Bern Diemer said that DICE wants to add depth the game's multiplayer modes.
This time around Heroes will apparently not be all-powerful game changers as they once were.
As well as making Heroes more present and not restricted to a "lucky few" players, DICE will add something called team play to make sure that those playing as standard troopers are not at an unfair advantage.
Team play is based on classes and leveling and encourages players to join up with their friends in well-balanced squads in order to take down heroes.
Matt Webster revealed that there will be 4 Trooper classes which are differentiated by standard things like range and firepower.
There will, apparently be "customization and progression inside the Trooper classes, inside Heroes and inside Starfighters.
So whilst they have clear lines of class types, there is customization within those."
Webster said they'll reveal exactly how that will work at a later date, but we imagine gadgets will have something to do with it as Diemer told PC Gamer that to improve personalization and depth, abilities and gadgets will also be introduced.
According to Diemer different classes in the game will have access to different items.
For example, Diemer said that troopers don't really "have a personality" and to give them one "you need to be able to customize them in some way so it feels right.
I really like using grenades, so I might try to pull my class a little bit towards my favorite toy or my favorite gadget.
It's also been confirmed that there will be no more blue pick ups to become a Hero character, with Webster explaining that it was becoming a brief experience for the lucky few, or people were just hunting and hanging around the spawn locations for tokens.
So we wanted to expand the hero play within a battle, we wanted to increase that scope but also have a better system for players to be able to become a hero than just picking up a token.
This addition of classes and squads brings Battlefront 2 more in line with DICE's other multiplayer shooter releases such as Battlefield.
Heroes from all eras of the Star Wars universe A recent leak from Star Wars Battlefront 2's closed alpha has given what may be our first (though perhaps not complete) look at the game's hero roster.
New and returning character details were found by Reddit user uninspired_zebra who then posted the information to the site which was picked up by Eurogamer .
Heroes returning from the first game include Luke, Leia, Han, Chewie, Vader, Boba Fett, Lando, the Emperor and Bossk.
Characters from the first game not included here include Nien Nunb, Greedo, Dengar, Jyn Erso and Orson Krennic.
New Heroes for Battlefront 2 are Yoda, Darth Maul, General Grievous, Rey, Kylo Ren, Captain Phasma and the single-player mode's protagonist, Iden Versio.
EA has confirmed a few of these characters before now but a character not in the list that EA has already confirmed is Finn, who it was revealed would arrive as a free DLC character alongside Phasma later this year.
Whether this means the Alpha files are simply incomplete or something else has happened is unclear.
We'll update with more news as it becomes available.
Hands-on impressions At Gamescom 2017, EA hinged a large amount of its stage show around the space battles that are going to be included in Battlefront 2.
With fan favorite ships like Poes black X-wing, Boba Fetts Slave I, and the Millennium Falcon, the fights are good to look at, but we wanted to know if they were fun to play.
Long story short, yes.
Very fun.
The demo that we played allowed you to choose from a few different standard ships (so an X-wing, an A-Wing and a Y-Wing if youre a rebellion fighter) and a couple of the special hero ships.
These ships require you to earn a certain number of battle points before they are unlockable, meaning you have to kick some ass, then when you re-spawn (because you will die) you get the option of jumping into the Millennium Falcon.
It seemed like there could only be one of each hero ship in the game at any one time, which means you dont end up in a battle full of Darth Mauls.
As much as that would make for an interesting experience, this limitation helps to create some balance and make it feel like a genuine Star Wars battle.
And boy did it.
The gameplay is a mix of cutting-edge graphics and nostalgia-drenched sound design.
We felt genuinely giddy when a tie-fighter screamed past us, only to be shot out of the sky by one of our teammates.
The mission was structured enough to allow for a real sense of achievement, but chaotic enough that it felt like a sprawling battle that you were only a small part of.
Space battles are only going to be part of Star Wars Battlefront 2s gameplay but this attention to detail says promising things about what the rest of the game might offer and how all of the parts will come together.
Is there a Beta?
We now have an official date for the Star Wars Battlefront II beta October 4, 2017.
That date is when players who pre-order the game will be able to jump in for the first time on PS4, Xbox One and PC.
So what will the beta have in store?
From the sounds of it, players can look forward to the 20 v 20 Galactic Assault mode on Theed City that we saw during EA's 2017 EA Play keynote at E3.
You can also expect to see a Starfighter Assault battle match where you'll be allowed to fight in ship-to-ship combat.
Players who don't pre-order game will have to wait until the beta opens to the public two days later on October 6.
Considering that the beta is only slated to go on until October 9, it might make sense for the most fervent of players to reserve a copy ahead of time.
Pre-orders As seems to be the trend with franchise titles, there's more than one version of Battlefront 2 available to pre-order.
Fortunately, where many franchises have 3 or 4 to choose from, Battlefront 2 has decided to stick to a much more easy to handle 2.
Standard Edition The Standard Edition of the game is just that the base game with no digital or physical extras.
That said, if you pre-order it you will get access to a series of pre-order bonuses which include 6 ability modifiers for ships and characters and The Last Jedi-inspired looks for Rey and Kylo Ren.
It's also worth noting that pre-ordering will give you access to the game's Beta in October.
At the moment the cheapest UK retailer for pre-order is Amazon which is offering the standard version of the game for 49.99 on Xbox One and PS4 while CDKeys has it on PC for 31.99.
In the US, the game is currently unavailable to pre-order at Amazon and the price seems to be fairly standard at $60 across retailers from Walmart to GameStop.
Elite Trooper Deluxe Edition If you're not content with the Standard Edition and pre-order bonuses, you might want to take a look at the Elite Trooper Deluxe Edition.
It's slightly more expensive but it also comes with 3 days early access to the game so that you can start playing on November 14.
There's also upgraded versions of all 4 troopers classes, 4 ability upgrades for each of these trooper classes, instant access to Yoda's Lightsaber Mastery and all of the pre-order bonuses.
This version of the game will set you back 69.99 on console at Amazon UK and $80 at several US retailers including Walmart and Gamestop.
Will there be VR?
Its been revealed that Rogue One: X-Wing VR Mission developer Criterion is involved in the development of Battlefront 2 which points to the idea that there will perhaps be some VR content involved with the game, or at least the addition of some epic space battle missions.
In a recent interview, it was revealed that as far as the team is concerned We are not talking about VR at the moment for Battlefront 2.
That's a story for another day That's not a direct no, but it does confirm that Criterion's main involvement is with regards to improving space battles and making them more dynamic and open.
We could spend all day covering all the best tech for doing serious things, but wheres the fun in that?
Were living in the future, why not have some fun with it?
There are tons of smart toys and gadgets out there, from Star Wars drones that you can remotely control, to robots that you can hold a conversation with, even RC spaceships that you can pit head to head against each other.
There simply has never been a better time to let your inner child reign supreme.
And, if you dont know where to start, you can rest easy knowing that we here at TechRadar have created a list of all the best connected toys you can buy today.
So, if youre looking for something to pick up on Black Friday for the younger members of your family (or even for yourself, we wont judge), check out these great options.
Click the video below to watch our review of the Anki Overdrive: Fast & Furious Edition.
Dont go thinking that its gonna all be little robots or drones either weve made sure to include a wide variety of different types of connected toys.
Some might require an existing gaming console to play with, while some will be able to stand on their own not requiring anything more than your imagination.
There are even some more unconventional toys and devices here, like a modern version of Scalextrics toy racing from the 80s, and even a wearable device that you can program to do some astounding stuff.
We dont just give out the title of best connected toys lightly, though.
If the device has made it on this list, weve either extensively tested or played with the device enough to know its worthy of the title.
So, with that out of the way, get ready to feel young again with TechRadars list of the best connected toys.
One to watch It might be small for a Stormtrooper but the upcoming toy from Ubtech Robotics is prime to be a must have.
It's an app-enabled Star Wars First Order Stormtrooper Robot, which has AR features (through a companion app), voice command, facial recognition, and sentry patrolling.
What this basically means is that the Stormtrooper will patrol around an assigned area and alert you if any intruders come close.
You can speak to it, too, and it will also recognise your face.
There might be a lot of Star Wars toys out there (see below) but this one may well be the most interactive yet.
We can't wait to play with it.
The The Star Wars First Order Stormtrooper Robot by Ubtech is available for pre-order at starwars.ubtrobot.com.
Toys included Nintendo amiibo Star Wars Propel Battle Drones Skylanders Imaginators Anki Overdrive Star Wars Sphero BB-8 + Force Band Mass Effect: Andromeda remote control Nomad ND1 Star Wars Sphero R2-D2 Anki Cozmo Jimu Robot Mover Kit Sphero Ultimate Lightning McQueen Nintendo amiibo Add new content to your games with these NFC-compatible toys Compatible platforms: Switch, Wii U, New Nintendo 3DS (older models require separate NFC reader) | Size: 20 cm (7.9 in) | Connectivity: NFC Great build quality Add new items to games Isnt compatible with Nintendo DS Some amiibo are very rare Nintendos inevitable reaction to the astronomical triumph of Activisions Skylanders franchise and the now defunct Disney Infinity franchise, Amiibo have become some of the most popular NFC toys on the market.
Often launched to support major titles (such as Super Mario Odyssey or Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle), these small toys work with built-in NFC readers in the Nintendo Switch, Wii U and later editions of the 3DS/2DS and can be used and reused daily to add more content to certain games.
And while theyre usually not as expensive as Skylander toys, collecting the entire set can be a headache as Nintendo notably failed to make enough units for prior releases.
Star Wars Propel Battle Drones Bring the galactic fight to your home with these flying SW toys Top speed: 35Mph | Size: 19 x 5.5 x 33.5 cm | Speed Settings: 3 (Plus T-Mode training mode) | Ages: 14+ | Battery: 6-8 minutes | Charge Time: 15 minutes | Connectivity: Bluetooth Easy to control and fly Fantastic attention to detail No on-board camera Batteries difficult to remove Beginning in 2015 when the series returned to cinemas, a plethora of Star Wars drones have launched, but its the line from Propel thats reliably been one of the best.
From the extraordinary packaging (where a model of the vehicle itself as used as clasp to seal it tight), to the phenomenal attention to detail, these toys are great for collectors and hopeful star pilots.
The series includes a 74-Z Speeder Bike, a Star Wars T-65 X-Wing which we reviewed for this very list and the TIE Advanced X1.
Each comes with a user friendly controller, one button 360-degree tricks and a selection of three speeds.
Get Propel Star Wars Battle Quadcopter T-65 X-Wing on Amazon now Skylanders Imaginators Create your own virtual platforming hero Platforms: PS4, Xbox One, Switch, Wii U, PS3, Xbox 360 Supports all previous models Lots of customization options Expensive outlay for entire collection No physical customization The sixth and most recent version of the influential Toys to Life series, Skylanders Imaginators is all about allowing its young players the tools to build their very own swashbuckling hero via an remarkably deep customization feature.
These heroes can then be stored in NFC-compatible crystals and transferred into the series Portal Of Power peripheral (which reads the models or crystals placed on it and generates them on-screen.)
While it may not be the most innovative idea of the series (2013s Swap Force still has that claim), Imaginators still offers a level of creativity thats unheard of in the genre.
Anki Overdrive Race these smart toy cars for a supercharged showdown Starter Pack contents: Two robotic supercars, six curved track pieces, four straight track pieces, a four-car charging platform, two riser pieces and one tyre cleaner | Dimensions: Size H30.4, W60.2, D15.3cm (Starter Pack) Easy to use and set up Nine different AIs to battle Need smart device to play Expansion packs are pricey With the newest version of Ankis smart toy racing concept, Anki Overdrive, they boast one of the most original connected toy experiences on the market.
The idea is super simple build a physical track (full of sharp turns, elevations and quick straights), place your connected Anki cars on the track and let the Anki Overdrive app do the rest for you.
With nine AI personalities that change with how you play, its just like a racing video game you can customize, Scalextric style in your living room.
Thanks to a regular flow of updates, the game is now better than ever with the need the scan the track before every race now eliminated if youve made no changes to it since the last race.
We're going to get the Fast & Furious edition of Overdrive reviewed soon, too.
Once we do, we'll update this list with our thoughts.
Anki Overdrive Fast & Furious Edition Movie tie-in offers up some surprise additions to the racing game Pack contents: 1 Doms Ice Charger, 1 Hobbs MXT3 straight pieces, 1 NEW Power Zone track piece, 6 90-dgree curved track pieces, 12 guardrails, 2 riser pieces, 1 4-car charging platform, 1 tire cleaner.
A lot of fun Great movies noises and nods A little fiddly to set up Well, this is a lot of fun.
Even if you're not a fan of the Fast & Furious franchise, there is a lot to like about Anki's latest release.
The cars are fantastic, the effects and track are superb and there is a real 'game' feeling to the whole thing.
Be warned, though: it's a little fiddly to setup.
There were three tech journalists scratching their heads at some points of the setup but this was mainly due to connecting up the cars with the accompanying app.
It eventually worked but we did have to follow the 'reset' instructions to get the cars moving.
Once done, though, it's an exhilarating ride, one you can have on your own (competing against and AI driver) or with friends.
The pack comes with two cars, Doms Ice Charger and Hobbs MXT3 but you do get the choice of upgrades, as well as weaponry that will put even the hardiest driver into a spin.
In fact, it's when the virtual weapons come in that you can have a lot of fun - it really adds to the drive and takes away the 'car that's on the inside will always win' problem that you sometimes get with racers.
As for track, there are eight to choose from out of the box (all easy to set up, with magnets clicking everything into place) and there is the option to shift things up a gear and expand the track and cars - but this will cost you extra.
As movie tie-ins go, though, this is an absolute blast.
Star Wars Sphero BB-8 + Force Band Control your new favorite droid like never before Charge: USB charging | Wristband Weight: 23g | Size: | Battery: 60 mins | Dimensions: H11.4 cm/W7.3 cm/Weight 200g | Connectivity: Bluetooth Accurate motion control Decent battery life Needs smooth, flat surfaces Long-winded setup Sphero brought the ultra cute BB-8 to life back in 2015, but back then we had to use our smartphones or tablets to control the little droid dude.
Thankfully, you can now buy a special wristband that uses hand gestures to send him rolling around your home, and its proved to be one of the best and most responsive control designs weve ever used.
Throwing your hand forwards like a real-life Force Push will send BB rolling forwards, while moving it side to will change direction, and up and down for speed.
It takes around an hour to set up, which is annoying at best, but thankfully you only have to endure it once.
Recently, an alternative to Sphero BB-8 was released - the Sphero BB-9E, a bad droid that's set to make its debut in The Last Jedi.
It's equally a lot of fun to use!
Mass Effect: Andromeda RC Nomad ND1 Explore a new solar system (and your home) with this trusty RC Scale: 1:18 | Charging: Built-in rechargeable battery with USB charge cable | Connectivity: Bluetooth, app enabled Six wheel drive / front, rear steering Built-in camera Smartphone app can lag Doesnt include copy of game It might be a little disappointing that the Nomad ND1 doesnt actually contain a copy of Mass Effect: Andromeda even if it was marketed as a collectors edition of that game however, that shouldnt distract you from how great this RC car is even on its own.
With a special six-wheel drive, the Nomad ND1 offers extremely fine control, thanks to a flexible pair of front and rear axles, a robust suspension that allows it to hit small jumps and built-in LEDs so you dont lose it in the dark.
It also comes with its own in-built camera, which you can use while controlling it from your phone/tablet.
Even if youre not a fan of the game, this RC car is one of the best licensed products that we have seen in a long time.
Get the Mass Effect: Andromeda Collector's Edition Remote Control Nomad ND1 on Amazon Star Wars Sphero R2-D2 This is the droid you are looking for Connectivity: Bluetooth connection (100 foot range) | Battery: USB charging (over 1 hour of play on a full charge) | Dimensions: H17cm/ W10.8 cm/Weight 370 g Fantastic replica model of R2-D2 Mannerisms, controls are great Pricier than other Sphero drones Up against many other R2-D2s in the market The Sphero R2-D2 is an impressive, most impressive, connected toy.
It is a superb replica of the best-loved Star Wars droid and one that comes to life with the more droids you have.
Whether you are controlling it through its easy to use app, watching Star Wars with it (you can watch all the prequels, Rogue One and A New Hope and it will interact) or admiring it on your shelf, you'll enjoy the company of Sphero's latest droid.
While we would like to have seen a bit more interactivity when we weren't actually using the droid, it's the smartest Star Wars toy we've ever played with.
Anki Cozmo The small smart robot that's full of big ideas Included in the box: Self-aware Cozmo Robot, Charger, Interactive Power Cubes | Battery: 30 minutes for 1.5 hours of play time Cozmo is really fun to use Code Lab is simple and addictive Setup isn't as smooth as we'd like It's a pricey bit of kit You will laugh, smile and fist-bump along to Anki Cozmo and the 'bot will follow you every step of the way.
Cozmo is an intelligent, fun toy - one you can program and play with - that may look simple but its cute exterior hides a complex AI brain that you tap into thanks to the updated and easy to use app.
All of this fun does come at a price, though.
But this is one toy that's only going to get better with age - and if the latest app update is anything to go by, Anki will be making significant upgrades as and when it can.
Although the box says from 8 years and up, Cozmo had this 30-something smiling time and time again - it's a connected toy that truly connects.
Ubtech Jimu Robot TankBot Kit What's in the box: Six Robotic servo motors, Intuitive programming via an app, 190 snap-together pieces | Connectivity: Bluetooth, iPhone or iPad app Fun coding mechanism Great to control Take a long time to create Instructions are quite daunting The Jimu Robot TankBot Kit is part toy, part coding king.
It comes in the box ready to assemble and while this will take some time, it's worth the wait.
Yes, the instructions seem a bit daunting at first - it's more like a CAD file than a LEGO set - but once you get the hang of clicking all the 190 bits into place, the installation process of Jimu Robot TankBot is a lot of fun.
While you are creating your TankBot, an accompanying app shows your progress through a 3D model of the thing you are creating.
We recommend you using the app on a tablet rather than a phone, though, as the bigger screen lets you more easily see and manipulate the interactive instructions.
Once construction is completed, there's an array of pre-programs you can use to control Jimu, ranging from making it lift things to it following a set path.
It's also endlessly programmable, too, which means you'll have a lot of fun with what is essentially an educational tool.
Sphero Ultimate Lightning McQueen Its like an RC car on steroids, the top gear of toys Connectivity: Bluetooth, OS, Android, Kindle & Chrome App compatible | Battery: 40 minutes per charge (1 hour charge time) **Speed:** 6Mph | Dimensions: L8.2cm/W25.1cm/Weight: 916g Fantastic range of app functions Some superb animations Very pricey Only suitable for indoor use Taking advantage of another Disney license, Sphero's Ultimate Lightning McQueen toy, based on the star of Pixars Cars franchise, is a fantastic connected toy and one of the techiest we've seen.
Designed by a team of 40 people (with help from key Pixar staff), its a perfect recreation of the character.
McQueen isnt just a remote controlled car (though hes a very good one at that), but an animated, speaking, expressive one as well.
Squeezing a respectable 40 minutes of play time out of a two hour charge, hes got a 30 meter range and a top speed of 6Mph.
Controls take the form of a digital thumbstick through your phone or tablets touchscreen, meaning hell be easy to steer for anyone thats picked up a console game pad before.
Yes it's pricey, but you can see where every penny goes.
Mover Kit Brilliant DIY smart wearable for kids In The Box: Rechargeable battery, LED unit, case, micro controller, strap | Battery: 5 hours on a single charge Fun to assemble Decent price A little too DIY for its own good Computer needed, no app Part wearable, part coding platform, Mover Kit is a fun device from the folks that helped designed the BBC micro:bit.
Mover Kit comes in parts and takes around 15 minutes to assemble, then the real fun starts.
The idea is that you can program the wearable to do a number of things - with the hope that it will get kids up and active.
On board are LED lights, an accelerometer and a compass - and the ability to program these features any which way you want.
All you have to do is plug Mover Kit into a computer, install Bolt, and start the achingly simple process of coding.
It would be good if there was Wi-Fi/Bluetooth on board, so you don't have to use a computer but an app for a smartphone or tablet instead, but this niggle aside (and we know that would ramp up the costs) it's a fun and inventive device that makes it cool to code.
It's all a little DIY but don't let this put you off - it all adds to the entertainment.
For the first time in a long time, things are finally starting to get interesting in the CPU world.
AMD and Intel are at each others throat with Ryzen and Coffee Lake making today an exciting time to shop for the best processors.
Things might be a little confusing when it comes to price to performance, with retailers engaging in some pretty severe price gouging, but with Black Friday around the corner there might be some relief there.
Some Coffee Lake CPUs might be a little hard to find, but there are even some Kaby Lake processors that can still hold their own against the new guys.
One of the really exciting things about this renewed competition between team red and team blue is that there are compelling options for every type of user and every budget that they might have, with both Intel and AMD offering processors for both the most budget-minded consumer and for the people who need to be on the cutting edge whether for bragging rights or for compute-heavy workloads.
And now everybody wins.
You might be looking at Newegg, trying to filter through the plethora of CPUs listed and failing to figure out exactly what you need, but dont worry thats where we come in.
Weve created this list of the best processors on the market today, and were not just saying that either.
Every processor on this list has been exhaustively tested or used by us, and you can rest assured that every CPU on this list will not only knock your socks off with their performance, but theyll do it for a fair price as well.
So whether youre batting for team red or team blue, theres a processor here for everyone.
Best CPU: Intel Core i7-8700K Overclockable champion, now with more cores Cores: 6 | Threads: 12 | Base clock: 3.7GHz | Boost clock: 4.7GHz | L3 cache: 12MB | TDP: 95W Hyper-threading overtakes Ryzen Low-impact overclocking Overclocking only on K models Requires new motherboard During the Coffee Lake-S launch, Intel claimed that itd be giving us its best gaming processor ever; they werent wrong.
This K series chip decimates AMDs flagship in almost every way possible.
Abandoning the companys invisible rule to keep processors sporting over four cores out of the hands of the mainstream, the i7-8700K makes hexa-core the new vogue.
Read our full review: Intel Core i7-8700K Best high-end CPU: AMD Ryzen Threadripper 1950X Ripping threads and breaking records Cores: 16 | Threads: 32 | Base clock: 3.4GHz | Boost clock: 4.0GHz | L3 cache: 32MB | TDP: 180W Ready for the ultimate mega-tasking Easier to install than Intel More power-hungry than Intels rival Switching profiles requires a full restart When AMD released its Zen architecture-based Ryzen chips back in June, they relied on the promise of a price-to-performance ratio that finally knock Intel off of their untouchable throne.
Simultaneously, however, they fell quite short of Intel in terms of raw horsepower.
That all changed overnight with the AMD Ryzen Threadripper 1950X, a chunk of silicon thats not only a better value than Intels Core i9-7900X, but its also easier to anchor into the socket of any x399 motherboard.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen Threadripper 1950X Best mid-range CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 1600X Six cores for less than the price of four-core chip Cores: 6 | Threads: 12 | Base clock: 3.6GHz | Boost clock: 4.0GHz | L3 cache: 16MB | TDP: 95W Awesome multi-core performance Cool running chip Tricky overclocking It shouldnt come as a surprise that with its mid-range chip, AMD offers more cores for less money when compared to Intel.
While in years past this has equated to making compromises in other areas to keep the costs low, the Ryzen 5 1600X remains economical without being shown up.
After all, operating with six cores and 12 threads, theres no shame in a 3.6GHz base frequency, not to mention the 4.0GHz boost in addition to overclocking capabilities.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen 5 1600X Best entry-level CPU: AMD Ryzen 3 1300X Welcome to the circus of value Cores: 4 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.5GHz | Boost clock: 3.7GHz | L3 cache: 8MB | TDP: 65W Impeccable value More cores than most budget CPUs Lagging benchmark scores Runs a little too warm Many people will assume that because it requires discrete GPU to use, the AMD Ryzen 3 1300X is built solely for gaming.
Once you drop your assumptions, though, youll see it as the little processor that could.
Thats because, at a price thats the definition of reasonable, youre getting a chip thats 53% faster at encoding video than the Intel Core i3-7350K in Handbrake and with the right GPU attached can easily help you attain 60 frames per second in Overwatch.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen 3 1300X Best gaming CPU: Intel Core i5-7600K K series Core processing at an i5 cost Cores: 4 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.8GHz | Boost clock: 4.2GHz | L3 cache: 6MB | TDP: 91W Easy to overclock OC approaches i7-6700K stock speeds Negligible upgrade over Skylake Like the 7700K that preceded it on this list, the Intel Core i5-7600K is an unlocked, overclockable quad-core processor from Intel.
However, it also suffers from the same integral shortcoming; that is that its barely an upgrade over the i5-6600K.
Be that as it may, squeezing out only 300MHz over its precursor brings it nearly in line with the last-gen Core i7-6700K when overclocked.
All the while, it wont put too much of a dent in your budget either.
Best VR CPU: AMD Ryzen 7 1800X Ryzen to the occasion and VR-ready to rumble Cores: 8 | Threads: 16 | Base clock: 3.6GHz | Boost clock: 4GHz | L3 cache: 16MB | TDP: 95W Stunning multi-core performance Insane price Overclocking is touch and go Temperatures are unique The primary contender to Intels Core i7-7700K, the AMD Ryzen 7 1800X poses a convincing threat to Intels flagship.
While its unfortunately more expensive than the 7700K, uncharacteristic for the oft value-focused Red Team, the Ryzen 7 1800X most certainly keeps up with some of Intels older chips.
Plus, unlike the Core i7-5960X and -6700K it most intimately rivals, the AMD Ryzen 7 1800X is much more qualified for VR now and into the future.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen 7 1800X Best video editing CPU: Intel Core i7-7820X X gon give it to ya Cores: 8 | Threads: 16 | Base clock: 3.6GHz | Boost clock: 4.3GHz | L3 cache: 11MB | TDP: 140W Solid multi-core performance Best value for an eight-core Intel chip Little benefit over cheaper Ryzen 1800X Threadripper is cheaper The naming convention is confusing, given that the Intel Core i7-7820X is part of Intels Skylake-X series rather than the X-class chips built on the 14nm Kaby Lake node, but semantics matter very little when you get to go hands-on with an Intel CPU boasting this many cores.
Although the fact that youll need a new motherboard to use this octa-core monster might be enough to scare some users off to Ryzen, Intel loyalists shant mind the upgrade.
Best performance processor: Intel Core i9-7980XE This 18-core processor dominates all Cores: 18 | Threads: 36 | Base clock: 2.6GHz | Boost clock: 4.4GHz | L3 cache: 24.75MB | TDP: 165W Exceptional performance Single-core results are incredible Price, price, price Monstrous overclocking power draw Intel's 18-core processor is all about brute force.
With the ability to kick up all of its cores to 4.8GHz (by our testing at least), this monstrous CPU brings performance to a new level of insanity.
The only caveats are this processor power draw and price are equally beastly.
Read the full review: Intel Core i9-7980XE Best budget CPU: Intel Pentium G4560 Intel Core i3 power at a Pentium price tag Cores: 2 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.5GHz | L3 cache: 3MB | TDP: 54W Closely tails Core i3-7100 Supports hyper-threading Limited to DDR4-2400 memory Inferior performance to Intel Pentium G4560 With the amount of money youll save by purchasing the Intel Pentium G4560 over a Core i3 chip, we promise you wont mind the ever-so-slight loss in performance you can expect from this hardy value chip.
As the first Pentium processor in quite some time to feature hyper-threading, the G4560 goes out of its way to show us all what weve been missing.
And, in benchmarks, it proves itself eerily adjacent to the more expensive Intel Core i3-7100.
Best HTPC CPU: AMD A12-9800 Integrated graphics, now theres a novel idea Cores: 4 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.8GHz | Boost clock: 4.2GHz | L2 cache: 2MB Doesnt require graphics card Compatible with AM4 mobos Limited to DDR4-2400 memory Inferior performance to Intel Pentium G4560 Maybe youve probably heard some bad things about the AMD A12-9800, some of which are justified, but some salty impressions weve seen are just based on how AMDs first AM4-compatible APUs arent Zen-based.
Instead, the A12-9800 takes advantage of the Bristol Ridge architecture, which is basically just a refresh of the Bulldozer family AMD has been slowly iterating on since 2011.
Even so, this is the best way single AMD chip build independent of a discrete GPU for now.
When youre building a new computer, especially a gaming PC, one of the first things you might put to the back of your mind is buying the best PC case.
Its tempting to think that because PC cases dont actually contribute to the actual power of your computer, that its just a trivial component that doesn't really matter.
However, we struggle to think of anything worse than having a shoddy PC case fall apart, causing you to tear apart your computer only to reassemble it inside of another chassis.
Thats not even taking into consideration airflow and thermal performance.
The best PC cases will put an emphasis on optimizing airflow, with plenty of space for fans, with the metal interior leaving plenty of room for air to flow unobstructed.
Some may even come with space for a water-cooling loop.
Plus even if youre not going to be gaming, instead focusing on browsing the web, or just writing like we do, aesthetics and build quality go a long way.
We know that it can be overwhelming seeing how saturated the PC case market is and even more so now that Black Friday is right around the corner, thats why weve taken the liberty of creating a list of all the best PC cases you can buy today.
Every PC case on this list has been rigorously tested by TechRadar and meets our quality standards.
As an added bonus, every case on this list can be considered affordable, and thats even before any discounts you can score, thanks to Black Friday on the horizon.
So, sit back, relax and check out some of the best PC cases out there.
Youll find something great, we promise.
Cooler Master Cosmos C700P The best full-tower PC case Form factor: Full-tower | Dimensions: 639 x 306 x 651mm (L x W x H; 25.2 x 12 x 25.6 inches) | Mobo compatibility: Mini-ITX, Micro ATX, ATX, E-ATX (12 x 11 inches) | PSU support: Bottom mount, ATX PS2 | I/O: USB 3.1 Gen 2 Type-C x 1, USB 3.0 x 4, fan speed and RGB control buttons, audio in/out (supports HD Audio) | Includes: 2 x 140mm front fans, 1 x 140mm rear fan Physically controlled RGB Universal, multi-orientation design Comically heavy Controversial frame rails The Cooler Master Cosmos C700P looks at portability like it was some kind of bad joke.
And its pretty easy to see why, at 22kg (or 48.5 pounds), its likely going to exceed 32kg (or 70.5 pounds) by the time youve built your entire rig into it.
Dont take that to mean that the Cosmos C700P is a bad case, it just makes it one youll have to lug around by its upper rails.
Otherwise, the C700P is beautiful and flexible, thanks to Cooler Masters decision to offer RGB lighting and support six different system orientations.
Fractal Design Meshify-C The best mid-tower PC case Form factor: Mid-tower | Dimensions: 395 x 212 x 440mm (L x W x H; 15.6 x 8.3 x 17.3) | PSU support: ATX | I/O: 2 x USB 3.0, 1 x HD audio in/out, power button, reset button | Includes: 2 x Dynamic X2 GP-12 Freshly designed in multiple ways Reasonable price USB 3.0 cable is too short Front PSU dust filter is hard to remove There are very few PC cases that look anything like Fractal Designs Meshify-C. Its even rare to see a chassis that even vaguely resembles it..
Given that the entire front of the case is made of mesh material sectioned off into many polygonal shapes, the Meshify-C has a unique aesthetic, and it does so without compromising on function.
With two fans pre-installed, interior cooling is (forgive us) a breeze, even if the Meshify-C is held back by a number of obstacles.
Nanoxia Deep Silence 4 The best Micro ATX PC case Form factor: Small form factor | Dimensions: 380 x 200 x 480mm (W x H x D; 15 x 7.9 x 18.9 inches) | PSU support: ATX | I/O: 2 x USB 3.0, 1 x USB 2.0, HD audio in/out, power button, reset button, two-channel fan control | Includes: 2 x 120mm fans, 2 x modular HDD cages for up to five hard drives Low-noise Onboard dual-zone fan controls Not many extras Nanoxia Deep Silence 4, as its name suggests, was crafted with the sole purpose of being quiet as a mouse.
This silence-focused case is a well-balanced Micro ATX case thats affordably priced and even accommodates some of the biggest, most powerful graphics cards with its spacious interior.
The fact that youll rarely hear it go above 30 decibels is just icing on the very taciturn cake.
NZXT H200i The best Mini-ITX case Form factor: Small form factor | Dimensions: 210 x 349 x 372mm (8.3 x 13.7 x 14.6) | Mobo compatibility: Mini-ITX | PSU support: ATX | I/O: 2 x USB 3.1 Gen 1, 1 x audio/mic, 3 x fan channels with max 10W per channel output, 1 x RGB LED port support up to 4 x HUE + LED strips or 5 x Aer RGB fans | Includes: 1 x Aer F120 Case Version top fan, 1 x Aer F120 Case Version rear fan Built-in Smart Device RGB control Adaptive noise reduction Ugly color options Mini-ITX is ever so slowly getting closer and closer to finally toppling the now seemingly ancient Micro-ATX form factor, so, it only makes sense that this hot form factor has made its way into NZXTs new H series case lineup.
And unbelievably enough, NZXT has managed to incorporate a lot of the same features as its Micro ATX and mid-tower equivalents, with mesmerising, built-in and Smart Device-controlled RGB lighting and an adaptive noise sensor that sees improvement only by way of the Grid+ V3 fan controller.
Phanteks Evolv Shift X The best home theater PC case Form factor: Small form factor | Dimensions: 170 x 650 x 274mm (W x H x D; 6.7 x 26.1 x 10.8 inches) | Mobo compatibility: Mini-ITX | PSU support: SFX, SFX-L, ATX (160mm max) | I/O: 2 x USB 3.0, power button, RGB button | Includes: 2 x 140mm fan, 1 x power supply cover, 1 x pump bracket, 2 x SSD bracket, 1 x PCIe x16 Riser cable, 1 x 8-pin CPU extension cable Plenty of room for beefy components One-of-a-kind aesthetic Massive for Mini-ITX When you first look at it, the Phanteks Evolv Shift X appears more like a sound bar than a PC case, but this helps it vanish into any living area or studio setup.
Its flexible to the point that it looks natural placed under a TV just as it does atop a desk, next to an equally high-end monitor.
It may only be compatible with Mini-ITX mobos, which seems crazy given its size but the Phanteks Evolv Shift X offers tons of space for components and liquid-cooled loops.
If this case is a little too large for your preference, theres also the more manageable and smaller Phanteks Evolv Shift.
Fractal Design Define R5 The best silent PC case Form factor: Mid-tower | Dimensions: 232 x 451 x 521mm (W x H x D; 232 x 451 x 521 inches) | PSU support: ATX | I/O: 2 x USB 3.0, 2 x USB 2.0, audio in/out, power button with LED, HDD activity LED, reset button | Includes: 2 x Fractal Design Dynamic GP14 140mm fans, velcro straps User-friendly (and handsome) design Affordable price Definitely not tool-less Fractal Design has scored a second entry on this list, and they deserve it.
The Define R5 is yet another mid-tower case exhibiting a beautiful style.
The metallic and blue LED-lit face of the case is simple, yet elegant, and is accompanied by noise dampening materials throughout its interior.
In spite of the detachable ModuVent panels and drive trays not being tool-lessly accessible, the Fractal Design Define R5 is otherwise painless to build a computer inside of.
Not only that, but its not as expensive as you would expect from a PC case with such a pretentious name either.
Corsair Carbide Spec-04 The best budget PC case Form factor: Mid-tower | Dimensions: 492 x 201 x 433mm (L x W x H; 19.4 x 7.9 x 17 inches) | PSU support: ATX | I/O: 1 x USB 3.0, 1 x USB 2.0, 1 x headphone port, 1 x microphone port, power on button, reset button | Includes: 1 x 120mm LED front fan Premium look and feel Compelling price point Only one USB 3.0 port Inputs located on right side Even if youre trying to avoid spending a fortune on your build, its probably not a great idea to not settle for the absolute cheapest PC case you can find.
For the most part, cheap cases dont really incorporate proper ventilation and airflow, not to mention youll end up buying your own fans and cable management supplies.
The Corsair Carbide Spec-04, on the other hand, shows up even some of the more expensive cases.
It does so with rubberized feet, an included LED fan and tons of room to spare for additional fans and components.
Antec Cube The best PC cube case Form factor: Small form factor | Dimensions: 365 x 250 x 460mm (H x W x D; 14.4 x 9.8 x 18.1 inches) | PSU support: ATX | I/O: 2 x USB 3.0, I/O button, audio in/out | Includes: 1 x 120mm rear exhaust fan mount Ample space for power and cooling Integrated fan controller Wildly expensive Less than satisfactory performance This case is for the Razer fans out there.
While the green snake-adorned company doesnt manufacture its own PCs, it has partnered with several OEMs in the past to add its signature green-infused flare to a handful of desktop PC cases.
This includes the Antec Cube, a small form factor chassis that supports Mini-ITX motherboards and is shaped like an italic font (but backwards).
Complete with lots of space, either for an initial build or future expansion, the Antec Cube is also compact enough to travel with.
Well, its looking more and more likely that Amazon's full Australian launch will happen in time for Black Friday (or maybe even Click Frenzy if theyre particularly speedy) something which will undoubtedly be ringing alarm bells for the countrys existing retailers.
During a marketplace summit in Sydney, Amazon Australia's country manager Rocco Braeuniger has stated that both the online retail and third-party seller marketplace will be open for business Down Under "really, really soon".
A post on the /r/Australia subreddit by Reddit user repairsalmostcomplet brings attention to a number of products that were uploaded to the site earlier on in November, none of which are ebooks the sole product type available from the Australian version of Amazon previously.
While the products are still listed as currently unavailable, some of them are distinctly Australian, such as powerboards with Australian outlets , and could be an indicator that the online retail giant is live-testing its site for an imminent launch.
Currently, the range of available items seems to be limited to electronic products such as cables and adapters, although this is very likely to only represent a small sample of the products Amazon intends to sell in Australia, for the sake of trialling the site.
Amazon Black Friday deals 2017 in the US are technically just under two weeks away, but the early discounts start way before the official November 24 date.
We're not at all surprised with this development.
Launching early Black Friday deals is routine, according to the Amazon playbook, as it lets you buy your next 4KTV, cheap laptop and game console bundle at a lower price than any time in 2017.
Our biggest Amazon Black Friday prediction is that you'll finally be able to buy the hard-to-find PS4 Pro, Xbox One X, or SNES Mini in stock in November, but the limited quantities will be an effort to lure you into buying a dazzling big-screen 65-inch 4K TV, too.
Even, better Amazon is also pushing its own devices and services via its Black Friday promotions.
It wants to fill your house with Amazon Echo speakers with prices starts at $39.99 whenever the Echo Dot is on sale.
Your biggest obstacles to getting the best Amazon Black Friday deals is actually being able to claim it in time.
The site always sells out out of its Lightning Deals and Deal of the Day every time a popular product goes on sale.
That's why where here to point out every Amazon deal imaginable today.
Early Amazon Black Friday deals RAVPower 20100 Portable Charger Now $49.99 (Was $109.99) 54% off This USB-C charger is sale for $49.99 and it's one of the best Amazon Black Friday deals for a portable battery charger.
It charges 75% faster than average power banks and is 54% off.
Very fitting.
PS4 Slim 500GB Uncharted 4 console bundle Now $284.99 (Was $299.99) $15 off If you haven't played Uncharted 4 yet, you should and if you don't have a PS4 yet, you need to get one.
The two can be had as one bundle through an early Amazon Black Friday discount.
Nintendo Switch is now in stock Now available for $299.99 (while it lasts) Surprise, you can find the Nintendo Switch console in stock for Black Friday through Amazon.
The popular video game system with Zelda, Mario and more is finally being sold.
Finally.
New Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet Variety Pack Now $149.99 (Was $199.99) 25% off It's funny how two Amazon Fire Kids Edition tablets still cost a fraction of the price of a new iPad, and this Black Friday deal is a testament to that.
Get them for 25% in a variety of colors.
Amazon Echo (2017) speaker Save $50 on multiple speakers (Was $99 each) Amazon Echo speakers are going to be among the hottest gifts this holiday season, and Amazon is sweetening the deal if you buy three or more.
Why would you do that?
Well one for yourself and two act as presents.
Brilliant.
Amazon Echo Dot + Fire TV Stick Now $69.98 (Was $89.98) 22% off We dig the Echo Dot and love our Amazon TV Stick, and we think you'll love both for a cheaper price on Black Friday thanks to this Amazon bundle fit for your television room.
Bose QuietComfort 25 Now $279 (was $299) 7%off With smartphones dropping the headphone jack left and right, there's never been a better time to pick up a pair of wireless headphones.
The Bose QuiteComfort 25 is a stand out Bluetooth headphone offering great sound quality with integrated noise cancellation.
Fossil Q Founder Gen 2 Now $130 (was $275) 53% off The Fossil Q Founder Gen 2 is one of the cleanest looking Andorid smartwatches on the market and now you can get this sharp wearable for $53% off.
Microsoft Surface Book Now $1,549 (was $2,699) 43% off The Surface Book 2 might be the latest thing from Microsoft, but you can nab the companies first ever laptop for nearly 50% off now.
Amazon devices are up to 30% off today Save up to 30% off the original price The pre-owned deals are strong with Amazon devices, from the newer Echo smart speakers down to the classic Kindle ereaders.
It's an early Black Friday if you're buying second-hand.
iPhone X cases and accessories Up to 50% off via early Amazon Black Friday deals You just paid $999, so don't pay any more than you have to for iPhone X cases and all of the accessories you need for your brand new, very delicate all-screen Apple iPhone.
Amazon Prime and Black Friday Amazon Prime is always a must-have on Black Friday.
It has major perks, like free two-day shipping, and members sometimes get exclusive deals tailored for Prime users.
You can get early access to the Lightning Deals on Amazon that don't stick around for very long.
In other cases you might get extra discounts on prices that have dropped already, or you might get deals that don't apply to non-Prime members.
It's hard to make Amazon Black Friday predictions, but generally speaking you're at an advantage if you sign up for Amazon Prime (the retailer always wants to boost those subscription numbers after all).
At the moment a subscription costs you $99 a year, or slightly more if you go month-to-month, and of course there are a host of other benefits besides improved access to the Black Friday deals.
Amazon even runs its own deals day exclusively for Prime members every summer.
You get access to the Netflix-style Amazon Prime Video, the Spotify-style Amazon Prime Music, and a ton of cloud space to store your digital photos as well.
All that and more, and faster delivery times throughout the year as well.
Amazon Lightning Deals Amazon loves its Lightning Deals: as the name suggests, these are very short-lived offers that usually involve items where the stock is low, so if you don't jump in when you've got the chance, you might miss out.
Don't feel pressured into deals you don't feel sure about - just be aware that Lightning Deals aren't going to stick around.
As they're only available for a short amount of time, they often offer some very tasty discounts.
In the words of Amazon, a Lightning Deal is "a promotion in which a limited number of discounts are offered on an item for a short period of time", and you can usually find them on the Today's Deals page.
As we mentioned above, Prime members get early access to the Lightning Deals on Amazon.
Here's everything you need to know about Amazon Black Friday 2017.
Amazon Black Friday 2017 predictions and ads We don't have an Amazon Black Friday 2017 ad just yet, but we're ready to make predictions for what this year's deal will be.
1.
Amazon Echo Show We expect major Amazon Echo deals, and there'll be no bigger item than the new Amazon Echo Show during Black Friday 2017.
It's already offered discounts as much as $100 off in the past when purchased in pairs.
With more Echo devices hitting the market, there will be plenty of deals on these and other Alexa-enabled gadgets.
2.
Xbox One S bundle Xbox One X will be the popular new console, so we fully expect the Xbox One S to see deep discounts and bundled with free games during Black Friday.
It's more than Amazon just wanting to offload its inventory.
Microsoft wants to keep making the system because it allows the company to have an entry-level video game console on sale.
More Xbox One systems in buyers hands means more game sales, where the real money is made.
3.
Amazon Kindle Paperwhite Amazon Kindle Paperwhite is the e-ink reader that impresses us the most, and it's almost always on sale during the holidays.
It's currently on sale for $119.99 today, so you should see be able to get one even cheaper if you want to wait.
4.
4K TVs We can't get enough of Amazon Black Friday TV deals, and it's where we predict that you'll see price cuts by hundreds of dollars.
It happened last year, and we fully expect better specs via deeply discount 4K TV sets with HDR.
We'll continue to update our Amazon Black Friday guide, as the date approaches.
5.
Galaxy S8 and Note 8 Samsungs Galaxy S8 and Galaxy Note 8 sit atop the throne of the Android market.
Though the Galaxy S8 has regularly gotten killer deals since it launched, the Note 8 hasnt seen any serious price drops to make it a less painful purchase.
But Black Friday may be an opportunity for both to get great discounts, especially as Amazon has previously offered some of the best prices on the Galaxy S8 so far.
6.
Google Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL Google's new Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL won't have been on the market for long when Black Friday rolls around, but it will be no surprise for some small discounts or bundle deals to show up on Amazon.
7. iPhone 7 It's too soon to expect insane deals on the iPhone 8 and iPhone X, but the previous generation of iPhones is fair game for Black Friday.
Dropped prices will make it easier than ever to pick up an iPhone 7.
8.
Fire TV with 4K Ultra HD and Alexa Voice Remote Black Friday is an incredibly popular time to pick up a new TV, and 4K is the current craze.
It's likely Amazon will use the shopping day as an opportunity to push it's 4K-ready Fire TV streaming device, either with discounts or bundled with new 4K TVs.
Amazon Black Friday deals from last year Ahead of Black Friday 2017, here are the best deals we saw during Black Friday last year, just to whet your appetite for this year's extravaganza.
PS4 Black Friday deals - we didn't have the supercharged PS4 Pro to drool over a year ago, but we did have the newer PS4 Slim console bundled with Uncharted 4.
The Sony's video game system with a 500GB hard drive and free game cost $250.
Xbox One/One S Black Friday deals - last year the Xbox One X was just a rumor, but Amazon treated buyers to the 1TB Xbox One S console bundled with Gear of War 4 for just $250.
That made it $50 than it normally was.
Amazon Black Friday laptop deals - there were a host of computing deals last year, including $100 off the prior year's MacBook Pro, whether you wanted the 15-inch or 13-inch versions with a Retina display.
The 12-inch MacBook saw a $100 price cut, starting at just $1,199 during Black Friday.
Amazon Black Friday headphone deals - audiophiles were certainly spoiled during Black Friday a few months ago, with $80 off of the Beats Solo3 headphones.
Although Beats is a now an Apple company, their headphones were on sale for Black Friday.
Maybe that will happen again in 2017.
Camera Black Friday deals - You were a winner if you wanted Canon DSLR or GoPro action camera discounts on Black Friday.
The Canon 80D EOS camera experienced a $400 price cut to just $1,399 on Amazon, and GoPro Hero deals were plentiful, with the entry-level version starting at under $100 for the first time.
Phone Black Friday deals - Amazon is just getting started with Amazon Prime Phone deals, and that made things cheap if you were looking for a budget Android phone.
The Moto G4 with 32GB of storage our favorite affordable phone last year for just $139.
Smart Home Black Friday deals - Amazon Echo deals were popular for Black Friday, with the new product category for many buyers seeing a $40 discount.
Instead of paying full price for the flagship smart speaker with Alexa, Amazon was asking for a mere $139.99 in the US.
This year, we expect Amazon Echo Show to go on sale with specs that include a helpful display.
Amazon Black Friday TV deals - There's no bigger big ticket item on Amazon during Black Friday than a brand new flat-screen TV.
Forgot HDTVs, we're talking about 4K televisions with HDR.
We really liked the LG 55-inch 4K OLED set for $1,797 and the Samsung 40-inch UN40KU6300 at a very affordable $347 a great value for any budget.
Wearable Black Friday deals - Fitbit and Apple Watch deals are hot on Black Friday through Amazon, with the retailer rivaling the sales at Target last year.
You were able to save the most money (more than $70) if you went with the older Apple Watch Series 1.
We're hoping the year-old Apple Watch 2 will be on sale via Amazon for Black Friday 2017.
Amazon on Black Friday 2017: what you need to know Even though it has its own Prime discount day of sales, Amazon still goes all-in when it comes to Black Friday, and few retailers can match it for the breath or size of its discounts.
If you're looking for Black Friday deals, you need to include Amazon on your list.
While the deals are great, sometimes it's hard to get to them, thanks to Amazon's notoriously cluttered interface - and hopefully, that's where we come in.
We'll highlight the best offers for you to save you a lot of clicking and scrolling around.
We've been given a sneak preview of some of the Black Friday 2017 discounts that Amazon's planning, and while we can't share them with you yet, there are some treats in store - from short-term Lightning Deals to major discounts on hot gadgets that will run through Black Friday and beyond.
Theres no upgrade sweeter than ramping up the sound on your new gaming PC.
Unfortunately, in spite of that certainty, the best PC gaming headsets often go overlooked in favor of shiny graphics and internal bells and whistles.
In other words, its high time you get your priorities straight.
Especially with Black Friday right around the corner, theres never been a better time than now to enhance your audio setup.
Its hard enough deciding what to eat for dinner, much less what cans youre going to don atop your head for the foreseeable future.
So then, the question remains, how do you choose the best PC gaming headset for you?
You dont have to do it alone.
In fact, weve ran laps around the competition in recommending tech products across the board.
After testing, reviewing and ranking the most prominent PC gaming headsets around, weve devised a list here too.
The truth is, it shouldnt matter if you like your headsets to be wired or wireless, spacious or tight-fitting a proper buying guide should cater to your expectations regardless.
Thats why weve assimilated a list of the 15 best PC gaming headsets you can buy.
Some are equipped with 7.1 surround sound capabilities while others are graced with low price tags and sky-high quality relative to price.
Suffice to say, keep reading to find out more about our picks.
1.
Asus ROG Centurion 7.1 10 drivers, 7.1 channels, one impeccable headset Interface: Wired (USB) | Features: 10-driver 7.1 surround sound, dual-USB amplifier, Sonic Software compatibility, HDMI passthrough, amplifier with audio profile and channel volume controls, unidirectional microphone Excellent spatial sound Speaker passthrough Can only be used with its amp Heavy and bulky Neglecting all the unwritten rules of fashion, the ROG Centurion 7.1 is a spectacle to behold.
Though its a living hellscape to set up, this gaming headset delivers both extreme looks and an unruly knack for emitting crystal clear sound waves.
The Asus ROG Centurion 7.1 not only bolsters full-fledged surround sound passthrough for an external set of speakers, but its set of onboard amp controls give you complete power, even if theres a steep learning curve.
Read the full review: Asus ROG Centurion 7.1 headset 2.
Razer ManO'War 7.1 audio channels, zero fuss Interface: Wireless | Features: Software-based 7.1 surround sound, earcup-mounted controls, Chroma RGB multi-color lighting, 14-meter range (using an extender, 12 meters without) Great surround sound Easy to set up Multi-color lighting Slightly bulky No wired option Quick and easy to set up using a wireless USB receiver that stores inside the headset for transportation, the Razer ManO'War is a user-friendly unit primed for surround-sound gaming.
Sure, it's a little chunkier than most other headsets, but two soft leatherette ear cups make it comfortable to wear over extended periods.
And, with Chroma RGB lighting customizable through Razer Synapse, it even looks snazzy to observers.
Read the full review: Razer ManO'War 3.
HyperX Cloud Alpha Solid stereo sound tuned specifically for PC gaming Interface: Wired (3.5mm) | Features: Dual chamber audio, removable cable and microphone Improved looks and comfort Defined mid-tones and booming bass Muddled lows Theres a common misconception the best PC gaming headsets have to cost a fortune.
Thats fortunately untrue of the HyperX Cloud Alpha, which presents a compelling design along with impressive mid-range sound.
The added dual-chamber drivers are a feat for audio quality that doesnt break the bank, minus the distortion that usually haunts headphones at this price.
Better yet, the sonorous bass will put any first-person shooter, not to mention Skrillex, to the test.
4.
Turtle Beach XO Three Virtualized surround sound made affordable Interface: Wired (3.5mm) | Features: 50mm drivers, Windows Sonic compatibility, detachable microphone boom, volume wheel, microphone mute slider Comfortable to wear for long periods Microphone is crisp and clear Surround sound lacks nuance Lacks advanced features Although its designed to be used for the Xbox One, Windows users can take solace in the fact that the Turtle Beach XO Three is compatible with any PC sporting a single jack for both mic input and headset output or a PC splitter cable.
In spite of this minor caveat, the XO Three is a steal for the price, especially considering its use of 50mm sound drivers.
Whats more, it even supports Windows Sonic for 3D surround sound.
Read the full review: Turtle Beach XO Three 5.
V-MODA Crossfade Wireless Stylish with powerful bass-driven tones Interface: Wireless or wired (USB) | Features: Bluetooth connectivity, built-in microphone (Boom Microphone available for gamers), lithium-ion battery with up to 12 hours of continuous music, dual-diaphragm 50mm driver, metal construction with leather, military-level MID-STD-810 tested Huge, eardrum-filling sound Comfortable padded cups Divisive design Don't fold If you're more interested in the sounds coming out of your gaming headset rather than glowing LEDs, macro keys and other gratuitous extras, then the V-MODA Crossfade Wireless is the headset for you.
Its stylish cans are a treat for the ears, booming with sound that's bass-heavy with fantastically crisp treble at the other end.
Stepping out of the soundscape, the V-MODA Crossfade Wireless is comfy and spacious too, what with its memory foam earcups.
Read the full review: V-MODA Crossfade Wireless 6.
Astro A50 Wireless The best general use headset just got better Interface: Wireless | Features: Dolby Digital 7.1 surround sound; Works with PS4, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PS3, PC, and mobile; Astro Audio; 5.8GHz wireless tech with MixAmp; 6.0mm uni-directional noise cancelling mic; USB charging with base station Full-bodied Dolby 7.1 Surround sound Supremely comfortable Finnicky charging cradle We called the original Astro A50 a "game-changing, experience-enhancing headset," and thankfully its wireless successor follows the "if it aint broke, dont fix it" rule.
Astro's latest headset does what it says on the tin and adds wireless connectivity to an already stellar package.
Not only is it ready to rock with your PC, but with PS4, Xbox One and legacy consoles as well a headset thats robust and versatile.
7.
SteelSeries Siberia 840 A fantastic all-rounder Interface: Wireless or wired | Features: Closed back earcups, Dolby virtual 7.1 surround sound, retractable directional mic with mute indicating light, two hot-swappable Li-Ion batteries, SoundShare audio recording, click wheel, memory foam ear cushions, compatibility with Xbox 360, PS3/4, PC/Mac, Apple TV/Roku, home entertainment and mobile devices Dolby 7.1 surround sound Comfortable Pricey Following in the footsteps of the already impressive Siberia 800, the upgraded Sibera 840 is pro-Bluetooth, anti-lag and all about personalization.
With the SteelSeries Engine 3 app, you can customize everything from equalizer settings to what you want shown on the OLED screen of the accompanying base unit.
All of that is, of course, secondary to the Siberia 840's sound qualities which are nothing less than sublime.
8.
Turtle Beach 350 Stealth VR The best gaming headset for virtual reality Interface: Wired (3.5mm) | Features: Battery-powered amplification (30 hours on a single charge), variable bass boost, full-range audio, mic monitoring, removable noise-cancelling microphone, ergonomic VR design.
swappable cable system Ergonomic design suits VR headsets Battery amplification provides full-bodied sound Mic monitoring lets you hear yourself Feel flimsier than more expensive headsets No surround sound With VR headsets like the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift making their way into PC gamers' rooms, specially-designed audio headsets for virtual reality were bound to follow.
The Turtle Beach 350 Stealth VR is one of the most flexible out there, featuring a generous amount of adjustability thanks to its sturdy headband which can fit over the top of VR headsets worn on even the biggest heads.
9.
SteelSeries Arctis High performance with a low profile Interface: Wireless or wired (3.5mm) | Features: 2.4GHz wireless technology (Arctis 7 only); 15-hour battery; built-in digital audio control; Virtual 7.1 Surround Sound; Steelseries Engine software, Compatible with PC, Mac PS4, Xbox One, smartphones, tablets and VR Sterling bass and treble quality Professional design Ugly suspension headband Unlike some of its competitors, SteelSeries stresses subtlety in its headset designs.
The Arctis continues this trend by flaunting sound quality and comfort over gaudy appearances.
When you pop an Arctis on your head, the goal is for, say, your stream audience to see a professional environment rather than a Dorito stain on your chair.
The customizable lighting gives you plenty of wiggle room, too, in case the whole monochrome look isnt your thing.
10.
HyperX Cloud Stinger Better sound for the buck Interface: 3.5mm analog wired | Features: Closed back earcups, swiveling noise-cancellation microphone, onboard volume slider, multi-platform compatibility, memory foam earcups Lightweight Excellent ergonomics Unremovable microphone Light on bass Arguably one of the most affordable gaming headsets available today, the HyperX Cloud Stinger is designed to give players eSports quality audio at a bargain.
While the red on black plastic design isnt much to write home about, this headsets 50mm directional drivers grace it with superb stereo sound.
That goes without mentioning the noise-cancelling mic, which aims to keep background noise from hindering your game sessions.
11.
Sennheiser GSP 350 Stellar Sennheiser audio quality for less Interface: 3.5mm and USB (for 7.1 surround) | Features: Closed acoustic earcups, memory foam ear pads, right ear cup volume control, 7.1 Dolby surround sound, broadcast quality noise-cancelling microphone, automatic mic mute, split headband design Dolby 7.1 Surround Sound Sturdy build quality Comfortable memory foam earpads Dolby surround only works with PC More affordable than Sennheiser's flagship PC 373D while still packing an audible punch, the GSP 350 carries over that headset's stellar 7.1 Dolby surround sound and closed ear cup design.
Brandishing a closed-back design and toting a noise-cancelling microphone that mutes breathing sounds by default, if you like the look of Sennheiser's flagship gaming headset but can't quite stomach the price, the GSP 350 is the lite version youve been holding out for.
12.
Logitech G933 Artemis Spectrum A command center on your head Interface: Wireless or wired (3.5mm) | Features: 7.1 surround sound, cup-mounted G-keys (macro), programmable RGB mutli-color lighting Attractive design Cup mounted macro keys Comfortable Average battery life Logitech's flagship G933 Artemis Spectrum gaming headset can be recognized by its cup-mounted G-keys that provide handy shortcuts to performing actions in-game.
And, if you're fed up of round ear-cups on headsets then you'll appreciate its large and comfortable ear-shaped ones.
The multi-colored lighting strip running all the way down the ear-shaped cup is merely icing on the cake.
13.
Corsair Void RGB Lights up the room and your ears Interface: Wireless or wired (USB) | Features: 7.1 software-based surround sound, 2.4GHz wireless, 40-feet wireless range, 16-hour battery life, mic-on indicator, RGB lighting, Corsair CUE software, 50mm neodymium drivers, noise-cancelling microphone Well-built Long wireless range Surround sound works well Cloth (rather than leather) ear cups Microphone isn't great Capable of exuding first-pumping bass thats powerful without muddying the mix, the Corsair Void RGB is a near-perfect blend of style and function, letting you configure its lighting colors using Corsair's intuitive software and even make it dance in tandem with the company's K65 or K70 mechanical keyboards.
Plus, the Corsair Void RGB bears a wireless range of up to 40 meters, making it a solid and affordable option for surround sound gaming.
14.
HyperX Cloud Revolver Affordable and comfortable with punchy bass Interface: Wired (dual 3.5mm) | Features: 53mm drivers, ear cup memory foam, noise-cancellation mic, audio volume and mute controls, detachable microphone Good value Decent build quality Punchy, bass-driven sound No surround sound No headset controls Here we have a no-frills headset with an upstanding build quality closely rivaling those which cost nearly double.
Used by a number of eSports teams, Kingstons HyperX Cloud Revolvers large interchangeable memory foam cups help block out unwanted noise, and the retractable mic allows clear and distortion-free communication with teammates.
With 53mm drivers designed for punchy mid-tones and pounding bass, this headset comes highly recommended.
15.
Turtle Beach Elite Pro Like kicking back on your favorite comfy couch Interface: Wireless or wired (3.5mm) | Features: 3.5mm upstream and downstream jack, 50mm drivers, memory foam earpads, glasses relief system, optional tournament audio controller, standard microphone included Comfortable Tactical Audio Controller No surround sound Pricey with TAC Aimed at PC and console gamers, using Turtle Beach's Elite Pro feels like sitting down at a command station and gearing up for war.
This headset emanates gamer cred right down to the subtle orange ruler-type markings on the headset's automatically adjusting headband.
That's down to Turtle Beach's 50mm NanoClear drivers, which do an especially great job of bringing you into the heart of the action in shooters.
Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
Consider for a moment the next four years of your life.
Whether the entirety, or merely a snippet, of that time will be spent striving towards a degree, having one of the best laptops for college in your possession is integral to your success.
Its the go-to tool for taking notes and sharing them with friends in Google Docs.
Whats more, most schools require that you own one.
In that case, if you need a laptop anyway, you might as well buy one on Black Friday that lasts all four years.
We would certainly argue, given the amount of time weve invested in testing, reviewing and ranking them, that the best laptops for college fit that criteria quite nicely.
Some are reliable in spite of their low price tags, and other entries on our list are as powerful as they are practical.
Occupying the top spot on our list of the best laptops for college is the Dell XPS 13 found below.
Because it comes in any number of different configurations, each featuring various degrees of processing power, memory and the like, its ideal for students with any budget.
That said, there are 9 others on our list too and theyre all worth your consideration, hence our recommendation.
1.
Dell XPS 13 Powerful, functional, aesthetically pleasing CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i3 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 4GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) QHD+ (3,200 x 1,800) InfinityEdge | Storage: 128GB 512GB SSD Faster than ever Same long-lasting battery Still poor webcam position No Windows Hello Decked out in an all-black aluminum finish encompassing hardy internal components, the Dell XPS 13 of today is still a force to be reckoned with.
And, now that it packs 7th- and 8th-generation Intel Kaby Lake processors as well as improved integrated graphics, it evidently boasts an advantage over competing laptops, aside from giving you the option of a sumptuous Rose Gold finish.
The 13-inch screen, crammed into an 11-inch body, makes it a worthy rival to a certain other aluminum laptop line.
Ultimately, this leaves the Dell XPS 13s utility extensive.
Read the full review: Dell XPS 13 review 2.
Samsung Notebook 9 Pro The dawn of a new era for 2-in-1 laptops CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 AMD Radeon Graphics (2GB GDDR5) | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) LED display with Touch Screen Panel | Storage: 256GB SSD Uses S-Pen to great effect Excellent look and feel Inconsistent battery life Downward-firing speakers The Samsung Notebook 9 is what other 2-in-1 laptops have aspired to be since their conception.
It hones in on the S-Pen, Samsungs own proprietary stylus with 4,096 levels of pressure sensitivity (the same as Microsofts new Surface Pen), a nifty little accessory that conveniently doesnt require charging.
Although the touchscreen display is only 1080p, at between 350 and 450 nits of brightness, you wont be paying any mind to the pixels, or lack thereof.
Plus, the lengthy battery life more than makes up for this hybrids few setbacks.
Read the full review: Samsung Notebook 9 Pro This product is only available in the US as of this writing.
UK and Australian readers: check out a fine alternative in the HP Spectre x360 15 .
3.
Asus Chromebook Flip Asus premium Chromebook has a modest price CPU: Intel Core m3 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 515 | RAM: 4GB | Screen: 12.5-inch, Full HD (1,920 x 1,080) LED backlit anti-glare | Storage: 64GB eMMC + TPM Elegant tablet mode Gorgeous, vivid screen No out-of-box Android app support Middling speakers The Asus Chromebook Flip C302 could be seen as an apology for Googles own missteps with the Chromebook Pixel that preceded it.
Rather than costing over a grand for unnecessarily high performance that would put a lot of Windows notebooks to shame, Asus has cut the price in half while adding a 360-degree hinge that effectively makes it a 2-in-1 laptop, but with Android apps from the Google Play Store that only sweeten the deal.Now you can experience a Chromebook whose style rivals that of the MacBook Pro without spending even remotely what you would on one of Apples machines.
Read the full review: Asus Chromebook Flip 4.
Microsoft Surface Pro The tablet that can replace your laptop CPU: 7th generation Intel Core m3 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 615 Iris Plus Graphics 640 | RAM: 4GB 16GB | Screen: 12.3-inch, 2,736 x 1,824 PixelSense display | Storage: 128GB 1TB SSD Hugely improved battery life Comfier, punchier type cover Surface Pen pulled from package Only Core i7 can challenge A10X The 2017 Surface Pro is in every way, shape and form the next-generation Windows tablet weve been craving.
From its rounded edges to its refined selection of accessories, theres no denying its the next step in the Redmond hardware lineage.
Theres also the fact that the Surface Pro draws inspiration from all-in-one PCs insofar as it bends back 165 degrees.
The only real downside then (besides having to buy the Surface Pen separately this time) is that only the i7 version of the Surface Pro can compete with Apples cheaper, entry level iPad Pro.
Read the full review: Microsoft Surface Pro This product is only available in the US and Australia as of this writing.
UK readers: check out a fine alternative in the Lenovo Miix 510 .
5.
Samsung Notebook 7 Spin MacBook Pro size and power, MacBook Air price CPU: 6th generation Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce 940MX (2GB DDR3L); Intel HD Graphics 520 | RAM: 12GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch Full HD (1,920 x 1,080) LED with touch panel | Storage: 1 TB HDD 1TB HDD; 128GB SSD Snappy keyboard Very versatile Hefty weight Graphics narrowly miss the mark For less than a grand, you could get a MacBook Air, complete with a sub-1080p screen and a Broadwell processor ... or you could buy a Samsung Notebook 7 Spin.
A 2-in-1 laptop with an HDR, full HD touchscreen, the Spin is home to both a discrete Nvidia graphics chip and a 6th-generation Intel Core i CPU.
Though the spinning hard drive and 480p webcam arent ideal, they keep the price of the Samsung Notebook 7 Spin modest and its reputation positive.
Read the full review: Samsung Notebook 7 Spin This product is only available in the US and UK as of this writing.
Australian readers: check out a fine alternative in the Asus ZenBook Flip UX360 .
6.
Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming Work hard, play hard, this laptop does it all CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050; Intel HD Graphics 620 GTX 1050 Ti; Intel HD Graphics 630 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) UHD (3,840 x 2,160) anti-glare LED-backlit | Storage: 1TB HDD 1TB HDD; 128GB SSD Affordable gaming setup Stellar battery life Trackpad is touchy Screen is lacking Ditching the Alienware moniker for once, the Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming doesnt cost all that much considering its rather lofty specs.
Even if it cant max out every game you throw at it, the Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming is both cheaper than a MacBook Air and way more capable.
And, if you were worried about the battery life, the Inspiron 15 Gaming lasted a whole 5 hours and 51 minutes in our tests, longer than some Ultrabooks priced significantly higher.
Whether for coursework or leisure, this laptop can do it all.
Read the full review: Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming 7.
Apple MacBook Pro (13-inch, Mid-2017) The MacBook Pro of the future, right now CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Intel Iris Plus 640 650 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch, WQXGA (2,560 x 1,600) IPS | Storage: 256GB 1TB SSD Stronger processor Faster RAM Subpar battery life Keyboard learning curve The 2017 MacBook Pro doesnt offer much in the way of distinguishing itself from its predecessor, but it is a testament to just how much you can improve something by simply swapping up internal components and calling it a day.
Because its finally equipped with the newest generation of Intel Kaby Lake processors and faster-than-ever PCIe 3.0 SSD storage, the MacBook Pro comes easily recommended, undeterred by its reluctance to bring back legacy ports like HDMI and standard USB.
This is, through and through, a laptop built for the future.
Read the full review: Apple MacBook Pro (13-inch, Mid-2017) 8.
Asus ZenBook UX310UA Feel old yet, MacBook Air?
CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i3 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 4GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) QHD+ (3,200 x 1,800) All aluminum body Backlit keys Bendy keyboard Meh battery life Now that the MacBook Air is all but dead in the water in terms of innovation, there has to be something to replace it.
The Asus ZenBook UX310UA is that spiritual successor youve been longing for.
Surprising us with the an all-aluminum chassis that follows in the wake of the UX305 before it, this laptop comes stacked with a high quality display and an impressive swath of ports, including the latest USB-C interface.
The best news is that it does all of that without slipping above the price point of the current MacBook Air, making it an even better value.
Read the full review: Asus ZenBook UX310 9.
Surface Laptop Designed for students from the OS up CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 Iris Plus Graphics 640 | RAM: 4GB 16GB | Screen: 13.5-inch, 2,256 x 1,504 PixelSense display | Storage: 128GB 512GB SSD Gorgeous design Well built Windows 10 S is limited No USB-C The Surface Laptop is Microsofts first stab at a traditional laptop, if you can even call it that knowing full well that its PixelSense touchscreen and Alcantara keyboard are anything but conventional.
Featuring a full stack of U-series 7th generation Intel Core i processors, the Surface Laptop beats out Apples 12-inch MacBook any day of the week, and for a lower starting price at that.
Despite the ports and operating system being limited, the Surface Laptop is appealing for its laudable design, beautifully vivid screen and impressive performance.
Read the full review: Surface Laptop 10.
Acer Swift 3 Ultrabook performance for half the price CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i3 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 4GB 8GB | Screen: 14-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) ComfyView IPS | Storage: 128GB 256GB SSD Powerful for the price Stellar battery life Boring looks Down-firing speakers The Acer Swift 3 looks like a normal laptop, and while you could make the argument that it is, most normal laptops are either overpriced or underpowered these days.
The Acer Swift 3, however, demonstrates a solid mix of performance and value, brandishing full-on Ultrabook-class Core i processors serving up and a passive battery life of over 8 hours Read the full review: Acer Swift 3 This product is only available in the US and UK as of this writing.
Australian readers: check out a fine alternative in the Dell Inspiron 13.
Now, check out the best 2-in-1 laptops Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
So, its Black Friday and retailers are running rampant with deals on electronics, including a pick of the best gaming laptops on the market.
The problem is, you dont know which one to buy.
Rather than shelling out a grand or more on a notebook based on specs and price alone, however, youre smart and decide to check with us for recommendations.
Well, congratulations youve stumbled across exactly the right guide for your current predicament.
Weve searched high and low for the top gaming laptops on the planet, narrowing them down to a solid 10 choices.
These arent arbitrary rankings either, as weve formulated product-specific scores (and awards to those whove earned them) founded on the benchmarks and personal anecdotes of our editorial team.
These are reviews you can trust because weve not only tested out each one of these highly capable laptops, but weve done so while donning our critical reviewer hats.
So, whether youre all about power and performance or mobility combined with a mishmash of shiny lights, we assure that youll find a make and model of one of the following gaming laptops that suits your demands.
Read on to find your next gaming laptop.
1.
Asus ROG Zephyrus GX501 Under an inch thick and still kicking ass CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 (8GB GDDR5X VRAM) | RAM: 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) anti-glare, wide-view 120Hz panel with G-Sync | Storage: 512GB M.2 PCIe x4 SSD Astonishingly powerful Innovative and quiet cooling Laughable battery life Poor keyboard and ergonomics Kicking Nvidias Max-Q technology off right, the Asus Zephyrus GX501 combines the heralded thinness of an Ultrabook with the performance of a gaming PC to bring the best of both worlds to your feet.
Despite exhibiting subpar times in our battery life benchmarks, this svelte powerhouse of a notebook is one for the books when it comes to both portability and style.
Plus, its virtually silent if noise is a cause for distraction in your everyday routine.
Read the full review: Asus ROG Zephyrus GX501 2.
Razer Blade A gaming-ready MacBook Pro rival CPU: 2.6GHz Intel Core i7-6700HQ | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 (6GB GDDR5 VRAM) | RAM: 16GB | Screen: 14-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) QHD+ (3,200 x 1,800) IGZO (LED backlit, multi-touch) | Storage: 256GB 1TB PCIe SSD Impressive battery life 4K display option Fans whir loudly under load Limited upgrade options You may not be able to stick a bigger hard drive in it later, but the Razer Blade is otherwise built for stamina and, of course, high quality visuals.
On top of boasting a battery life of over 7 and a half hours, it can handle up to 4K Ultra HD gaming with the help of a Razer Core V2 external graphics box and a spare monitor.
Or you could opt for the more recently added integrated 4K display option.
Either way, youre in for a treat, we assure you.
Read the full review: Razer Blade 3.
Asus ROG Strix GL502 It's hard not to love a gaming laptop this good CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 - 1070 | RAM: 16GB DDR4 | Screen: 15.6-inch full HD 1,920 x 1,080 IPS | Storage: 128GB - 256GB SSD, 1TB HDD Rocks Full HD gaming Deliciously vibrant screen Middling battery life The Asus Strix GL502 may not boast the most innovative design, swapping out the usual black and red color scheme for one that makes it feel like Halloween year-round.
But, it's undoubtedly one of the best when it comes to gaming in 1080p.
In fact, we were able to crank the settings all the way up in Overwatch without taking a hit below 60fps.
The battery life is janky, sure, but the screen, performance and onboard sound system more than make up for it.
Read the full review: Asus ROG Strix GL502 4.
Alienware 13 R3 Gawk at the first-ever OLED gaming laptop CPU: Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 | RAM: 8GB 16GB DDR4 | Screen: 13.3-inch HD 1,366 x 768 TN QHD 2,560 x 1440 OLED touchscreen | Storage: 180GB 512GB SSD Gorgeous OLED screen Improved hinge-forward design Unexpectedly dense Short battery life Unlike most laptops its size, the Alienware 13 R3 bears a hinge-forward design.
By moving the heat sinks behind the screen, the chassis is allowed to be thinner, at 0.81-inch (0.22cm).
Unfortunately, this means you wont find many 13-inch laptop bags that will actually suit the Alienware 13 R3.
While you may be tempted by the inclusion of a full-size Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060, its the OLED touch display that caught our attention.
Read the full review: Alienware 13 R3 5.
Razer Blade Pro Finally, a desktop replacement with portability in mind CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 (6GB GDDR5) 1080 (8GB GDDR5X) | RAM: 16 32GB | Screen: 17.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) 120Hz matte IPS UHD (3,840 x 2,160) IGZO touchscreen with G-Sync | Storage: 512GB 2TB PCIe SSD Starboard trackpad placement A desktop experience you can finally carry Off-putting price Less than 5 hours of battery life At long last, Razer has introduced a true desktop replacement that wont weigh you down.
Measuring in at only 0.88 inches thick with the option between a 17-inch 1080p display running at 120Hz or a G-Sync-laden 4K touchscreen, the Razer Blade Pro also introduces the companys ultra-low-profile mechanical switches to a notebook for the first time ever.
Thats a deal thats only sweetened by an unusual trackpad placement that makes it comfier to boot.
Read the full review: Razer Blade Pro This product is only available in the US and UK as of this writing.
Australian readers: check out a fine alternative in the Alienware 17 R4 .
6.
Gigabyte SabrePro 15 A budget rig that wont end up in the bargain bin CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 | Screen: 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) IPS wide-viewing angle display | Storage: 1TB HDD, 256GB SSD Affordable price Excellent keyboard and touchpad Below average battery life Underwhelming speakers and display For less than a grand and a half, you might not think it, but the Gigabyte SabrePro 15 is a bargain.
In its price range, you wont find a laptop with this level of performance.
Although its only available in one configuration, the GTX 1060 is a nice change of pace considering most affordable gaming laptops struggle to run triple-A games beyond medium settings.
That goes without mentioning the fantastic RGB keyboard and Microsoft Precision Touchpad.
Read the full review: Gigabyte SabrePro 15 7.
Gigabyte Aero 14 An Ultrabook thats first-rate in performance and value CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 (6GB GDDR5) | RAM: 16GB 32GB | Screen: 14-inch, QHD 2,560 x 1,440 anti-glare IPS | Storage: 512GB 1TB SSD Lightweight and thin design Competitively priced Battery life under-delivers Loaded with bloatware Donning a 7th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia Pascal-series GPU and a screen resolution that soars above 1080p, this laptop is more affordable than a comparably specced Razer Blade or Alienware 13 R3.
At the same time, it fails to compromise in terms of portability and performance.
Factor in the a reasonable battery life and 190-degree hinge, and its easy to see why the Gigabyte Aero 14 made the cut.
Read the full review: Gigabyte Aero 14 8.
Alienware 17 R4 Restoring honor to the Alienware name CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 Ti (2GB GDDR5) GTX 1080 (8GB GDDR5X) | RAM: 8GB 32GB | Screen: 17.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) UHD (3,840 x 2,160) IPS anti-glare 300-nits | Storage: 128GB SSD, 1TB HDD 2TB SSD, 1TB HDD Wildly powerful Swanky looks Obnoxiously loud fans So-so battery life To be frank, Alienware hasnt been a name typically associated with value.
That seems to be changing with the Alienware 17 R4, which bears so many different customization options when it comes to specs that you can practically name your own price.
Bespeckled with all of the signature elements weve come to expect from the brand, such as RGB backlit-accents and tons of ventilation, our only real qualm with the Alienware 17 R4 is a disappointing battery life.
Read the full review: Alienware 17 R4 9.
Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming This gaming laptop wont leave you penniless CPU: Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 1050 Ti | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch, FHD 1,920 x 1,080 UHD 3,840 x 2,160 anti-glare LED backlit | Storage: 1TB SSHD 8GB 1TB HDD, 128GB SSD Stellar battery life Ports for days Trackpad is touchy Screen is lacking In a world full of overpriced (and overcompensating) gaming laptops, the Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming is a breath of fresh air.
An anomaly that ditches the Alienware moniker, Dell has crafted yet a gaming laptop thats masked as one of its more productivity-centric machines.
The discrete graphics options wont blow you away, but the price certainly will.
Plus with a battery life recorded at 7 hours and 38 minutes, its unparalleled in that department.
Read the full review: Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming 10.
MSI GS63VR Stealth Pro A high performer that aces portability CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 1070 | RAM: 16GB 32GB | Screen: 15.6-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) 120Hz, 3ms, HDR UHD (3,840 x 2,160) wide-view IPS | Storage: 256GB SSD; 2TB HDD 512GB HDD; 2TB HDD Beautiful display Lightweight Touchpad is bad really bad In defiance of the stigma that gaming laptops simply cant shake their heavy duty form factors, the MSI GS63VR 7RG Stealth Pro is an anomaly that deserves your attention.
Although it owes much of its strength-meets-mobility design to the same Max-Q graphics technology leveraged by the Asus ROG Zephyrus, the Stealth Pro does more than lean into Nvidias engineering approach.
It gives you a handsome array of ports, a gorgeous screen and more.
Read the full review: MSI GS63VR 7RG Stealth Pro Any one of these hardy notebooks could dominate our Black Friday deals Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
Its busy season here at TechRadar, which could only mean one thing: Black Friday is almost here.
So if youre anything like us, youve already started formulating your ultimate wishlist of steep discounts.
Of course, being the it trend that they are, its essential to keep your eyes peeled for the best 2-in-1 laptops you can buy this holiday shopping season.
For those uninitiated, a 2-in-1 laptop is a notebook that can serve as both a tablet and a laptop.
Think Microsofts Surface Pro, but usually in 13- or 15-inch sizes.
Oftentimes, they double as Ultrabooks, or thin, light and mobile clamshell computers that boast long-lasting battery life.
In other instances, the best 2-in-1 laptops are composed of screens that detach from their keyboard bases.
Whatever piques your interest about the best 2-in-1 laptops around, you can bet that weve covered one that suits your needs.
Be it the Samsung Notebook 9 Pro, which beats out its Apple-made rival in terms of specs and versatility, or the Google Pixelbook (aka the best Chromebook ever made), weve tested all of the following entries comprehensively before including them in our recommendations.
1.
Samsung Notebook 9 Pro Hands down, the best 2-in-1 laptop there is CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 AMD Radeon 540 Graphics (2GB GDDR5) | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) LED display with Touch Screen Panel | Storage: 256GB SSD Uses S-Pen to great effect Excellent look and feel Inconsistent battery life Downward-firing speakers The Samsung Notebook 9 Pro can go head-to-head with the 15-inch MacBook Pro, and for a substantially lower cost.
Though its limited to only one configuration, albeit across two different sizes, the Samsung Notebook 9 Pro is as powerful as it is pragmatic.
Defined in part by its inclusion of the S-Pen, this heavy-hitting hybrid is every bit as capable as Microsofts Surface Book and without the need to recharge its stylus.
Read the full review: Samsung Notebook 9 Pro This product is only available in the US as of this writing.
UK and AU readers: check out a fine alternative in the HP Spectre x360 15 .
2.
Google Pixelbook Making good on its Android promises CPU: Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 615 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 12.3 inch QHD (2,400 x 1,600) LCD touchscreen | Storage: 128GB 512GB SSD Gorgeous design Vibrant, responsive display Android app support Expensive Pixelbook Pen sold separately No biometric login Googles new Pixelbook does something that we couldnt have seen coming.
It takes the Chromebook platform and shoots it straight into the stratosphere, competing with premium products from Apple and Microsoft.
Its able to accomplish this herculean task by beefing up the internals and, more importantly, by including full Android app support.
This means that this device tears down the barriers that would prevent macOS or Windows users from jumping on the Chromebook bandwagon.
It might cost a lot more than other Chromebooks on the market, but the Pixelbook is truly the future of the platform.
Read the full review: Google Pixelbook 3.
Asus Chromebook Flip A 2-in-1 Chromebook Android users wont refuse CPU: Intel Pentium Core m7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 510 515 | RAM: 4GB 8GB | Screen: 12.5-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) LED backlit anti-glare display | Storage: 32GB 128GB eMMC Elegant tablet mode Gorgeous, vivid screen No out-of-box Android support Middling speakers We get it, the Pixelbook is enticing, but its also out of your price range.
In that case, the Asus Chromebook Flip C302 is a choice alternative.
Having introduced a touchscreen and convertible design to Googles cloud-based Chrome OS, the Asus Chromebook Flip is made better by its compatibility with Android apps.
Thats right, just like the Pixelbook, you can use the Asus Chromebook Flip for Google Play apps, albeit after installing an out-of-the-box update.
Read the full review: Asus Chromebook Flip 4.
HP Spectre x360 Thin, light and handsome CPU: Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 4GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) UHD (3,840 x 2,160) IPS UWVA-backlit multi-touch | Storage: 256GB 1TB SSD Ultra thin and light styling Snappy keyboard Lacks SD card reader Especially thick bottom bezel With Kaby Lake now ruling the roost in terms of CPUs, HP decided its high time to flip the switch on its Spectre 2-in-1.
With an overhauled keyboard and suave new logo, the HP Spectre x360 holds its own against anything Apple can show.
At the same time, none of this stifles the battery life, which exceeds 8 hours of straight use.
Whats more, the HP Spectre x360 can now be configured with a 4K screen and 1TB of SSD storage, too.
Read the full review: HP Spectre x360 5.
Microsoft Surface Book i7 Same Surface Book design, new Surface Book benchmarks CPU: 2.6GHz Intel Core i7-6600U | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 965M; Intel HD Graphics 520 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.5-inch 3,000 x 2,000 PixelSense Display | Storage: 256GB 1TB SSD Vastly improved graphics Huge battery life gains Big starting price for tiny storage/RAM Adhering to most of the same design principles of the original Surface Book, the Surface Book i7 has not done away with the divisive fulcrum hinge.
Yet, for now, the Surface Book i7 is the newest Surface Book you can purchase, and considering it brings 131% better graphics and a 20% battery life boost over the vanilla Surface Book, its well worth the towering asking price.
Its still expensive, but its cheaper than its flagship competitors by a sizable margin.
Read the full review: Surface Book i7 6.
Samsung Notebook 7 Spin Capable, versatile and affordable to boot CPU: 2.5GHz Intel Core i7-6500U | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce 940MX; Intel HD Graphics 520 | RAM: 12GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) LED with touch panel | Storage: 1 TB HDD 1TB HDD + 128GB SSD Excellent value HDR display Hefty weight Graphic narrowly miss the mark Equipped with a Skylake i7 CPU and discrete Nvidia graphics, the Samsung Notebook 7 Spin is nearly as fashionable and powerful as a 2016 MacBook Pro, but for roughly half the cost.
With all the trackpad real estate in the world paired with a snazzy, full-size keyboard, the Samsung Notebook 7 is a real treat even without accounting for the fact that its a 2-in-1.
Youll flip once you realize that your laptop does too and with an HDR-capable screen at that.
Read the full review: Samsung Notebook 7 Spin This product is only available in the US and UK as of this writing.
Australian readers: check out a fine alternative in the Asus ZenBook Flip UX360 .
7.
Lenovo Yoga 720 (15-inch) MacBook Pro hydraulics in a Windows 10 hybrid CPU: Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 630 Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch, Full HD (1,920 x 1,080) Ultra HD (3,840 x 2,160) IPS LED multitouch | Storage: 256GB 1TB PCIe SSD Unparalleled 2-in-1 performance Competitive battery life No HDMI or SD card slot Down-firing speakers If the 13-inch Lenovo Yoga 720 is a caterpillar, the 15-inch model is a majestic butterfly, freshly hatched from its snug cocoon.
Outfitted with the choice between only the best HQ series Core i5 and i7 processors, this 2-in-1 is competitive spec-wise with the 15-inch MacBook Pro while remaining but a fraction of the cost of Apples flagship machine.
Whats more, it even has the ports you know and love in addition to the still-blossoming USB Type-C interface.
Read the full review: Lenovo Yoga 720 (15-inch) 8.
HP Spectre x360 15 This 15-inch hybrid is more portable than you think CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce 940MX; Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch, Ultra HD (3,840 x 2,160) UWVA eDP BrightView | Storage: 256GB 1TB PCIe SSD Flawless keyboard Spectacular design Less than stellar battery life Trackpad gets in the way of typing More than just a basic hardware refresh, the HP Spectre x360 is as easy on the eyes as it is to use.
Because the keyboard feels natural to the touch, theres no debate as to whether this 2-in-1 is better as a laptop or as a tablet; it comes equally recommended as both.
If it made a peep, what with its silent fans and subdued chiclet keys, the HP Spectre x360 15 may even garner a few jealous stares.
Read the full review: HP Spectre x360 15 9.
Lenovo Yoga 720 (13-inch) A future-proof convertible rocking all the essentials CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 630 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) IPS anti-glare display | Storage: 256GB 1TB PCIe SSD Sturdy hinge Responsive keyboard and trackpad The cooling fans run a lot Only one standard USB port As homely as a laptop as it is a tablet, the Lenovo Yoga 720s screen may be tethered by a hinge to its cushy keyboard, but its modest pricing and formidable design choices make it come easily recommended.
Although youll be in search of the proper adapters if you need a second standard USB port, an SD card slot or HDMI, this laptops crystal clear display and hearty build quality make it a winner in our eyes.
Read the full review: Lenovo Yoga 720 10.
Lenovo Yoga 910 A svelte spin on a working 2-in-1 design CPU: Intel Core i7-7500U | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch FHD 1,920 x 1,080 UHD 3,840 | Storage: 256GB 1TB SSD Substantially larger screen Rocking speakers Heats up (and gets loud) fast Disappointing battery life If the 13-inch Yoga 720 is too small and the 15 incher is too big, the Lenovo Yoga 910 brings a happy medium to the table.
Miraculously fitting a 14-inch frame into a 13-inch body, this notebook boasts a ritzy, all-aluminum finish with a watchband hinge thats impossible to ignore.
Add a 4K screen and stunning built-in audio to the mix and its no wonder were in love with Lenovos flagship 2-in-1.
Read the full review: Lenovo Yoga 910 Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
Best Buy's Cyber Monday deals in the US may eclipse its own Black Friday deals, namely as Cyber Monday has of late become the more popular shopping time.
Aside from making it simpler to shop than Black Friday, thanks to being completely inside your web browser, Best Buys Cyber Monday deals will widen the breadth of deals, thanks to an expanded internet marketplace.
This year, Cyber Monday is on November 27, merely two weeks from now.
That means it's now time to begin planning the purchases you hope to make while prices are at their cheapest.
If you hope to find the best deals, you can avoid a lot of work by monitoring this page, as well keep it fresh in the lead up to and during Cyber Monday.
Shopping on the web at Best Buy may not help you clearly envision how a new desktop computer or big screen TV will fit in your house, but it will surely make it simpler to quickly peruse everything Best Buy has to sell.
Online shopping also makes it easy to stack up prices and features of various products without running up and down aisles and repeatedly checking product descriptions.
That doesn't sound like a good time, does it?
Since Best Buy Cyber Monday deals are guaranteed to include loads of TVs, laptops and phones, being able to compare hardware specs and features across multiple products at once will help you find the best device at the best price.
For those looking to enhance their existing family of electronics and apps, Best Buys Cyber Monday deals will surely include something that will do just that.
Best Buy ad leaks ahead of time Ads for Best Buy's greatest Cyber Monday deals will probably start showing up over the weekend following Thanksgiving and Black Friday.
Currently, there are none available.
But, despite the fact that Cyber Monday ads have yet to leak, Best Buy released its Black Friday preview weeks in advance, showing 50 pages of advertisements for products that will be heavily discounted starting 5pm local time on Thanksgiving Day going into Black Friday itself.
These should provide some hints at the kinds of deals that will appear on Cyber Monday 2017.
Catching ads early presents a decent chance to discover the most intriguing deals and stack them against the savings other major shops are putting out there.
Plotting what to purchase and where to buy it means knowing where the deals actually are.
Best Buy will have scores of deals available for electronics, but dont forget to look for discounts from stores that arent solely focused on electronics to see whether they have similar or better deals.
Some Cyber Monday ads might leak early hopefully Best Buy's included.
Visit this page regularly to check whether any have leaked, so that you have the best chance to plan your shopping for Cyber Monday.
Before Cyber Monday: Current Best Buy deals Best Buy has a giant, 29-inch Ultra-Wide LG monitor for $249 after a sweet $100 off.
The monitor uses a 2,560 x 1,080-pixel IPS panel for wide viewing angles, and includes FreeSync for a jitter-free gaming experience with AMD graphics cards.
A selection of video games are on sale, including $30 off Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Wildlands for PS4 and Xbox One, and $25 off Final Fantasy XV for PS4.
If you're seeking a gaming PC on the cheap, Best Buy has Dell's new Inspiron Gaming Desktop for $849 with an AMD Ryzen 7 processor and Radeon RX 580 graphics after a sizable $200 discount.
Series 1 and Series 2 Apple Watches are on sale for as low as $269 , ranging from $30 to $120 off of their original prices at Best Buy available now.
This 15.6-inch Asus 2-in-1 laptop is available for just $599 on Best Buy, thanks to a massive, $200 deal.
That gets you a mobile rig with an Intel Core i5 processor, 12GB of RAM and a 1TB hard drive behind a Full HD display.
You can score $200 off a 55-inch Sony 4K Ultra HD TV with HDR.
It's usually $1,399, but currently costs just $1,199.
Expected Best Buy Cyber Monday deals Whether its hardware or software, you can anticipate there to be awesome deals in every device category at Best Buy this coming Cyber Monday.
Computer and software deals There are likely to be sales on Windows 10 laptops, Chromebooks and even MacBooks.
Software collections, like Adobes creative suite and Microsoft Office, are likely to enjoy savings as well.
Video game and console deals Video games and gaming systems are always must-have products on Cyber Monday, so expect to see deals on Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft consoles.
Look out for savings on new games as well, such as Star Wars Battlefront 2, Destiny 2, Middle-Earth: Shadow of War, Assassins Creed Origins and many more.
The new Xbox One X will still be hot on the market, so bundle deals should be aplenty at Best Buy this Cyber Monday.
Smartphone deals Best Buy already offers sporadic deals on phones like the iPhone 7 and Galaxy S8, but anticipate even more savings come Cyber Monday.
The iPhone 8 and Samsung Galaxy Note 8 will have been available for a little while by then, so expect deals involving the two smartphones, though don't expect steep price cuts.
The iPhone X probably won't have any direct discounts, but it may come with free accessories, assuming it will be available at all.
Setup and installation deals Best Buy also offers a selection of services, so if youre seeking out complex electronics that may demand installation or setup, keep an eye out for any deals Best Buy may offer to get your new gadgets in working order.
Best Buy Cyber Monday advice Thanks to its web-based nature, Cyber Monday doesnt have the same horrifying stampede at Best Buy doorways that Black Friday is notorious for.
Sadly, too many people trying to access Bestbuy.com at the same time can prevent you from finding the product you want and pressing the buy button before the website goes down.
Try to get some alternative retailers in the wings if you know what you want, so that internet congestion doesnt ruin the day.
You can also use a VPN to get around an endless loading screen in your browser.
This will send your internet connection through to a server in a different region of the US, where Best Buy servers may not be as clogged.
This could let you grab your deals easily while everyone else in town spends Cyber Monday clicking their browsers refresh button.
For deal hunters on the prowl for specific devices, ensure you know the exact model number of the product you want in advance.
Both Black Friday and Cyber Monday come with a ton of deals and special products that can trip you up.
For example, if you seek a 55-inch LG 4K TV, you may see a half-dozen different models that are 4K and measure 55 inches, but they could employ different screen technologies or offer widely varying features.
If you're aware of exactly which model you want ahead of time, you can avoid being misled by lower price tags or greater discounts on what may be generally worse products.
Lastly, when you land on a device you know you want, dont be slow about buying it.
Stock levels are your worst enemy on Cyber Monday.
If youve had a web page open for a while, the actual stock may be lower than what is displayed on your screen.
And, if you let items sit in your cart for too long, its possible youll find theyve sold out when you go to make the purchase.
Dont be impulsive, but do plan early so you can act fast.
See all the best Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals here:
The iPhone X is only a few weeks old but already the rumor mill is starting up about next year's iPhones.
Noted analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of the KGI Securities firm is back with a new round of predictions about the next iPhone, just a week after he predicted that we'll see two new iPhones with OLED displays in 2018.
Think of these as the iPhone X 2, at least for now.
That much hasn't changed, but as MacRumors relates, Kuo's research into the Apple supply line has now led him to predict that we'll also see a third 6.1-inch phone with a TFT-LCD display next year.
Importantly, though, this won't really be a "backwards-looking" phone like this year's iPhone 8 and 8 Plus ; instead, the LCD phone will adopt the iPhone X 's basic form factor, sensor "notch" and all.
It will display images at around 320 or 330 pixels per inch.
As Kuo sees it, this device will cater to the "low-end" and "midrange" markets (and yet, Apple being Apple, he predicts that they will still cost somewhere between $649 / about 495 / about AU$851 and $749 / about 571 / about AU$982).
Kuo doesn't make any predictions about the prices for the two OLED phones, but considering that the iPhone X sells for $999 / 999 / AU$1,579, there's little doubt that the bigger of the two will certainly be much more expensive.
Three's a crowd In fact, Kuo also provided a few more details about the two OLED phones.
The smaller 5.8-inch model, he says, will display images at 458 pixels per inch with a resolution of 1,125 x 2,436.
The larger 6.5-inch version, though, will display images at around 480 to 500 pixels per inch.
If you're new to the party, Ming-Chi Kuo has made a name for himself for having an astonishingly accurate track record for these kinds of predictions, thanks to his network of sources embedded along Apple's supply line.
He's not always right, but Kuo so often hits the mark that it's tempting to believe that the few times he's been wrong were the result of changes of plans on Apple's part rather than false information.
Amazon is a little late to the world of on-demand TV streaming, but AdAge reports that the massive online retailer is trying to catch up by developing a free tier for its Prime Video service.
Much like the least expensive version of Hulu (or, you know, regular TV), the potential service would be supported by ads.
In the US and UK, Prime Video is generally advertised as a side perk of Amazon's popular $99/79 Prime membership service , but it's also possible to buy a standalone monthly subscription.
This, in fact, is the only way to access the service to Australia (for AU$5.99).
Considering that Prime Video is now available in more than 200 countries, this could be a more profitable venture than it may initially sound like.
Channel surfing To sweeten the deal, according to an anonymous source, Amazon is toying with the idea of letting third-party content creators make their own channels, allowing Amazon and the creators to share a portion of the ad revenue.
It's a significant move, as Amazon also seems eager to use the free tier to extend its content library far beyond what its studios currently provide.
The report claims that Amazon wants to "dive into back catalogs of TV and movie studios" in order to provide more content for children, along with shows focused on cooking, travel and other activities.
Wall Street analysts claim that Amazon will have already spent a whopping $5 billion on content by the end of the year, so this would also be a way to recoup some of that cash aside from merely hoping its shows will entice customers to sign up for Prime.
James Martin/CNET Tesla Motors is being accused of allowing its California production plant to become a "hotbed for racist behavior."
A racial discrimination lawsuit, filed Monday in California Superior Court in Oakland, said black employees were addressed by racial slurs and company management ignored their complaints.
The lawsuit is at least the third filed this year against Tesla alleging racial discrimination at its Fremont, California, factory.
Monday's lawsuit, filed by former Tesla employee Marcus Vaughn, said Vaughn was routinely called the "n-word" by supervisors and coworkers after he began working at the factory in April.
He says he complained in writing to human resources officials, but those complaints were never investigated.
Vaughn says he was fired in October for "not having a positive attitude."
The lawsuit seeks class-action status and unspecified damages under California anti-discrimination law.
The lawsuit is the latest in a growing number of lawsuits accusing Tesla of discrimination.
In March, another black employee qq, alleging he was sexually harassed, racially harassed and racially discriminated against at the Fremont facility.
A trio of former employees made similar claims in a lawsuit filed against the company in October.
Tesla didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Chesnot / Getty Images Bill Gates can see the future -- in the Arizona desert.
An investment firm controlled by the Microsoft co-founder and philanthropist has bought nearly 25,000 acres about 45 miles west of Phoenix to build a smart city, a community built from the ground up with the idea of integrating technology into its residents' lives.
The proposed community, known as Belmont, would serve as a "template" for development of sustainable cities capitalizing on cutting-edge infrastructure, the investment firm Belmont Partners said a statement.
"Belmont will create a forward-thinking community with a communication and infrastructure spine that embraces cutting-edge technology, designed around high-speed digital networks, data centers, new manufacturing technologies and distribution models, autonomous vehicles and autonomous logistics hubs," the firm said in a statement Wednesday.
The investment comes amid growing interest in smart cities, communities that use technology to keep streets clean by alerting the sanitation department when public garbage bins are full, for example.
Communities that allow residents to unlock their office door and turn on their computer before even arriving at work.
Places where residents can use their phones to reserve and get directions to a parking space.
Belmont Partners has spent $80 million on the plot of land for the proposed community, which would be comparable in size and population to nearby Tempe -- 40 square miles and about 160,000 people, the firm said in a statement.
Belmont will be composed of 80,000 residential units, with more than 3,800 acres for office, commercial and retail space, 3,400 acres of open space and 470 acres for public schools, the firm said.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
Special Reports: All of CNET's most in-depth features in one easy spot.
Gamespot Electronic Arts' highly anticipated first-person shooter Star Wars Battlefront II will come out Friday, but some players' excitement for the game has already been seriously tempered by frustration.
Subscribers to the gaming service EA Access, who get first dibs on some games during their prerelease trial period, figured out that unlocking playable heroes like Luke Skywalker require either a 40-hour grind fest or pay-to-play.
When that information hit Reddit, people got mad.
So mad, in fact, that when an EA representative jumped into the Reddit thread to allay people's fears, the rep's comment became the most downvoted in Reddit's history, getting over 436,000 downvotes in 24 hours as of this writing.
In response to backlash from the player community, John Wasilczyk, executive producer at DICE, the game developer of Battlefront II, acknowledged in a message on EA's site there has been a lot of discussion about in-game credits.
He also said the company is reducing the amount of credits needed to unlock the top characters like Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader by 75 percent.
EA's John Reseburg laid out the credit change in an email to CNET.
"Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader will now be available for 15,000 credits [down from 60,000 credits], Emperor Palpatine, Chewbacca and Leia Organa for 10,000 credits and Iden at 5,000 credits.
Based on what we've seen in the Trial, this amount will make earning these heroes an achievement, but one that will be accessible for all players.
The change will be live today, with an update that is getting loaded into the Play First Trial now and also the full game when it launches.
We're not stopping there as we're going to keep making changes to make the experience better."
EA The Star Wars Battlefront franchise originally launched in 2004, and the reboot for modern consoles came in April 2015, once again giving players the opportunity to take part in the beloved franchise with updated graphics.
It let players fly X-wing fighters, mow down rebels while driving Imperial Walkers, and even wield lightsabers while playing as characters such as Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker from the original movie trilogy.
Star Wars Battlefront II for consoles and PCs, coming Nov. 17, promises more guns, spaceships and areas to explore, plus more playable characters from the Star Wars universe.
Many players had already preordered the game at full price before hearing that unlocking characters like Darth Vader would require roughly 40 hours of matches.
Each match lasts roughly 15 minutes, so 40 hours means a lot of matches.
The grind alone infuriates gamers, but the bigger issue is that the game lets you buy loot crates to get those same characters with real money, meaning if you don't want to grind it out, you can just swipe your credit card to unlock your favorite heroes.
This is far more than a cosmetic change; if you can pay to be Darth Vader, that's a huge advantage over the people playing as lowly rebel forces.
In gamer culture, giving players such a leg up is a big no-no.
If everyone has to grind to unlock characters, that's frustrating for players, but at least everyone's on equal footing.
But by requiring a substantial amount of play time, players believe EA is trying to entice them to spend more money to leap past the nonstop play to get the same thing.
The credit change announced today should reduce the amount of time to roughly ten hours of play time (rather than 40) required to earn enough credits to unlock Vader and other top characters, but of course, players can still also just buy credits.
Players are worried this might open the floodgates so that other company's will start doing the same thing.
When the post titled "Seriously?
I paid 80$ to have Vader locked?"
went up 24 hours ago detailing how it would work, Reddit users jumped all over it.
"I have just achieved a sense of pride and accomplishment from cancelling my preorder," one wrote.
Wrote another, "If I had a credit for every downvote you've gotten I could finally unlock Darth Vader!"
EA isn't new to criticism on Reddit, and has even won the award for Consumerist's Worst Company in America based on similar business practices that people call predatory.
Here's the comment on Reddit that made users so angry: "The intent is to provide players with a sense of pride and accomplishment for unlocking different heroes," the EA rep wrote on Reddit.
"As for cost, we selected initial values based upon data from the Open Beta and other adjustments made to milestone rewards before launch.
Among other things, we're looking at average per-player credit earn rates on a daily basis, and we'll be making constant adjustments to ensure that players have challenges that are compelling, rewarding, and of course attainable via gameplay.
We appreciate the candid feedback, and the passion the community has put forth around the current topics here on Reddit, our forums and across numerous social media outlets.
Our team will continue to make changes and monitor community feedback and update everyone as soon and as often as we can."
That comment beat out Reddit's previous record of 24,000 downvotes from a user who literally asked people to downvote him.
First published, Nov. 13 at 1:12 p.m. PT.
Update, 2:40 p.m PT: Adds EA and DICE response as well as information on change to in-game credits.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.
The next Spider-Man spinoff might be bloody terrifying.
Er, plasma-y terrifying?
Plasma-riffic?
Sony is developing a film based on the Spidey villain Morbius, the Living Vampire, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
Morbius is Nobel Prize-winning biochemist Dr. Michael Morbius, who attempts to cure himself of a blood disease and ends up turning himself into a vampire.
He was introduced in a 1971 issue of "The Amazing Spider-Man," the first Spider-Man comic not written by Stan Lee.
He's well-known to fans of "Spider-Man: The Animated Series," which ran on Fox Kids from 1994 to 1998, and featured a Morbius plotline.
In that show, Morbius longs for "plasma," never saying "blood" -- presumably to stay somewhat kid-friendly, but also, the 1990s were weird.
Details about the film are scant, but THR reports that Burk Sharpless and Matt Sazama have already written the script.
Sharpless and Sazama were two of the screenwriters on the 2017 "Power Rangers" film and are showrunners for the 2018 Netflix version of "Lost in Space."
Some fans appreciated the news, but others wondered whether Morbius is deserving of his own film.
Anytime I think about Morbius, this image of him with his weird hand suckers from Spider-Man: TAS pops up in my head, and I can't help but laugh.
pic.twitter.com/8SbxGcIx5a Robbie (@RW_Mckissack) November 13, 2017 morbius is a great character (at least in the 90s cartoon) but spin-off is so unnecessary https://t.co/beaKi6DDOm ece (@gothamghuleh) November 13, 2017 Sony is now developing a new 'Spider-Man' Spinoff movie about Morbius the Living Vampire.
Seems like they're all in on their universe.
pic.twitter.com/3YXuX0eftc ComicBookCast (@ComicBookCast) November 13, 2017 The best thing about Morbius the Living Vampire was the TV cartoon one always had to say Plasma instead of Blood to make him family friendly.
Minovsky (@MinovskyArticle) November 13, 2017 And as fan after fan points out, the draw of Spider-Man villains is Spider-Man fighting said villains, not purely the bad guys gallivanting around solo.
Sony's movies don't cross over with the Marvel Cinematic Universe, so don't expect to see Tom Holland swinging by.
It's expected that these spinoffs -- including "Venom" -- will focus on the villains only.
Why Sony are making Spider-Man villain movies before establishing them in a damn Spider-Man MOVIE!!!??!?
Please stop it!
Morbius and Venom are villains of Spider-Man...have them fight Spider-Man!!
https://t.co/c9NIQZdMfT Tom Holland Updates (@tomhupdates) November 13, 2017
Getty Silicon Valley's sexual harassment problems continue.
Steve Jurvetson, one of Silicon Valley's most high-profile venture capitalists, has left his namesake firm, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, amid a sexual harassment investigation, according to Recode.
He's the latest in a string of venture capitalist to be ousted from his firm amid allegations related to misconduct or sexual harassment.
The publication, citing unnamed sources, said an investigation by DFJ "uncovered behaviors by Jurvetson that were unacceptable related to a negative tone toward women entrepreneurs."
DFJ didn't immediately respond to a request for comment, but operating partner Heidi Roizen confirmed in a statement the firm had been "rocked by allegations about sexual harassment."
Over the summer, DFJ launched an independent investigation into "allegations of misconduct by one (and only one) of our partners from a third party."
The investigation is ongoing.
Jurvetson said in an email that he's leaving the firm "to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me."
He also tweeted that statement.
I am leaving DFJ to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me.
Steve Jurvetson (@dfjsteve) November 13, 2017 Jurvetson is one of Silicon Valley's best-known venture capitalists.
He was a founding investor in Hotmail, which was later bought by Microsoft, and serves on the boards of Elon Musk's Tesla and SpaceX.
Earlier this year, SV Forum awarded Jurvetson its Visionary Award "for his role in fostering the spirit of entrepreneurship in Silicon Valley."
In 2016, President Barack Obama named him a Presidential Ambassador for Global Entrepreneurship.
SpaceX and Tesla on Monday said Jurvetson was taking "a leave of absence from the SpaceX and Tesla boards pending resolution of these allegations."
Late last month, Keri Kukral, a female entrepreneur, wrote in a Facebook post that "women approached by a founding partner of Draper Fisher Jurvetson should be careful.
Predatory behavior is rampant."
She didn't name Jurvetson specifically.
Kukral didn't immediately respond to a request for comment Monday.
In her statement, DFJ's Roizen disputed the characterization of the firm.
"I don't need an investigation to state with certainty that this is patently wrong," Roizen wrote.
"I am too grizzled and old to write bullshit about a company to please my boss.
I'm writing this because I believe it to be true."
She added that she "would not work for DFJ if I felt the culture was not one of high integrity and opportunity for all -- including women."
Jurvetson isn't the only VC to have allegedly harassed women.
Binary Capital co-founder Justin Caldbeck left his job in June after a story in The Information said he'd allegedly made sexual advances at female entrepreneurs.
Chris Sacca of Lowercase Capital and Dave McClure of 500 Startups issued public apologies after being named in a report later that month by The New York Times about sexual harassment in the technology startup industry.
In July, Frank Artale, a managing partner at venture capital firm Ignition Partners, resigned after a complaint of misconduct from an anonymous source.
Prominent blogger Robert Scoble and Amazon Studios head Roy Price also resigned from their positions following allegations of sexual harassment.
The departures have shined a light on difficulties faced by women in Silicon Valley.
Women remain in the minority at many companies, despite efforts by organizations to seek more diversity.
In recent months, many woman have come forward with complaints of sexual harassment and other issues in Silicon Valley, Hollywood and other areas.
To help encourage female entrepreneurs, a group of female venture capitalists on Monday started a new program, called Female Founder Office Hours.
"The idea is to host free, quarterly events that explore topics across the range of company stages," according to TechCrunch.
The first event, slated for Nov. 30 in San Francisco, will focus on helping seed-stage female founders with their pitches.
The group will offer 40 one-on-one office hour slots with 10 female VC partners from Benchmark, Canaan, Cowboy, Forerunner, Freestyle, Lux, Sequoia and Reach.
Two female founders who are now VCs also will discuss fundraising.
"Our goal is for every female founder to walk away with a bit of advice from some female investors and a few new female founder friends that they can count on," the group said on its website.
"We hope to use this to kick-start a virtuous cycle and community of women helping women."
First published Nov. 13 at 1:21 p.m. PT.
Update at 1:30 p.m.: Adds comment from Tesla/SpaceX.
Update at 2:26 p.m.: Adds statement from DFJ operating partner Heidi Roizen.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
It seems previous Netflix shows starring Marvel comic book characters weren't punishment enough.
The streaming service returns to the Marvel universe on Friday 17 November with "The Punisher", the latest series with a decidedly ambiguous antihero at its core.
We met the Punisher in Netflix's earlier series "Daredevil", which had fans clamouring to see more of the violent vigilante.
But "The Punisher" TV show isn't really about the Punisher -- it's about Frank Castle.
Frank Castle is the former Marine who adopted the guise of the Punisher when his family was murdered.
In his comic book roots, he fast-tracks the death penalty for those who make a mockery of the law, employing his military experience and twisted imagination to blow away criminals left, right and centre.
And indeed, the Netflix show opens with the Punisher treating gangsters and bikers to a blend of extreme violence and raunchy blues-rock music.
But the fun doesn't last long.
Having wiped out the men who killed his family, Castle burns his skull-painted body armour, grows a mighty beard of sorrow, and gives up his vigilante ways.
So instead of meting out his twisted version of justice to deserving criminals, the show becomes a political conspiracy drama as Castle's involvement with a shady CIA operation comes back to haunt him.
As Castle, Jon Bernthal builds on his debut in "Daredevil" by bringing a surprising vulnerability to the black-clad antihero.
It's compelling to watch how one man can transform in any moment from being wounded and sympathetic to implacably violent.
A curtain comes down over the bull-like Castle's eyes and horrendous brutality inevitably follows.
Nicole Rivelli /Netflix Only that's kinda the problem with the Punisher -- he's a bad guy.
He straight-up murders people.
The last time we saw him he was in opposition to the superhero Daredevil, so there was light and shade, even if that earlier show probed exactly where the line is between right and wrong.
Here, Castle is squarely the hero, and the show bends over backward to make him seem decent and likable by making him the victim of a conspiracy.
But shuffling the murderous Punisher persona to one side doesn't change the fact of who he is.
That's why, incidentally, it's so worrying when you see the Punisher's skull logo adopted by real armed forces and police.
While it glosses over the horrific implications of the Punisher's one-man war on crime, the series does take aim at different targets with almost palpable rage.
Castle and his fellow veterans are manipulated, betrayed and abandoned by their leaders, committing terrible acts in tawdry foreign wars.
They're burdened by their sins when they return home.
In its portrayal of isolated veterans, embittered white men and conflicted whistleblowers finding answers in sometimes the wrong places, the show depicts a battle for the soul of America.
Along the way, the show doesn't flinch from showing the viciousness -- and the cost -- of Castle's trademark savagery.
Instead of the stylish action in "Daredevil" or the demented black humour often found in the Punisher comic, the violence in the TV series is stripped down and bloody.
For example, one fight that begins as a balletic John Wick-esque rampage breaks down into a brutally intimate hand-to-hand struggle that shakes you with the force of every blow.
Another gunfight is filmed like a first-person shooter video game, as an indictment of men in suits who control wars from their laptops.
Nicole Rivelli/Netflix As interesting as the show's political intrigue is, it's not the most original thing in the world.
The story of footsoldiers betrayed by morally bankrupt intelligence officers comes straight out of "The Losers" and "The A-Team".
Meanwhile, the flashbacks to Castle's backstory cover a lot of ground already dealt with during his appearance in "Daredevil".
And even individual scenes feel repetitive.
Three of the first four episodes feature someone tied to a chair and tortured.
And there are only so many times I want to see Frank having the same dream about his wife.
The supporting players keep things ticking along, particularly Amber Rose Revah as strong-willed Homeland Security agent Dinah Madani, newly returned from Afghanistan with an unsolved murder on her mind.
Ebon Moss-Bachrach plays tech geek Micro, who's also lost his family in a different way.
I have to admit I'm increasingly struggling with Netflix's Marvel shows, which seem so in love with their tormented characters' slow-burning struggles they forget to move the story along.
"The Punisher" suffers from the same problems as the other shows.
Some of its 13-hour run time is a real slog.
But it's also a tough, grown-up drama with some timely concerns at its core.
It's a punishing experience.
But in a good way.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
Before there were drivers like Robby Gordon and Rob McCachren piloting 600-horsepower Trophy Trucks 1,000 miles down the Mexican peninsula, there were little air-cooled Volkswagen Beetles doing the same.
Utilizing the analog technology from the late 1960s, this was a man-and-machine-versus-nature shootout where nature often had the upper hand.
I'm talking about the SCORE Baja 1000, perhaps the most infamous off-road race in the world.
The Baja 1000 traverses the Mexican peninsula, either as a point-to-point race from Ensenada to La Paz, or as a loop with cars starting and finishing in Ensenada.
Drivers must contend with the worst nature has to offer.
All vehicles race over everything from sand and rocks to silt beds over a mile long.
Spectators have been known to set booby traps by digging ditches or building jumps, often wreaking havoc on the smaller cars.
Since 1967 many have attempted the Baja 1000; few have conquered it.
Volkswagen Now, here we are 50 years later and some crazy folks like me and the boys from Denver-based Project Baja are still attempting the toughest off-road race in the world in a class 11 stock Beetle.
The Trophy Trucks and unlimited cars are expected to finish this year's 1,134 mile race in 19 hours, but our little No.
1137 will more than likely still be swimming through the silt while the big guys are on their way back home.
Our car, nicknamed Tope, colloquial Spanish for speed bump, has been improved as much as the rules allow.
The stock shocks have been replaced by Fox racing shocks with external reservoirs, the rear trailing arms have been boxed for strength and the rear springs are stiffer and have been engineered by our Team Genius to get a bit more wheel travel.
(Editors' note: Don't click on that link unless you want to seriously nerd out on fabrication, geometry and CAD.)
We've fit BF Goodrich Long Trail tires on the front to help us float over the silt, but the driven rear wheels are wearing the sturdy KO2 rubber.
Safety is of course paramount and Tope sports a full cage, a 22-gallon safety fuel cell, racing seats and five-point harnesses.
Plus we have a GPS, race radio, satellite phone and a redundant Garmin inReach GPS communicator.
Volkswagen Outside, Tope reflects her Coloradan heritage with the colors of the state flag and gets an extra five horsepower with each sponsor sticker.
Just kidding!
The 1,600cc engine puts out a mere 65 horsepower at the wheels.
A four-speed manual transmission, along with shouts of encouragement from both driver and co-driver, gets all that insane power to to dirt.
We have three driving teams.
I will be responsible for navigation from the starting line in Ensenada to just north of San Felipe at race-mile 190, and then again from San Ignacio at race-mile 609 to just north of Loreto at race-mile 784.
I'll be calling out turns to driver Josh McGuckin, keeping an eye on our tail for any competitors barreling down on us and will be the primary silt-digger and Maxtrax-placer when we get stuck.
We have 48 hours to finish the race.
The last class 11 driver to cross the finish line was Noe Gutierrez in 2016 in a much-easier Ensenada to Ensenada 1,000 mile loop.
The last Ensenada-to-La Paz peninsula run was in 2014 where Dennis Hollenbeck crossed the finish line in 50 hours and 35 minutes.
The team was officially a Did Not Finish, but they received finisher pins to recognize their heroic efforts.
Volkswagen In Baja, you must expect the unexpected.
We have two primary chase trucks that will shadow Tope as much as possible, carrying parts that are known to fail.
A back-up chase truck will be used for any parts and fuel runs if need be.
We have one vehicle that will be used to shuttle driving teams down the peninsula and one vehicle that will serve as our primary parts hauler, trailer tower and communications hub.
A four-person media team will be on hand as well.
The team is as prepared as we can be.
Our goal is simple: JFF.
Just F*#&ing Finish.
We go off the line around 3 p.m. PST on Thursday, Nov. 16 and will cross the finish line in La Paz two days later.
You can follow car No.
1137 at www.score-international.com and we'll be posting pictures and video from the race as service allows on both the Roadshow and Project Baja social media pages.
Facebook Love Bill Murray and baseball?
Then head to Facebook next week.
A new unscripted series featuring the comedic actor and his brother will debut on Facebook Watch on Monday.
"Bill Murray and Brian Doyle-Murray's Extra Innings" will feature 10 episodes, released each week, where the brothers travel to visit minor league baseball organizations in various cities across the US.
The list includes the Martha's Vineyard Sharks, the Charleston RiverDogs, the St. Paul Saints and the Kansas City T-Bones, as well as the Kansas City MLB Urban Youth Academy and the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum.
Bill, in a press release announcing the show, described it as "a little something to fill a baseball fan's off-season hole in the heart."
Along with starring in the show, he also sings its theme song, "The Thing About Baseball."
Watch, which launched in August, is a new video platform for programming produced exclusively for Facebook users.
The feature, which is available on mobile, desktop and Facebook's TV apps, is a continuation of the video push Facebook launched last year.
Facebook has increasingly turned to video to get people to spend more time on its site.
In 2016, the company added a video tab to the Facebook app, where people can find new video content.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
This year, the all-screen iPhone X was the out-there design of Apple's new iPhones.
Next year, it could serve as the model.
Ming-Chi Kuo, a KGI analyst known for his Apple insights, speculates that Apple may release three iPhones in 2018 with full-screen designs like the iPhone X.
The predictions were made in a research note later obtained by MacRumors.
According to the note, the iPhones could come in three different sizes: A 5.8-inch phone with an OLED display (similar to the iPhone X).
A 6.5-inch phone with an OLED display (like an iPhone X Plus).
A 6.1-inch phone with an LCD display.
While the two OLED iPhones are predicted to appeal to high-end phone buyers, the 6.1-inch LCD iPhone may be the most affordable option of the group.
Kuo predicts that the LCD iPhone may start around $649 to $749 (about 495-570 or AU$850-AU$980), which is around the price range of an iPhone 8.
Although the OLED iPhones are predicted to get better specs and hardware, all three of the phones are rumored to bring over features from this year's iPhone X, like its TrueDepth camera system and the full-screen design, notch and all.
Now Playing: Watch this: iPhone X Review: The best iPhone that's not for everyone The iPhone X made Apple history by ditching the iconic home button and introducing Face ID, a new technology to unlock the phone.
The iPhone X is also Apple's priciest iPhone by far.
Meanwhile, the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus retain the familiar home button and design, leaving some Apple watchers to speculate that the iPhone X is Apple's test run to ease buyers into a new direction.
Kuo has also predicted that Apple's Face ID will come to the iPad Pro and next year's iPhones.
Apple did not respond to a request for comment.
BKAV Did Apple's vaunted Face ID facial recognition system on the iPhone X already get hoodwinked?
That's what a Vietnamese security company says it did -- using only a $150 3D-printed mask.
BKAV uploaded a video demonstration as a proof of concept on Friday, showing an iPhone X unlocking after exposing it to a customized mask, which only had cutouts of eyes, a silicon nose and a mouth on a 3D-printed frame.
Ngo Tuan Anh, BKAV's vice president of cybersecurity, then unlocked the Face ID using his own face, to show that it worked on his too.
You can see it here.
Face ID is one of the signature features on Apple's flagship iPhone X.
While facial recognition isn't new, Apple says it's created the most secure version yet.
Skeptics were quick to predict that someone would be able to fool Face ID after it was unveiled in September.
Facial recognition has shown its pitfalls before, with hackers tricking security by putting a photo in front of the camera.
Apple points out that it uses infrared sensors and mapping dots to scan for 3D images.
The company even went as far as working with Hollywood mask makers to train the biometric against falling for props.
BKAV, which built a reputation on fooling facial recognition, quickly touted toppling Face ID, writing that Apple didn't have enough "scientific and serious estimation before deciding to replace Touch ID with Face ID."
Apple declined to comment, referring to its Face ID security report for details.
In the security guide, last updated this month, Apple wrote that Face ID had "an additional neural network that's trained to spot and resist spoofing," including from masks like BKAV's.
Now Playing: Watch this: Hackers claim to trick iPhoneX Face ID with mask But there are a few issues with the methods behind the video, none of which BKAV's blog post quite answered.
Typically, with a major security flaw, researchers will publish a technical paper revealing how they found it, and who is vulnerable, showing the methodology behind the discovery.
BKAV, which is also trying to break into the phone business, hasn't provided those details, but said it would answer questions in a press conference this week.
BKAV didn't respond to a request for comment, but here are our questions.
What's registered on BKAV's iPhone X's Face ID?
A mask could easily unlock an iPhone X if it's the "face" that's actually registered with Face ID.
BKAV failed to walk viewers through its research process, and this is a glaring hole in its transparency.
You can register Face ID on anything with a face, including the mask.
Because Face ID runs on artificial intelligence that learns each time it's used, the algorithm could have been trained to learn the human's face based off the mask in reverse.
How often did they try to use Face ID and fail?
Like the previous question, this one is important to note based on how Face ID's algorithm learns.
If your Face ID scan fails five times, you're forced to enter a passcode.
Each time you enter a passcode, Face ID learns the new scan and registers it as a positive entry.
"If Face ID fails to recognize you, but the match quality is higher than a certain threshold and you immediately follow the failure by entering your passcode, Face ID takes another capture and augments its enrolled Face ID data," Apple said in its white paper.
It's entirely possible that the masks could have failed more than five times, and after the researchers entered the passcode, it registered the mask as a positive scan to work in the future.
But BKAV said that it "applied the strict rule of 'absolutely no passcode' when crafting the mask," which would mean that the mask fooled Face ID in less than five attempts.
The company never specified how many attempts it made.
How long did it take to make the mask?
The "no passcode" rule makes this task particularly tough.
Face ID has to be used about every four hours, or else it'll prompt the person to enter a password.
The facial recognition is also disabled if the iPhone X hasn't been unlocked for more than two days.
BKAV said in its Q&A that it started working on the mask, including 3D models and the silicon nose, after it received the iPhone X on Nov. 5.
That would give them a 48-hour window from the moment they turned the device on to create a mask that worked.
They did not specify how long it took to create the spoof.
The mask would also have to trick Face ID within the first four hours after registering the human face.
It's not impossible, but that's an impressive number of hurdles to jump in a short amount of time without using a password, as BKAV said.
How practical is this?
When Face ID was first announced, there was a lot of discussion about how secure the facial recognition was.
A major consideration was a person's threat model: looking at what risks that you as an individual encounter.
If your threats are a pickpocket at a bar, it's highly unlikely the thief will also have your facial structure and a scan of your face ready to 3D-print and unlock your phone with.
BKAV said the potential targets wouldn't be people with average threat models, it would be "billionaires, leaders of major corporations, nation leaders."
Again though, the discovery prompts the question, even for billionaires and politicians: How likely is it someone will lose their iPhone X to a thief who also has a scale model of their face printed, with an accurate printout of their eyes, nose and mouth, and get it done in 48 hours?
"This seems like an unlikely sequence of events," said Paul Norris, a systems engineer at security company Tripwire.
BKAV said it used a detailed scan to develop the mask, which took about five minutes to finish.
It also used a professional artist to create the nose, which failed at first, and "hand-made" the skin.
These requirements to create the mask reach such a high standard that it seems like it would be almost impossible to replicate this scenario in an actual attack.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
Chris Monroe/CNET Google Assistant's newest feature wants to help you save your voice when you make family announcements.
Instead of shouting up the stairs when it's time for a meal or a meeting, just issue a command to Google's digital helper and it can broadcast your announcement for you.
First announced in October, Google's Broadcast feature starts rolling out Monday.
Say, "OK Google, broadcast 'it's time for school'" to any device equipped with Google Assistant, and that message will play on any other Assistant-enabled speakers in your home.
Certain messages, such as, "OK Google, broadcast 'it's dinner time'" will even include custom sound effects.
The dinner time example will ring a dinner bell.
Google Assistant is built into Google's voice activated smart speakers -- the Google Home and Google Home Mini -- as well as certain phones such as the Google Pixel.
You can also download the Assistant to your iPhone.
According to Google's blog post, you can issue the broadcasting command to any device equipped with Google Assistant and it will play your message on any speaker (so not phones) linked to the same Google account.
Broadcast adds to Google's impressive list of features for its digital assistant.
You can also use it to search the internet, check your calendar, make a to do list, control your smart home, and the list keeps growing.
Now Playing: Watch this: 7 new tricks in the Google Home Google needs to keep adding features to keep up with Amazon's similarly capable assistant Alexa.
Google and Amazon have been in a digital assistant arms race for months, with the two alternating as to which is chasing the other's advancements.
Alexa can't yet broadcast, but can send a message to another individual Alexa device.
If this feature proves popular, it'll be Amazon's turn to play catch-up.
I imagine Broadcast will be popular for those who own multiple Google Home devices.
You'll be able to use it to yell at your kids from anywhere in your house.
Plus, you can announce when you're coming home and gather your family easily when you're there -- making Google's smart speakers that much smarter for a large family in a large home.
Claudia Cruz/CNET Google's facing another investigation into its business practices.
The attorney general for Missouri, Josh Hawley, on Monday said he has issued an investigative subpoena to Google to determine if it has violated Missouri's main consumer protection law and its antitrust laws.
Missouri is examining "Google's collection, use, and disclosure of information about Google users and their online activities; Google's alleged misappropriation of online content from the websites of its competitors; and Google's alleged manipulation of search results to preference websites owned by Google and to demote websites that compete with Google."
"There is strong reason to believe that Google has not been acting with the best interest of Missourians in mind," Hawley said.
"My office will not stand by and let private consumer information be jeopardized by industry giants, especially to pad their profits."
Google said that it hasn't yet received the subpoena.
"However, we have strong privacy protections in place for our users and continue to operate in a highly competitive and dynamic environment," Google spokesman Patrick Lenihan said.
The inquiry by Missouri isn't the first such probe Google has faced.
The European Union in June slapped Google with a record $2.7 billion fine for favoring its own shopping services in its search results over those of rivals.
The EU also has been investigating whether Google hurt app rivals by demanding its own service be preinstalled on all Android phones, as well as looking into accusations that Google blocked rivals in online search advertising.
The inquiry comes also as Google, Facebook and Twitter face questions over their role in enabling the spread of fake news and the Russian misinformation campaign.
The Wall Street Journal earlier reported news of the investigation.
CNET's Richard Nieva contributed to this report.
Update at 11:45 a.m. PT with Google comment.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Drowsy driving is dangerous, especially for truckers, who carry way more momentum as they travel down the freeway.
In order to alert truckers when it might be time for a quick break, Ford put a detection system inside a trucker cap.
Ford Brazil's heavy-truck division created the Safe Cap, which looks like any other hat.
However, it's loaded with sensors and hardware to combat drowsy driving.
After identifying behavior that signaled drowsiness, Ford programmed its hat to pick up on those cues using an accelerometer and gyroscope.
Enlarge Image Ford In the event a driver is drowsy, the cap will emit three different types of signals.
The hat can vibrate, make sounds and flash lights to alert the driver when it's time to pull over, stand up and take a little break.
The automaker spent eight months testing it with a select group of drivers.
Drowsy driving can be as dangerous as distracted or intoxicated driving.
Reaction times get slower, and a driver can even fall asleep at the wheel and lose control entirely.
This cap could certainly help fight drowsy driving and, possibly, save lives in the process.
However, Ford doesn't have any short- or medium-term plans to bring it to production.
After testing, it'll enter the patent and certification stage.
Beyond that, Ford plans to share the Safe Cap with partners and customers who could ferry it to market.
No matter who gets it there, it could make the roads a bit safer, so here's hoping somebody follows through with it.
In the event you speak Portugese, here's a video explaining the concept:
New Line Cinema Amazon on Monday said it snagged the global television rights for "The Lord of the Rings," getting a hold of what should become one of the most-anticipated TV series in the coming years.
The e-commerce company said it already has a "multi-season commitment" for the TV adaptation and said the deal includes a potential additional spin-off series.
The show will be set in Middle Earth and explore new story lines preceding J.R.R.
Tolkien's "The Fellowship of the Ring."
Amazon didn't mention a date for when the series will air.
The show, which will be available exclusively on Amazon's Prime Video, will be produced by Amazon Studios in cooperation with Tolkien Estate and Trust, HarperCollins and New Line Cinema, a division of Warner Bros. Entertainment.
Rumors that this TV adaptation was coming started up this month, with Amazon, Netflix and HBO all named in reports about the series.
Amazon has poured billions of dollars into its Hollywood studio in hopes of building up a viable competitor to Netflix, HBO and other studios.
It's found some critical and viewership success with the shows "Transparent" and "The Man in the High Castle," as well as the movie "Manchester by the Sea."
But so far, it's still seen as a smaller player in Hollywood.
Its studio head, Roy Price, resigned last month amid sexual harassment allegations.
Bringing "The Lord of the Rings" series to Amazon could help the studio gain new clout and build up Amazon's ability to grow its Prime memberships through its video service.
Also, with HBO's "Game of Thrones" nearing its end, Amazon could find itself in a strong position to draw in fans of the fantasy genre.
The theatrical adaptations of the J.R.R.
Tolkien books, from New Line Cinema, earned a combined gross of nearly $6 billion worldwide, Amazon said Monday, and the trilogy won a combined 17 Oscars, including best picture.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.
James Martin/CNET Itching for a new Xbox, Surface or, um, a Cortana speaker this holiday season?
Microsoft has you covered.
Best known for its Windows software, the company makes its fair share of actual gear too, and a lot of it is going on sale at the Microsoft Store, where most deals begin at midnight on November 23.
The company is also highlighting deals on Windows computers from a bunch of different makers.
Let's take a look.
The 4K Blu-ray-playing game console will be at its lowest price ever from the Microsoft Store, complete with your choice of a free game.
The list of available games includes Watch Dogs 2, Just Dance 2018 and Assassin's Creed The Ezio Collection.
The same price is also available as a doorbuster from Walmart, Best Buy and Target.
If you don't care about the game throw-in, the last option might be the best deal of the three since it includes a $25 gift card.
$50 off Xbox One S 1TB and 500GB bundles More bundle choices at the Microsoft Store include a console, a game or two, and additional bonuses like Xbox Game Pass and Xbox Live Gold subscriptions.
Titles like Forza Motorsport 7, Gears of War 4, Halo Wars 2, and Forza Horizon 3 are $20 off, as are Xbox Wireless Controllers.
You can also save $15 on stereo headsets, and $10 on three-month or six-month Xbox Live Gold subscriptions.
Sarah Tew/CNET Up to $329 off Surface Pro At the Microsoft Store you can get a high-end Surface Pro (256GB SSD, 8GB RAM) bundled with the black Surface Type cover for $1000 starting on November 3.
That's a $329 savings.
The less capacious version (128GB SSD, 4GB RAM) will cost $900, a $229 savings, and also includes the cover.
$199 off Surface Laptop Buy a Surface Laptop (256GB SSD or higher) for $1,300 and you get a Harman Kardon Invoke speaker, a $199 value, for free.
And if you really like the Cortana-infused Invoke, you can get it for half price ($99).
$100 savings on Windows Mixed Reality headsets If you want to try out Windows' camera-infused version of virtual reality, sales on headsets could float your boat.
Individual headsets will start at $299 for the Acer, while the Lenovo Explorer will be the same price.
Both include motion controllers.
You can also bundle an Acer Aspire Nitro 5 gaming laptop and the Acer headset with controllers for $999.
HP 15-inch laptop: $299 With an Intel Core i3 and 1TB of storage, this thing is crazy-cheap at $200 off the regular price.
Dell Inspiron 13 convertible: $399 Smaller and boasting a swing-around 13-inch touchscreen, this comes with a core i3, 1TB of storage and a savings of $200.
Dell Inspiron 15 gaming laptop: $649 That's $150 off the laptop CNET called "the budget gaming laptop to beat."
Dell XPS 13 ultraportable: $799 Our reviewers just gave this little touchscreen champion an 8.3 rating, saying it was "one excellent ultraportable laptop."
That price is a savings of $500.
HP Pavilion X360 (15-inch) convertible: $599 Its big screen can be flipped over, thanks to a 360-degree hinge.
The savings on this puppy is $230.
Hungry for more from Redmond?
Check out the dedicated Black Friday page at the Microsoft Store.
Black Friday deals: See every Black Friday 2017 deal we've found so far Holiday Gift Guide: CNET's full gift guide, including dozens of products priced under $25, $50 and $100
Ari Perilstein / Getty Images The Anti-Defamation League is making another move to enlist the tech industry in its efforts to curb hate online.
The civil rights organization said on Monday it's opened the Center for Technology and Society, complete with an advisory board stacked with notable names like Reddit CEO Steve Huffman, Facebook Vice President of Product Guy Rosen, and Bumble CEO Whitney Wolfe.
"Fifty years ago, extremists were hiding behind hoods and burning crosses.
Today, they're hiding behind avatars and burning up Twitter," said ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt in a statement.
"It's a dangerous threat that is normalizing hate, dividing society, and bringing real-world violence and hate crimes to communities across the country."
These efforts come at a time when platforms are struggling to figure out what to do about hate and harassment online -- and as that hate is growing while people with similar worldviews digitally congregate.
A 2016 study from George Washington University found that on Twitter alone, white nationalist groups have seen their followers grow by 600 percent since 2012.
The ADL announced the CTS at SXSW in March as something of a Silicon Valley command center created to monitor and analyze hate speech.
Philanthropic investment firm Omidyar Network kicked off the project with an initial $250,000 grant, and it's providing an addition $1.5 million now that CTS is operational.
CTS is the latest way the ADL is trying to tackle hate online.
In October, Google, Microsoft, Facebook, and Twitter formed the Cyberhate Problem-Solving Lab with the ADL as a way to create strategies to combat hate and abuse.
Reddit and Facebook declined to comment further.
Board members include not just folks from prominent tech companies, but also people with backgrounds in venture capital, law, journalism, media and academia.
Here's the full list of board members: Steve Huffman, Reddit founder and CEO Guy Rosen, Facebook VP of Product Micah Shaffer, Snapchat head of public policy Whitney Wolfe, CEO of the dating app Bumble Matt Rogers, Nest founder and chief product officer Katie Jacobs Stanton former Twitter executive and Color Genomics' chief marketing officer Aileen Lee, Cowboy Ventures Danielle Citron, a law professor at the University of Maryland and author of "Hate Crimes in Cyberspace" Brad Hamm, dean of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University Shawn Henry, former FBI executive assistant director James Joaquin, co-founder and managing director of Obvious Ventures Jeffrey Rosen, president of the National Constitution Center and professor of law at George Washington University Jeffrey Saper, vice chair of the global tech law firm Wilson Sonsini Anne Washington, public policy professor at George Mason University who focuses on the social dynamics of information Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Claudia Cruz/CNET It's a little late for Halloween, but one of the great Amazon ghosts is back -- rumors of a free version of Prime Video.
Amazon is reportedly developing a free, ad-supported service to complement Prime Video, its streaming-video rival to Netflix, according to Ad Age, which is citing people familiar with its plans.
But rather than offering an outright free version of Prime Video -- known for original shows like "Transparent," "The Man in the High Castle" and "The Grand Tour" -- the company appears to be talking with TV networks, movie studios and other media companies about licensing programming like back-catalog TV and movies, as well as children's programming, lifestyle, travel and cooking content, for the new service.
An Amazon spokeswoman said the company has no plans to create a free, ad-supported version of Prime Video.
Prime Video is part of the company's $99- and 79-a-year Prime membership, best known for free, two-day shipping.
You can also subscribe solely to Amazon's streaming video service for $8.99 a month in the US and 5.99 in the UK.
While Amazon Prime is not available in Australia, the Prime Video service is available for $6 per month, which roughly converts to AU$8.
Reports that Amazon is prepping a free, ad-supported service have been around almost as long as Prime Video.
Most recently, CNBC reported last month that Amazon is meetings with advertisers and technology companies about supporting more of its video content with ads.
Way back in 2014, the New York Post reported that Amazon was close to launching an ad-supported service the following year.
Amazon has already experimented plenty with video advertising.
Currently, it runs promos for its own shows on its paid Prime Video service, and its new streams of NFL games this season include advertising.
The company already ran a fully-ad-supported show, "The Fashion Fund," last year, which was available for anyone to watch free -- and didn't strip out any ads even if you were a Prime member.
First published Nov. 13 at 2:19 p.m. PT.
Update 2:19 pm PT: Adds Amazon comment.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
CNET Royal Caribbean wants to cram a ton of tech into new cruise ships.
The company used a Brooklyn warehouse to show off new concepts its working on, including dining in virtual reality, staterooms filled with LED light panels and autonomous shuttles.
We also run through a VR experience on a roller coaster and the huge sales figures generated from China's Singles' Day.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by the CNET News team in New York and producer Bryan VanGelder.
Check out the extended shows on YouTube.
Royal Caribbean cruising into tech-infested waters (The 3:59, Ep.
315) Your browser does not support the audio element.
Subscribe: iTunes | RSS | Google Play | FeedBurner | SoundCloud |TuneIn | Stitcher
Automakers are slowly branching into subscription services in an effort to appeal to people who aren't interested in traditional car ownership.
One of them appears to be doing well enough to expand beyond its first market.
Cadillac announced today that Book, its subscription program that gives users access a wide variety of vehicles for a set monthly fee, will expand to both Los Angeles and Dallas.
The program started in New York, where it apparently faced "overwhelming demand."
Enough so to warrant an expansion.
Enlarge Image Jon Wong/Roadshow Book by Cadillac is an app-based car-sharing scheme.
For $1,800 per month (plus a $500 initiation fee), users can reserve time in a number of top-trim Cadillacs, including the XT5, Escalade, ATS-V, CTS-V and CT6.
The cars are delivered to a location the user chooses, and the monthly fee covers maintenance, insurance and vehicle detailing.
Gas and parking are on the driver, though.
When Book by Cadillac was unveiled, its subscription cost was $1,500 a month, so there has been a price bump since the program's inception.
Drivers can swap vehicles however often they want, but it's important to note that Cadillac limits vehicle use to 2,000 miles per month per account.
So, you probably won't be able to take a CTS-V on the cross-country road trip of your dreams, although you're welcome to buy one for that purpose.
LA and Dallas aren't the first expansions of Book by Cadillac.
The automaker also has a pilot program running in Munich, Germany, and if all goes well out there, it will investigate a move into other European markets.
LA and Dallas mark the first moves inside the US, though.
One of the first stories I wrote for Roadshow covered what I called "the stupidest misuse of Tesla's autopilot yet."
Well, that person needs to step aside, because we've found something even more stupid.
This video comes from the Instagram channel of comedian Lil' Duval.
It very clearly shows Duval inside a Tesla operating on Autopilot, but instead of paying attention to the road, he reclined the seat and proceeded to smoke what appears to be a giant joint.
I don't even have to open up Andrew's Big Book of Common Sense to know that's a ridiculous thing to do, let alone publicize.
What yall fake caring about today A post shared by lilduval (@lilduval) on Nov 11, 2017 at 10:31am PST Autopilot is a good system, but it's not fully autonomous.
It'll hold a Tesla in its lane, steer around curves, keep pace with traffic and even aid in changing lanes.
That said, at any point, the system could require a human to take control of the vehicle, and it's paramount that drivers heed those warnings in a timely manner.
If they don't, bad things can happen.
It's going to be a good, long time until you can unwind with whatever while a vehicle drives itself down the road.
The closest we have to that right now is Waymo's fleet of self-driving Pacificas.
Waymo recently announced that it's ditching the safety driver as part of a public pilot in the Phoenix area, but the company probably frowns upon the recreational use of marijuana (which is still illegal in Arizona as well as on the federal level) inside its vehicles.
Update, 4:42 p.m. Eastern: Lil' Duval, via Twitter, alleges it was just a cigar.
Either way, his seating position was not that of an attentive driver and could have very well reduced his ability to take control of the vehicle at a moment's notice, so even if there was no blueberry yum-yum harmed in the making of this video, it still stands as a good example of how not to use Autopilot.
"Star Trek: Discovery" has come to the end of its first mission, with the crew set to boldly go where no one has gone before.
If they can work out where that is...
Episode 9, "Into the Forest I Go", aired Sunday, rounding out chapter 1 of the first season.
Chapter 2 begins on 7 January with an episode titled "Despite You" and runs for six episodes.
As before, the second part of season 1 will be available on paid streaming services CBS All Access in the US and Netflix elsewhere.
(Editors' note: CBS is CNET's parent company.)
With notable spoilers ahead, here are the questions that will burn a hole in our memory banks until "Star Trek: Discovery" returns.
Where is the USS Discovery?
Wouldn't you know it -- Lt. Stamets agrees to one last jump and then totally loses the plot, stranding the Discovery amid a bunch of unidentified wreckage somewhere unknown.
Has the crew swapped one battle for another?
Are they lost in uncharted space, like the crew of earlier Trek series "Voyager"?
Have they become unmoored in time, hinted at by Stamets referring to Cadet Tilly as "Captain" during one of his bouts of disorientation?
Or have they crossed into another universe altogether, perhaps a mirror universe?
What would a mirror universe crew look like?
Executive producer Alex Kurtzman has mentioned that "Discovery" will explore the parallel "mirror" dimension, which involves ruthless alternative versions of Trek characters.
If/when we see evil versions of the Discovery crew, they'd have be pretty twisted to be darker than the crew we've already seen in the show.
After all, the lead character is a mutineer, her love interest is a soldier who's been tortured and the captain is an icy rule-breaker who enjoys war a little too much.
If these are the good guys, what would their evil mirror universe counterparts look like?
Aside from the obligatory evil goatee beards, obviously.
In fact, here's a thought: What if the "Discovery" we've been watching, with its warring Starfleet, ruthless characters and dark storylines, has been the mirror universe all along?
Mind.
Blown.
Enlarge Image Jan Thijs/CBS Interactive What's the deal with Ash Tyler?
Speaking of outlandish theories, here's another idea that's been getting Trekkies in a tizzy: There's more to Lt. Ash Tyler than meets the eye.
The Klingon Voq disappeared one minute and Tyler showed up the next -- with the Klingon torturer L'Rell proving to be a common link between them.
A popular fan theory suggests that L'Rell somehow turned Voq into a human to infiltrate Starfleet.
Judging by the way he acted around L'rell in the latest episode, Tyler isn't aware of it if he is a Klingon.
But with L'Rell and Tyler both trapped on "Discovery", the next chapter is bound to set sparks flying.
Is the Klingon war over?
In the mid-season finale, Burnham comes full circle, returning to the Klingon Ship of the Dead and ending the war in the very spot where she began it.
The Klingon leader Kol is dead, and Starfleet now has the secret to cracking cloaking devices.
However, what we've seen of the internal politics of the Klingon Empire suggests someone will take Kol's place.
And we surely haven't seen the last of L'Rell or the missing Voq (see above).
The show's Klingon politicking hasn't been to everyone's taste, but it's been one of my favourite aspects of "Discovery".
If only the Klingons would ... talk ... a ... bit ... faster .... What will happen to the spore drive?
In terms of continuity, this is the biggest question.
The spore drive is more advanced than Starfleet's usual warp drive, but it's never been mentioned in other Trek shows.
If the Discovery is lost forever, would that explain why the spore drive is never mentioned in any other Trek shows?
Surely the crew will make it back at some point -- there is a second half of the season to fill.
One thing we do know is that use of the spore drive takes an enormous toll on engineer Lt. Stamets.
The terrible effects he's experiencing may explain why the spore drive becomes forgotten or even banned technology later in the Trek timeline.
Will Stamets and Culber make it?
The ship's chief engineer and top doctor make a great couple.
The thing that's got us rooting for them is the tension between their personal and professional relationships.
Stamets has chosen to set aside his own well-being to take a crucial role in the spore drive system, leaving Dr. Culber to fear for his health.
How long can Culber watch his other half damage himself in the name of the greater good?
Enlarge Image Jan Thijs/CBS Interactive What issues will the show tackle next?
Star Trek has typically tackled real-world issues by devoting a single episode to them.
"Discovery" weaves its themes more subtly, asking ongoing questions about the morality of war and the use of science to further military ends.
It's also touched on trauma and sexual abuse in the story of Lt. Tyler.
And the episode "Magic to Make the Sanest Man Go Mad" was about the importance of believing people.
This couldn't be more timely as actor Anthony Rapp, who plays Stamets, last month accused actor Kevin Spacey of making a sexual advance on him when Rapp was 14.
The new season will no doubt continue the grand Star Trek tradition of asking questions about the world we live in today.
Will it get more prequel-y?
Apart from Burnham's family history as an adopted child of Sarek, there isn't much about "Discovery" that demands it be set 10 years before the original series.
In fact, the writers seem like they couldn't keep their hands off some of the stuff that should have been ruled off-limits by continuity -- like, did they have to make cloaking devices such a central point of the show?
As we head into the new chapter, the show may continue to plot a course that keeps it separate from the original timeline.
At least there'll surely be more Easter eggs like the list of familiar captains glimpsed in episode 5, "Choose Your Pain".
Or maybe there'll be more crossovers: Harry Mudd has made two explosive appearances on the show, while Mr. Spock himself joins forces with Burnham in the tie-in novel "Desperate Hours" by David Mack.
Eagle-eared viewers may also have caught mention of a "Cadet Decker" over the PA in the finale -- a reference to the Decker clan of Starfleet officers?
We'll find out ... in January.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team reminds us why tech is cool.
James Martin/CNET Bill Gates is known for his generosity, and he's taking it further with an investment into Alzheimer's research.
The founder of Microsoft has given away $32.91 billion over his lifetime, much of which has been spent as the richest person in the world.
His latest $100 million gift will reportedly be going in two equal chunks to organizations on the cutting edge of fighting dementia.
The Dementia Discovery Fund will get the first $50 million to help its mission of bringing together government and industry to work on treatments, Gates wrote on his personal blog.
The second will go to "less mainstream" start-up ventures working in Alzheimer's research, he told Reuters.
Both donations will come from his personal accounts and not the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
Now Playing: Watch this: Future Tech: how Technology is changing how we monitor... Alzheimer's is a form of dementia that affects more than 5 million Americans.
"Of all the disorders that plague us late in life, one stands out as a particularly big threat to society: Alzheimer's disease," Gates said in his blog.
"You have a nearly 50 percent chance of developing the disease if you live into your mid-80s."
Current treatments can only ease the symptoms.
"I hope that in the next 10 years that we have some powerful drugs," Gates told Reuters, "but it's possible that won't be achieved."
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.
Since its inception, Lyft has kept its operations firmly within the borders of the US.
But that's about to change.
Lyft announced on Monday that it would expand its operations north of the border to Canada -- specifically, Toronto.
It will operate exactly as it does in the US: Riders can open Lyft's app, request a ride, then take one to wherever they need to go.
Given Lyft's staying focused on Toronto, it's unclear whether or not you can go truly insane and order a ride to, say, Vancouver.
If you do, it'll probably cost you a fair number of Loonies.
Since Lyft relies on the public to give out rides, interested Toronto residents will need to apply on Lyft's driver application site.
While it's unclear if any special requirements exist for Canadian drivers, in the US, drivers must be 21 and own either an iOS or Android phone.
Potential drivers must also pass DMV and background checks, both of which are free and conducted online.
Vehicles must have between five and eight seats and four doors.
While Lyft might be expanding its ride-hailing operations outside the US, it's likely that the expansion won't also send its self-driving cars over the border.
In September, Lyft announced that it partnered with Drive.ai to bring self-driving cars to San Francisco as part of a public pilot program.
The company also recently hinted that it may bring autonomous vehicles to New York.
Enlarge Image Terrafugia There's still a whole lot of debate as to whether or not flying cars will even come into existence.
But one automaker is so aligned with the idea that it's purchased a whole startup devoted to exactly that.
Geely, the Chinese company currently in charge of both Volvo and Lotus, has completed its acquisition of flying-car startup Terrafugia, the company announced in a press release Monday.
Rumors of an acquisition appeared in July, and it's apparently taken until November to finish the process.
Don't expect to see flying cars with Volvo badges any time soon.
Terrafugia will remain headquartered in the US, and it will work somewhat independently, focusing on the core mission of making a car that also happens to be a plane.
That said, Geely installed a new board of directors and appointed a new CEO, so there is some cross-pollination.
Five MIT grads started Terrafugia in 2006, and while its goals have been slightly delayed over the years, it's still working on an aggressive timetable.
Terrafugia wants to debut its first flying car in 2019, which will operate more like a normal plane.
After that, it wants to work on a VTOL (vertical takeoff and landing) flying car, which it hopes to debut in 2023.
For those of you keeping track at home with a dash of cynicism, that planned rollout is the same or faster than many automakers' planned semiautonomous and autonomous vehicles.
Considering Geely is based in China, a country rife with traffic issues, it's not hard to see why Geely feels flying cars could make waves in reducing that traffic, or at least pushing some of it to a different place.
This could all very well be vaporware, but if it isn't, Geely's in a good spot with its new acquisition.
Other companies believe there's something to the idea of flying cars, too.
Late in 2016, Uber released a 99-page white paper describing "Uber Elevate," an on-demand urban air transportation scheme that would utilize VTOL craft to help reduce urban ground traffic while being less noisy and expensive than traditional helicopters.
Qualcomm to Broadcom: Take your billions and go homecomm.
The board of directors at Qualcomm, the world's largest maker of chips and processors for phones, on Monday unanimously rejected a massive unsolicited takeover bid from Broadcom, which makes chips for everything from cable modems to set-top boxes and digital video recorders.
"Broadcom's proposal significantly undervalues Qualcomm relative to the company's leadership position in mobile technology and our future growth prospects," said Paul Jacobs, chairman of Qualcomm's board, in a statement.
Qualcomm also said that the deal would come with significant regulatory uncertainty.
Broadcom said it remains fully committed to pursuing the acquisition.
"We continue to believe our proposal represents the most attractive, value-enhancing alternative available to Qualcomm stockholders and we are encouraged by their reaction," said Broadcom CEO Hock Tan in a statement.
"Many have expressed to us their desire that Qualcomm meet with us to discuss our proposal."
The acquisition would have been the biggest in tech history, surpassing AOL's acquisition of Time Warner in 2001.
The combined company would have been the third-largest semiconductor maker in the world, trailing only Intel and Samsung.
Update, 11:40 a.m.
ET: Added statement from Broadcom.
Innovation can both create and destroy companies.
TechRepublic's Dan Patterson met with physicist Isaac Arthur to discuss the history of disruptive technology and how it has shaped society.
One of the most prominent examples of disruptive technology starts with the light bulb.
This innovation allowed businesses to stay open 24/7, and extended work shifts until after dark.
Another piece of disruptive tech includes the internal combustion engine.
Not only did this creation allow people to travel to work from miles away, it also required power grids, highway systems, and a large amount of policy to be put in place.
These types of technologies that are implemented early on have impacts that last for decades.
"If you choose one of these paths early on, it can really shape how the technology ends up impacting you," Arthur said.
SEE:IT leader's guide to the rise of smart cities, volume 2 (Tech Pro Research) One of the key lessons we can learn from looking at the history of disruptive tech is that "you never want to jump too fast on new technology," Arthur said.
"If you move too quick on these, you eliminate some of the other alternative decisions."
Disruptive technologies are fascinating to watch because they can change or destroy existing markets, said Arthur.
"Once you pick a given technology path, the existing technology keeps getting improved, or refined on its way to the market."
Find out The Next Big Thing and subscribe to TechRepublic's newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Image: TOP500 China has officially overtaken the US as the country with the largest number of supercomputers to grace the TOP500 list, according to a recent article on TOP500's website.
China had 202 systems on the list, compared to the 144 from the US, according to the report.
The 202 systems marks the largest number of supercomputers that China has ever had on the TOP500 list at once.
The rankings also point to the US having the lowest number of listed systems it has ever had, since the list was first compiled 25 years ago.
What's interesting, the report noted, is that these rankings weren't the case a mere six months ago.
At that point, the US had 169 systems on the list, leading China by 9 ranked systems.
Still, the report noted, 144 systems puts the US in second place for the most recent rankings, with Japan in a far third place with 35.
SEE: Photos: The world's 25 fastest supercomputers In addition to claiming a larger number of supercomputers, China also bested the US in performance.
In aggregate performance, China had 35.4% of the total flops represented on the TOP500.
The US had 29.6%.
The top-ranked list of systems didn't change much with the latest rankings, with the Sunway TaihuLightdeveloped by China's National Research Center of Parallel Computer Engineering & Technologyremaining in the top spot.
The TaihuLight can hit 93.01 petaflops.
China took no.
2 as well with the Tianhe-2 (Milky Way-2) system, which can hit a performance of 33.86 petaflops, the report said.
Switzerland's Piz Daint sat in third place with 19.59 petaflops, while Japan's Gyoukou supercomputer took fourth place with 19.14 petaflops.
The US rounded out the top five with Titan, a Cray XK7 system that is capable of 17.59 petaflops.
The total number of supercomputers on the list using Intel processors rose to 94.2%, up from 92.8% six months ago.
Additionally, HPE represents nearly a quarter of the systems on the TOP500 list, the report said.
Despite the role reversal of China and the US in the recent TOP500 ranking, the two countries continue to dominate the list with little to no close competitors.
However, the dominance of the Sunway TaihuLight, and the fact that it was built with Chinese chips, could point to China gradually taking a bigger leadership role in the worldwide semiconductor industry as well.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers China leads the US in total number of ranked supercomputers in the TOP500 list, released on Monday.
China also leads in aggregate performance, claiming 35.4% of the total flops represented on the list.
The US represents 29.6%.
Despite the switching roles, the US and China remain the dominant forces in supercomputing worldwide.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
The Smart Cities Council has expanded its 2018 Readiness Challenge Grant program to include communities in Canada and Mexico as well as the US.
Cities, as well as counties, states, provinces, and regional authorities can apply for the grants.
Last year, only cities could apply.
The five winning entities will receive a year's worth of free mentoring, products, and services, as well as a custom-designed, on-site readiness workshop and membership in the Smart Cities Leadership Circle.
The estimated in-kind value is $200,000 per winning entity.
"We are really eager for cities and all of these other entities just to complete the application, because we've heard over and over again, and this is one of the nice surprises from last year, that just completing the application was such a turning point for them because it forced the departments to collaborate and say what they wanted to do next.
It was a deadline.
It was a forcing function," said Jesse Berst, Smart Cities Council chairman.
Image: RoschetzkyIstockPhoto/iStock Austin, TX; Indianapolis; Miami, FL; Orlando, FL; and Philadelphia each won a grant in 2017, which was the inaugural year of the program.
SEE: Five cities win the Smart Cities Council Readiness Challenge Grant (TechRepublic) Each applicant is required to provide a letter from the city's mayor, so the council knows there is top-down support.
"We require them to have certain stakeholders involved, and this year if they get a letter of support from their utility, they get extra points.
So, whether or not they win, they're set up to move forward.
We require them to do some prioritization, and do some rank ordering," Berst said.
A minimum population of 100,000 is required for applicants, but this can be combined with other governmental entities to reach that threshold.
The 2017 grant program provided valuable information to the Smart Cities Council to help it see where US cities are at in the smart city realm and where they want to go.
"We believe, a year later, we're going to see a completely different set of perspectives that cities will have.
This year we are opening it up to cities in Canada and Mexico, as well as, other kinds of local governments.
So really, any kind of entity can be in the lead.
Last year it had to be a city.
This year is can be something like a regional transit authority, a court authority, and it can also be a state or a province.
We're seeing a lot of activity at the state level in the United States and we're hoping that states will also consider this," Berst said.
Application details are available online.
The deadline to apply is December 15, 2017.
Each of the winning cities will receive the following benefits: Qualcomm will donate an Inspired by Qualcomm Thinkabit Lab, including career materials, circuit boards and teaching resources to host a hands-on STEM lab.
SYNEXXUS will supply control nodes, management software and support for a pilot network of up to 48 smart street lights.
IES will create a Community Information Mode (CIM) - a data rich, 3D geospatial database to store, represent, and manage virtual 3D city models.
IBI Group will work with the Smart Cities Council to produce a Readiness Roadmap using the insights generated during the Readiness Workshop.
Edison Electric Institute (EEI) will support the efforts of electric companies to collaborate with cities on successful applications and follow up activities.
Battelle will provide management and technical advisory services to selected cities as they develop strategy, technology, and planning roadmaps.
Itron and Sensus will sponsor the overall program and contribute their expertise in workshops and mentoring sessions throughout the year.
CompTIA will offer 50 free certification vouchers, CertMaster test prep, a profile in its magazine and Cyberstates report, and a role at its annual conference.
Three takeaways for TechRepublic readers: The Smart Cities Council deadline for 2018 Readiness Challenge grants is December 15, 2017.
Last year, only cities could apply.
Now, states, counties, provinces, and regional authorities can apply throughout North America, including Mexico and Canada.
The five winning entities will each receive products and support valued at $200,000.
Find out the latest news on smart cities in TechRepublic's newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
The software development world is nothing if not fast-moving: with coders typically relying on a scrum of competing frameworks and libraries jostling to be the next big thing.
The current winners and losers in the programming world have been revealed by Stack Overflow, in its analysis of which technologies have seen the "most dramatic" increase and decrease in developer interest in any single year since the site was launched in 2008.
The analysis has sizeable data to back it up, with Stack Overflow looking at visits to topics by its community of more than 50 million developers.
The losers Perhaps the most surprising entry on the list of rapidly declining tech was the JavaScript framework Backbone.js.
Launched in 2010, at one time it had a healthy following, with companies like Airbnb and Verizon using it to help build web apps.
However, as Stack Overflow data scientist Julia Silge points out, surviving in the fast-moving and crowded market for JavaScript frameworks is particularly tough, especially where massively popular libraries like React and frameworks like AngularJS are sucking all of the oxygen out of the room.
SEE: Hiring kit: Python developer (Tech Pro Research) Elsewhere, the technologies slipping into irrelevance were a mix of technologies such as Microsoft's deprecated Silverlight web framework for playing video and animations, the Flex framework for the soon-to-be defunct Adobe Flash software platform and the mobile backend developer platform Parse, which Facebook announced it was shutting down last year.
Another piece of tech that Stack Overflow highlights as undergoing notable decline is the game engine Cocos2d for iPhone.
Image: Stack Overflow The winners On the flipside, both Apple's Swift language for developing iOS apps and the JavaScript framework Angular have been flying high for a number of years.
"Both of these technologies grew incredibly fast to have a big impact because they were natural next steps for existing developer communities," writes Silge.
Other topics demonstrated what Stack Overflow calls "modest year-over-year growth" but still enough to warrant a place on the list on fastest movers.
These include Android Studio, an IDE targeted to mobile developers that was released in 2013 and grew immediately in popularity, and the machine-learning library TensorFlow, which since it was open-sourced by Google in 2015 has enjoyed "remarkable success", according to Silge.
Less surprising, given the publicity surrounding its launch, was the explosion in interest in questions related to the Apple iPad around the time it went on sale in 2010.
Image: Stack Overflow Away from the extreme rises and falls, there are also dependable technologies that have continued to demonstrate good growth year after year, with Stack Overflow highlighting the web programming language TypeScript, the JavaScript programming platform Meteor, the machine-learning library Pandas and the game engine Unity.
The analysis looked at which Stack Overflow tags with at least 10,000 questions had the highest percentage change in interest year-on-year in any single year since the site's launch.
Keep up to date on all of the newest tech trends.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Image: Apple You bought that shiny new MacBook Pro or iMac, and you're ready to start working.
Stop!
Before you do anything to that costly (and wonderful) piece of hardware, you should consider creating a USB installer drive for macOS.
With this handy flash drive, you can reinstall macOS, should something go awry.
We've already covered how to do this from the command line (See How to create a bootable USB to install OS X), but I wanted to give those with a fear of the command line a way to do the same thing.
That meansGUI!
If you know such a USB drive is in your future, but do not want to toy with the terminal, you're in luckthe process can be done with the help of a handy GUI.
Let's do just that.
I'll be demonstrating this on a 2017 MacBook Pro with High Sierra.
You will need an internet connect and a flash drive with a minimum of 5GB of space.
I highly recommend at least a 12GB flash drive that will be used solely for this purpose.
You don't want to create your installer drive and accidentally erase the installer files while working with a spreadsheet or presentation.
So grab a fresh drive and get ready.
Don't forget, if this is a standard USB flash drive you'll need an adapter for the USB C ports on the laptop.
I've used this inexpensive solution without fail.
Download the installer file The first thing you must do is download the installer file from the App Store.
To get this software, open the App Store and search for "High Sierra."
After clicking on the entry, you will either see an Open or Download button.
If you've already downloaded the fileit'll be listed as Open (otherwise, click Download).
Once the download has completed, insert your USB drive and you're ready to go.
The USB does not have to be formatted in any particular way, as the installer will take care of this for you.
Download the GUI tool The tool we will be using is called Install Disk Creator.
This particular app is a self-contained piece of software, so there's no actual installation to be done.
Simply download the file, open up finder, change into the directory housing the download, and double-click on the downloaded file.
Once Install Disk Creator opens (Figure A), click on the top drop-down and select the correct USB drive to be used.
By default the tool will select your local drivedo NOT use that drive for the installer.
Figure A Install Disk Creator should automatically select the downloaded installer file.
If you have more than one downloaded, you can click Choose a macOS install and then select which one you prefer.
Once everything is in order, click Create Installer.
The app will warn you that everything on your USB drive is about to be permanently erased.
If that's okay, click Erase Disk (Figure B).
Figure B You will then be prompted for your user password (or, if you have a touchbar, to touch the fingerprint sensor).
With authentication out of the way, the app will create the bootable USB drive.
The process can take some time (about 10 minutes), and will seem like it's not doing anything (there is no progress bar).
Wait until a new window pops up informing you your bootable installer has been created and is ready to use.
Once complete, eject the USB drive and put it away for safekeeping.
Hopefully, you'll never need it.
On the off-chance you do, you can rest assured it is there to serve.
Don't be left high (sierra) and dry Should something go wrong with your MacBook or iMac, the last thing you need is to be left without the means to recover.
With this handy bootable USB installer, you can reinstall macOS without much trouble.
If the time comes to use this tool, insert it into the USB C port and boot the machine while holding down the Option key.
Crisis averted.
Automatically sign up for TechRepublic's Mobile Enterprise Newsletter for more news and tips.
Subscribe Also see
It's quite handy to be able to quickly wipe away your browser history, and every browser handles this task differently some more easily than others.
Firefox is no exception.
Although out of the box, it may not be quite as simple as the competition, with a quick configuration, you'll have Firefox forgetting your browser history with ease.
Back in 2014, the Firefox developers introduced the Forget button.
That feature still remains, but if you click the Menu button and look around, you won't find it.
Why?
Because it's not enabled by default.
How do you add that feature to your browser?
Let me show you.
When you click the Menu, you'll see the Customize button at the bottom of that popup.
Click that button and you can then drag the Forget button into your menu.
After you've added the Forget button, click Exit Customize and Forget is ready to use.
To use Forget, click the Menu button and then click Forget.
You will be prompted for a time frame that will instruct how far back into your history Firefox should reach.
Select an option and then click Forget.
That's it, your chosen history has been deleted.
Understand, using Forget will wipe out your pinned tabs and the action cannot be undone, so use it carefully.
Browser security is no longer an option.
Regardless of which browser you use, you must work with it carefully and make use of the offered privacy features.
With Firefox Forget, you can make short shrift of your browser history.
Use it and then lose it.
Be safe out there.
Automatically sign up for TechRepublic's Mobile Enterprise Newsletter for more news and tips.
Subscribe Also see:
Outlook's New Tasks window displays a built-in Priority field with three settings: Low, Normal, and High.
Using this setting, you can sort tasks by priority level rather than due date, to give you a bit more perspective.
This insight can help you reorganize your tasks when necessary.
For better or worse, those three levels are it, and they won't be adequate for everyone.
In this article, I'll show you how to add a custom priority field to a built-in view, so you can sort and group by priority levels that are meaningful to you.
I'm using Outlook 2016 (desktop), but the technique is applicable to earlier Ribbon versions as well.
It isn't supported by 365's browser edition.
There's no downloadable demonstration file.
Built-in priority Before we add a custom field, let's take a look at Outlook's built-in priority option for tasks (Figure A).
This option is available in the New Task window, and you can sort by this field in most tasks views.
The default setting is Normal.
Figure A The priority option allows three settings; you can't customize the option.
If this field isn't visible in the To-Do List view, you can add it as follows: With the To-Do List view current in the Tasks window, click the View tab.
Choose Manage Views from the Change View dropdown.
Select To-Do List in the View Name list and click Modify.
In the resulting dialog, click Columns.
Choose Frequently Used fields from the Select Available Columns From dropdown, if necessary.
Select Priority in the Available Columns list.
Click Add to move it to the Show These Columns In This Order list (Figure B).
At this point, you could click Move Up to change the option's position on the title bar, but you don't need to do that now.
Click OK three times.
Figure B Move Priority to the Show Columns list.
When you return to the Task window, Outlook will display the priority icon on the title bar, as shown in Figure C. You can sort tasks by these three priority levels.
As you can see, someone thinks shampooing carpets is High priority!
The blue down arrow denotes a Low priority.
No icon indicates a Normal priority.
Figure C The default priority option is now visible.
When adding the Priority field to the To-Do List view, you might have noticed that Outlook offers two interesting fields you might consider using instead of the built-in Priority field: Custom Priority and Custom Status.
Unfortunately, these fields are tied to SharePoint and aren't available to all users.
Custom priority The built-in Priority option might be adequate for most, but you can create a custom priority option if necessary.
Before you do, give some thought to the type of priority items you need.
Do you want a numbering system such as 1, 2, and 3, or would you rather have meaningful text items, such as Alright to Ignore, Better Do Soon, and Catastrophe Awaits?
It's entirely up to you, but when going the text route, consider the alphabetical sort (more on that later).
For this example, we'll use a list of simple digits: 1, 2, 3, and so on.
Once you have a list of priority items in mind, you're ready to add the custom field.
In the Tasks window, select the view you want to modify; we'll work with Active.
If it's not available in the gallery, choose it from the Change View dropdown in the Current View group.
With the Active view current, add the custom field as follows: Right-click the title bar and choose Field Chooser.
In the Field Chooser dialog, click New (at the bottom).
Or click Add Columns in the Arrangement group and then click New Column in the middle of the dialog.
In the New Column dialog, enter a meaningful name, such as Task Priority.
(Priority already exists.)
We'll use a Text type, so you don't need to change that option for this example (Figure D).
Click OK to continue.
Drag your custom field to the title bar and drop it (Figure E).
Don't worry if your view is somewhat different; you might have already modified it.
Figure D Choose a type and format for your custom field.
Figure E Add the new custom priority field to your task view.
A simple click on the Task Priority header toggles the records between an ascending and descending sort.
Currently, there's nothing to sort by, though.
To assign priority levels to existing tasks, click inside the new field and enter a value.
Then, click the header to sort your tasks by your custom priority, as shown in Figure F. Figure F Sort by clicking the Task Priority header.
Oops... remember earlier when I warned you about data types and sorts?
If you truly have 12 priority levels, you would expect 11 and 12 to sort to the bottom of an ascending list.
Because we used a text data type when we added the custom field, 11 and 12 sort after 1 and before 2.
If you really have 12 levels, your custom field should be a numeric fieldthen it will sort as expected.
I ran this example on purpose to show you what could happen.
This sort is temporary.
You can further modify your view to include a permanent sort by the custom field.
To do so, Click the View tab and choose Manage Views from the Change View dropdown.
Select Active (or the name of the view you modified) and click Modify.
Click Group By.
In the Group By dialog, uncheck the Automatically Group According To Arrangement option.
From the Select Available Fields From dropdown, choose User-defined Fields In Folder (in the bottom-left corner).
From the Group Items By dropdown, choose Task Priority (Figure G),and click OK three times.
Figure H shows the results.
Figure G Set a permanent group for the view.
Figure H The modified Active view will group your tasks by your custom priority column.
You can sort by other fields by clicking the header, but Outlook will sort by that field within the permanent priority groups.
Stay tuned To sort by a series of custom priority levels, we added a custom field to the Active view and changed its grouping.
You could also copy the Active view and modify it if you don't want to permanently change the built-in view.
Right now, the only way to add a custom priority value to a task is to add it after the fact using the view.
In a future article, I'll show you how to add this custom field to the New Tasks window, so you can add the priority when you create the task.
Get more great Office tips and tricks delivered to your inbox.
Sign up for TechRepublic's Microsoft Weekly newsletter.
Subscribe Send me your question about Office I answer readers' questions when I can, but there's no guarantee.
Don't send files unless requested; initial requests for help that arrive with attached files will be deleted unread.
You can send screenshots of your data to help clarify your question.
When contacting me, be as specific as possible.
For example, "Please troubleshoot my workbook and fix what's wrong" probably won't get a response, but "Can you tell me why this formula isn't returning the expected results?"
might.
Please mention the app and version that you're using.
I'm not reimbursed by TechRepublic for my time or expertise when helping readers, nor do I ask for a fee from readers I help.
You can contact me at susansalesharkins@gmail.com.
Also read...
An increasing number of organizations are using artificial intelligence (AI) to aid in their digital transformation and remain competitive, according to a new report by the International Data Corporation (IDC) and DataRobot released Monday.
AI is expected to help companies across the world grow over the next five years, with Japan leading the pack with 74% expected projected growth from 2016-2021, according to the report.
The US should expect 49% compound annual growth, with countries in Western Europe expecting around 44% growth.
SEE: Quick glossary: Artificial intelligence (Tech Pro Research) Two-thirds of businesses globally already have implemented AI, or plan on using the technology in the next five years, the report said.
The US has the most early adoption, with 38% of companies already using AI, ahead of 11% in Asia and 9% in Western Europe.
Of that 38% in the US, 77% of organizations said the technology is exceeding their expectations or they're already seeing returns on its use.
The worldwide growth should result in three big benefits for business, the report says: Increased productivity, more workflow automation, and new insights.
All industries could be spending around $57.6 billion total on AI by 2021, IDC estimates.
The financial sector is slated to be spending the most at $12 billion, followed by manufacturing ($9.5 billion), retail ($9.3 billion), the public sector ($8.9 billion), and healthcare ($5.3 billion).
The report gave examples of how AI is already being used across these industries, including fraud detection, targeted marketing, and being leveraged to find top foster homes for children.
In the US, 75% of businesses say their data is ready for AI.
But there will be challenges for this growth, the report said.
Lack of data and skills will be the biggest obstacle, with 73% of organizations lacking an in-house data scientist or AI specialist.
The next two largest challenges are difficulties with stakeholder buy-in and the high cost of solutions.
The report gave four steps for organizations looking to jumpstart their AI usage: 1.
Start with a process heavily involved with data and a goal for that data.
2.
Have strong ways to prepare, predict, and visualize the data.
3.
Use machine learning and best-of-breed algorithms to remove the technicality from AI but still gain from it.
4.
Empower employees, regardless of skill, to know how to develop and use models.
Want to use this data in your next business presentation?
Feel free to copy and paste these top takeaways into your next slideshow.
Japan is expected to see the most growth due to AI adoption from 2016 to 2021 at 74%, leading the US with 49% and Western Europe with 44%.
-IDC and DataRobot, 2017 An estimated $57.6 billion will be spent across industries on AI, potentially leading to increased employee productivity, new business insights, and more workflow automation.
-IDC and DataRobot, 2017 73% of organizations lack an in-house AI specialist or data scientist, presenting the biggest obstacle to AI adoption.
-IDC and DataRobot, 2017 Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
On Monday, Rackspace and HPE announced a new OpenStack-based private cloud offering available in a pay-per-use model.
The joint solution is the industry's first pay-as-you-go OpenStack private cloud solution, according to a press release.
Since this private cloud product will be delivered as a managed service, it will bring some of the benefits associated with the public cloud to a private solution, the release said.
Customers can choose to have the private cloud located in their own data center, in a colocation facility, or in a data center managed by Rackspace, according to the release.
"With this innovative delivery model, Rackspace and HPE are removing the barriers to private cloud adoption, giving customers even more choice of technology platforms that best fit their application needs," Scott Crenshaw, executive vice president of private cloud at Rackspace, said in the release.
SEE: Cloud computing policy template (Tech Pro Research) IDC FutureScape data cited in the release predicts that "Pay-as-you-go consumption models will account for 50 percent of on-premises and off-premises Physical IT and datacenter asset spending by 2018."
So, it makes sense that HPE and Rackspace are targeting this model in their offering.
The pay-as-you-go pricing will be managed through HPE Flexible Capacity.
With this model, customers pay for the capacity they need at a given time, and can more easily scale and burst to fit changing business needs.
This flexible model can save customers up to 40% compared to competitive public cloud options, according to the release.
Being a single-tenant model means that HPE and Rackspace's private cloud will be able to handle many security, compliance, and privacy needs, the release said.
However, it can also maintain this while scaling as needed.
The new private cloud will provide a 99.99% API uptime guarantee from Rackspace as well, the release noted.
"With Rackspace's private cloud expertise and service-first culture, they are well positioned to address the needs of HPE's large installed base of infrastructure customers and help reduce any cloud migration risk."
IDC Research vice president Michelle Bailey said in the release.
"This pay-per-use infrastructure is a new step forward in helping enterprises deploy private clouds with improved flexibility and cost transparency."
The new HPE and Rackspace pay-per-use private cloud will be available in all regions on November 28, 2017.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers A new pay-as-you-go private cloud solution from HPE and Rackspace can provide up to 40% savings over comparable public cloud solutions.
The pay-as-you-go private cloud offers the scalability and bursting of public cloud, while maintaining the security, privacy, and compliance needed in private cloud deployments.
The HPE and Rackspace pay-per-use private cloud will be available in all regions on November 28, 2017.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cloud Insights newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
On Friday, HPE announced its first Blockchain as a Service solution for enterprises, meant to help businesses deploy the distributed ledger technology more quickly and easily.
HPE's Mission Critical Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) will allow businesses to run distributed ledger workloads on the highest availability enterprise platforms, according to a press release.
Mission Critical DLT can be used to record transactions across a decentralized network of computers.
Blockchain solutions like this have a wide range of potential applications across industries, including finance, retail and manufacturing, healthcare, and government.
The business value-add of blockchain is expected to grow to more than $176 billion by 2025, and to exceed $3.1 trillion by 2030, according to Gartner.
SEE: The executive's guide to implementing blockchain technology Many organizations seeking blockchain solutions are finding that generic infrastructure and public cloud environments cannot support the requirements they need in terms of performance, security, scalability and resiliency, the release noted.
Mission Critical DLT offers availability and fault protection for enterprise applications, as well as scalability and SQL integration.
The Mission Critical DLT solution was developed in partnership with R3, and is offered on HPE Integrity NonStop platforms.
"This combination enables customers to execute distributed-ledger workloads in environments that demand 100 percent fault tolerance at mission critical levels and ensures massive scalability to grow with the business as well as SQL integration with legacy systems," according to the release.
"Enterprises interested in blockchain are realizing that public cloud alone does not always meet their non-functional requirements," Raphael Davison, HPE's worldwide director for blockchain, said in a press release.
"As they look to scale, they recognize that, for mission-critical processes, on-premise infrastructure must be part of the mix of traditional IT, private and public cloud that's needed to meet the requirements of enterprise-grade blockchain workloads."
HPE Mission Critical DLT will be commercially available in early 2018.
Customers will also be able to purchase access to this solution in a "DLT as a Service" environment for serious trials and production use later in the year, the release noted.
HPE is not the only tech company offering Blockchain as a Service: In October, Oracle unveiled its Blockchain Cloud Service, which allows customers to build their own blockchain network while Oracle manages the infrastructure behind it.
And in 2016, Microsoft also announced a partnership with R3 to help further develop its Blockchain as a Service offerings.
These partnerships may help businesses begin to tap the many potential uses of blockchain.
Despite the business value of blockchain, the technology remains murky for many executives.
To learn more about what blockchain is and its many applications, click here.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers 1.
On Friday, HPE announced its first Blockchain as a Service solution for enterprises, meant to help businesses deploy the distributed ledger technology more quickly and easily.
2.
The Mission Critical DLT solution was developed in partnership with R3, and is offered on HPE Integrity NonStop platforms.
It will be available in early 2018.
3.
The business value-add of blockchain is expected to grow to more than $176 billion by 2025, and to exceed $3.1 trillion by 2030, according to Gartner.
Image: iStockphoto/NicoElNino Keep up to date on all of the newest tech trends.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Despite workforce fears, enterprise senior executives don't believe that the rise of artificial intelligence (AI) will lead to job loss, according to a new report from Deloitte, released Monday.
Some 69% of executives leading cognitive adoption efforts said they expect minimal to no job loss due to AI-related projects in the next three years, the survey found.
What's more, 29% said they expect that new jobs will be created in that timeframe.
"There is a concern that 'the rise of the machines' will replace human workers, but we should look at how people and machines can work in collaboration as co-bots," Deloitte CEO Cathy Engelbert said in a press release.
"The ability to leverage new technologies to retool our workforce will ultimately lead to new opportunities to build high value skills for our workers."
Gartner also recently predicted that by 2020, AI will eliminate 1.8 million jobsbut that it will also create 2.3 million positions, driving a net gain of 500,000 new jobs.
SEE: Artificial Intelligence and IT: The good, the bad and the scary (Tech Pro Research) Cognitive technologies like AI are becoming a business imperative: 92% of executives said they believe cognitive technologies are an important part of their internal business processes, and 87% reported it will play a significant role in improving their products and services moving forward.
Overall, 76% of executives said they believe that AI and cognitive technologies will "substantially transform" their organizations.
And 90% said that they see these technologies playing a larger role in shaping company strategy moving forward, the report found.
In terms of financing these projects, more than one in three (37%) of the companies surveyed said they have invested $5 million or more in AI and cognitive technologies, with investments geared primarily toward information technology (64%), product development/R&D (44%), and customer service (40%).
Meanwhile, 73% of early adopters said they are exploring mature cognitive technologies, such as robotic process automation, while 70% said they are looking into statistical machine learning.
And 49% said they are using deep learning neural networks as well.
These early adopters are already seeing economic benefits from their use of AI and cognitive technologies, the report found: 83% of respondents reported moderate to substantial monetary returns.
Those who claimed to have seen the greatest benefits said that cognitive should be used for transformative change rather than incremental improvements.
But a majority of respondents said they feel more comfortable starting with "low hanging fruit" AI projects, or waiting a few more years for the technologies to mature more.
"Cognitive technologies are still maturing, but our study shows that early adopters are experiencing benefits, especially those that have jumped in with both feet," Jeff Loucks, executive director of Deloitte Services LP and Deloitte Center for Technology, Media and Telecommunications.
"The more experienced companies are, the more likely they are to see gains.
That should provide an incentive for others to get started."
Want to use this data in your next business presentation?
Feel free to copy and paste these top takeaways into your next slideshow.
69% of executives leading cognitive adoption efforts said they expect minimal to no job loss due to AI-related projects in the next three years.
-Deloitte, 2017 29% of executives said they expect that new jobs will be created due to AI in the next three years.
-Deloitte, 2017 76% of executives said they believe that AI and cognitive technologies will substantially transform their organizations.
-Deloitte, 2017 Image: iStockphoto/iLexx Keep up to date on all of the newest tech trends.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
More and more companies are hiring chief data officers (CDOs), as they race to drive competitive advantage and improve efficiency with better use of analytics.
With digital transformation efforts looming at many enterprises, the question remains: Should your company hire a CDO?
This year, 4,000 CDOs were employed in large organizations worldwideup from 1,000 in 2015 and just 400 in 2014, according to Gartner.
By 2019, 90% of large global companies will have an appointed CDO, Gartner predicts.
If you look at data and analytics leaders, directors, or in smaller companies, managers with data or analytics responsibilities, that number grows to about 135,000 people worldwide.
Notably, top performing companies are most likely to have someone in this position, according to Forrester research.
Of those with more than 10% revenue growth, 63% have a CDO.
SEE: Job description: Chief data officer (Tech Pro Research) "We're seeing exponential growth on this new title executive," said Gartner managing vice president Mario Faria.
"The better we get in using the data properly, and the better we use data to drive our decisions, the more mature our companies become, and our users start to demand more and more."
In nearly every company today you will find a person or a team working on data analytics, even at a basic level, Faria said.
As more workloads move to the cloud and companies realize they have tremendous amounts of data at their disposal, they have an opportunity to gain revenue and become more efficient by tapping those resources.
The CDO role CDOs tend to come from widely varied backgrounds, including IT, corporate strategy, marketing, and sales.
They increasingly originate from the business side, said Forrester principal analyst Jennifer Belissent.
Only about 9% of CDOs come from IT, according to a Gartner survey.
Surprisingly, 37% of all CDOs do not have a background on data or analytics, Gartner found.
CDOs have three main responsibilities: Data management, driving operational intelligence with analytics, and generating business value by monetizing data assets.
These professionals are also shifting in terms of the functions they perform within their organizations, Belissent said.
In previous years, CDOs were focused primarily on data management, governance, and protection, Belissent said.
"What we're seeing now is much more of a move away from closing off and protecting the data, and more into opening it up, making it more accessible, and looking to increase its use across the organization," she added, build out a sort of "analytic service bureau" to help other business units in the organization.
This might also include building a data science team for the business.
When a CDO first comes into the role, they should go to all of the different parts of the organization and identify areas where data analytics can help solve problems or meet needs, and work with business leaders on those projects, Belissent said.
Evangelizing the use of data across the organization, and how the organization can benefit from looking more deeply into data for insights on how to better serve customers or streamline operations, is a major part of the role as well.
"There's a lot of evangelism and education and communication about the value of data within the organization," Belissent said.
"That's part of the shift from breaking down files of data and the notion of only protecting it, to making it accessible for people to use to drive their business."
SEE: Big data policy (Tech Pro Research) Working with IT It's important for CIOs to understand that the CDO will help the IT department succeed, Faria said.
"We see a clear distinction and boundary between those two organizations," he added, as the CDO is more of a business role than a technical one.
"The CIO and the CDO should be partners together to help the business achieve its objectives."
CDOs are also advancing quickly in their organizations: By 2020, 50% of all CDOs will move on to another C-level position in the enterprise, Faria said.
The success of a CDO depends largely on the support they get from other company executives, Belissent said.
"Often it's about a key change within the organization, in terms of how the data is managed and governed and used," she added.
"Unless they have somebody who supports them when they say 'We want to have access to the data that your group might be sitting on,' they're going to struggle to fulfill their objective."
Companies should consider why they might want to bring on a CDO, Faria said.
For example, are you trying to bring a CDO to help with your risk management regulations and compliance?
Or are you trying to bring a CDO to act on opportunities related to efficiency or increase of a dividend?
Or, are you trying to bring a CDO to help generating more revenues from your clients, or help your company to expand into a new market?
"We are talking about a leader who's going to be building the links between data analytics, business process, and outcomes.
It's very, very important that before you bring someone on, for the business leaders to decide why they're bringing a leader," Faria said.
"That will help to promote that change."
Image: iStockphoto/chombosan Keep up to date on all of the latest leadership news.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Executive Briefing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
What you see on television does not usually depict what you see in real life.
Shows that involve hackers rarely reflect reality.
However, TV show Mr.
Robot comes close to accurately representing how developers and hackers really talk and act.
TechRepublic's Dan Patterson met with Mr.
Robot's cybersecurity advisor James Plouffe to get behind the scene details about how the show, set in 2015, accurately represents reality.
The show's producer and tech producer were very interested in portraying an accurate representation of what hackers are like in real life, so they brought in IT consultants and advisors, Plouffe said.
SEE: How to build a successful career in cybersecurity (TechRepublic) The writers of the show include scenes with characters that experience the same type of vulnerabilities people see in real life, such as Stagefright which targeted Android phones, and was a top security concern in 2015.
The characters also use true-to-life techniques and hardware.
One of the challenges that comes with writing a show like this is translating complex ideas into entertainment.
Plouffe explained how writers tend to have an idea of what they want to happen in an episode, then the tech consultants create pitches that include types of tactics that might be employed to make those situations happen.
Then, he said, theygo back and forth about how those tactics fit into the episode, and what needs to happen for those to take place.
Mr.
Robot uses authentic examples of cyberattacks and hacking, so that viewers can understand the reality of attacks, though they might not understand the tech behind it.
"As we live in a more, and more connected world, we do need to be a little bit more cautious about how we approach that," he said.
"I certainly hope that the show's attention to detail provides folks with a basis to think about how things really work.
I think the liability with certain depictions of hacking in Hollywood is that they're wildly inaccurate...or hacking is just portrayed very obliquely."
Stay up to date on all the latest cybersecurity threats.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cybersecurity Insider newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Software as a Service is often the first step companies take into the cloud.
But, today's cloud providers offer on-demand services for a wide range of business and IT functions.
We've moved beyond SasS, PaaS, and IaaS into an 'Everything as a Service' or XaaS world.
In their 2017 research report, Everything as a Service: Why companies are making the switch to SaaS, IaaS, PaaS, and more, Tech Pro Research (TechRepublic's sister site) outlined several trends in the "as-a-service" movement.
Businesses use 2-3 services on average and email is most often outsourced service Among the survey respondents, Tech Pro Research found that companies used an average of 2-3 cloud services for both IT operations and non-IT business functions.
The most popular service, which shouldn't come as a surprise, was email.
Productivity apps, such as word processing and spreadsheets were second, followed by video conferencing.
Within IT, the most often used services were datacenter and computing, backup and disaster recovery, network infrastructure, and databases.
Download the special report: The future of Everything as a Service (free PDF) Easier maintenance, lower costs, and increased speed drive cloud service adoption Three three critical concerns dominated the list of reasons companies made the jump to cloud services; maintenance, cost, and speed.
Half of respondents picked automatic maintenance as why they use external vendors instead of in-house IT.
Right behind that, 45 percent indicated that the cost of maintaining and deploying these services was less.
And the same number said that not only are deployments cheaper, but they're also faster.
Cloud providers solve problems in-house IT staff can't Money and maintenance were also on respondents' minds when Tech Pro Research asked them about the positive and negative experiences they'd had with cloud service providers.
Over half of respondents said their cloud providers "keep systems running so we don't have to worry about maintenance."
Not having to worry about disaster recovery and saving money, were also at the top of the list.
More interestingly however, businesses also reported that vendors are solving problems that in-house IT staff can't.
The most often reported negative outcomes were unresponsive customer service departments, constant vendor personnel turnover, and constant price increases.
Everything as a Service infographic and research report Tech Pro Research condensed many of the key findings from their everything as a service report into the infographic shown below.
You can also download the full report from TechRepublic and ZDNet's premium content site, Tech Pro Research.
The report contains more information such as which cloud vendors businesses are using most often for both business and IT functions.
Also see:
GoDaddy plans to offer two new Square integrations, the cloud platform company announced Thursday.
The integrations are designed to help SMBs with online and offline selling by only requiring one Square account to sell in both realms.
The first integration allows customers to pay businesses on GoCentral, GoDaddy's mobile website builder, for products using Square, according to a press release.
Users will be able to book appointments online through the second integration.
With this integration, service-based businesses will also be able to receive payments and sync their calendars with their clients, according to the release.
SEE: Building a practical chart of accounts: Two sample documents (Tech Pro Research) For both integrations, companies can connect their existing Square account to their GoDaddy website.
Business owners will only need one Square account to cover online and in-person accounts, simplifying money flow tracking for small businesses.
"Teaming up with Square will simplify the path to success for a wide range of small businesses from clothing and apparel makers to fitness trainers," Greg Goldfarb, vice president of commerce products at GoDaddy, said in the press release.
The announcement comes after Square announced a strong third quarter earlier this week.
While discussing the financial report, CEO Jack Dorsey said the company had been focused on helping sellers transition from online to in-person sales and vice versa.
The GoDaddy integrations may help that, as sellers who already have a Square account for physical sales do not need to set up anything else to sell online and accept payments.
The press release did not say when the integrations will be available.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers GoDaddy announced plans for two integrations with Square, both designed to simplify how customers can pay SMBs.
Customers will be able to pay businesses on GoDaddy through Square.
Service-based businesses will be able to book appointments and then sync their calendars with their clients.
Through the plan, SMBs only need one Square account to accept payments in-person and online, making it easier to keep track of payments.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Tech News You Can Use newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Monday GOP candidate Roy Moore should quit his Alabama race amid allegations he had sexual contact with a 14-year-old girl and pursued romantic relationships with other teenage girls decades ago.
(Nov. 13) AP DFJ Partner Steve Jurvetson speaks onstage during TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2017 on September 18, 2017 in San Francisco, California.
(Photo: Steve Jennings/Getty Images for TechCrunch) SAN FRANCISCO Steve Jurvetson, a prominent venture capitalist who serves on the boards of Elon Musks Tesla Motors and Space X, is leaving his post at Draper Fisher Jurvetson amid an internal investigation into allegations of sexual harassment.
He's also on leave from Tesla and SpaceX.
Jurvetson could not be immediately reached for comment.
In a Twitter post, he said: "I am leaving DFJ to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me."
I am leaving DFJ to focus on personal matters, including taking legal action against those whose false statements have defamed me.
Steve Jurvetson (@dfjsteve) November 13, 2017 "Steve Jurvetson is on a leave of absence from the SpaceX and Tesla boards pending resolution of these allegations," SpaceX communications director John Taylor said in an emailed statement.
Jurvetson's firm, Draper Fisher Jurveston (DFJ), said Jurvetson was leaving by "mutual agreement."
It announced Jurvetson's departure in a letter to its limited partners Monday.
"As of today and by mutual agreement, Steve Jurvetson will be leaving DFJ," the firm told USA TODAY in an emailed statement.
"DFJs culture has been, and will continue to be, built on the values of respect and integrity in all of our interactions.
We are focused on the success of our portfolio companies, as well as the long-term vision for the firm and will continue to operate with the highest professional standards."
DFJ opened an investigation into Jurvetson based on "indirect and second-hand allegations," the firm said last month.
Entrepreneur Keri Kukral alleged predatory behavior at the firm but did not name Jurvetson.
At the time she wrote on Facebook: "My situation was gray and personal not professional.
I have doubts that the behavior has stopped for others and have wondered for a long time how to warn people without damaging myself."
In a blog post two weeks ago, a DFJ partner, Heidi Roizen, said her firm had never received an official complaint alleging misconduct.
"During the summer this year, we heard about allegations of misconduct by one (and only one) of our partners from a third party.
We felt the responsible thing to do was to launch an independent investigation, and so we did," she wrote.
"In the past week, a single Facebook post also accused DFJ of having a culture that is predatory to women.
I dont need an investigation to state with certainty that this is patently wrong."
News of the investigation follows a national uproar over charges that powerful producer Harvey Weinstein for years sexually harassed women in Hollywood and a viral #MeToo movement on social media with women coming forward with their stories of sexual harassment.
A Silicon Valley sexual harassment scandal over the summer exposed tales of bad behavior by venture capitalists, two of whom, Dave McClure and Justin Caldbeck, resigned.
The removal of two prominent investors sent shock waves through Silicon Valley, where for years there were few consequences for sexist and predatory behavior.
News of Jurvetson's departure was first reported by technology news outlet Recode.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ACejBq
ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt (Photo: ADL, for USA TODAY) SAN FRANCISCO Executives from Facebook, Snapchat and other tech-oriented organizations will help the Anti-Defamation League develop guidelines aimed at better rooting out online hate speech.
The ADL's new Center for Technology and Society, which officially launched Monday at the group's Never is Now!
summit and is fueled by grants from eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, will lean on its new board members to develop strategies for social network platforms trying to tackle incendiary rhetoric in an open forum.
"Now more than ever, as anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, racism and other discrimination has exploded online, it's critical that we are bringing the best resources we can amass to this fight," CTS director Brittan Heller said in a statement.
More: Twitter vows new crackdown on abuse after Harvey Weinstein boycott More: Anti-extremist crackdown on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter only solves part of the problem More: Reddit bans Nazis, discussions that incite violence The board forms as rampant abuse on online platforms have left Facebook, Twitter and others scrambling to find ways to better patrol their respective sites.
For example, Reddit, which since its founding in 2005 has prided itself on remaining an open forum for discussion, recently moved to ban any subreddit, or micro-community, threads glorifying Nazism.
And just last week, Twitter halted its user verification program after being blasted for verifying Jason Kessler, who organized the "Unite the Right" protest in Charlottesville that resulted in the death of a protester.
The ADL's new center has been active since it was announced earlier this year at the South By Southwest tech conference in Austin.
The center was started with a $250,000 seed grant from the philanthropic investment firm Omidyar Network, which has pledged another $1.5 million to support the CTS.
The mission of the center is to "conduct cutting-edge research, issue reports, convene events, generate public awareness, and educate policymakers about legislation needed to stop cyber hate."
CTS board members include Shawn Henry, former FBI executive assistant director; Reddit founder and CEO Steve Huffman; James Joaquin, co-founder and managing director of Obvious Ventures; Aileen Lee, Cowboy Ventures; Matt Rogers, Nest founder and chief product officer; Facebook VP of Product Guy Rosen; and Whitney Wolfe, CEO of the dating app Bumble.
"Through the center, ADL is taking the fight against hate to the front lines of where it is today," ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt said in a statement.
"Fifty years ago, extremists were hiding behind hoods and burning crosses.
Today, they're hiding behind avatars and burning up Twitter."
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2id3bEG
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Amazon has greenlit the 'Lord of the Rings' TV series for a multi-season order Time Elijah Wood starred in the big-screen adaptation of J.R.R.
Tolkien's book trilogy, 'The Lord of the Rings,' which will now serve as the basis for an Amazon multi-season TV adaptation.
(Photo: PIERRE VINET, NEW LINE CINEMA) Hobbits, meet Amazon.
The famed creatures from J.R.R.
Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings will be featured in a TV series, as Amazon announced a multi-season production commitment Monday.
The Amazon Prime Video adaptation will focus on new stories in a prequel to The Fellowship of the Ring, the first of three fantasy novels in Tolkien's beloved Rings series.
The deal also includes a potential spinoff series at Amazon.
The project comes amid turnover in Amazon's top programming ranks in the wake of a harassment scandal, and as Amazon chief Jeff Bezos urged the division to find its own version of Game of Thrones, a massive hit for HBO that's also based on a beloved fantasy book series.
Peter Jackson made three blockbuster films based on the Rings novels, with the third, 2003's The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, winning 11 Oscars, including the one for Best Picture.
The original hobbits: Dominic Monaghan as Merry; Elijah Wood as Frodo; Billy Boyd as Pippin; and Sean Astin as Sam in 2001's 'Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring.'
(Photo: PIERRE VINET, NEW LINE CINEMA) The Lord of the Rings is a cultural phenomenon that has captured the imagination of generations of fans through literature and the big screen, Amazon scripted series chief Sharon Tal Yguado said in a statement.
We are thrilled to be taking The Lord of the Rings fans on a new epic journey in Middle Earth.
Amazon announced the deal after reaching an agreement with Tolkien's estate, which issued its own statement.
Sharon and the team at Amazon Studios have exceptional ideas to bring to the screen previously unexplored stories based on J.R.R.
Tolkiens original writings, said Matt Galsor, a representative of the Tolkien Estate and Trust and publisher HarperCollins.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE An exclusive behind-the-scenes look at the making of director Peter Jackson's "The Lord of the Rings" and "The Hobbit" trilogies.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2icfZel
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Steve Mollenkopf believes Qualcomms investment in the 'internet of things' positions them for unlimited potential.
Time A Qualcomm office on San Jose on Nov. 1, 2017 in San Jose, California.
Broadcom on Nov. 6, 2017 made an unsolicited $103 billion bid for the company.
(Photo: Justin Sullivan, Getty Images) Qualcomm is rejecting Broadcom's unsolicited $103 billion takeover proposal, saying the bid "significantly undervalues" the San Diego wireless telecommunications company.
Last week, Broadcom proposed the merger totaling $130 billion including debt it would assume amounting to the largest-ever technology acquisition, according to Dealogic.
The combined company would create a global communications tech giant with about $51 billion in annual revenue and major customers such as Apple.
At the time, some Wall Street analysts said Qualcomm might turn down the deal.
In a statement released Monday, Qualcomm executive chairman Paul Jacobs said, It is the Boards unanimous belief that Broadcoms proposal significantly undervalues Qualcomm relative to the Companys leadership position in mobile technology and our future growth prospects."
Qualcomm's board concluded that "Broadcoms proposal dramatically undervalues Qualcomm and comes with significant regulatory uncertainty," said Tom Horton, Qualcomm's presiding director, said in the company's statement.
Prior to making its bid for Qualcomm, Broadcom announced it would move its legal headquarters from Singapore to Delaware.
Broadcom currently has two corporate headquarters , one in San Jose, Calif., and another in Singapore, the home of chipmaker Avago Technologies, which acquired Broadcom last year but kept the Broadcom name.
Both companies are in the midst of other acquisitions, too.
Broadcom bid $5.5 billion last year for data center-connectivity company Brocade.
In October 2016, Qualcomm offered $38 billion for Dutch-based NXP, a major provider of global automotive semiconductors.
In making its offer for Qualcomm, Broadcom CEO Hock Tan said the transaction "will position the combined company as a global communications leader with an impressive portfolio of technologies and products."
However, Qualcomm seems prepared to move forward on its own -- or await what it considers a more suitable offer.
Qualcomm (QCI) shares were up more than 1% Monday to $65.32, while Broadcom (AVGO) shares were down less than 1% to $262.83.
More: Broadcom offers $103B to buy Qualcomm in union of two iPhone suppliers Follow USA TODAY reporter Mike Snider on Twitter: @MikeSnider.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ACVNsG
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Ambient computing appears to be in the near future.
Elizabeth Keatinge (@elizkeatinge) has more.
Buzz60 Want to try Alexa in your home?
The Dot is on sale right now!
(Photo: Amazon) What happens when the computers around you all but disappear?
Tiny sensors built into walls, household products, what you're wearing, and perhaps your own body will make computers invisible to the eye, but responsive to a gesture, voice, and perhaps your movement as you walk into a room.
It is still very early, but the era of ambient computing is slowly taking shape, whether in the form of the voice-driven smart speaker on your kitchen countertop, or via the IoT (Internet of Things) devices and appliances that are designed to blend into the background.
Its a vision fused by advances in artificial intelligence, speech recognition, natural language processing, machine learning and cloud computing.
More: The real cost of setting up a smart home Stakeholders include the giants of tech: Amazon, Apple, Google, IBM, Microsoft, and Samsung, among them.
But disruption may also come from companies not yet on the publics radar.
The interesting ones will be the Ubers of the IoT and the ambient world, says Daryl Cromer, vice president of subsystem research at Lenovo Research.
And thats what were still looking for.
No one is suggesting that screens and keyboards are going to go away entirely, or that youll stop reaching for the smartphone.
A demo of the Bravo Tango Brain Training app of Google Home.
(Photo: Courtesy of National Geographic) We still believe devices will play a huge part.
They do certain tasks better than anything else, (and) provide a level of privacy, convenience and security that cannot be matched, Cromer says.
But some of the regular features of our daily life may get computer-driven without the tap of a finger.
Imagine this: Your autonomous car pulls into your driveway and the garage door opens, the front door unlocks, and the lights inside the house flip on.
The temperature is already set to your liking, and the ideal music for the moment starts to play, tuned to your very mood.
Youre reminded of a conference call you have to jump on an hour later, and are told its time to take your medicine.
Invisible sensors, feeding your movements and routines into cloud-computing servers where artificial intelligence systems absorb and refine the directions they give to the smart devices, will help make such scenarios happen.
The computers are watching Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Stephen Hawking says, artificial intelligence will eventually become so advanced it will "outperform humans."
Nathan Rousseau Smith (@FantasticMrNate) reports.
Buzz60 This ambient computing future is straight out of the world sci-fi writers envisioned for us decades ago from leaps in communication and medicine to the potential for Big Brother-type surveillance.
Facebook is working on tech that will let you hear with your skin, an advance that could help people with hearing disorders.
Inventor and futurist Ray Kurzweil of Google predicts that in the 2030s, we will have devices that are as powerful as your cellphones today that are the size of blood cells, to keep us healthy.
Theres a perilous side, too.
Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk and physicist Stephen Hawking have raised alarms that this artificial intelligence-driven future could lead to World War III, a dark cataclysm for human civilization.
Its imperative that the companies pushing ambient computing pay heed to privacy and security.
The specter of a government or organization exploiting these smart, data-hungry devices looms large.
Ambient intelligence is likely to expand through the continuing widespread deployment of sensors into devices that are capable of not only gathering information but reporting it back to systems run by the tech giants.
Vast amounts of data will reside in the cloud, while devices need to have local intelligence as well.
Battery life is crucial.
If you have to think about charging something it becomes less habitual, says Dave Limp, senior vice president for devices & services at Amazon.com.
In an ambient computing world, the place where it works best is where its always on.
Thats why I dont think weve quite figured out ambient computing on mobile yet.
Eventually, more devices and sensors will talk to one another, and begin to understand your intent or objective.
Services constructed around such objectives will presumably follow.
Amazons push into an ambient intelligent environment is built around Alexa, the digital voice inside the companys Echo-branded speakers.
More: Amazon's Alexa is seemingly everywhere except an Amazon phone More: Microsoft-Harmon answer to Amazon Echo is promising, pricey, and plays catch-up More: Google Home, Amazon Echo, Apple HomePod or all 3?
How to choose a smart speaker More: Like USA TODAY Money and Tech on Facebook We do envision this world where Alexa can be everywherein devices we make, in devices third parties make, in homes, in coffeemakers, (and) dishwashers, says Toni Reid, vice president of Alexa Experience & Echo Devices at Amazon.com.
We definitely think that voice is the future of how we control technology.
Use your SmartThings hub to monitor for severe weather warnings.
(Photo: SmartThings) Google is pursuing a similar strategy around the Google Assistant and Google Home product line.
Apples path includes Siri, an upcoming HomePod smart speaker, and the companys HomeKit smart-home platform.
Samsung owns the SmartThings line of smart home products and has teamed up through its Harman Kardon subsidiary with Microsoft on a speaker that uses Microsoft's Cortana digital assistant.
I think ambient in the home is going to take a lot of different forms but its going to be driven, especially for the next several years, around smart speakers and their extensions, said Bob O'Donnell, the president and chief analyst at TECHnalysis Research.
Voice by its nature is invisible, but the results of your vocal request need not be.
Amazon is also placing Alexa into products with screens, including the companys Echo Show and Echo Spot speakers, as well as its Fire TV streaming devices and tablets.
Amazon Fire TV with voice remote.
(Photo: Amazon) Removing screens pose difficult computer science problems, says Rishi Chandra, a Google vice president who is general manager of Google Home products.
The advantage of a UI on a phone is it tells you what it can do (and) it sets constraintsThe moment you take that away its like, `oh great this thing can do anything I want it to do' and you start throwing things at it.
Were finding people asking crazy questions and its great because thats the bar that we have to hit.
Making AI assistants more human Another goal is to make our exchanges with the digital assistants more conversational.
Machines need to be able to look at my face and say, `Am I happy or sad?
and based on that decide what is the right thing to do, said Jamshid Vayghan, the global chief technology officer at IBM Global Business Services.
Does that mean Alexa will get testy if youre short with her?
Probably not.
But you can imagine scenarios where based on your level of frustration maybe our responses change, Amazon's Reid says.
Amazon recently launched Alexa Routines that you can create from the Alexa app on your phone, a series of customizable actions.
A simple way to start is with an Alexa, start my day command that may include having the speaker report the weather and traffic, play the news, and turn on the lights in your smart home.
iRobot Roomba 980.
(Photo: iRobot) Besides their main chore of vacuuming your floors, some of iRobot's Roomba robots can automatically create a map of your home, for now to help the Roomba clean, but eventually factoring in lights, sensors, and such, and helping pave the way for smart home services.
So we can automatically do that logical programming for you in a way that the consumer is not burdened, says iRobot vice president of technology Chris Jones.
Jones insists user privacy is protected.
For now you can control some Roombas by voice by linking them to Amazon Alexa or the Google Assistant.
iRobot CEO Colin Angle took some heat for a July Reuters story suggesting the company could sell map data to Apple, Amazon or Alphabet (Google).
iRobot disputed that account, which was corrected.
iRobot says it does not share customer mapping data.
Ambient computing extends well beyond the home too.
Samsung, for example, is working with partners on pilot projects to embed cameras and sensors in brick and mortar stores, with the goal of closing the knowledge gap between a shoppers journey online to one in a physical location.
Without capturing personally identifiable information, Samsung can track shoppers as they move through a store, determining where they spend their dwell time, what products theyre looking at and how theyre interacting within the physical space.
Through facial recognition, Samsung can determine a shoppers gender and approximate age.
If you walk up to a wall of shoes, it doesnt know which shoes you took off the shelf, but it does know that youre standing in front of running shoes versus hiking books or dress shoes versus flip flops, says Ted Brodheim, a Samsung vice president for vertical business.
Tech may be out of sight but it should never be too far out of mind.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i9ZH5C
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The Microsoft co-founder invested $50 million in the Dementia Discovery Fund.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook Bill Gates speaks ahead of former U.S. President Barack Obama at the Gates Foundation Inaugural Goalkeepers event on September 20, 2017 in New York City.
(Photo: Yana Paskova, Getty Images) Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates is ready for his next endeavor: joining the fight against Alzheimer's disease.
Gates revealed Monday that he invested $50 million in the Dementia Discovery Fund, which is working on new approaches to treating dementia.
Gates also plans to invest an additional $50 million in start-ups working on Alzheimer's research, according to an interview with Reuters.
"Its a miracle that people are living so much longer, but longer life expectancies alone are not enough," wrote Gates in a blog post.
"People should be able to enjoy their later yearsand we need a breakthrough in Alzheimers to fulfill that."
Gates said this is a personal investment, not one offered through the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which has invested in research to stop the spread of diseases such as HIV.
Gates said he spent the last year learning about the disease, speaking with researchers and other experts about what they need to fight Alzheimer's.
Gates said progress is needed in five areas, including better use of data and a better understanding about how the disease unfolds.
Gates is familiar with the impact Alzheimer's has on families, both financially and emotionally.
Gates cites a family history with the disease.
"I know how awful it is to watch people you love struggle as the disease robs them of their mental capacity, and there is nothing you can do about it," Gates wrote.
"It feels a lot like youre experiencing a gradual death of the person that you knew."
According to the Alzheimer's Association, the disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the U.S. More than 5 million Americans live with Alzheimer's.
By 2050, the number could rise to 16 million.
Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ACOFwK
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Call of Duty Nazi Zombies trailer Time A screen shot from D-Day landing mission in the single-player story campaign of the video game 'Call of Duty: WWII.'
(Photo: Activision) Call of Duty: WWII brings the multibillion-dollar video game franchise full circle.
While the most recent editions of Activision's series have been set in futuristic settings, this new blockbuster release ( just out, $59 and up, for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PCs, ages 17-up) plants you in a platoon fighting its way across Europe in World War II.
Like the more than a dozen previous Call of Duty games, Call of Duty: WWII is a first-person shooter.
So you get to line up Nazis in your gun sights on Normandy beach, within occupied France and in Germany.
Playing out like the Band of Brothers miniseries, COD: WWII takes players on an action-packed history lesson through the last year of fighting in the European theater.
Follow USA TODAY Tech on Facebook For younger gamers, this game may be the first to put them in the World War II trenches.
But for longtime fans of the popular series, this marks a welcome return to Call of Duty's roots.
A screen shot from the single-player story campaign of the video game 'Call of Duty: WWII.'
(Photo: Tommy Cinquegrano for Activision) The first Call of Duty game, released in 2003 for Windows PCs, was based in World War II and let players fight their way through D-Day and the Battle of the Bulge.
Two sequels were also set in World War II, but subsequent releases have moved along the timeline to include action in the Vietnam War, the Cold War era, the near future and sci-fi futuristic settings.
Along the way, Call of Duty has appeared on a battery of platforms including Macintosh PCs and video game consoles from Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 to today's Xbox One and PS4.
But I have fond memories of those initial World War II-based PC releases.
I remember the crew at Infinity Ward bringing Call of Duty 2 to my home in 2005 and seeing the battlefield unfold before my eyes on the PC display.
A screen shot from 'Call of Duty 2,' released in 2005.
(Photo: Activision) I've been a Call of Duty devotee ever since.
Over the years, I've often traveled across the country to play the game before it's released in stores, ensconced in a hotel with a few dozen other video game critics and journalists.
This time, I holed up in my man cave for several multi-hour stints over the last week, watching on a Samsung big-screen TV and playing on an Xbox One S. While I've enjoyed Call of Duty's visions of a militarized future, this journey to the past ranks among the series' best.
You play as "Red" Daniels, a U.S. Army private about to cram into a Higgins boat for the D-Day assault.
The repartee among your squad mates draws you in just as it does in the best war films like Saving Private Ryan.
And there's plenty of drama in the squad.
Transformers star Josh Duhamel provides the likeness, voice and motions for Sgt.
Pierson, who doesn't see eye to eye with Lt. Turner -- a command dynamic reminiscent of Vietnam War film Platoon.
Actor Josh Duhamel (Transformers) plays Sgt.
William Pierson in the single-player story campaign of the video game 'Call of Duty: WWII.'
(Photo: Activision) Beyond the story, the visuals and challenging missions also make this game an operation worth embarking on.
Developer Sledgehammer Games with previous releases Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare and COD: Modern Warfare 3 under its belt has crafted a game with movie-quality imagery from the views of the ocean during the initial beach landing to the finely-detailed German cities and snowy forest during the Battle of the Bulge.
Shots and explosions engulf your character as you try to advance on the beach at Normandy.
Later, Daniels mans an anti-aircraft gun to shoot down German fighters.
Also ahead: a challenging cat and mouse game between your Sherman tank and enemy Tiger and Panzer tanks.
Even a couple turns behind the wheel of a Jeep prove stressful.
And there's a tense sniper mission during which you'll definitely feel the pressure to, in true American Sniper-style, take out a German soldier manning a flamethrower before he reaches your buddies.
A screenshot from the video game 'Call of Duty: WWII,' which is out Nov. 3 for Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and Windows PCs.
(Photo: Activision) The majority of Call of Duty: WWII's main characters are white men -- including Daniels, the primary soldier you play as -- but there's some diversity in the supporting cast.
In one stealth mission, you take the role of a vengeance-seeking female member of the French resistance.
In another situation, a few of your crew members give some guff to an African-American officer, who issues orders and leads missions heroically.
I'm not the only one who reported for duty with COD: WWII.
Activision says the first three days of its sales surpassed $500 million, surpassing the openings of hit movies such as Wonder Woman and Thor: Ragnarok.
Of course, the video game costs much more than a movie ticket.
But in addition to the story campaign (which can be replayed on more challenging levels), you also get a multiplayer game that will be a favorite for much of the next year, and the fun co-op Zombies game.
But beyond the fun that Call of Duty: WWII delivers, it also provides a priceless testament to those of the Greatest Generation who fought in World War II at a time when few veterans of the war remain.
More: Five things we learned about 'Call of Duty: WWII' More: Xbox One X: Worth the $499 if you plan to buy a 4K TV Follow USA TODAY reporter Mike Snider on Twitter: @MikeSnider.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ibH69a
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE A UK artist named Jackie Charley revealed Facebook barred her from selling some Christmas cards, including one bearing a robin redbreast.
Buzz60's Elizabeth Keatinge (@elizkeatinge) has more.
Buzz60 A robin sits on a branch as it is blown around by winds in Woolacombe, England.
(Photo: Matt Cardy, Getty Images) LONDON The quintessentially British holiday scene of a Christmas card featuring a robin redbreast in the snow was blocked from sale by Facebook after it was deemed too risqu.
Jackie Charley, the artist behind the picture, posted the image as well as others of a squirrel and a stag on her Facebook page late last month along with the description making history.
"Hilariously, Facebook has blocked my Christmas cards from becoming a product in my shop due to their shameful, sexual nature! "
she wrote.
"It looks like we didn't approve your item because we don't allow the sale of adult items or services (e.g.
sexual enhancement items or adult videos).
Please judge for yourself!
(Can't stop laughing!)
And if you'd like a pack of six at 5.99 plus postage and packaging let me know.
Facebook blocked the image of the red and orange-chested bird when Charley tried to upload it to her crafts page, the Guardian reported.
The 52-year-old artist, who lives in Scotland, said: Theres obviously nothing in the images themselves which is inappropriate, the Guardian said.
Similarly, there were no trigger words used in the cards descriptions that Im aware of.
For instance, the robin card was simply called Robin, not Robin Redbreast as some people have wondered.
The ban was lifted after the incident garnered media attention.
More: Facebook reinstates iconic photo of 'napalm girl' More: Facebook launches Facebook Local, with some Yelp-like features In a statement, Facebook said: Our team processes millions of images each week, and occasionally we incorrectly prohibit content, as happened here.
We approved Jackies post as soon as we became aware of our mistake, and are very sorry for the inconvenience caused.
It wasn't the first time Facebook blocked an image under controversial circumstances.
A photo of a 16th-century statue of Neptune, the Roman god of the sea, naked and holding a trident in the Piazza del Nettuno in the Italian city of Bologna was blocked for being sexually explicit earlier this year when writer Elisa Barberi tried to post it on her Facebook page, according to media reports.
Last year, the social network reinstated the iconic, "Napalm Girl" photo of a naked screaming girl fleeing a chemical attack during the Vietnam War after the editor of a Norwegian newspaper wrote an open letter to Mark Zuckerberg, accusing him of "abusing your power" by removing it.
After hearing from our community, we looked again at how our Community Standards were applied in this case.
An image of a naked child would normally be presumed to violate our Community Standards, and in some countries might even qualify as child pornography.
In this case, we recognize the history and global importance of this image in documenting a particular moment in time," Facebook said in a statement.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ibyv6z
Generation Investment Management's chairperson Al Gore delivers a speech during the 2017 Web Summit in Lisbon on November 9, 2017.
Concerns about eroding privacy on Internet-connected devices ran high this year.
(Photo: PATRICIA DE MELO MOREIRA/AFP Getty) LISBON An annual gathering of techies and pundits that often celebrates technologys possibilities was a little sadder and maybe wiser after a year thats revealed the weaknesses of many digital institutions to human abuse.
Privacyboth its inadequacy and the mischief made possible by a lack of itfigured heavily at Web Summit this year.
I think for a very long time in the U.S., we were prepared to accept innovation without holding it accountable for consequences, Federal Trade Commission commissioner Terrell McSweeny said on a panel Thursday.
I think thats changing.
She has some ideas on how to bring more power to consumers.
During a brief interview at Washington National Airport Friday, McSweeny, who was appointed to the FTC by President Obama, voiced her hope for a serious conversation on privacy."
She put in a request for one feature: more data-portability options to take our information out of Web services and take that business elsewhere.
It would make it easier for us to move our data around if we werent happy with a service, or if we werent happy with how a service was securing our data, she told USA TODAY.
Thats true.
But its also something that many sites seem in no rush to offer.
For some generations, a certain amount of privacy is, I think, gone, said Mozilla executive chairwoman Mitchell Baker in a talk Thursday.
But the head of the non-profit behind the Firefox browser suggested that newfound interest in how detailed tracking online can abet large-scale propaganda campaigns could lead to reform of what she called the attention economy.
Said Baker: What were learning about is how easy the attention economy makes it to manipulate people, that may be the thing that forces us to change.
More: How do Facebook ads target you?
More: Russia exploited race divisions on Facebook.
More black staffers, diversity could have have helped.
More: Facebook's Zuckerberg says he's 'dead serious' about Russia, warns security spending will hurt profits More: See the fake Facebook ads Russians ran on Clinton, guns, race, Christianity One of the less popular speakers offered attendees a reminder of the effectiveness of online advertisingas seen in U.S. election results that stunned conference attendees last year.
"We needed to go out and find people, said Trump campaign digital-ads director Brad Parscale.
Facebook allowed us to do that in alarming numbers very fast."
Parscale, however, rejected the notion that Russian use of the same targeting technologies on Facebook made any difference in the outcome.
Brad Parscale, digital director, Donald J. Trump Presidential Campaign, speaks on the third day of the 7th Web Summit in Lisbon, Portugal, November 8, 2017.
(Photo: EPA-EFE/MIGUEL A. LOPES) "I don't want Russia or any foreign entity to meddle in our election, he said.
However, I think the scale and the scope of it was pretty tiny."
The highest-ranking Facebook executive to speak here wound up underscoring the depth of the companys knowledge of its users when asked about the persistent rumor that the social networks apps listen clandestinely to its users conversations.
In an onstage interview Tuesday afternoon, Messenger product chief Stan Chudnovsky said it does no such thing.
Instead, he said, its ads seem uncannily accurate because we dont realize how much data Facebook collects by the virtue of people spending a lot of time on Facebook.
To get a sense of hope for progress on privacy from Summit speakers, it helped to be European.
A sweeping directive called the General Data Protection Regulation (GPDR), going into effect across the EU in May, will grant customers a host of new powers, including the right to demand that a site erase data its collected about them.
The GDPR will also require sites to provide the data portability McSweeny seeksalthough U.S.-based sites doing business in the EU would face no requirement to extend the same courtesy to their American customers.
Cambridge Analytica's chief executive officer Alexander Nix gives an interview during the 2017 Web Summit in Lisbon on November 9, 2017.
(Photo: PATRICIA DE MELO MOREIRA/AFP/Getty Images) The CEO of a leading data broker widely creditedor hatedfor providing the Trump campaign with an immense database of U.S. voters professed his support for those principles.
"People, I think, are beginning to get quite fed up with large companies harvesting their data," Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix said Thursday.
They want to be able to see some return on the data thats being used."
But in the U.S., no such law seems likely to happen anytime soon.
That leaves individual users to find their own forms of self-help.
That could include using a browser like Apples Safari that disables some forms of Web tracking.
Or it could include cutting down on the time they spend at the likes of Facebook.
(Disclosures: I moderated five panels at Web Summit, in return for which the organizers are covering most of my travel costs.
I also write for Yahoo Finance, a sibling site of Yahoo News.)
Rob Pegoraro is a tech writer based out of Washington, D.C. To submit a tech question, e-mail Rob at rob@robpegoraro.com.
Follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/robpegoraro.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i7bfXu
(Photo: Apple) In the 10 days since it has gone on sale, Apple's new $999 iPhone X has received plenty of praise for its screen, cameras and new features like Face ID facial recognition.
One part of Apple's latest iPhone, however, has been a bit more divisive: The "notch."
Otherwise known as the black bar that breaks up the top of the phone's 5.8-inch display, the notch holds the front camera and sensors for the iPhone X's Face ID feature and is a necessity given that Apple has removed the iPhone's traditional bezels that previously housed the phone's front camera components.
The design decision has drawn the ire of some users online and even has become the butt of a new Samsung ad that pokes fun at ten years of the iPhone.
More: Samsung pokes fun at putting iPhones in a bowl of rice in latest ad More: I've had an iPhone X all week.
Here's what's easier and what's still a struggle More: Follow USA TODAY Money and Tech on Facebook But to paraphrase an Apple ad, there's an app that can help.
At least partially.
Called "Notch Remover," developer Axiem Systems created a 99 cents app designed to help hide the notch on your iPhone X's home and lock screens by adding a simple black bar atop your wallpapers to better blend the notch and display.
The Notch Remover app for the iPhone X.
(Photo: Axiem Systems) The app has already shot up Apple's App Store charts, rising to 14 on the Apple's "Top Paid Apps" list and the top spot amongst utilities.
I downloaded the app and it more or less worked as advertised, though for me the notch has never been a problem on the home screen and I usually only notice it when watching videos at full screen, something this app can't change.
While some people are downloading the app thinking it will "fix" the notch issue and prevent the iPhone X's black bar from interrupting the display, it is important to note this app only helps with the home and lock screen.
It will not remove the notch when watching videos, browsing the web or using other apps.
For that type of "fix," Apple will likely have to make more system-wide changes to its iOS software.
But whether Apple will do something like that remains to be seen.
For now, it appears the company is fully embracing the notch-- not just for the iPhone X but as the style for new iPhones going forward.
A new report on Monday from noted Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, first spotted by MacRumors, points to Apple releasing three new large-screened iPhones in 2018 with displays ranging from 5.8-inches (the same size as the iPhone X) all the way up to a mammoth 6.5-inch display.
And all three devices are said to keep the notch.
Follow Eli Blumenthal on Twitter @eliblumenthal Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AFhetf
The best Black Friday deals you can get right now (Photo: Reviewed) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Black Friday may still be on the horizon, but there are loads of great deals on fantastic products all month long.
We firmly believe that there's no such thing as a good deal on a bad product, so weve been hunting down the best sales, discounts, and bargains on electronics, home goods, toys, and more for weeks.
And now the first day of sales is in full swing.
Well be updating this post continuously throughout the month, so pin this tab to your browser or leave it open on your phone and check back often for more great ways to save this holiday season.
Something missing that you swore was there before?
That means the deal is no longer available.
These sales move fast, so you should too.
Check out all the best deals on everything from TVs and laptops to cookware and home appliances to toys and games and everything in between: The Best Deals So Far Bose QuietComfort 25 Over-Ear Wired Headphones$179.99 on Amazon (Save $120) : This is the best price we've ever seen on these awesome headphones from a brand that always exceeds our expectations and aces our lab tests.
They are wired, so be sure to specify if you need the iPhone lightning connection or not.
: This is the best price we've ever seen on these awesome headphones from a brand that always exceeds our expectations and aces our lab tests.
They are wired, so be sure to specify if you need the iPhone lightning connection or not.
Instant Pot DUO60 7-in-1 Pressure Cooker$79.99 on Amazon (Save $15) : This is by far the most popular cooking tool of the year, and a reader favorite.
And with the early deal, you can get one in time to make cooking Thanksgiving dinner a less stressful affair.
This is by far the most popular cooking tool of the year, and a reader favorite.
And with the early deal, you can get one in time to make cooking Thanksgiving dinner a less stressful affair.
TCL 55-inch Roku Smart 4K TV$399.99 on Amazon (Save $50): The #1 best-seller on Amazon for LED and LCD TVs is a great budget buy for anyone who wants a 4K TV but doesn't want to spend their life savings on a high-end model, especially when you can save an extra $50 of the regular $450 price.
It does fall short when it comes to HDR, so if high-dynamic range is important to you, hold off.
But otherwise, it's a perfectly good 4K option.
The #1 best-seller on Amazon for LED and LCD TVs is a great budget buy for anyone who wants a 4K TV but doesn't want to spend their life savings on a high-end model, especially when you can save an extra $50 of the regular $450 price.
It does fall short when it comes to HDR, so if high-dynamic range is important to you, hold off.
But otherwise, it's a perfectly good 4K option.
Sur La Table Cookware from Major BrandsUp to 65% off : Someone on your list love cooking?
Treat them to a new piece of high-end cookware from the likes of All-Clad, Le Creuset, Wolf Gourmet, and a few others, all on sale from Sur La Table.
See something from Sur La Table that's not on sale?
Use the code " FRIEND17 " to get 20% off anything that's not on sale or on clearance, now through Nov. 13. : Someone on your list love cooking?
Treat them to a new piece of high-end cookware from the likes of All-Clad, Le Creuset, Wolf Gourmet, and a few others, all on sale from Sur La Table.
See something from Sur La Table that's not on sale?
Use the code " " to get 20% off anything that's not on sale or on clearance, now through Nov. 13.
Technivorm Moccamaster Drip Coffee Maker$229.99 on Massdrop (Save $89): This is the best drip coffee maker we've ever tested, and it rarely goes on sale.
If you want to wow your guests this holiday season, brew them the best coffee they've ever had at home.
TVs and TV Accessory Deals LG 43-inch Smart 4K TV$279.99 from Best Buy (Save $150): We haven't seen prices this low on this TV unless it's refurbished.
While we haven't tested this model, user reviews on Amazon point to it being a great model.
We haven't seen prices this low on this TV unless it's refurbished.
While we haven't tested this model, user reviews on Amazon point to it being a great model.
TCL 30-inch Roku Smart LED TV$169.99 on Amazon (Save $30) : This best-selling LED TV may only be 720p, but it'd be perfect for a youngster's bedroom, a guest room, or even in the kitchen, especially at this price.
: This best-selling LED TV may only be 720p, but it'd be perfect for a youngster's bedroom, a guest room, or even in the kitchen, especially at this price.
Fire TV Stick and Echo Dot Bundle$69.98 on Amazon (Save $20): Sick of on-screen keyboards and clunky remotes?
The Fire TV with Alexa makes it easy to track down the shows you want to watch.
And why not get an Echo Dot for less while you're at it?
This deal lasts through Nov. 11, so you've got time to decide if it's right for you or a loved one.
Electronics and Camera Deals Kitchen and Cooking Deals Smart Home Deals Home Appliance Deals Home Improvement and Cleaning Deals DeWalt Power Tool AccessoriesSave 20% when you buy 2 or 30% when you buy 3 on Amazon : Give the best gift basket ever to your tool-loving loved one.
With everything from sets of drill bits, saw attachments and screwdrivers bits to saw blades, grinding wheels, and more, you're bound to find the perfect assortment and save!
Give the best gift basket ever to your tool-loving loved one.
With everything from sets of drill bits, saw attachments and screwdrivers bits to saw blades, grinding wheels, and more, you're bound to find the perfect assortment and save!
We've got a few more exclusive offers coming up this month on some of our favorite robot vacuums, so come back for those soon!
Health and Beauty Deals Harry Josh Pro Tools Hair Dryer$199.99 from DermStore (Save $150) : The best hair dryer we've ever tested would make a great gift for anyone who values a good blowout, especially at this price.
The best hair dryer we've ever tested would make a great gift for anyone who values a good blowout, especially at this price.
Oral-B Pro 6000$109.97 on Amazon (save $20 with a coupon) : This awesome electric toothbrush is already on sale from the average price of $150, but you can save an additional $20 on Amazon when you clip the coupon.
This is the perfect gift for someone who puts an emphasis on their health, but may not splurge on themselves as much as they should.
This awesome electric toothbrush is already on sale from the average price of $150, but you can save an additional $20 on Amazon when you clip the coupon.
This is the perfect gift for someone who puts an emphasis on their health, but may not splurge on themselves as much as they should.
Wet n Wild Liquid Catsuit Matte Liquid Lipstick$3.74+ on Amazon: This may sound crazy, but this drugstore lipstick outperformed 12 other leading and high-end brands.
We love it!
And it's super cheap.
Perfect for a ladies' gift exchange or to grow your own collection.
Toys and Games More: Best apps to find Black Friday deals Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 Is Black Friday no longer relevant?
| 1:01 There probably wont be much of a frenzy at the mall this upcoming Black Friday.
Veuer's Natasha Abellard(@NatashaAbellard) has the story.
Buzz60 1 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 5 tips for finding the best deals on Amazon this holiday season | 1:06 Before you make a purchase on Amazon you should follow these tips.
Reviewed.com / Jeremy Stamas 2 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 Target is giving its employees a little break this Black Friday | 0:38 Target is going to be giving its employees a little break this Black Friday.
Buzz60 3 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 Everything you need to know for top trends and Black Friday | 0:54 Experts pointed out the top trends for Black Friday this year.
Buzz60 4 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 $2K Tiffany dog bowl could be just the thing for your privileged pooch | 0:59 How do you know if a dog is spoiled?
If you own this dog dish from Tiffany's.
Keri Lumm (@thekerilumm) reports.
Buzz60 5 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 Apps to score the best Black Friday, holiday shopping deals | 2:27 Columnist Marc Saltzman runs through the apps that will help you save money while shopping.
Marc Saltzman, Special for USA TODAY 6 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 These stores will stay closed on Thanksgiving | 1:16 Here are some stores that will be closed on Thanksgiving Day according to a leading deals website.
Buzz60 7 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 Use Amazon?
Black Friday deals are already showing up!
| 0:34 Forget about waiting until AFTER Thanksgiving for Black Friday deals!
On Amazon, you can take advantage of blowout prices right now!
Wochit 8 of 9 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE BLACK FRIDAY AND CYBER MONDAY SURVIVAL GUIDE 2017 Amazon, Walmart and Target: What retailer really saves you money?
| 1:00 Online Shopping is easier than ever, but is it cheaper?
Buzz60 9 of 9 Last VideoNext Video Is Black Friday no longer relevant?
5 tips for finding the best deals on Amazon this holiday season Target is giving its employees a little break this Black Friday Everything you need to know for top trends and Black Friday $2K Tiffany dog bowl could be just the thing for your privileged pooch Apps to score the best Black Friday, holiday shopping deals These stores will stay closed on Thanksgiving Use Amazon?
Black Friday deals are already showing up!
Amazon, Walmart and Target: What retailer really saves you money?
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2iRjI3Y
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE See how Apple's new facial recognition system works in real life.
USA TODAY A conductive model of a finger, used to spoof a fingerprint ID system.
Created by Prof. Anil Jain, a professor of computer science at Michigan State University and expert on biometric technology.
(Photo: Anil Jain) SAN FRANCISCO Your shiny new smartphone may unlock with only your thumbprint, eye or face.
But it turns out you don't need to be alive to get past this unique security barrier, opening new frontiers for individual privacy and law enforcement.
The FBI is struggling to gain access to the iPhone of Texas church gunman Devin Kelley, who killed 25 people in a shooting rampage.
The devastating tragedy has unearthed a gruesome idiosyncrasy of modern biometric technology: a living person isn't necessary to unlock many devices.
It turns out the agency likely could have unlocked Kelley's phone with his thumbprint, if he had enabled Touch ID to unlock it and officials had done so within 48 hours of Kelley's death by his own hand.
More: FBI has Devin Kelley's iPhone.
But it can't unlock it, obscuring clues to Texas shooter More: Texas church shooting: Who is Devin Kelley?
That time limit passed and the phone remains locked, but it raises a question few buyers of the latest iPhone or Samsung typically consider does someone need to be alive for today's increasingly common biometric recognition systems to work?
In many situations they don't, said Anil Jain, a professor of computer science at Michigan State University and expert on biometric technology.
Biometrics has to do with body measurements.
In computer circles its about using specific individual body measurements as a way to confirm identity.
These include fingerprints to open phones and computers and facial recognition software that can now open PCs and Macs.
Beyond computers, some very sophisticated secure entryway systems make use of iris recognition, hand geometry and voice recognition.
In the case of the iPhone that belonged to Kelley, the limiting factor was the 48-hour clock on how long a fingerprint can be used to unlock the phone.
This presumes Kelley had Touch ID enabled on his phone, which the FBI has not confirmed.
However about 80% of iPhone users do, according to Apple.
Touch ID has existed on all iPhone since the 5S was released in 2013 until the iPhone X, which replaces the Touch ID fingerprint with facial recognition.
Forty-eight hours after the last time an iPhone is unlocked with a fingerprint, the fingerprint function stops working and the user is required to tap in their passcode.
If the FBI had tried in that 48-hour period, would it have worked?
A human finger used to create a conductive model of a finger that was capable of spoofing a fingerprint ID system.
Created by Prof. Anil Jain, a professor of computer science at Michigan State University and expert on biometric technology.
(Photo: Anil Jain) Decomposition and fingerprints Probably, said Jain, depending on how decomposed Kelley's body was.
A rotting body changes shape, including the digits, which distorts the fingerprints.
How fast the body rots depends on where it was found or stored.
Body parts under water and in very hot climate will decompose much faster, Jain said.
A study done in 2016 at Oak Ridge National Laboratory found that both iris and fingerprint biometric data could be obtained from bodies up to four days after death in warmer seasons and for as many as 50 days in winter.
Capacitive sensors The other hurdle is having something that the fingerprint scanner can read.
Some older systems used optical scanners, which were relatively easy to spoof.
Most systems today use capacitive systems which use the electrical properties of the human skin to build up a highly specific digital map of the ridges and valleys of the finger.
Despite that, there have been reports of people making simple dental mold models of fingers to reproduce exact print pattern and using them to open smart phones.
So it might have been possible for the FBI to simply make a cast of Kelley's finger to attempt to open his phone.
More sophisticated systems are harder to spoof and generally require a living digit, as after death the conductive property of the skin is quickly lost.
But it can be accomplished by making a conductive copy of the deceased's finger, said Jain.
In his lab, researchers have accomplished this by first making an impression of a finger using the same material dentists used to make molds of teeth.
In their case, it's the finger of a living student.
Next they put conductive silicone or gelatin inside the mold to make a cast.
Once the fake finger is extracted from the mold, it can be used to spoof a conductive fingerprint scanner.
Jain said the lab has unlocked multiple devices using this technology.
The eyes are the windows of the soul One of the features on the Samsung Galaxy Note 8 is iris recognition that enables hands-free unlocking.
(Photo: Samsung/handout) The Samsung Galaxy 8 smart phone incorporates iris scanning as one identification option for users.
This, too, can be thwarted, though it's more difficult.
The same decomposition issues that face those trying to copy a finger are also true for the iris, so time is of the essence.
Its also not possible to make a cast of the iris as its encased within the eyeball.
However a good picture of the iris, which presumably could be taken soon after death, could be used to spoof a system.
A security researcher in Berlin reported being able to engage the Galaxy 8's iris-recognition ID system simply by making a life-size print of an image of an eye and then gluing a contact lens to the picture to give it depth.
Others have been able to spoof iris-recognition systems with photos alone.
So as long as a photo of the iris in question was taken before it began to decompose, it might be possible to get into some systems.
Show me your face (Photo: Getty Images) The new iPhone X replaces fingerprint recognition with Face ID.
Modern facial recognition systems are harder to spoof in part because they build 3D rather than flat digital models of the face.
This is why when iPhone X users start facial recognition, they have to move their head around so the system can get multiple images from which to build its digital model of their face.
A dead body makes this difficult.
It would be hard to turn the head around because of rigor mortis, which can occur as soon as four hours post mortem, said Jain.
One way to get around that might be to move the camera around the stationary head, he suggested.
Using a cast of the entire head to scam Face ID is something Apple's already thought of.
On its Face ID Security page, the company explains that the Face ID system is specifically trained to spot and resist spoofing attempts to unlock phones with photos or masks.
Apple also allows users to engage an additional level of security that requires the user to look at the phone to unlock it, to make it impossible to unlock a phone simply by pointing at the face of its sleeping user.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ApneGg
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE We take a look at the iPhone X and break down the new features.
USA TODAY Apple's iPhone X.
(Photo: Apple) Its generally never a good thing when the word freeze and a tech product appear in the same sentence, but that's what happened with Apple's iPhone X just in time for a Northeast cold snap.
Following reports that the screen on the company's $1,000 and up new iPhone X may become unresponsive when temperatures go south, Apple says it's readying a software fix.
"We are aware of instances where the iPhone X screen will become temporarily unresponsive to touch after a rapid change to a cold environment.
After several seconds the screen will become fully responsive again," Apple said in a statement to USA TODAY Friday.
"This will be addressed in an upcoming software update.
Apple surely hopes the problem is not widespread, especially as the weather is just starting to get cold in large parts of the country.
More: Here comes an Arctic blast, record cold, and ... the Polar Vortex??!!
As someone who spends a lot of time skiing, this is the deal breaker if its a widespread issue, wrote a user in a thread on Reddit.
Apple's problems with the X may not end there.
Some X owners posted pictures and reporting an issue on social media of a bright green line that runs down the edge of the phones OLED display.
USA TODAY has reached out to Apple for comment on this separate matter.
Let us know if you have experienced the issue with your phone.
As for the problem with the cold, Apples website recommends that you should use iOS devices where the ambient temperature is between 32 and 95 degree Fahrenheit.
Apple even cautions folks that using the device in very cold conditions could shorten battery life and cause the device to turn off.
Samsung lists a similar recommended temperature range for its phones.
The weather in the New York City area where I live hasn't gotten cold enough yet for me to notice the problem on my X but with temperatures expected to drop this weekend I'll see if I too experience any issues.
Consumers were able to get their hands on the iPhone X starting last Friday.
By the end of the first weekend the X was sold out in 20 big cities.
Apple's website is currently listing the phone as being on back order by three to four weeks.
The new phone breaks new ground for Apple.
Its the first to crack $1,000, the first to rely on Face ID facial recognition and the first to ditch the home button.
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow USA TODAY Personal Tech Columnist @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ArNKik
Here's how to sift through the noise and find the deals that are actually worth your money.
Reviewed.com / Jeremy Stamas
Hi Already a subscriber?
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Ambient computing appears to be in the near future.
Elizabeth Keatinge (@elizkeatinge) has more.
Buzz60
An artist's conception what the Joint Polar Satellite System-1 (JPSS-1) satellite will look like in orbit around the Earth.
(Photo: Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corp.) A new "eye in the sky" is scheduled to blast off into space early Tuesday morning, weather permitting.
This next-generation weather satellite known as Joint Polar Satellite System-1 promises "a leap in data collection and quality equivalent to going from an old flip-phone to an iPhone X," said meteorologist Ryan Maue of weather.us, a meteorological firm.
Polar satellites like the JPSS-1, which orbit the globe from pole-to-pole 14 times a day, are considered the backbone of the global observing system.
According to the National Weather Service, 85% of the data flowing into their weather forecast models come from polar-orbiting satellites like the one that will launch Tuesday.
"We're pretty excited about the launch," said Joe Pica, director of the weather service's office of operations, who added the spacecraft is designed to last about seven years.
Several duplicate satellites are in the pipeline in the decades ahead, he said.
The new satellite will also deliver critical observations during severe weather events like hurricanes, tornadoes and blizzards and is designed to help improve forecasts three-to-seven days ahead of a severe weather event.
Using polar satellite data, we have been able to provide emergency managers with more accurate forecasts, allowing them to pre-position equipment and resources days before a storm," said Louis Uccellini, director of the weather service.
"JPSS will continue this trend," he added.
With JPSS-1, the threat of a "satellite gap" due to aging satellite fleet should be allayed.
"For the better part of a decade, scientists and policymakers have been very concerned about a gap in polar-orbiting satellite coverage of the Earth due to delays in launching JPSS-1 and the obvious aging or potential failure of older birds in orbit," according to Maue.
"We have luckily avoided any gaps."
Several instruments aboard the satellite will provide detailed observations of temperature, air moisture, ice, snow, fog, wildfires, precipitation and ozone around the world.
Maue said that without data from polar satellites, "weather forecasts would noticeably suffer leading to more forecast busts, wayward hurricane tracks and more difficulty in preparing for severe weather."
The satellite is slated to launch aboard a Delta II rocket from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California at 4:47 a.m.
ET Tuesday.
If the launch is successful, the satellite will be fully functional in about three to six months, Pica said.
The JPSS-1 spacecraft was built by Ball Aerospace in Boulder, Colo. Instruments on board were designed by Ball, along with Raytheon, Harris and Northrop Grumman.
Once it's operational, it will be renamed NOAA-20.
The JPSS-1 was designed and built by Ball Aerospace.
(Photo: Ball Aerospace & Technologies) Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2idf90P
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE A United Nations agency says the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere shot up to its highest level in 800,000 years.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook Smoke billows from a large steel plant as a Chinese labourer works at an unauthorized steel factory, foreground, on Nov. 4, 2016, in Inner Mongolia, China.
(Photo: Kevin Frayer, Getty Images) Worldwide emissions of carbon dioxide the greenhouse gas most responsible for global warming are on the rise again in 2017 after three years of little-to-no growth, a study released Monday found.
Global emissions from all human activities will reach an all-time record 45 billion tons in 2017, following a projected 2% rise in burning fossil fuels such as oil, gas and coal, the study revealed.
The report by the Global Carbon Project team dashed hopes that emissions had peaked.
"We hoped that we had turned the corner ... We haven't," said study co-author Rob Jackson of Stanford University.
The report was released at the United Nations' annual climate change conference in Bonn, Germany.
Global CO2 emissions appear to be going up strongly once again," said lead researcher Corinne Le Qur of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research.
"This is very disappointing," she added.
"Time is running out" to keep warming well below 2 degrees C (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).
The Paris Climate Agreement, which every nation except the U.S. promised to sign, set the 2-degree target.
More: The U.S. is now the only country not part of Paris climate agreement after Syria signs on China is the main cause of the renewed growth in emissions, the study found, with a projected growth of 3.5%, primarily due to the increased burning of coal.
"The use of coal, the main fuel source in China, may rise by 3% due to stronger growth in industrial production and lower hydro-power generation due to less rainfall, said Glen Peters of the Center for International Climate Research in Oslo, Norway.
Global levels of carbon emissions have skyrocketed in recent decades.
Sixty years ago, the world spewed only 9.2 billion tons per year.
"It's a bit staggering," said co-author Ralph Keeling, a Scripps Institution of Oceanography scientist, noting that levels have increased fourfold since he was born in the 1950s.
"We race headlong into the unknown."
On average, about 2.57 million pounds of carbon dioxide is emitted into the air every second.
The top five carbon polluting countries are China, the United States, India, Russia and Japan.
Europe, taken as a whole, would rank third.
The research was published simultaneously in the journals Nature Climate Change, Earth System Science Data Discussions and Environmental Research Letters.
Contributing: Associated Press Carbon emissions rose in 2017 after a three-year hiatus.
(Photo: University of East Anglia) Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ADwO8S
November 13, 2017 Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
Our picks and opinions are independent from any business incentives.
We haven't seen many Hisense TVs this yearthe massive, pre-production Hisense H10 not withstandingso we were excited to get the more practical/affordable H9D Plus series, one of Hisense's top-of-the-line TV series for 2017.
The H9D Plus TVs feature the latest in fancy TV technamely, 4K resolution, HDR compatibility, and smart featuresand they're priced like it.
The 50-inch H9D Plus starts at $999, and the largest size (75 inches) will put a small dent in your bank account.
Unfortunately, the H9D Plus is neither the best performer nor the best value series we've seen this year.
While it does a lot of things right, it simply doesn't do them as efficaciously as similarly priced competition, like the TCL P Series or Vizio P Series.
Design & Details Hisense's H9D Plus series is available is four sizes: 50-inch (Hisense 50H9DPlus), $999 55-inch (Hisense 55H9DPlus), $1,299 65-inch (Hisense 65H9DPlus), $1,999 75-inch (Hisense 75H9DPlus), $2,499 Shared specs: 4K resolution (3,840 x 2,160) High Dynamic Range compatible Wide color gamut equipped Edge-lit (75-inch full-array) smart features We received our 65-inch H9D Plus on loan from Hisense, and gave it about 24 hours to warm up/break-in prior to evaluation and review.
One thing to note about the H9D Plus series as of this review is that availability is pretty spotty.
While there are four sizes and prices listed for the series, tracking down specific SKUs may prove tricky.
While the 75-inch H9D Plus purportedly has a full-array backlight, the TVs in the series are otherwise identical from a specs and design standpoint.
They feature thin, silver bezels, wide-set caltrop feet, and narrow profiles, like many modern LED TVs.
Each H9D Plus TV has four HDMI inputs (only two of which are HDMI 2.0-compatible, unfortunately), three USB inputs, and the usual array of ethernet, component/composite, and optical audio ports.
They also come with a rather large, standard remote control.
Advertisement - Continue Reading Below What We Like Great black levels give content excellent depth As we've said many times, black level (or shadow depth) is the keystone of good picture quality.
Not only does a deep black level give content more depthand an almost three-dimensional appearancebut it also helps make contrasting, bright elements of the screen really pop.
Because the 65-inch H9D Plus is an edge-lit LED TV, I admit I didn't have the best expectations where black level is concerned, but this Hisense proved me wrong.
During our standard test process, I measured a solid black level of 0.023 nits in the TV's Calibrated mode.
Unfortunately, this was paired with a rather low reference brightness under 100 nits, so take the result with a grain of salt.
On the other hand, this deep black level holds over into the TV's HDR modes, which is doubly welcome.
Typically, activating HDR makes TVs very bright, but (outside of OLED models) this brightness often comes at the expense of black levels.
While this Hisense's black level jumps from 0.023 to 0.075 nits in HDR mode, the latter is still a solid result for an edge-lit LED TV.
The only drawback is the HDR peak brightness, which we'll get into in the next segment.
Wide color gives content a much-needed boost To be a great HDR TV, the H9D Plus doesn't just need to be capable of a lot of brightness, it also needs extra, or "expanded" color.
When we test HDR TVs, we measure their color accuracy and saturation in both "standard" (SDR) mode and HDR mode.
Basically, any HDR TV worth its salt should be able to match both the older SDR color space when playing that kind of content, and should expand to meet the wider, more colorful HDR color space when required.
To simplify, there are "proper" colors for non-HDR content, and "proper" colors for HDR content, and the best HDR TVs display both accurately depending on which kind of content they're receiving.
The H9D Plus performed well in this regard, covering 100% of the non-HDR color space and about 93% of the HDR color space.
It's not perfecta little calibration can benefit both modesbut overall, shouldn't disappoint most viewers.
As HDR TVs go, the H9D Plus's wider color presentation is its best foot forward.
As I said above, it doesn't get all that bright, which is a big necessity for the best HDR presentation.
The color saturation is a welcome performance boon, of course, but it's not the "whole package."
A 120 Hz refresh rate means better motion performance Currently, TVs come in two basic varieties: 60 Hz and 120 Hz.
This refers to how quickly (how many times per second) their panels refresh.
The H9D Plus TVs feature 120 Hz refresh rates, meaning they're technically at the "cutting edge" of motion performance.
The major difference between 60 Hz and 120 Hz TVs is that the latter are able to play 24 frame-per-second (fps) content (which is most films on Blu-ray) without judder, though they also generally perform better where video game input lag is concerned.
If you're a big film buff, you'll most certainly want a 120 Hz TV like this one.
This means if you're a big film buff and plan to watch disc content that plays at 24fps, you'll most certainly want a 120 Hz TV like this one.
Because streaming content (Netflix, Amazon Video, etc.)
streams at either 30 or 60 fps, it plays back identically on 60 or 120 Hz panels.
But the H9D Plus's smooth playback of video games and filmic content is definitely welcome, and all but the pickiest viewers will be pleased with this TV's motion performance.
Simple, effective smart features The smart features available on the H9D Plus aren't going to blow any minds (and really, almost no smart TV platform will), but they at least don't detract from the TV in any way.
Hisense has included a simple, easy-to-navigate system that gives users easy access to the best thing about smart platforms: apps.
You'll find 4K and/or HDR-capable versions of apps like Netflix, Amazon Video, YouTube, etc.
It's a dressed-down menu that's easy to navigate using the remote's big navigational buttons.
All you need do is connect the H9D Plus to your WiFi network and you're good to go.
(Oh, and don't forget you'll need the appropriate subscription to watch HDR content on Netflix).
What We Don't Like Low brightness means less impressive HDR The H9D Plus's biggest drawback is that, to achieve its good shadow tones/black levels, it doesn't get terribly bright.
While playing SDR content, it only hits around 100 nits (or less) in the Calibrated picture mode.
While this is fine if you're watching in a dimly lit or darkened room, it's much less brightness than we've seen from similarly priced models this year.
If you're willing to adjust the ambient lighting in your room or close the curtains, you'll be perfectly pleased with the TV's brightness during SDR content.
The bigger issue is getting a good HDR experience out of this TV.
While it does have the wide-color chops to present an impressive picture, the HDR brightness simply isn't high enough to really do justice to the format itself.
When 50% or more of the screen is bright, it can get close to the high 300s, though we consider 400 or better a baseline for modern HDR TVs.
However, when displaying pinpoints meant to be very bright (think, a reflective point of chrome during Mad Max), the H9D Plus really drops the ball.
I measured specular points (2% and 10% bright windows) at 152 and 286 nits respectively.
While it's certainly a big jump in brightness from SDR mode, it's not really enough for an ideal HDR experience.
To put it simply: For what you're paying, we expected better.
Narrow viewing angles limit flexibility A common problem with edge-lit LED TVs like this one, the H9D Plus simply doesn't offer a very wide viewing angle.
I measured a total viewing angle of 15, or 7.5 from the center to either side of the screen.
A very deep black level of 0.019 during head-on viewing jumps up to almost 0.05 when you start to move off center.
A narrower viewing angle means you probably shouldn't wall-mount this set.
While the size of our test unit (65 inches) means you'd have to be quite far to one side or the other for the picture quality to degrade that harshly, it does mean you probably won't want to wall-mount this set.
Issues with things on the technical side Finally, lastbut definitely not leastin the list of the H9D Plus's performance issues are some hangups in the particulars of image production that are pretty, uh, nerdybut still affect the performance and user experience to the degree that they warrant discussion.
Essentially, the H9D Plus struggles a bit with some of the basics of performance: gamma scaling, or how much luminance it produces at each electrical signal input level; and color temperature, or the neutrality (or lack thereof) of neutral grayscale tones.
During HDR content, the H9D Plus produces fairly blue-tinted grayscale elements, likely the result of pushing the blue sub-pixel in order to achieve higher brightness (despite that it doesn't get that bright).
The difficulty in detailing this problem is that neither issue is something most viewers will overtly notice, but it lessens/dampens picture quality during HDR regardless.
It's the kind of thing we probably wouldn't carry on about if this were a lower-end TV, but at the $2,000 price point, we expect better.
Should You Buy It?
Nothere are better performers for the same price, or less While there's almost always a niche for any TV series, the H9D Plus fails to find one.
It's priced alongside semi-premium and premium models, but simply lacks the wow-factor required for effective HDR.
Despite its reliable production of "wider" color, the H9D Plus just doesn't get bright enough.
This would be wholly excusable if it was priced differently, but for the $2,000 you're paying for the 65-inch H9D Plus, you could get the same size Vizio P Series or Samsung MU9000 series, both of which trump this Hisense in core and HDR performance.
Jefferson Graham shows how to do a hidden trick in Apple's iOS11 operating system upgrade called "Long Exposure," that turns running water into a cloud-like dream state, on #TalkingTech.
USA TODAY
None Anchor Bill O'Reilly was the high-paid face of Fox News before The New York Times revealed that the host had reached payout settlements with half a dozen women who had accused him of sexual misconduct.
Fox fired O'Reilly in April after advertisers pulled out of his show, "The O'Reilly Factor."
Richard Drew, AP
For those who love to travel long distance, but cant stand a long flight, 2018 might have some big changes.
Veuer's Natasha Abellard (@NatashaAbellard) has the story.
Buzz60
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE A smart doorbell uses cameras and WiFi to send you live video notifications when someone is at your door.
Reviewed.com / Jeremy Stamas & Jackson Ruckar Echo Plus is one of the latest Alexa-enabled devices.
(Photo: Amazon) LOS ANGELES So youre thinking about setting up a smart home.
Youd like to say Alexa, turn off the lights, or Alexa, lock the door, and have it all happen without you having to get up out of your lounge chair.
Great idea, right?
No question, but it will cost you.
Based on the costs of purchasing items, trying to install them and then giving up and then paying someone else for installation, USA TODAY estimates a figure of over $2,000 to get started with smart lighting, doorbell, lock, thermostat and security.
Compared to the options a few years ago, thats a bargain.
Collection of smart home devices, including the Ring, August Smart Lock and Amazon Echo Plus (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Then, if you wanted a smart home, youd have to go to companies like Control4, Crestron or Vivint for home security, lighting and the like.
These companies work with dealers for installation, on top of the purchase price, and some charge monthly subscriptions.
Vivint, for instance, says service starts at $39.99 monthly, or nearly $500 a year.
The beauty of the age were living in is that you can now order just the pieces you want, off the shelf, and install them yourself.
Maybe.
If youre really good with screwdrivers and potentially wiring.
If not, you can hire a lower-cost service company like Hello Tech, Best Buys Geek Squad or even hire Amazon to send a professional.
Lets go down the list of what you might want, choosing some of the most common smart-home products: The Ring video door bell, which shows you whos at the door and lets you answer from anywhere.
Price: $200.
Ring video doorbell pro (Photo: Reviewed.com) A smart lock, from companies like August Home and Schlage, for opening the door with your phone or via Alexa.
Price: They range from $200 to $300.
Your kids' phones can serve as their house keys.
(Photo: August) Smart lights.
Plug in a base to speak to the bulbs, and then plug in the bulbs to the regular sockets.
Price: A starter kit from Philips opens at around $150.
Philips Hue starter kit (Photo: Jefferson Graham) The Nest Thermostat, which can be controlled from anywhere.
You can lower or raise the temperature of your home from work.
Price: The latest, third-generation Nest sells for $249.
Nest thermostat e (Photo: Reviewed.com) Smart garage door opener, to monitor whos coming in and out, via an app.
Price: starts at $99 from Nexx Garage.
Canary security, which offers Webcam footage, siren and alerts Price: $170.
Amazon Echo Finally, youll want an Echo, Amazons connected speaker that controls all of these devices, plus plays music on demand and tells you the latest weather and news.
Amazon has several Echo units available.
The one geared to home automation is called the Echo Plus.
Additionally, you can also use the Google Home speaker ($49.99 and $129.99) or the Siri, Alexa or Google Assistant apps on your smartphone to control the home.
Price: The Amazon Echo Plus sells for $149.
The new Amazon Echo Plus.
(Photo: Reviewed.com) So, youre at $1,400 now, and you might want to add some outdoor lighting that will weed off prowlers, like the Ring Floodlight Camera, which is motion activated and comes with two-way talk and alarms.
Add another $250 for that, and the total is $1650.
Now comes the hard part.
The products all fall under the DIY category.
You are expected to install them.
The manufacturers make it sound easy, but the truth is, it isnt.
Take for instance, my experience with the August Smart Lock, which is designed to fit over the frame of your existing door lock and communicate with your phone and/or connected speaker.
I got as far as unscrewing the two screws from the lock.
What I couldnt do was yank the existing lock out of the door to replace it with August.
I did what I suspect many people do: I gave up.
This sequence of events is why Amazon now offers many of these units with installation offers.
Add around $100 to the Smart Lock purchase to have Geek Squad, Amazon, or an Amazon sub-contractor like Hello Tech install a deadbolt lock, drill holes and cut mortises into the door, install a cylinder, thumb level and faceplate, and install the strike plate in the doorjamb.
Figure installation charge of $100 or so for five of the units discussed here (you wont need help for Canary or the Echo Plus) and thats how I get to $2,150 though it could be slightly lower with cheaper options on some, like smart locks.
Talking to Alexa is fun, but is it worth two grand for you to do that?
Thats a big decision, but again, the great thing about this point in time is you dont have to do it at once.
Buy the Echo Plus and plug in a lightbulb, and you now have a smart home.
Without any installation woes.
After all, even I can plug in a lightbulb.
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on Twitter, @jeffersongraham Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i7g6b5
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Some people don't understand what Bitcoin is, but some people stand to make a fortune off the cryptocurrency.
Here are the five people who stand to make a killing when they finally cash in on Bitcoin.
Time (Photo: Getty Images) Bitcoin rallied more than 11% in just over half a day on Monday, following a dramatic plunge in the cryptocurrency over the weekend.
The digital currency started trading at $5,857.32 on Monday and rose to $6,545.20 by 6:50 a.m.
ET, according to data from industry website CoinDesk.
This marks a nearly 12% increase in the price.
Bitcoin's market capitalization, or the total value of all the virtual coins in circulation, rose over $10 billion in the same time period, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.com.
Just last week, bitcoin hit a record high of $7,879.06 that was attributed to factors including CME Group announcing plans to offer bitcoin futures contracts, and some favorable regulation in countries like Japan, which has legalized bitcoin as a method of payment.
The bitcoin network was also due to undergo an upgrade called SegWit2x, which was initially planned for Nov. 16.
Its aim was to increase the transactions speed of the bitcoin network.
But support for the upgrade has waned causing developers to call off its planned implementation.
This appeared to be the catalyst for the sell-off that began Friday.
More: 401(k) at risk?
What 3 stock market skeptics see ahead More: Bitcoin tumbles from record after upgrade is called off More: This investment turned $1,000 into $2.2 billion in less than 8 years Earlier this year, bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology split in a process known as a "hard fork."
This happened twice, causing the creation of two new cryptocurrencies: bitcoin cash and bitcoin gold.
Bitcoin cash saw a huge spike as bitcoin sold off with many investors betting that this could be a viable alternative.
Bitcoin cash, however, also fell from an all-time high of $2,446.31 on Sunday to $1135.32 on Monday, according to Coinmarketcap.com.
CNBC is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Bitcoin is booming, digital currency hedge funds are sprouting at the rate of two a week and the value of all cryptocurrencies has surged tenfold this year to more than $170 billion.
Newslook Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2icOPUP
No tip for the delivery driver?
No problem.
Dominos and Ford are teaming up to see if customers will warm to the idea of pizza delivered by driverless cars.
(Nov. 13) AP
In this July 20, 2017, file photo, SoftBank Group Corp. Chief Executive Officer Masayoshi Son, left, speaks during a SoftBank World presentation at a hotel in Tokyo.
Japanese technology conglomerate SoftBank has reached a deal with Uber to invest billions in the ride-hailing giant.
(Photo: Shizuo Kambayashi, AP) DETROIT Japanese technology conglomerate SoftBank has reached a deal with Uber to invest billions in the ride-hailing giant.
Uber Technologies Inc. confirmed the investment in a statement Sunday without giving details.
But a person briefed on the deal told The Associated Press that SoftBank Group will buy about $1 billion worth of new Uber stock, then will offer to purchase shares from investors and Uber employees with the goal of reaching a 14 percent stake in the company.
Uber currently is valued at $68.5 billion, but stock offers will be based on a lower valuation, so its unknown just how much the total deal multibillion-dollar deal will be worth, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because details were not released.
More: Uber nears deal for huge SoftBank investment More: British panel rules Uber drivers are employees, not contractors Ubers statement said it reached an agreement with a consortium led by SoftBank and Dragoneer Investment Group.
The deal is a vote of confidence in the companys potential and will help fuel our investments in technology and our continued expansion at home and abroad, while strengthening our corporate governance, the statement said.
The move also clears the way for Uber, among the most valuable tech firms in the world, to sell stock to the public.
Under the deal, the initial public offering will take place before the end of 2019.
SoftBank in Tokyo declined comment.
Such IPO deals generally take some time to be finalized, as they involve many people.
The long-awaited deal was made public in October but was delayed by a corporate governance and legal dispute between investor Benchmark Capital and ousted CEO Travis Kalanick.
Both sides ended their feud on Sunday, clearing the way for the SoftBank investment, the person said.
Kalanick, who controls three of 11 seats on the Uber board, agreed to allow a majority of board members to vote on any future appointments he makes, according to the person.
Benchmark agreed to suspend a lawsuit against Kalanick and drop it once Softbank gets through a one-month tender offer period that will start in about two weeks.
Benchmark, a major Silicon Valley venture capital firm that was among Ubers early backers, alleged in the lawsuit that Kalanick covered up turmoil and legal threats at Uber.
The deal allows early investors such as Benchmark to sell at least some of their shares at a handsome profit.
But there will likely be some wrangling over how much shares are worth in the coming weeks.
AP Business Writer Yuri Kageyama in Tokyo contributed to this report.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2ABkQN0
(Photo: Uber) Ride-hailing giant Uber Technologies Inc. has an initial agreement with Japanese technology firm SoftBank to invest billions into the company, a spokesman said Sunday.
The long-awaited investment was announced in October but was delayed by a corporate governance and legal dispute between investor Benchmark Capital and ousted Uber CEO Travis Kalanick.
But both sides came to terms on Sunday, clearing the way for the investment.
We believe this agreement is a strong vote of confidence in Ubers long-term potential, an Uber spokesman told USA TODAY.
Upon closing, it will help fuel our investments in technology and our continued expansion at home and abroad, while strengthening our corporate governance.
Kalanick, who controls three seats on the Uber board, agreed to allow a majority of board members to vote on any future appointments he makes, a source close to the deal told The Associated Press.
Benchmark agreed to suspend a lawsuit against Kalanick and drop it once SoftBank gets through a tender offer period, AP reported.
Benchmark, a major Silicon Valley venture capital firm that was among Uber's early backers, alleged in the lawsuit that Kalanick covered up turmoil and legal threats at Uber.
Kalanicks overarching objective is to pack Ubers Board with loyal allies in an effort to insulate his prior conduct from scrutiny and clear the path for his eventual return as CEO all to the detriment of Ubers stockholders, employees, driver-partners and customers, Benchmark lawyers alleged in their lawsuit filed in August.
More: Uber CEO Travis Kalanick resigns amid mounting pressure from investors More: Ex-Uber CEO Travis Kalanick was key in picking his replacement More: Uber selects Dara Khosrowshahi as new CEO to replace Travis Kalanick Kalanick stepped down as CEO in June from the company he founded in 2009.
A blog post written by former Uber engineer Susan Fowler started a wave of allegations claiming Uber has a toxic and sexist work culture.
SoftBank would buy $1 billion in new stock and purchase shares from investors and employees worth up to 14% of the ride-hailing company.
At present Uber is valued at $68.5 billion.
The agreement would last for a defined offer period, but the AP source didn't know when it would end.
Under the deal, the dispute between Benchmark and Kalanick had to be worked out for it to go through.
The deal allows early investors such as Benchmark to sell at least some of their shares at a handsome profit, and also makes it possible for Uber to sell stock to the public, perhaps within the next 18 months.
Contributing: The Associated Press Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2Az5s3w
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The Federal Reserve is running the show.
The stock market is up well over 200% from its low in March 2009.
How did we get this kind of rally?
Newslook A video board displays the stock market's closing numbers at the New York Stock Exchange on Nov. 8.
(Photo: BRYAN R. SMITH, AFP/Getty Images) As the stock market calmly racks up records and swells 401(k) balances amid a 9-year-old bull run, some skeptics who predicted the crash in 2008 are getting nervous.
These are the same doubters who sounded the alarm before anyone else and predicted the past decade's financial crisis and who warn that the market could suffer another meltdown when the good times end on Wall Street.
They stress, however, that the end of the bull could be a long way off.
USA TODAY contacted three of them to find out what dangers they see.
Robert Shiller, a Yale economist and author of the 2000 book Irrational Exuberance, warned of a coming Internet stock bust.
In the books 2005 edition, he said a catastrophic collapse of the housing and stock markets could be on its way.
Peter Schiff, head of investment firm Euro Pacific Capital, wrote Crash Proof: How to Profit from the Coming Economic Collapse, published in early 2007.
Schiff said in August 2006, The United States is like the Titanic, and I am here with the lifeboat trying to get people to leave the ship."
Investor Christopher Cole runs Artemis Capital, a hedge fund he says was born out of the 2008 crisis.
The seed money for his fund came from gains he made a decade ago by betting correctly that a financial apocalypse loomed.
What do Shiller, Schiff and Cole see in their crystal balls?
They see a market distorted by low interest rates, one being driven higher by forces that could keep the rally going longer than many believe.
They say that market will end badly once its key underpinnings low rates, tame inflation and historically low volatility head quickly in the other direction.
Risks, Schiff says, have never been larger.
Theres an illusion of stability, Cole says.
I am worried about a correction.
Shiller says.
"But my gut is it will keep going up for a while.
More: Black Monday: Can a 1987-style stock market crash happen again?
More: 401(k) savers: Where the stock market could end up in 2017 More: Black Monday 1987: Memories of the stock market's worst day ROBERT SHILLER Dr. Robert J. Shiller, author of "Irrational Exuberance" and 2013 Nobel Laureate for Economic Sciences, listens during a Nobel Laureate Symposium at the Embassy of Sweden November 19, 2013 in Washington, D.C. (Photo: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI, AFP/Getty Images) HIS TAKE ON STOCKS: A recent study by Shiller concluded, The U.S. stock market today looks a lot like it did at the peaks before most of the countrys previous 13 bear markets.
Though optimists shrug off high valuations and talk up the benefits of strong corporate earnings and market calm, Shillers review of the past depicts a more vulnerable market.
The valuation measure Shiller helped create the CAPE ratio, a price-to-earnings ratio adjusted for inflation that smooths out earnings using a 10-year average is above 30.
Its been above that level only twice before, in 1929 and 1997-2002.
Both periods saw severe stock swoons: In 1929, the market crash ushered in the Great Depression, and in 2000, the Internet stock bubble burst.
A high CAPE implies potential vulnerability to a bear market, though it is by no means a perfect predictor, he says.
Shiller says that although robust earnings seem to be good news, that doesnt reduce the odds of a 20%-plus market drop, or bear market.
The 13.2% earnings growth rate in the year that ended in June is above the average of 1.8% per year since 1881, his data show.
Market peaks before past bear markets also came during similar periods of high earnings growth.
Stock market volatility was also lower than average in the year leading up to market peaks in past bear markets.
THE CALL: Hes worried about a correction, but just because the market exhibits signs that were present before past selloffs, that doesnt mean the bull run cant continue.
These rallies can go on for a long time, he says.
Investors are impressionistic, he says.
They are in a bullish state, caught up in President Trumps narrative of success.
He is a motivational speaker for capitalism, Shiller says.
Trump could inspire more stock increases.
Although Shiller says a crash could happen, he doesnt see signs of impending doom like he saw in newspaper articles warning of market trouble before the crash of 1929 or the palpable wariness before the crash in 1987 when a reporter called him at his home the Sunday before Black Monday.
There was breathless anticipation of something bad happening, he says of the days before past market crises.
I just dont see it now.
(But) it could change fast.
THE TRIGGER: It will be a change in the investor mindset that goes viral and causes a switch from bullishness to bearishness.
Some kind of trigger, some suggestion that other investors are changing their minds, Shiller says.
It could be North Korea.
Or political instability.
Or an indictment in Washington.
Some blowup, he says.
INVESTMENTS HE LIKES: Shiller says he has lightened up on U.S. stocks in his personal portfolio and sees better opportunities and lower risk in foreign equity markets.
PETER SCHIFF Peter Schiff, president & CEO of Euro Pacific Capital, in April 14, 2010 file photo.
(Photo: Jessica Hill, AP) HIS TAKE ON STOCKS: Schiff sees a market trading at very expensive prices at the same time that a Wall Street fear gauge, known as the VIX, is at record lows.
That complacency spells trouble.
Nobody is worried that the good times will end, he says.
History has shown that such periods of unfettered optimism have often presaged major market corrections.
THE CALL: The market is the mother-of-all-bubbles.
And it will pop, he warns.
The Federal Reserve, with its low-interest rate policies, created the tech stock bubble in 2000 and the real estate bubble in 2007, and now it has inflated another financial bubble, he says.
Every time a bubble has popped since 2000, he says, the U.S. central bank has swooped in to rescue markets with ever larger doses of stimulus and created yet another bubble and caused debt loads to soar.
If the current bubble bursts, the Fed wont be able to revive the markets with fresh stimulus without causing a massive decline in the value of the U.S. dollar.
That means U.S. consumers would face higher borrowing costs, higher prices and a lower standard of living.
There will be a currency crisis and a sovereign debt (or government bond) crisis," he says.
THE TRIGGER: He says it will be a recession, which could come as early as next year.
When the economy turns back down, "that is the end, it is over, Schiff says.
We are headed for a major economic collapse, and the stock market could easily get cut in half again like 2000 and 2008.
INVESTMENTS HE LIKES: The firm is heavily invested in foreign stocks and U.S. resource stocks, such as energy.
CHRISTOPHER COLE Christopher Cole, founder and chief investment officer, ARTEMIS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT.
[Via MerlinFTP Drop] (Photo: Artemis Capital Management) HIS TAKE ON STOCKS: Cole says todays stock market has more parallels to the crash in 1987 than the financial crisis in 2008.
As they were 30 years ago, investors have been lulled into complacency by the market calm, better known as low volatility, which has been underpinned by cheap borrowing costs.
The problem is investors placed massive bets on the market remaining placid.
Roughly $2 trillion of investor cash rides on strategies that rely on the assumption of market stability to generate returns.
The problem is volatility will spike, and all those trades could unwind violently in a negative feedback loop if the market suffers a shock.
Its based on the idea that stability breads stability, until it doesnt, he says.
A reversal in the trade based on tranquil markets will contribute to a violent feedback loop of hyper-volatility resulting in a hyper-crash, he warned in a recent shareholder letter.
THE CALL: In theory, volatility has nowhere to go but up, but theres no clear catalyst to spook markets as central bankers keep rates low, he says.
That could stave off a major market fall.
This market rally can go on longer much, much longer as long as rates stay low and people remain complacent, Cole says.
THE TRIGGER: A spike in inflation could cause rising interest rates.
The longer the rally goes, the more violent the market's move to the downside could be if a spark starts the fire.
INVESTMENTS HE LIKES: According to its website, the firm is positioned for higher volatility in domestic equity markets and invests in derivatives that rise in value when the stock market becomes more turbulent.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AymxL2
An ad for Tampax tampons to be used during China's Singles' Day shopping holiday on Nov. 11, 2017.
The ad text reads, "Tmall 11.11 Global Shopping Festival, Tampax tampons, Open your Tmall app and search for our flagship store."
(Photo: Tampax) SAN FRANCISCO Consumer giant P&G used Saturday's $25.3 billion online shopping holiday to sell Chinese women a product they rarely buy: tampons.
Just 1% of Chinese women use these alternatives to menstrual pads, as compared to about 60% in the United States, according to Tampax, which invented them in 1933.
That sales potential has prompted Procter & Gamble's Tampax brand to launch a new, China-specific branded tampon during the annual Singles' Day deals event e-commerce giant Alibaba held Nov. 11.
This year's sales represented a 39% increase over last year.
Menstruation products represent a $5.9 billion industry in the United States and a $35.4 billion one worldwide.
Sales are expected to top $40 billion globally in the next three years, according to Global Industry Analysts.
Singles' Day began as Valentine's Day-like holiday in the 1990s among university students in China.
Since 2009 Alibaba (BABA) has rebranded it as a shopping day, marketed as a "get something for yourself day" that's grown into a multi-billion dollar sales event.
The shopping event is also a big target for U.S. retailers looking to reach Chinese consumers.
In 2016, 37% of total buyers purchased from international brands or merchants with the United States the top seller of imported goods, according to Alibaba.
Citigroup estimates sales could rise as high as $24 billion this year.
Unmentionable An ad for Tampax tampons to be run during China's Single's Day shopping holiday on Nov. 11, 2017.
The text above the woman read, "Explore the new world.
Tampax wishes you a happy 11.11" (Photo: Tampax) The something just for me ethos of Singles Day was perfect for Procter & Gamble, which chose Singles Day last year as a test run for bringing tampons out in the open to Chinese women.
Periods are still considered unmentionable in Chinese society, where women tend to use euphemisms such as getting a visit from my aunt to describe them.
That's why Chinese swimmer Yuanhui Fu made such waves during the Rio Olympics last year when she openly said she was having her period after a difficult race.
Chinese women praised her on social media for her courage in admitting to menstruating.
A hashtag about the topic on Weibao, Chinas Twitter equivalent, was used more than half a million times in the days after the race.
Fu was also criticized, mainly by men, who said that for women to swim while menstruating was unhealthy and unhygienic.
Three months later Tampax used 11.11 as a test, selling 5,000 Tampax kits as pre-sales in the run up to the actual day.
These types of sales are much like pre-Black Friday sales in the United States.
Once it realized there was a market, Tampax used Alibabas platforms to gain insight into what Chinese women thought of tampons and what kinds of marketing and design might help them reach more customers, the company said.
That included a strong focus on water sports, including sponsoring outings to water activities in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou and a trip for some lucky customers to the tropical island nation of the Maldives.
Advertisement for Danbishuang tampons.
(Photo: Courtesy of Ye Deliang) An ad for Tampax that ran on 11-11 features a blond woman in a red bikini surfing on a pink Tampax applicator.
Behind her, another woman scuba dives and one paraglides.
while sailboats sail, a Tampa-branded dirigible hangs in the air and a champagne bottle pops.
This year Tampax went all out during Singles' Day, pushing ads and marketing material online meant to specifically appeal to younger Chinese women who may be more open to new ideas and less bound by older social constraints.
Its goal in China is to enable Chinese women to gain a true sense of liberation during their menstrual period, said Hong Zhang, manager of external relations for feminine care for Tampax China.
We want them to feel that on those days, there are no restrictions on their daily lives.
If they want to get glammed up, if they want to do physical exercise, hike, or even go swimming in the ocean with tampons, they can do it all," he said.
Alibaba touts its ability for Proctor & Gamble to use its powerful platforms to reach China's 1.3 billion people.
Unlike Amazon in the United States, Alibaba hosts a complex ecosystem of sites, including the eBay-like Tabao; TMall, where brands sell directly to consumers; and the business-to-business site Alibaba.com.
Alibaba's affiliate company, Alipay, is used by 520 million Chinese as an online payment system.
"Through efforts like this, we are proud to empower the lives of millions of women in China who are looking for quality products and better lifestyles," said Chris Tung, chief marketing officer for the Alibaba Group in Hangzhou, China.
Boxes of tampons are displayed in a pharmacy, Monday, March 7, 2016, in New York.
A group of women has filed a lawsuit accusing New York of unlawfully taxing tampons and other feminine hygiene products.
The suit argues that medical items are exempt from sales tax in New York.
(AP Photo/Mark Lennihan) ORG XMIT: NYML110 (Photo: Mark Lennihan, AP) Moving beyond tampons In the United States, the feminine hygiene market is actually moving beyond tampons.
Increasingly younger women are opting for what they feel are more natural and eco-friendly options, often made by women.
This can range from reusable period underwear to natural latex menstrual cups, reusable natural sponge tampons, washable cloth pads and homemade cloth sanitary pads.
American women have also railed against the so-called tampon tax, pushing to have feminine hygiene products exempted from sales tax, because, like food and prescriptions, they're considered life essentials.
Many states have carved out other sales-tax exceptions over the years, often based on local interests or aggressive lobbying.
China still has a ways to go in this trajectory.
The country didn't get its first domestic tampon until last year, when an engineer launched the Danbishuang brand, which means Crimson Jade Cool.
Contributing: Zlati Meyer in New York City.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i2TqZp
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Dinosaurs had a 9 in 10 chance to survive the asteroid that is predicted to only happen every 100 MILLION years.
So how did they get so unlucky in BOTH time and location?
Buzz 60's Chandra Lanier has the story.
Buzz60 A picture taken on September 18, 2017 shows the skeleton of a dinosaur on display at the Dinosaur Hall of the American Museum of Natural History in New York City.
(Photo: Angela Weiss, AFP/Getty Images) Dinosaurs might still be roaming the Earth if the celestial object that smashed into the present-day Gulf of Mexico had hit almost anywhere else on the planet.
By hitting the rocky terrain of the Yucatan Peninsula about 65 million years ago, however, the impact sent the soot into the air that would trigger a chain reaction and lead to mass extinction.
Even with the impressive 5.6-mile diameter of the object, believed to be an asteroid, that caused the event, the odds that it would have wiped out the dinosaurs were only 13%, the Japanese scientists Kunio Kaiho and Naga Oshima have found, according to new research they published on Thursday in the journal Scientific Reports.
"They were unlucky," Kaiho told Britain's Guardian newspaper.
Gambling with extinction Impacts on this scale are rare enough, but the object that initiated what scientists call the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event happened to also hit an area rich in hydrocarbon and sulfate.
The force of the impact heated the materials, "forming stratospheric soot and sulfate aerosols and causing extreme global cooling and drought," the scientists report in the paper.
German scientists have also speculated on the significance of the site of impact.
More: Bandit-masked, feathered dinosaur hid from predators and prey using camouflage "The amount of hydrocarbon and sulfur in rocks varies widely, depending on location," the scientists found; 87% of the Earth's surface did not harbor enough of these deposits.
"The site of asteroid impact, therefore, changed the history of life on Earth," the scientists wrote.
The presumed site of the collision on the Yucatan is a subterranean, partially submerged crater about 180 kilometers wide and 20 kilometers deep.
'Particularly bad time' With soot blocking the sunlight, the Earth's average temperature dropped by about 10 degrees Celsius (18 F), destroying plant life and driving the existing ecosystem to collapse.
In the end, about 75% of animals were extinct, including nearly all dinosaurs.
In 2014, the Edinburgh University paleontologist Steve Brusatte said dinosaurs might have survived the impact "if it had hit a few million years earlier or later."
"The asteroid hit at a particularly bad time," he wrote in the journal Nature, speculating that a decrease in the diversity of plant-eating dinosaurs about 66 million years ago might have made the ecosystem more vulnerable to extinction-level events.
The impact might have been a stroke of bad luck for dinosaurs, but it also led to "the subsequent macroevolution and diversification of mammals," including humans, Kaiho and Oshima write.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i6dpXb
Chinese workers transport goods for delivery at a sorting center for JD.com on Singles Day, otherwise known as '11.11' Global Shopping Festival, in Beijing, China, on Nov. 11, 2017.
(Photo: How Hwee Young, EPA) Chinese shoppers on Saturday spent billions of dollars in an annual online commercial extravaganza that was once meant as a celebration for lonely hearts.
The 24-hour shopping festival, which began at midnight, has broken its own record every year since being launched in 2009, with last year's sales mark of $17.8 billion already exceeded by midday, according to the organizer, e-commerce giant Alibaba.
That amount in 2016 surpassed the 2015 total by 32%.
The event, now indulged in by all consumers whether with or without a better half, takes pride of place in the calendar of manufacturers and retailers in the country, making up a significant share of annual orders for many businesses.
More: Tampax hopes China's Singles' Day will help women switch to tampons With more than half of China's 1.3 billion people being smartphone users, it is no surprise that more than 90% of orders were made by mobile, most of them on taobao.com, Alibaba's main e-commerce platform.
Just five minutes after midnight, Alipay, Alibaba's online payment system, was already processing 256,000 transactions per second, double the highest rate recorded last year.
The volume of sales means that delivery people will be kept busy over the next six days carrying an estimated 1.5 billion parcels to their new owners.
But some of their work this year will be taken over by robots, as China pushes ahead with its policy of increasingly automating menial tasks.
Huge waste production Not all are enthusiastic about the massive consumer orgy, however, with environmentalists accusing Alibaba of promoting a culture of over-consumption that creates mountains of waste.
Greenpeace said "Singles Day" deliveries last year resulted in 130,000 metric tons (143,000 short tons) of packaging waste in what it called a "disaster for the environment."
It says such online shopping festivals are, in fact, more carbon-intensive than "brick-and-mortar shopping."
Such objections are, however, not likely to hold Alibaba back from its push toward expanding "Singles Day" onto the global market.
The success of the event has also been a boon to many once-struggling Chinese towns and villages that are now dubbed "Taobao villages" after refocusing their local economies around manufacturing for online buyers.
This article originally appeared on DW.com.
Its content was created separately to USA TODAY.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i6WqEl
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Glasses and tech do not make a successful marriage, says USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham.
This is a simple truth for 2017 and beyond: we dont want to wear glasses to enjoy our tech.
That became loud and clear this week courtesy of Snap, Inc., the parent company of communication app Snapchat.
The gadget graveyard now includes 3-D TVs, Google Glass and a case could be made for virtual reality headsets, as well.
Count how many people you know who use a headset or watch 360-degree footage online.
But none made a bigger belly flop than Snaps Spectacles, the colorful $129 video glasses which were initially scarce until they went mass market.
Now, there are apparently warehouses with thousands of unsold merchandise gathering dust.
This week, Snap said it took a $40 million writedown on the product.
Comedian Nemr poses in new Snapchat Spectacles video sunglasses (Photo: Jefferson Graham) The message is clear.
Despite enthusiasts and analysts telling us that we will eventually move beyond desk and mobile computing to wear something on our head that beams and/or records images or connects to the Internet, we dont.
Earlier this year, we quoted the respected analyst Gene Munster from Loup Ventures, who told us that within 10 years, the smartphone as we know it will have come and gone, to be replaced by a wearable product.
He said that would probably be glasses that would connect to our friends, show us the latest social media post, play videos and the like.
I was skeptical then, and even more so now.
I called Munster this week to tell him so, and replayed my opinions of the glasses graveyard, but hes not changing his tune.
He still believes that in a decade, the phone is toast and replaced by a wearable.
The way we interact with technology now is with the phone, he says.
You take it out of the pocket and use hands or voice to interact with it.
There will be a new way to experience computing, and well be wearing glasses to get it.
Its hard to see how we get there after all these clear consumer failures.
One of us is right on this.
Lets check in in 2027 and see who came closer to the future.
Meanwhile, looking for a great deal on Spectacles?
Auction site eBay has many used models available for just $50.
For the first time, Waymo's self-driving test vehicles are operating without human drivers ready to take over.
(Photo: Alphabet) In other tech news this week Speaking of the future, more Jetsons-style news for 2017 came from ride-hailing service Uber and Googles self-driving Waymo unit this week.
Waymo announced with great fanfare its self-driving car service in Phoenix will soon drive passengers around, without a driver at the wheel.
And Uber is looking to as soon as 2020 to offer flying taxi service in Los Angeles and Dallas.
(That's right, a taxi that somehow flies in the sky.
In just three years.
Yeah, we're a tad skeptical on that one, too.)
Separately, a self-driving Las Vegas shuttle bus started service in Glitter Gulch, but it had an accident within just two hours after launching.
Twitter 280.
The days of having to struggle through a 140 character-tweet to get your point across are soon history.
Twitter said this week it is expanding the character requirement to 280, after testing it with select users since September.
The beauty and challenge of Twitter was always the brevity of tweets.
So get ready for some long-winded social posts.
That's a Snap.
The creators of the Snapchat app said it would soon disappear, to be replaced by a new, easier-to-use version.
This came in response to Snaps third earnings report as a public company, and like the previous ones, this weeks edition was also, in a word, terrible.
The company reported losses of $443 million, a $40 million write-down for the Spectacles debacle, and the decision to start again with an app that wouldn't be as confusing.
Snap wouldnt say when the new app would be available, but Business Insider reported that its coming in December.
Additionally, Chinese company Tencent said it invested $2 billion for a minority stake in Snap, worth about 10% of the firm.
Apple had a killer opening weekend, selling out of the new iPhone X within two days, and reporting online order delivery wait times of 3-4 weeks.
But while Apple caught the attention of consumers with the X, that other new iPhone, the 8, just didnt catch on.
Apple sold fewer iPhone 8's in the third quarter than last year's 7, the 8 Plus or even the two-year-old 6S, according to researcher Canalys.
As the doors to the Apple Store open a man yells to the lines of other customers at the Century City Mall in Los Angeles as they line up to purchase the new Apple Nov. 3, 2017.
(Photo: Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY) Your Talking Tech audio week I Hate my Boss.
Liz Dolan, the co-host of the I Hate My Boss podcast, tells how she gets office workers to spill their guts on her hit podcast.
Liz Dolan turns the tables on Talking Tech: In part 2 of our chat with Dolan, she takes control of the microphones and asks questions, about the show and the host's photography.
Videogame console preview: USA TODAY's Brett Molina joins to preview what's new in video game consoles for the holidays.
Would you give Amazon the key to your front doors?
The new Amazon Key service sends installers to put in smart locks and a security camera to let delivery folks drop your packages in the home.
Richard Wolpert from Hello Tech, one of the installers for Amazon, explains how it works.
Sony RX10IV review.
We rave about the latest edition of Sony's great travel camera, now expanded for sports.
(Catch our video review as well, while you're at it!
and our gallery of RX10IV images.)
The moon, as captured by the Sony RX10IV.
(Photo: Jefferson Graham) Talking Masters of Scale with Reid Hoffman: The co-founder of LinkedIn and a venture capitalist, he just launched the second season of the Masters of Scale podcast, which features guests like Tesla's Elon Musk and Starbucks founder Howard Schultz, telling how they grew their companies.
Hoffman talks Scale, and why he wants to "reveal the secret of Silicon Valley," on Talking Tech.
Recycled Records lives!
How the Internet Archive is digitizing album covers of a defunct San Francisco used record store and Boston library collection, to keep the tradition of browsing alive, even as record stores close.
Bruce Lyalls, the owner of the soon-to-be-shuttered Recycled Records in San Francisco, guests.
Subscribe to the #TalkingTech newsletter, usat.ly/2qaIVVQ, the #TalkingTech podcast on Apple Podcasts, Stitcher, Spotify, Tunein and wherever else you like to hear great online audio and follow Jefferson Graham on Twitter, @jeffersongraham.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2mhw1Io
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The choices can be overwhelming: PC vs laptop?
Chromebook or Apple?
Columnist Marc Saltzman guides shoppers through the computer-buying process.
USA TODAY Battery life is key for todays laptops, with some models delivering up to 15 hours between charges.
(Photo: Dell/handout) Buying a new computer is a lot like ordering a pizza: You think its a fairly simple task until you realize how many choices you need to make.
But if your existing machine is so old it could barely run solitaire, youre probably due for an upgrade.
The good news is two-fold: there are many new exciting developments in the computer space, and there are many deals to be had over Black Friday, Cyber Monday and leading up to the holidays.
Aside from figuring out your budget, of course, the following are some questions you might want to ask yourself to help decide whats right for you.
More: Best apps to save you money over Black Friday and beyond More: The best Black Friday deals you can get right now More: Black Friday 2017: What to buy, what to skip What will I use it for?
While most Chrome OS computers are inexpensive and underpowered, Googles recently unveiled Pixelbook (from $999) is powerful and pricey.
(Photo: Google/handout) How you plan on using your new computer should dictate what kind to buy.
If you only want a computer for light tasks such as Web browsing, reading email, and checking on social media then you could go with modest specifications (specs), which should have a modest price, too.
Something with an Intel Core i3 or i5 should be sufficient.
On the other end of the spectrum, if youre looking for a machine that can handle high-end computer games, virtual reality or video editing, youll need to invest in a faster processor, better graphics capabilities, and more RAM (system memory).
An Intel Core i7, NVIDIA graphics, and 16GB or 32GB of RAM (instead of 4GB or 8GB) is a good idea.
When it comes to storage, more and more laptops have a solid-state drive (SSD) instead of a hard disk drive (HDD), which makes these laptops thinner, lighter, faster and more energy efficient.
Like the flash memory in your smartphone, SSDs are also less prone to damage because there are no moving parts.
That said, I like to say purchasing a computer should be like buying kids clothes: go a little bigger than you need today, so you can grow into it for longer-term savings.
You dont want to have buyers remorse by picking something underpowered, only to replace it in a year from now.
Stick with a brand youve had a good experience with, or ones your friends and family highly recommend (and critics, too).
What OS should I go with?
Most computers sold today have Windows 10 preinstalled.
It combines a classic desktop look but with the option for larger tiles, as introduced in Windows 8.
(Photo: Microsoft, handout) This question may also be tied to the What will I use it for?
decision, especially if theres software you want to run that only works with a specific operating system (OS).
Otherwise, youve got three main choices today: Windows, Mac and Chromebook.
(Yes, theres Linux, too, but not a mainstream pick.)
Stick with the operating system youre most comfortable with.
If youre not sure, or feel like a change, know that each OS has its advantages.
Windows 10 is the most popular choice today.
Its offered by nearly all the biggest computer brands such as Dell, HP, ASUS, Lenovo, Acer and so on plus Microsoft makes their own Surface-branded PCs, too.
Its easy to use, works with the most software and hardware out of any OS, and the Windows Hello feature means you can log onto your device by simply looking at your computers camera.
Windows 10 offers multiple ways to interface with your content, whether its a keyboard, trackpad or mouse; using a stylus pen on the screen for greater precision (often called digital inking); fingertips on a touchscreen; or by using your voice with the Cortana personal assistant.
Apples Mac family are also a popular pick.
Since Apple is the only one that manufacturers Macs like the MacBook Air and MacBook Pro there is generally better quality control, and built with premium materials.
Macs tend to last a long time (but not their chargers), though Macs cost more, on average, when compared to Windows and Chromebooks with comparable specs.
Many find them easier to use than other operating systems (thought that boils down to personal preference, of course).
Apple includes many of its top software for free (or a free download from the Mac App Store), plus there is a lot of software for Macs today, too.
Apples MacBook family are a popular pick for its sleek design, durability, and longevity.
(Photo: Apple/handout) Powered by Googles Chrome OS, Chromebooks are generally more affordable than Windows and Macs, but there are some premium Chromebooks available, such as Googles own Pixelbook ($999), which includes Google Assistant for voice interaction.
Chromebooks usually ship with popular Google apps already preinstalled, such as Gmail and Google Maps.
Generally speaking, Chromebooks have modest specs, such as little local storage, but most Google apps are cloud-based anyway.
Chrome OS is billed as a lean, fast operating system, designed for mostly basic tasks, and with good value.
Affordable and portable, yet usually underpowered, Googles Chrome OS is available through many popular compute makers, including ASUS.
(Photo: ASUSTeK Computer Inc./handout) What form factor do I choose?
If its been a while since you shopped for a laptop, youll notice many are incredibly thin and light, making them much easier to carry around with you to and from coffee shops, the office, school, airplanes, and so on.
Many Windows-based laptops are 2-in-1s, as they can transform from a laptop to a tablet and back again.
Some 2-in-1s are called convertibles as they convert from laptop mode to tablet by simply bending back the screen, which is on a 360-degree hinge, and disables the keyboard in favor of tapping and swiping the screen.
While less popular, other 2-in-1s are called detachables as the screen detaches altogether, which you can then bring with you as a tablet.
While laptops are often preferred because theyre portable, stationary desktop computers might be more ideal for younger kids.
Why?
If you put it in a highly trafficked area of the home, you can keep an eye on where they're going online.
They're usually less expensive than laptops and harder to break since they're less mobile.
Many desktop computers today are all-in-ones, with the guts of the computer built in behind the monitor.
(Photo: HP/handout) Many of todays desktops are often all-in-ones, which is when the computer is built into the back of the large monitor, so theres no tower to take up additional space.
Ideal to place anywhere in a home such as a kitchen counter, in a home office, or a teenagers room many all-in-ones have a touchscreen and often ship with a wireless keyboard and mouse.
But if youre buying a desktop for a gamer, an all-in-one isnt as modular, since its not so easy to update storage, memory or graphics cards.
Instead, a tower setup may be best for a gamer.
As you can see, theres a lot to decide when buying a new computer its not a one-size-fits-all scenario but along with how much you have to spend, ask yourself these three questions to help you whittle down your options.
Follow Marc on Twitter: @marc_saltzman.
E-mail him at askmarcsaltzman@gmail.com.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE With the 2017 MacBook Pro Apple introduced a new Touch Bar to their classic design.
Is the new feature a hit or a miss?
Check out the video to find out!
Reviewed.com Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2mfKmFf
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Theres no denying Apples iPhone X is beautiful, but its bezel-less screen is costing not only the company big, but the environment too.
Nathan Rousseau Smith (@FantasticMrNate) reports.
Buzz60 Smartphone preferences vary by age.
Most adults surveyed preferred Samsung's Galaxy S8 as a holiday gift instead of the iPhone 8, 8 Plus, or X.
(Photo: Samsung) Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) launched the long-anticipated iPhone X last Friday, and diehard fans lined up to claim the priciest iPhone ever.
However, Ebates' latest holiday survey indicates that demand for device varies widely between adults and teens in the U.S.
Most adults surveyed preferred Samsung's (NASDAQOTH: SSNLF) Galaxy S8 as a holiday gift instead of the iPhone 8, 8 Plus, or X.
However, most teens favored the iPhone X and iPhone 8 over the other two phones.
That difference is surprising, since adults have more spending power than teens.
An unlocked Galaxy S8 costs $720-$750; the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus start at $699 and $799, respectively; and the iPhone X starts at $999.
But there are other considerations.
The S8 still offers a headphone jack and a fingerprint scanner popular features the iPhone X lacks.
Yet trend-conscious teens don't seem to care.
Piper Jaffray's latest teen survey found that 82% of teens expect their next phone to be an iPhone, up from 81% in the spring.
That loyalty should persist well into adulthood, as Apple locks them into its iOS ecosystem.
Most adults surveyed preferred Samsung's Galaxy S8 as a holiday gift instead of the iPhone 8, 8 Plus, or X.
However, most teens favored the iPhone X and iPhone 8 over the other two phones.
(Photo: Ebates and Propeller Insights) More:A Foolish Take: Pew says majority in U.S. get news from social media More:A Foolish Take: Millennials are more frugal than you think More:A Foolish Take: How loyal are Amazon Prime members?
Leo Sun has no position in any of the stocks mentioned.
The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Apple.
The Motley Fool has the following options: long January 2020 $150 calls on Apple and short January 2020 $155 calls on Apple.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The Motley Fool is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news, analysis and commentary designed to help people take control of their financial lives.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Offer from the Motley Fool: Offer from The Motley Fool: The 10 best stocks to buy now Motley Fool co-founders Tom and David Gardner have spent more than a decade beating the market.
In fact, the newsletter they run, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the S&P 500!
* Tom and David just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now.
Click here to get access to the full list!
*Stock Advisor returns as of Oct. 9, 2017.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2jiMMlh
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Janina Gavankar plays an Imperial special forces officer in a story mode set after the events of 'Return of the Jedi' in the new video game 'Star Wars: Battlefront II.'
Electronic Arts Janina Gavankar plays Iden Versio, commander of the Empire's Inferno Squad unit in the video game 'Star Wars: Battlefront II.'
(Photo: EA) Even the evil Empire in Star Wars had its own heroes, and actress Janina Gavankar is giving life to a great one.
In this week's episode of The Mothership, USA TODAY's geek culture podcast, Gavankar comes aboard to talk about her voiceover role as Iden Versio in the video game Star Wars: Battlefront II (out Nov. 14).
Versio is commander of the Imperial special forces unit Inferno Squad and has to deal with the aftermath of the Rebels' stunning defeat of the Empire at the end of Return of the Jedi.
Gavankar discusses her character as well as her favorite video games and stance on porgs, the cute new creatures in the upcoming movie Star Wars: The Last Jedi.
And in our Nerd Alert segment, Brett and Brian discuss the departure of longtime Marvel Comics writer Brian Michael Bendis to rival DC Comics and ponder what icons Bendis should tackle in his new gig.
Have thoughts about the podcast?
Reach out to us on Twitter at @klawls, @brettmolina23 or @briantruitt.
If you like what you hear, please subscribe to The Mothership for free on Apple Podcasts and leave us a review.
Your feedback help keep us in the studio.
The Mothership is USA TODAY's podcast that covers all things nerdy in pop culture.
Hosted by tech reporter Brett Molina, film critic Brian Truitt and entertainment writer Kelly Lawler, each week our roundtable of experts dissects the latest in geek culture, from superhero movies to sci-fi TV shows to the latest and greatest video games.
We're saving the world from bad comic-book adaptations every Friday on Apple Podcasts, Soundcloud and Stitcher.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i4pH2u
Janina Gavankar plays an Imperial special forces officer in a story mode set after the events of 'Return of the Jedi' in the new video game 'Star Wars: Battlefront II.'
Electronic Arts
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Facebook Inc said on Monday it was testing the idea of dividing its News Feed in two, separating commercial posts from personal news in a move that could lead some businesses to increase advertising.
Time Facebook launched Facebook Local on Nov. 10, 2017.
(Photo: Facebook) SAN FRANCISCO Facebook on Friday launched a new app, Facebook Local.
It gives users a single place to find restaurants, bars, cafes and nearby activities but also folds in friends reviews of the places they might want to go.There are actually multiple things happening in the app.
First, users can search for places and happenings, including events your friends might be attending.
Theres also an Event section that shows nearby events.
These can be filtered by time, category and location.
Another tab shows users' Facebook events, and gives them the option of pulling their other calendars into the app as well.
The app is a re-branded and expanded version of Facebook Events, which was launched a year ago.
The new apps power and potential scale comes from the companys 70 million business pages, hyper-localized because it also includes reviews, photos and locations shared from friends' check-ins.
Given that people post about where theyve been and what they thought of it as a matter of course on Facebook, this could make it a strong contender in a way that Events was not.
How much a threat this could be to Yelp isn't clear yet, but it's another step towards further tying users into Facebook's ecosystem.
And for now, at least, it's advertising free.
More: Facebook unveils 30-city program to boost small business' digital skills More: Yelp shares hammered after it cuts sales outlook in face of competition Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AsFYF6
The choices can be overwhelming: PC vs laptop?
Chromebook or Apple?
Columnist Marc Saltzman guides shoppers through the computer-buying process.
USA TODAY
Instead of only following people, Instagram is now testing out a feature that would allow people to follow hashtags.
Veuer's Natasha Abellard (@NatashaAbellard).
Buzz60
Don't miss these amazing deals on cookware from Sur La Table (Photo: Reviewed.com) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Sur La Table is up there with Williams Sonoma and The Kitchn when it comes to dream-home daydreaming.
The kitchen and cookware retailer carries everything from pots and pans to barware, small appliances, and even food.
And right now there are loads of great savings to be found on the site.
If you've been dying to own a Le Creuset or want to experience the quality of All-Clad, this is a great time to take the plunge.
(They make great gifts for the home chef in your life, too).
Cookware from amazing brands for up to 65% off Yep!
You can find your favorite brands for seriously steep discounts right now.
A Le Creuset 3.5-quart Dutch oven is only $179.96, 36% off the regular $285 price.
How about a Staub Rooster Oven that's slightly larger and has an adorably kitschy rooster emblazoned on the lid?
It's only $159.96, but it usually retails for $429-that's a 62% discount.
You can also get big discounts on other brands like Kitchenaid, Lodge, All-Clad, Wolf Gourmet, and more.
See all the cookware deals on Sur La Table Our favorite non-sale items are 20% off too Use the code "FRIEND17" to save 20% on all non-sale items form Sur La Table (Photo: Breville / Zwilling) If you scour the sales and don't see anything you like, you can still get discounts on full-price items thanks to the Friends and Family exclusive.
With the coupon code "FRIEND17" you'll get 20% off anything that's not on sale or clearance.
For a lot of items, this works out to roughly what they're selling for on other sites like Amazon (or sometimes more).
So we rounded up four of our absolute favorites that are not only great quality products but are actually fantastic deals.
Zwilling J.A.
Henckels Pro Chef's Knife$111.96 (Save $27.99): The best chef's knife we've ever tested!
OXO Good Grips Snap-Lock Can Opener$12 (Save $3): No more cramped hands or spilled cans.
Breville "The Boss" High-Velocity Blender$319.96 (Save $79.99): We love Breville's blenders, and this sale price is $40 lower than we've seen anywhere else.
Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2jhGiTJ
Do you love pizza?
Do you want to have friends over for a dinner party but hate cooking/have picky eaters in your friend group/refuse to clean up after your messy AF friends?
Then have I got some news for you.
The Pizzarette (MSRP $120-$200) is a countertop pizza oven that is designed to cook 4-6 fresh, Lunchables-sized pizzas at a time.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar We put the countertop contraption to the test to see if it can live up to its claimsand we were pretty surprised by what we found.
The claim The Worlds Funnest Pizza Oven [in which] pizzas only take 5-10 minutes to cook!
Short cooking times allow you to enjoy the conversation and quickly try a variety of different toppings & combinations for your very own mini pizzas!
The manufacturer also promises fast, even cooking, easy cleaning and storage, and an artful display.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar How it works Its pretty simplePlace the domed terracotta cover over the oven and plug in the unit.
There's no on/off switch or control switches: Just plug it in.
Let the oven sit for 15 minutes to heat up while you assemble your pizzas.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar The package comes with a dough cutter to fit perfectly on the included spatulas.
When you (and the Pizzarette) are ready, put the pizzas onto the 2 perforated metal spatulas and slide them in for 5-10 minutes or until fully cooked.
Alternatively, you can slide the pizzas from the spatulas directly onto the baking sheet (more on that later).
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Who is it for?
People who want to make cooking a social event.
Picture a dinner party that doesnt keep you in the kitchen, but rather fosters tailor-made dishes designed and cooked by your guests.
It gives the same communal vibe as a raclette machine or Chinese hot pot party, and is also great for groups rife with picky eaters or dietary restrictions.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Does it work?
For the most part, yes.
Its well-designed and does what its supposed to: Its a fun concept that cooks any kind of pizza in under 10 minutes and is easy to clean.
We did run into a few issues, though.
Uneven cooking: Even with dual heating elements and the terracotta dome, the back edge of the pizzas were browned and crisp while the front edge close to the openings were underdone.
To achieve an evenly-cooked za, youll need to rotate the pie 180 halfway through cook time.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Too hot to handle: The handle at the top of the terracotta dome becomes too hot to touch after 20 minutes of use.
You will need an oven mitt to lift the lid, though you shouldnt have to do this often since you can make one pizza after another by just sliding the trays into the slots.
Spatula difficulty: If you cook the pizzas directly on the perforated metal spatulas, they come out perfectly round and flatbut they take a few extra minutes than if you cook them directly on the baking sheet.
However, beware: When you slide the pizzas directly onto the baking sheet, the raw dough inevitably buckles and folds, resulting in an uneven result and lots of topping overflow.
However, these pies do cook a lot faster on the direct heat.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar You can probably guess which pizza was cooked on the spatula (hint: right).
Overflow-age: You will need to employ some trial and error to learn the right ratio of toppings to crust.
If you overload your pizzas even a little, your toppings will send cheese oozing over your crust and onto the baking sheet, creating a bit of a smokey mess.
The non-stick base was very easy to clean, though, so this didn't cause too much of a headache.
A damp cloth did the trick.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar Is it worth it?
The 4-person model retails for $120, and the 6-person model sells for $200.
They only come with 2 spatulas, and an additional 2 will cost you $15.
Thats a pretty hefty cost, but Im not here to judge: We all know this gadget isnt a necessity in the home.
It's built for a niche audience and fun, likely infrequent use.
Credit: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar If you are interested in a novelty pizza oven, the Pizzarette does pretty much exactly what it claims to: It's fun, it cooks pizzas quickly, and both the setup and cleanup are a snap.
There is a very slight learning curve: I mastered my pizza craft by the third batch.
I was surprised at how well it performed, and I can definitely see this being a crowd pleaser at a dinner party.
If you are OK with rotating your pizzas halfway through cook time for even results and have a couple hundred bucks to spare, Id say go for it.
We've definitely tried worse!
10 ways to stay stress-free if you're traveling with kids for Thanksgiving (Photo: VTech / CozyPhones) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
If you're traveling with your kids for Thanksgiving, youre probably brainstorming ways to make the trip a little easier.
Long plane, train, or car rides can be trying for even the most patient children (and adults), but there are ways to minimize common travel problems and reduce stress for everyone.
Here are 10 must-have items for your next family trip, including everything from motion-sickness prevention bands to the best kids tablets for hours of entertainment.
With these products on hand, your family trip will be a lot more fun and a lot less stressful.
1.
Let them watch movies while you enjoy some quiet time These cute headphones are designed specially for kids.
(Photo: CozyPhones) Why must normal over-ear headphones be so bulky and uncomfortable?
Luckily, CozyPhones Kids Headphones are built into a comfortable headband that comes in several cute designs, making them as kid-friendly as it gets.
Plus, the headphones have limited volume to protect their sensitive ears, and they've got over 2,000 reviews and 4.4 out of 5 stars on Amazon.
This design is practically mad for long road trips, and there are more than 10 fun designs for your kids to choose from.
Get the CozyPhones Kids Headphones on Amazon for $15.97 2.
Give them their own kid-safe tablet to play with This kid-proof tablet is perfect for trips.
(Photo: Amazon) Keep your kids entertained for hours with the All-New Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet, which holds games, videos, music, books and more.
This is the best tablet for kids we've ever tested.
Plus, it comes in a cute kid-proof case in one of three bright colors, and its battery can last up to eight hours per charge.
The best part is that the tablet comes with a two-year worry-free warrantyAmazon will replace it with no questions asked!
Get the All-New Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet, 7" Display, 16 GB on Amazon for $99.99 3.
Prevent motion sickness with wrist bands for kids (and adults!)
Prevent motion sickness with these wrist bands.
(Photo: Sea-Band) Motion sickness can strike at any time and in any place, so be prepared with the Sea-Band Child Wristbands.
These wrist bands use pressure, not drugs, to combat nausea.
It may sound like snake oil, but reviewers are amazed at how well they relieve both motion and sea sickness.
Dont worrythey're super affordable and they come in adult sizes if you need them too!
Get the Sea-Band Child Wristband on Amazon for $5.79 4.
Make them comfortable enough to sleep through anything Kids will fall asleep fast with this comfy pillow.
(Photo: BCOZZY) Have you ever fallen asleep on a train or plane, only to be awakened when your chin slips forward, jolting you?
You can prevent this common issue for your kids with the BCOZZY Kids Chin Supporting Travel Neck Pillow.
This child-sized neck pillow wraps all the way around their neck for total support and comfort, helping your children sleep more soundly during long trips.
Get the BCOZZY Kids Chin Supporting Travel Neck Pillow on Amazon for $24.97 5.
Always have a full battery even when outlets are scarce Keep everyone's gadgets charged with a portable charger.
(Photo: RAVPower) When the whole family is on the go, chances are youll have at least a few cell phones, tablets, and other electronics in tow.
Electrical outlets are hot commodities in public transportation, so you should definitely bring along a portable charger like the best-selling Power Banks from RAVPower.
This compact little charger has three USB ports and enough power to charge an iPhone 7 up to eight times!
Its a definite must-have for plugged-in families.
Get the Power Banks RAVPower 22000mAh Portable Charger on Amazon for $37.99 6.
Capture memories with a kid-friendly digital camera Let kids capture memories with this digital camera.
(Photo: VTech) As stressful as traveling can be, its always exciting for children to go new places.
Why not let your little ones capture memories with their own digital camera?
The highly rated VTech Kidizoom Camera Pix comes in pink and blue, and it boasts all the features of a real camera, including digital zoom, selfie mode, video, built-in games and more.
The VTech camera is best for kids 3 to 8, and its durable design will withstand drop and tumbles, making it perfect for the road.
Get the VTech Kidizoom Camera Pix on Amazon for $29.88 7.
Bring your own FAA-approved airplane harness Strap your kids into any plane seat with this harness.
(Photo: Kids Fly Safe) If you dont want to lug a carseat onto your flight, the Kids Fly Safe Child Airplane Travel Harness is an FAA-approved alternative to keep kids safe and secure in their seat.
The harness is designed for children over 1 year old who weigh between 22 and 44 pounds.
Its quick to install and adjusts to any plane seat, making it a truly useful product if youre flying to your destination.
Get the Kids Fly Safe Child Airplane Travel Harness on Amazon for $69.95 8.
Let your kids take charge with luggage designed for little hands Get your kids their own luggage!
(Photo: Goplus / Amazon) If your kids have been asking for their own luggage, the two-piece Goplus Hard Side Carry On Luggage Set is a great option.
These bags come in several cute designs, and they have four 360-degree wheels that make rolling easyperfect for young travelers who want a little independence.
Plus, the hard exterior ensures nothing will break if your kids (or the baggage folks) accidentally drop the bag.
Get the Goplus Kids Upright Hard Side Carry On Luggage Set on Amazon for $34.99$42.99 9.
Encourage creativity with an on-the-go activity tray It's easier for kids to play in the car with this travel tray.
(Photo: Babyseater / Amazon) Whether your kids want to color, play with their toys or read a book, any travel activity will be a lot easier with this travel tray.
The best-selling Babyseater tray works on just about any form of transportation, and it can be strapped in with your child to keep it firmly in place.
Both you and your little ones will love this, as it has a built-in pocket for wet wipes, special holders for markers or crayons, and an erasable surface where they can draw to their heart's content.
It certainly makes car, plane, and train trips that much more fun!
Get the Babyseater Kids Travel Tray With EXCLUSIVE Erasable Surface on Amazon for $26.95 10.
Always have a fun game on hand no matter where you are This game will keep kids entertained for the duration of your trip.
(Photo: Asmodee) There are plenty of travel-friendly games out there, but we like Spot It, a compact card game that can be played several different ways.
Each card in the container has a variety of symbols on it, and there's only one common symbol between any two cards.
You can play several games with the deck, and Spot It is perfect for two to eight players.
Just stash this top-rated game in your bag and pull it out when you need a distraction in the car, airport or restaurant.
Get Asmodee Spot It on Amazon for $12.98 For more travel friendly activities for kids, check out this list of kids' travel entertainment ideas Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2jgTf0f
The Moccamaster 10-Cup coffee brewer on a rare sale.
(Photo: Massdrop) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
There's never been a better time to be a coffee geek.
You can find artisan cafes in every town and single-origin beans right next to Maxwell House at your local chain supermarket.
But when I say "there's never been a better time" I mean now, as in today.
That's because the Moccamaster, our top-rated coffee maker, is on a rare and massive discount right now.
Normally around $319, the 10-cup Moccamaster with a thermal carafe is on sale at Massdrop for $229 ($90 off).
Because Moccamaster is a personal favorite of mine I keep an eye out for sales.
They're rare, and Massdrop only has 450 of them to sell.
Once they're gone, they're gone.
I've owned my Moccamaster for five years, and every morning when I take my first sip I say "this is the best cup of coffee I've ever had."
Chances are I'll be saying it tomorrow, too.
That perfect cup is mainly due to the copper heating element inside (not cheap aluminum) that gets every drop of water to the right temperature before it's showered over the coffee grounds with just the right amount of saturation time.
Every Moccamaster comes with a five-year warranty and is hand-tested before it leaves the factory.
It's quieter and faster than the average drip machine, and thoroughly entertaining to watch as the water creeps mesmerizingly up the reservoir pipe.
As with everything on Massdrop, you'll need to create an account or log in to see the price.
Several of our staff have bought items from the site and never had an issue.
Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2jfEHhf
It was my own fault.
I usually clean my wool sweaters in the washing machine with cold water on a delicate cycle.
I know, you probably wash all your sweaters by hand or send them to the dry cleaners.
But my method had always worked beforeuntil the day I accidentally dialed up the wrong cycle.
And I didnt realize that I had washed in hot water until it was all over.
When I unloaded the washing machine, I nearly cried.
My sweaters were tiny.
I shook them out, which did not help at all, and laid them flat to dry.
Then I hid them in the back of my closet.
When fall came, I missed my teal sweater, which was always so warm and cozy.
And I decided to try to bring it back from ruin.
I figured if I could relax the wool enough, I could stretch it back into shape.
I'm a knitter, and I've been blocking sweaters for years, so heres what I did.
1.
Add 1/3 cup hair conditioner to a sink filled with lukewarm water.
Some people use a special wool wash called Eucalan or even baby shampoo for this phase.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Cindy Bailen Use a third of a cup of conditioner to relax the sweater.
2.
Soak the sweater for at least 15 minutes.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Cindy Bailen Fill the sink with tepid water, pour in the conditioner, and submerge the sweater.
3.
Drain the sink.
Dont rinse or wring out the sweater, but press the water out gently.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Cindy Bailen Let the water out, but don't rinse or wring the sweater.
Lay the sweater on a towel.
Roll it up to get more of the moisture out.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Cindy Bailen Roll the sweater in a clean, dry towel.
5.
Place the sweater on a dry towel or two.
Reshape it to size.
A nerdy way to make sure you get the size right is to trace one of your non-shrunken sweaters onto a large sheet of paper, and use it as a template for reshaping.
I didn't, but you could try it.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Cindy Bailen Lay the sweater out flat on a clean towel.
Let it dry overnight.
This worked much better than I expected.
And I cant even tell you how happy I am to have my favorite sweater back in the rotation.
Obviously, you should never wash a wool sweater in hot water.
But if you accidentally do, now you know how to fix it.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Some people don't understand what Bitcoin is, but some people stand to make a fortune off the cryptocurrency.
Here are the five people who stand to make a killing when they finally cash in on Bitcoin.
Time (Photo: Getty Images) Bitcoin fell Friday to its lowest since Nov. 1 as traders bet on its offshoot, bitcoin cash, instead.
The offshoot digital currency surged more than 30% to its highest since Aug. 19, and was last trading near $876, according to CoinMarketCap.
Bitcoin cash split off from the original version of bitcoin in August as a minority group of developers decided to implement an upgrade in an effort to increase transaction speeds for the digital currency.
An alternative bitcoin upgrade proposal, SegWit2x, which initially had more developers behind it, was called off Wednesday due to waning support.
More: The costly mistake bitcoin investors are probably making More: Bitcoin jumps $400 in one day and soars to a new record high More: Bitcoin cryptocurrency blasts past $7,000 mark in record rise Bitcoin hit a record high of $7,879.06 that day after the news, but quickly fell and was trading more than 7% lower on the day Friday afternoon near $6,621, according to CoinDesk.
That marked its lowest since Nov. 1.
"You can see people playing back and forth between bitcoin and bitcoin cash trading depending on where they think near-term catalysts may be," said Chris Burniske, author of Cryptoassets: The Innovative Investor's Guide to Bitcoin and Beyond.
"It's been a battle of investors versus traders that were stockpiling bitcoin to get their 'bitcoin2x dividend.'"
Investors at the time of a bitcoin split technically receive equal amounts of the offshoot currency.
Disagreements over upgrade proposals have caused uncertainty over the future of bitcoin, but some traders had been buying bitcoin ahead of splits in order to benefit from a payout of a new digital currency and a potential relief rally in bitcoin following the split.
Creating bitcoin cash through the "mining" process was 13.6 percent more profitable than mining bitcoin, according to data on Coin Dance's website.
CNBC is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Bitcoin is booming, digital currency hedge funds are sprouting at the rate of two a week and the value of all cryptocurrencies has surged tenfold this year to more than $170 billion.
Newslook Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2i2j6VX
10 gadgets that will practically host Thanksgiving for you (Photo: Reviewed.com) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Hosting Thanksgiving at your house is no small task.
In addition to all the cooking that needs to be done, you also end up cleaning, setting tables, gathering chairs, facilitating entertainment and so on.
Its a lot to do when you only have two hands!
You dont have to do it all alone, though!
Even if your kids wont help, there are a host of smart gadgets that will take some Thanksgiving prep off your plate, whether its vacuuming the carpet or monitoring the turkey.
Here are 10 products that will help you host a seemingly effortless Thanksgiving feast for your friends and family.
1.
A pocket-sized grocery shopping assistant Create a Thanksgiving shopping list with Hiku.
(Photo: Hiku) There are times when its acceptable to wing it at the grocery store, but Thanksgiving is not one of them.
Forgetting the sweet potatoes isnt an option when it comes to this food-forward holiday, which is why you need Hiku: The Shopping Button.
This smart device can scan barcodes of items you need to replace or you can dictate what you need, and it will upload your comprehensive shopping list into the Hiku app.
Get Hiku: The Shopping Button on Amazon for $43.99 2.
A smart sous chef Let this sous vide cooker prepare your Thanksgiving dishes.
(Photo: Anova Culinary) Whether you want perfectly cooked carrots or a mouth-watering homemade cranberry sauce, the Anova Culinary Bluetooth Sous Vide Precision Cooker can help you whip up great Thanksgiving dishes with minimal effort.
Just set the temperature, prep the ingredients, and let the best sous vide cooker we've ever tested take care of the rest.
This smart gadget will let you know when the food is ready!
Get an Anova Culinary Bluetooth Sous Vide Precision Cooker on Amazon for $149 3.
A multi-use pressure cooker Keep an eye on whatever you're cooking without leaving the couch.
(Photo: Instant Pot) The Instant Pot Smart Bluetooth Pressure Cooker is a versatile little helper on Thanksgiving.
You can use it to make yogurt, soup, rice, steamed vegetables, and more, and it can also keep dishes warm until dinner is served.
Plus, with Bluetooth, it's even easier to keep an eye on your food.
But if you like being in the kitchen, the regular Instant Pot 7-in-1 works just as well, and it's only $85 on Amazon.
Get an Instant Pot Smart Bluetooth 7-in-1 Multi-Use Programmable Pressure Cooker on Amazon for $159.99 4.
A smart scale to bake better desserts It's easier than ever to make a great pie, thanks to this smart baking scale.
(Photo: Perfect Company) Dont worry about pulling out your cookbook and measuring cups when its time to make dessert.
The Perfect Company Wireless Bake Pro Smart Kitchen Scale makes it quick and easy to whip up amazing cookies, brownies or piesjust pick the recipe you want to make from the app, and the scale will walk you through the steps, helping you measure each ingredient.
Of course, you can always get the Amazon Basics scale for $9.99 if you don't need the bells and whistles of this smart scale.
We found it works perfectly well, especially for the price.
Get a Perfect Company Wireless Bake Pro Smart Kitchen Scale on Amazon for $64.48 5.
An app-controlled vacuum for last-minute cleanup Ask this smart vacuum to tidy up with the touch of an app.
(Photo: ECOVACS) If your company is arriving any minute and youre stuck in the kitchen, youll be glad you have the ECOVACS DEEBOT N79 Robotic Vacuum Cleaner to tidy up.
This smart robotic vacuum cleaner wowed us in our tests, and it has options to clean one room, around the edges or just spot clean (all programmable via your phone), so your house will be pristine when your family arrives.
Get an ECOVACS DEEBOT N79 Robotic Vacuum Cleaner on Amazon for $199.98 6.
A meat thermometer to keep tabs on the bird Say goodbye to dry turkey.
(Photo: Morpilot) The easiest way to mess up a Thanksgiving feast is to over- or undercook the turkey.
However, the Morpilot Smart BBQ Thermometer can keep an eye on the bird while you prep other dishes, and it will send a notification to your smartphone when the turkey reaches the perfect temperature so you can relax on the couch with your family while your meal cooks.
Get a Morpilot Smart BBQ Thermometer on Amazon for $25.99 7.
A moveable speaker for dinnertime tunes Bring the tunes wherever you go with this portable speaker.
(Photo: Archeer) Set the ambiance for your Thanksgiving meal with your favorite music, provided by the elegant Archeer Bluetooth speaker.
This speaker performed the best out of all the portable Bluetooth speakers we've tested, and it's so stunning to look at it'll surely impress your guests.
Plus, it's wireless so it can move from room to room with your party.
Get an Archeer 25W Bluetooth Speaker on Amazon for $69.99 8.
A coffee maker you can control from anywhere Start a pot of after-dinner coffee even if you're too full to move.
(Photo: Behmor) Dont miss a minute of dinner convo!
The Behmor Connected Temperature Control Coffee Maker lets you make great coffee, all from your phone.
With this smart coffee pot, you can pre-soak the beans and even set the coffees temperature, so you can finish off the feast with an amazing cup of java.
The price is a bit steep, even if you can control it from your phone.
So unless you're set on impressing your guests with fancy gadgets, you can check out our top picks for drip coffee makers for more affordable options.
Get a Behmor Connected Temperature Control Coffee Maker on Amazon for $139.99 9.
A smart air purifier to keep things fresh Keep the air fresh throughout your party with this allergen remover.
(Photo: Honeywell) When there are a dozen people in a small space, things can get a little stuffy.
Use the Honeywell Bluetooth Smart True HEPA Allergen Remover to keep the air fresh and allergen free throughout your gathering.
This products quiet operation and app-based controls will make it the unsung hero of your party.
Get the Honeywell HPA250B Bluetooth Smart True HEPA Allergen Remover on Amazon for $199.99 10.
A connected racing set to keep kids entertained Kids and adults alike will want to play with these race cars.
(Photo: Anki) Its always a good idea to have a fun activity on hand to keep kids entertained, and the Anki Overdrive Starter Kit definitely fits the bill.
These app-controlled race cars are seriously impressive with their plasma cannons and flamethrowersso much so that adults might want to play, too!
Get an Anki Overdrive Starter Kit on Amazon for $149.99 Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hqKhwQ
None A visitor tries out an Apple iPhone 7 on the first day of sales of the new phone at the Berlin Apple store on Sept. 16, 2016, in Berlin, Germany.
The new phone comes in two sizes, one with a 4.7 inch display, the other with a 5.5 inch display.
Sean Gallup, Getty Images
None A collection of photos taken on the new Sony RX10IV camera, which sells for $1,700.
It has a massive 24mm-600mm zoom lens in a compact body.
The first image here is the Manhattan Beach Pier, at 24mm wide angle.
Jefferson Graham
None Gamers look at the new Microsoft Xbox One X that will go on sale later this year.
Mark Ralston, AFP/Getty Images
None Attendees wait in line to enter the 2017 Apple Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) at the San Jose Convention Center on June 5, 2017 in San Jose, California.
WWDC is primarily a software event which allows Apple to show external developers its plans for upcoming releases.
Apple appears poised to unveil a voice-activated, internet-connected speaker that would create a new digital pipeline into people's homes.
Tapping Apple's Siri digital assistant, such a speaker is expected to serve as a butler as well as an outlet for listening to music.
If the speculation pans out, the speaker would be Apple's first new product since its smartwatch in 2015.
Justin Sullivan, Getty Images
None For the second straight year, Google is expected to use its annual conference for software developers to push its latest hardware.
Google I/O 2017, the company's developers conference starts with a keynote address at 1 p.m.
ET, during which Google is likely to reveal lots of news about both its latest wave of gadgets and its software.
The Googleplex is the corporate headquarters complex of Google, at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway in Mountain View, Calif. Marco Della Cava, USA TODAY
(Reuters) - U.S. automaker Tesla Inc on Monday was hit with a class-action lawsuit claiming its California production plant is a hotbed for racist behavior.
The logo of Tesla is seen in Taipei, Taiwan August 11, 2017.
REUTERS/Tyrone Siu The lawsuit filed in California state court in Oakland is at least the third filed this year by black workers who say they were addressed using racial slurs and that the company ignored their complaints.
But Mondays lawsuit, filed by former Tesla employee Marcus Vaughn, is the first to bring those claims on behalf of a large class of black workers at the automakers Fremont, California factory.
Tesla did not respond to a request for comment.
The company is also facing lawsuits accusing it of discrimination against gay and older workers.
It has denied those claims.
Vaughn in the lawsuit says he was routinely called the n-word by supervisors and coworkers after he began working at the factory in April.
He says he complained in writing to human resources officials, but the company never investigated his claims.
Vaughn says he was fired in October for not having a positive attitude.
He is seeking unspecified damages under a California anti-discrimination law.
The growing number of discrimination lawsuits against Tesla come as the company is also facing a unionization campaign from the United Auto Workers.
In February, Tesla chief executive Elon Musk told the website Gizmodo that an employee who wrote a blog post criticizing the company was paid by the UAW to join Tesla and agitate for a union.
The union and the worker denied that he had been paid by UAW.
Last month, the union filed a complaint with a federal labor board on behalf of scores of workers who it says were laid off because they support the union.
The company denied the claims and said the decision was based on employee performance reviews.
(Reuters) - Roku Incs shares surged nearly 43 percent to a record high on Monday after the streaming device maker said it signed a licensing deal that would put its technology on Philips-branded televisions in the United States this year.
A video sign displays the logo for Roku Inc, a Fox-backed video streaming firm, in Times Square after the company's IPO at the Nasdaq Market in New York, U.S., September 28, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid The company said the licensing partnership with Japans Funai Electric Co Ltd, which manufactures Philips N.V. televisions for North American, would place its operating system on Philips smart TVs.
Roku also said that it would give a $20 discount on its $69.99-priced streaming stick for the Black Friday weekend, and separately said its customer would get a free one-month trial of AT&T Incs streaming service DirecTV Now.
The barrage of news was well received by investors, who sent Rokus shares jumping 28.5 percent to close at $42.71 on Monday.
The stock hit a high of $47.49 earlier in the session.
The stock has gained 127 percent in heavy volumes over the past three days in a rally that was spurred by the companys strong third-quarter report late on Wednesday.
The price move was solely due to long shareholders bidding up ROKUs stock price and not due to investors covering their short positions in the stock, financial analytics firm S3 Partners said in a note.
S3 Partners said while the short interest in Roku has risen since its initial public offering (IPO) in late September, it has stayed relatively flat in November and isnt likely to go up further due to the limited number of shares available to borrow.
Investors who sell securities short first borrow shares and then sell them, expecting the price to fall so they can then buy the shares back at the lower price, return them to the lender and pocket the difference.
Roku, one of the first to make a device to stream content such as from Netflix Inc onto TVs, is now combating deeper-pocketed entrants such as Apple Inc, Alphabet Incs Google and Amazon.com Inc among others.
Still, up to Mondays close, Rokus stock has now more than tripled from its IPO price of $14 on Sept. 27.
The stock debuted at $15.78 on the Nasdaq on Sept. 28.
Los Gatos, California-based Rokus success in the stock market is in stark contrast to the fortunes of other technology companies to make their market debuts this year.
Snap Incs shares have fallen 26 percent since its February IPO, while Blue Apron Holdings Inc has lost about 70 percent since its IPO in June.
(For a graphic on 'Shares of Roku Inc vs.
Snap Inc and Blue Apron Holdings Inc' click reut.rs/2zUozZI)
(Reuters) - Mobile chipmaker Qualcomm Inc on Monday rejected rival Broadcom Ltds $103-billion takeover bid, saying the offer undervalued the company and would face regulatory hurdles.
Shares of Qualcomm were up 1.8 percent at $65.74 in early afternoon trading, while those of Broadcom were down 0.4 percent at $263.95.
Broadcom said it would seek to engage with Qualcomms board and management, adding that it had received positive feedback from key customers and stockholders.
We continue to believe our proposal represents the most attractive, value-enhancing alternative available to Qualcomm stockholders and we are encouraged by their reaction, the company said.
Both companies count Apple among their top customers.
Analysts have said a deal between the two would help Qualcomm settle its legal battle with the iPhone maker as Broadcom has a closer relationship with Apple.
Broadcom made an unsolicited bid last week to buy Qualcomm in an effort to become the dominant supplier of chips used in the 1.5 billion or so smartphones expected to be sold around the world this year.
Analysts said Broadcom can now raise its bid, go for a proxy fight or launch a hostile exchange offer.
Qualcomms thanks, but no thanks response to the unsolicited bid by Broadcom isnt surprising and we would be surprised if at this point, Broadcom didnt move forward with a proxy fight, Loop Capital analyst Betsy Van Hees told Reuters.
A sign on the Qualcomm campus is seen in San Diego, California, U.S. November 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Mike Blake If Broadcom makes a hostile bid, Qualcomms governance rules would allow the rival to submit its own slate for the entire 11-member board by the Dec. 8 nomination deadline.
The easiest option, however, would be to talk to Qualcomms board and agree on a higher price.
A sign to the campus offices of chip maker Broadcom Ltd, is shown in Irvine, California, U.S., November 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Mike Blake We are well-advised and know what our options are, and we have not eliminated any of those options, Broadcom Chief Executive Hock Tan told Reuters last week.
The right price for Qualcomm could be between $80 and $85 per share, and Broadcom could go up to $90, Susquehanna analyst Christopher Rolland told Reuters.
Any deal would face scrutiny from the antitrust regulators as the combined company would own the high-end WiFi business globally, analysts said.
Regulators are already scrutinizing Qualcomms $38-billion acquisition of automotive chipmaker NXP Semiconductors NV.
Broadcom has indicated it is willing to buy Qualcomm irrespective of whether it closes the NXP deal.
Qualcomm now needs to convince investors that they can create more shareholder value independently, Raymond James analyst Chris Caso said.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Missouris attorney general said Monday his office would investigate whether Alphabet Incs Google violated the states consumer protection and antitrust laws.
FILE PHOTO - The Google logo is pictured atop an office building in Irvine, California, U.S. August 7, 2017.
REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo Josh Hawley, a Republican seeking to unseat Democratic U.S.
Senator Claire McCaskill in next years elections, announced at a press conference that he issued an investigative subpoena to Google.
He expressed concern over the accuracy of the companys privacy policy, allegations it misappropriated content from rivals and claims it demoted competitors websites in search results.
Google said it had not yet received the subpoena.
However, we have strong privacy protections in place for our users and continue to operate in a highly competitive and dynamic environment, spokesperson Andrea Faville said in a statement.
Google has come under growing scrutiny globally as it has become a top provider of online search, mobile software and advertising technology.
But formal investigations have reached varying results in the last seven years.
Attorney generals of 37 states reached a $7 million settlement in 2013 over Googles unauthorized collection of Wi-Fi data through its Street View digital-mapping cars.
A Federal Trade Commission inquiry also prompted Google that year to agree to provide advertisers and patent licensees more flexible terms.
The FTC, though, did not bring the stronger antitrust charges that Google rivals such as Microsoft Corp and Yelp Inc sought.
States including Ohio, Mississippi and Texas saw inquiries falter without substantive consequences.
Missouris Hawley said the FTCs inaction created an opening.
We are going to act to hold corporate giants accountable ... for the good of the people of Missouri, Hawley said.
Asked at the press conference whether his senate candidacy played a role in opening the Google inquiry, Hawley said he acted upon his oath of office and desire to get to the truth.
He pointed to the European Union fining Google $2.7 billion in June for unfairly favoring links to its own shopping service over those from other e-commerce websites.
Hawley said he was moved to act because of concern that Google is engaging in similar behavior domestically.
Google is appealing the EU fine.
The other issue cited by Hawley may be tied to complaints from Yelp.
The business reviews website wrote the FTC and the attorney generals of all 50 states in September that Google has copied images from its service without permission in violation of a commitment made to the U.S. antitrust regulator.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - AT&T Inc and Verizon Communications Inc said on Monday they have agreed to lease hundreds of new cell towers from owner and operator Tillman Infrastructure, a move they hope will give them more leverage in negotiations with major U.S. tower vendors.
FILE PHOTO: The Verizon logo is seen on the side of a truck in New York City, U.S., October 13, 2016.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo The U.S. cell tower market is currently dominated by three companies: American Tower Corp, SBA Communications Corp, and Crown Castle International Corp.
The agreement announced on Monday shows that Verizon and AT&T, the No.
1 and No.
2 biggest U.S. wireless carriers, are willing to strike deals with other vendors to secure better prices for the towers they use to transmit wireless signals, analysts and company officials said.
Both carriers are seeking to add to their network capacity at a time when consumers are using increasing amounts of cellular data.
Carriers are always looking for alternative partners to lessen their dependence on the big three guys, said Jonathan Chaplin, analyst at New Street Research.
As part of the agreement, Tillman will construct the towers and AT&T and Verizon will serve as anchor tenants.
Construction will begin in the first quarter of 2018.
This is Verizon and AT&T working together with a new provider to put some competition into the mix, said Susan Johnson, AT&Ts senior vice president of supply chain, in an interview, adding, we do really hope this will be a future model.
Shares of American Tower were flat in afternoon trading, while shares of SBA Communications were down 1.9 percent and Crown Castle was down 0.3 percent.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Bitcoin, whose value has fluctuated significantly this month, remains a speculative investment that thrives because of the cryptocurrencys anonymous nature, BlackRock Inc (BLK.N) Chief Executive Larry Fink said on Monday.
Laurence Fink, founder and chief executive officer of BlackRock, Inc. speaks during the Reuters Global Investment Outlook Summit in New York, U.S., November 13, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson The reason why it does so well is it is anonymous.
Its anonymous, and its cross-border, Fink, whose firm oversees nearly $6 trillion of assets, said at the Reuters Global Investment 2018 Outlook Summit.
If you legitimize it, you know who your counterparties are...the question is how many people will use it if you have to acknowledge you are a buyer or a seller.
Fink called bitcoin a very speculative instrument.
More importantly, it is an instrument that people use for money laundering.
The value of bitcoin plunged as much as 29 percent from its Nov. 8 record high of $7,888 following the cancellation of a planned technology upgrade and amid persistent concern of a bubble.
Bitcoin recouped some of its losses on Monday.
Investors who have held bitcoin for the long term have fared well.
Laurence Fink, founder and chief executive officer of BlackRock, Inc. speaks during the Reuters Global Investment Outlook Summit in New York, U.S., November 13, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Even after the recent drop, its value has increased more than sixfold this year.
Investors who held on longer have been rewarded even more: in 2011, bitcoin traded at below $3.
Fink, however, said most investors with long-term horizons, and who are keeping record amounts on the sidelines, should be focused on traditional assets such as stocks and bonds.
He said that for a 30-year-old person, 100 percent equities is the right investment strategy, at a time when the worlds economies are enjoying synchronized growth for the first time since the financial crisis.
Bitcoin "is tiny in the scheme of financial markets," Fink said.
Overall, "there's too much focus on bitcoin," Fink said.
"I don't know why it has so much fascination for the press."
Follow Reuters Summits on Twitter @Reuters_Summits
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Ubers [UBER.UL] chief of policy for India and South Asia has quit, two sources familiar with the matter said on Monday, in the latest high-level departure at the online taxi company.
The Uber logo is seen on mobile telephone in London, Britain, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Hannah McKay Shweta Rajpal Kohli, a former Indian journalist who joined Uber last year, would join cloud-based software maker Salesforce.com Inc next month, the sources told Reuters.
Uber said it did not have an immediate comment.
Kohli did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Kohli was mostly tasked with building Ubers relations with regulators and government officials in India, a market where the firm has faced several regulatory and reputational hurdles.
One source said Kohli was leading government engagements in the influential circles, so her exit is a step back for Uber.
The sources asked not to be identified as the details were not public yet.
Uber was briefly banned in New Delhi after one of its drivers raped a woman passenger in 2014.
Uber hired a law firm this year to investigate how the firm managed to obtain the medical records of the rape victim, an incident that led to criticism of the culture at the U.S. firm, sources told Reuters in June.
Uber declined to comment.
Kohli is the latest senior executive to leave Uber.
The firms European policy chief quit in October, shortly after the departure of Ubers top boss in Britain.
Uber has suffered a tumultuous few months which has seen former CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick forced out after a series of boardroom controversies and other regulatory battles in multiple U.S. states and around the world.
Uber counts India as its second-biggest market after the United States.
It operates in about 30 Indian cities and competes with Ola, a ride hailing service backed by Japans Softbank.
Uber said on Monday it had agreed with a consortium led by SoftBank and Dragoneer Investment Group on a potential investment.
BEIJING (Reuters) - General Motors Cos China joint ventures will be able to generate enough new energy vehicle (NEV) sales volume to account for NEV production quotas by 2019 and without the need to buy credits, GM China chief Matt Tsien said on Monday.
Workers inspect Baojun E100 all-electric battery cars at a final assembly plant operated by General Motors Co and its local joint-venture partners in Liuzhou, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China, November 8, 2017.
Picture taken November 8, 2017.
REUTERS/Norihiko Shirouzu China has set stringent production quotas for NEVs which automakers must meet by 2019, a move that is prompting a flurry of electric car deals and new launches of battery electric and plug-in hybrid models as automakers in China race to ensure they do not fall short.
GM produces vehicles in China through a joint venture with SAIC, the countrys largest automaker, as well as a three-way tie-up with SAIC and Guangxi Automobile Group, formerly known as Wuling Motors.
Tsien, GMs China chief since 2014, said both SAIC-GM Corp and the three-way tie-up are working to at least meet, if not exceed, those credit mandate requirements.
Tsien told reporters on Monday that both joint ventures will try to meet those requirements without having to purchase NEV credits from other automakers with excess credits.
We intend to be able to produce enough products for those joint ventures to be able to meet the NEV quotas on their own, Tsien said.
A Baojun E100 all-electric battery car is displayed at a Baojun NEV Experience Center store in Liuzhou, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China, November 8, 2017.
Picture taken November 8, 2017.
REUTERS/Norihiko Shirouzu I cant give you any specific (NEV production and sales volume) numbers other than to say that through the complicated formula we will either meet or exceed.
China officially unveiled NEV requirements for automakers in late September.
When the green car quotas take effect in 2019, automakers will need to accumulate enough credits by producing and selling enough NEVs to hit a threshold equivalent to 10 percent of annual sales.
That level would rise to 12 percent for 2020.
Slideshow (7 Images) Tsien said GM is off to a good start with an electric battery car that it launched in July.
The car, called the Baojun E100, is undergoing a feasibility study of a direct-sale method GM devised for it and is currently available only in the south China city of Liuzhou where GMs three-way joint venture produces them.
In October, GM sold a total of 1,724 E100s, with cumulative volume hitting nearly 4,000 units since July.
The E100 starts at 93,900 yuan ($14,142) but sells for 35,800 yuan after government purchase subsidies.
Sales so far have largely met our expectations, perhaps even slightly above our expectations, Tsien said.
The car is one of the three electric battery car models GM already has available in China.
GM plans to launch at least seven more NEVs in China by 2020.
($1 = 6.6400 Chinese yuan renminbi)
LONDON (Reuters) - Bitcoin surged on Monday, recovering more than $1,000 after losing almost a third of its value in less than four days as traders bought back into the volatile cryptocurrency.
Bitcoin (virtual currency) coins placed on Dollar banknotes are seen in this illustration picture, November 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration Bitcoin tumbled in the second half of last week, falling as low as $5,555 on the Luxembourg-based Bitstamp exchange on Sunday, a slide of almost 30 percent from a record high just shy of $7,900 on Wednesday..
It rebounded on Monday, trading up more than 14 percent on the day at $6,718, though that was still more than $1,000 less than last weeks record high.
Market-watchers said the fall had been driven by a decision on Wednesday to abandon a planned software upgrade that could have split the cryptocurrency in a so-called fork - a move that had initially had a positive impact on the digital coin, sending it to a record high of $7,888 on the view that this marked a resolution of a long-term dispute.
But some were disappointed that Segwit2x fork had been abandoned.
It would have increased the capacity of the blocks transactions are processed in, thereby reducing competition to get payments processed and lowering transaction fees.
Consequently, analysts said, some of those who see low fees as important to the future of bitcoin were selling it for a clone called Bitcoin Cash that spun off from the original in August.
Its block sizes are larger, and therefore transaction fees are lower.
Bitcoin Cash tripled in value at the end of the week as bitcoin slid, reaching an all-time high just below $2,000 on Sunda and briefly overtaking Ethereum as the worlds second-biggest cryptocurrency.
But traders bought back into the original bitcoin on Monday, sending Bitcoin Cash plummeting.
It was trading down over 30 percent on the day at around $1,097, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.
Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash will co-exist and serve different use cases, just like Bitcoin and Ethereum.
Its not a zero sum game, bitcoin and security expert Andreas Antopolous said in a post on Twitter.
Bitcoin is up more than 500 percent so far this year.
(This version of the story was refiled to change headline to claws back from rebounds to avoid confusion)
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinas second biggest e-commerce company, JD.com, reported an unexpected profit in the third quarter, though it lost about 100 merchants to fierce competition in the run-up to this months Singles Day shopping extravaganza.
A sign of China's e-commerce company JD.com is seen during the third annual World Internet Conference in Wuzhen town of Jiaxing, Zhejiang province, China November 16, 2016.
REUTERS/Aly Song JD (JD.O) posted net earnings of 1 billion yuan ($151 million), its highest ever quarterly profit, in the three months to Sept. 30, far above an analyst consensus forecast of a 213 million yuan loss.
The unexpected profit and a 39 percent rise in revenue boosted the companys shares, which were 5 percent higher at 1554 GMT.
The company reported a net loss of 807.9 million yuan in the third quarter last year.
More recently, JD said it had lost roughly 100 merchants to competition during the promotion period for Singles Day, Chinas biggest online sales event which ended on Saturday.
Chief Financial Officer Sidney Huang said the brands that left the platform were all major Chinese clothing brands, and that the company expected apparel growth to remain stagnant for the next two quarters before recovering.
JD accused its main competitor, Alibaba, of engaging in coercive tactics, saying its rival obliged merchants to choose between online platforms.
Based on the feedback we received from these merchants, the move was mainly due to the coercive tactics from our competitor, Huang said on a call with analysts.
Alibaba said JDs allegations were false, and that merchants were free to choose which platforms they use.
Merchants make their own choices.
Alibabas scale and technological advantages make it the preferred partner for the worlds top brands, an Alibaba spokeswoman told Reuters.
JD.com booked $19 billion in total sales over the Singles Day festival, which will be reflected in fourth-quarter earnings.
Alibaba recorded over $25 billion in revenue during the events peak on Saturday.
Once a celebration for Chinas lonely hearts, Singles Day has become an annual 24-hour buying frenzy that exceeds the combined sales for Black Friday and Cyber Monday in the United States, and acts as a barometer for Chinas consumers.
Competition between JD and Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd (BABA.N) has become increasingly heated as the companies invest heavily in overlapping markets.
While JD traditionally leads in online retail sales, backed by extensive infrastructure, Alibaba has sought to win over merchants to its own growing retail platform, underpinned by new investments in logistics this year.
JDs revenue for the third quarter was 83.8 billion yuan, just above analysts mean estimate of 83.6 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Despite strong bottom-line results, gross merchandise volume (GMV) growth still dropped to its lowest rate in a year, reflecting a seasonal lull in sales before Singles Day.
Chinese e-commerce giants increasingly experience competitive peaks around bonanza sales events in June and November, interspersed with sluggish interim periods.
[Sales of appliances and mobile phones] both were dragged by weaker growth in September ... mainly due to competition and slow seasonality, said TH Data Capital analyst Tian Hou in a research note ahead of the earnings.
JD expects revenue for the quarter ending in December to be 107-110 billion yuan, a rise of 35-39 percent, roughly in line with analyst expectations.
However, marketing costs related to the November sales, which ran for over a month, are expected to cut into its bottom line.
This year, JD is investing in logistics infrastructure in Southeast Asia, expanding from existing commitments in Indonesia.
At home, JD is hoping to tap big spenders with new white glove platforms which feature imported food, fashion and electronics.
Last week during a visit to China by U.S. President Donald Trump, JD said it would buy $2 billion in U.S. goods, including $1.2 billion in beef, over the next three years.
($1 = 6.6395 Chinese yuan renminbi)
Photos: Wonders of the universe This artist's impression shows a supernova explosion, which contains the luminosity of 100 million suns.
Supernova iPTF14hls, which has exploded multiple times, may be the most massive and longest-lasting ever observed.
Hide Caption 1 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows hydrocarbon compounds splitting into carbon and hydrogen inside ice giants, such as Neptune, turning into a "diamond (rain) shower."
Hide Caption 2 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This striking image is the stellar nursery in the Orion Nebula, where stars are born.
The red filament is a stretch of ammonia molecules measuring 50 light-years long.
The blue represents the gas of the Orion Nebula.
This image is a composite of observation from the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explore telescope.
"We still don't understand in detail how large clouds of gas in our Galaxy collapse to form new stars," said Rachel Friesen, one of the collaboration's co-Principal Investigators.
"But ammonia is an excellent tracer of dense, star-forming gas."
Hide Caption 3 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is an illustration of the Parker Solar Probe spacecraft approaching the sun.
The NASA probe will explore the sun's atmosphere in a mission that begins in the summer of 2018.
Hide Caption 4 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe See that tiny dot between Saturn's rings?
That's Earth, as seen by the Cassini mission on April 12, 2017.
"Cassini was 870 million miles away from Earth when the image was taken," according to NASA.
"Although far too small to be visible in the image, the part of Earth facing Cassini at the time was the southern Atlantic Ocean."
Much like the famous "pale blue dot" image captured by Voyager 1 in 1990, we are but a point of light when viewed from the furthest planet in the solar system.
Hide Caption 5 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope, using infrared technology, reveals the density of stars in the Milky Way.
According to NASA, the photo -- stitched together from nine images -- contains more than a half-million stars.
The star cluster is the densest in the galaxy.
Hide Caption 6 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This photo of Saturn's large icy moon, Tethys, was taken by NASA's Cassini spacecraft, which sent back some jaw-dropping images from the ringed planet.
Hide Caption 7 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is what Earth and its moon look like from Mars.
The image is a composite of the best Earth image and the best moon image taken on November 20, 2016, by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The orbiter's camera takes images in three wavelength bands: infrared, red and blue-green.
Mars was about 127 million miles from Earth when the images were taken.
Hide Caption 8 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe PGC 1000714 was initially thought to be a common elliptical galaxy, but a closer analysis revealed the incredibly rare discovery of a Hoag-type galaxy.
It has a round core encircled by two detached rings.
Hide Caption 9 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Cassini spacecraft took these images of the planet's mysterious hexagon-shaped jetstream in December 2016.
The hexagon was discovered in images taken by the Voyager spacecraft in the early 1980s.
It's estimated to have a diameter wider than two Earths.
Hide Caption 10 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe A dead star gives off a greenish glow in this Hubble Space Telescope image of the Crab Nebula, located about 6,500 light years from Earth in the constellation Taurus.
NASA released the image for Halloween 2016 and played up the theme in its press release.
The agency said the "ghoulish-looking object still has a pulse."
At the center of the Crab Nebula is the crushed core, or "heart" of an exploded star.
The heart is spinning 30 times per second and producing a magnetic field that generates 1 trillion volts, NASA said.
Hide Caption 11 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Peering through the thick dust clouds of the galactic bulge, an international team of astronomers revealed the unusual mix of stars in the stellar cluster known as Terzan 5.
The new results indicate that Terzan 5 is one of the bulge's primordial building blocks, most likely the relic of the very early days of the Milky Way.
Hide Caption 12 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's conception of Planet Nine, which would be the farthest planet within our solar system.
The similar cluster orbits of extreme objects on the edge of our solar system suggest a massive planet is located there.
Hide Caption 13 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe An illustration of the orbits of the new and previously known extremely distant Solar System objects.
The clustering of most of their orbits indicates that they are likely be influenced by something massive and very distant, the proposed Planet X.
Hide Caption 14 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Say hello to dark galaxy Dragonfly 44.
Like our Milky Way, it has a halo of spherical clusters of stars around its core.
Hide Caption 15 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe A classical nova occurs when a white dwarf star gains matter from its secondary star (a red dwarf) over a period of time, causing a thermonuclear reaction on the surface that eventually erupts in a single visible outburst.
This creates a 10,000-fold increase in brightness, depicted here in an artist's rendering.
Hide Caption 16 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Gravitational lensing and space warping are visible in this image of near and distant galaxies captured by Hubble.
Hide Caption 17 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe At the center of our galaxy, the Milky Way, researchers discovered an X-shaped structure within a tightly packed group of stars.
Hide Caption 18 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Meet UGC 1382: What astronomers thought was a normal elliptical galaxy (left) was actually revealed to be a massive disc galaxy made up of different parts when viewed with ultraviolet and deep optical data (center and right).
In a complete reversal of normal galaxy structure, the center is younger than its outer spiral disk.
Hide Caption 19 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Crab Nebula and its "beating heart," which is a neutron star at the right of the two bright stars in the center of this image.
The neutron star pulses 30 times a second.
The rainbow colors are visible due to the movement of materials in the nebula occurring during the time-lapse of the image.
Hide Caption 20 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured an image of a hidden galaxy that is fainter than Andromeda or the Milky Way.
This low surface brightness galaxy, called UGC 477, is over 110 million light-years away in the constellation of Pisces.
Hide Caption 21 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe On April 19, NASA released new images of bright craters on Ceres.
This photo shows the Haulani Crater, which has evidence of landslides from its rim.
Scientists believe some craters on the dwarf planet are bright because they are relatively new.
Hide Caption 22 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows the millions of dust grains NASA's Cassini spacecraft has sampled near Saturn.
A few dozen of them appear to have come from beyond our solar system.
Hide Caption 23 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image from the VLT Survey Telescope at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile shows a stunning concentration of galaxies known as the Fornax Cluster, which can be found in the Southern Hemisphere.
At the center of this cluster, in the middle of the three bright blobs on the left side of the image, lies a cD galaxy -- a galactic cannibal that has grown in size by consuming smaller galaxies.
Hide Caption 24 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the central region of the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
The young and dense star cluster R136, which contains hundreds of massive stars, is visible in the lower right of the image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.
Hide Caption 25 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe In March 2016, astronomers published a paper on powerful red flashes coming from binary system V404 Cygni in 2015.
This illustration shows a black hole, similar to the one in V404 Cygni, devouring material from an orbiting star.
Hide Caption 26 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe new map of the Milky Way was released February 24, 2016, giving astronomers a full census of the star-forming regions within our own galaxy.
The APEX telescope in Chile captured this survey.
Hide Caption 27 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the elliptical galaxy NGC 4889, deeply embedded within the Coma galaxy cluster.
There is a gigantic supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy.
Hide Caption 28 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of 2MASS J2126, which takens 900,000 years to orbit its star, 1 trillion kilometers away.
Hide Caption 29 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Caltech researchers have found evidence of a giant planet tracing a bizarre, highly elongated orbit in the outer solar system.
The object, nicknamed Planet Nine, has a mass about 10 times that of Earth and orbits about 20 times farther from the sun on average than does Neptune.
Hide Caption 30 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe An international team of astronomers may have discovered the biggest and brightest supernova ever.
The explosion was 570 billion times brighter than the sun and 20 times brighter than all the stars in the Milky Way galaxy combined, according to a statement from The Ohio State University, which is leading the study.
Scientists are straining to define the supernova's strength.
This image shows an artist's impression of the supernova as it would appear from an exoplanet located about 10,000 light years away.
Hide Caption 31 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers noticed huge waves of gas being "burped" by the black hole at the center of NGC 5195, a small galaxy 26 million light years from Earth.
The team believes the outburst is a consequence of the interaction of NGC 5195 with a nearby galaxy.
Hide Caption 32 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's illustration shows a binary black hole found in the quasar at the center of the Markarian 231 galaxy.
Astronomers using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope discovered the galaxy being powered by two black holes "furiously whirling about each other," the space agency said in a news release.
Hide Caption 33 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of what a black hole might look like.
In February, researchers in China said they had spotted a super-massive black hole 12 billion times the size of the sun.
Hide Caption 34 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Are there are oceans on any of Jupiter's moons?
The Juice probe shown in this artist's impression aims to find out.
Picture courtesy of ESA/AOES Hide Caption 35 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers have discovered powerful auroras on a brown dwarf that is 20 light-years away.
This is an artist's concept of the phenomenon.
Hide Caption 36 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Venus, bottom, and Jupiter shine brightly above Matthews, North Carolina, on Monday, June 29.
The apparent close encounter, called a conjunction, has been giving a dazzling display in the summer sky.
Although the two planets appear to be close together, in reality they are millions of miles apart.
Hide Caption 37 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Jupiter's icy moon Europa may be the best place in the solar system to look for extraterrestrial life, according to NASA.
The moon is about the size of Earth's moon, and there is evidence it has an ocean beneath its frozen crust that may hold twice as much water as Earth.
NASA's 2016 budget includes a request for $30 million to plan a mission to investigate Europa.
The image above was taken by the Galileo spacecraft on November 25, 1999.
It's a 12-frame mosaic and is considered the the best image yet of the side of Europa that faces Jupiter.
Hide Caption 38 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This nebula, or cloud of gas and dust, is called RCW 34 or Gum 19.
The brightest areas you can see are where the gas is being heated by young stars.
Eventually the gas burst outward like champagne after a bottle is uncorked.
Scientists call this champagne flow.
This new image of the nebula was captured by the European Space Organization's Very Large Telescope in Chile.
RCW 34 is in the constellation Vela in the southern sky.
The name means "sails of a ship" in Latin.
Hide Caption 39 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured images of Jupiter's three great moons -- Io, Callisto, and Europa -- passing by at once.
Hide Caption 40 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe A massive galaxy cluster known as SDSS J1038+4849 looks like a smiley face in an image captured by the Hubble Telescope.
The two glowing eyes are actually two distant galaxies.
And what of the smile and the round face?
That's a result of what astronomers call "strong gravitational lensing."
That happens because the gravitational pull between the two galaxy clusters is so strong it distorts time and space around them.
Hide Caption 41 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Using powerful optics, astronomers have found a planet-like body, J1407b, with rings 200 times the size of Saturn's.
This is an artist's depiction of the rings of planet J1407b, which are eclipsing a star.
Hide Caption 42 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe A patch of stars appears to be missing in this image from the La Silla Observatory in Chile.
But the stars are actually still there behind a cloud of gas and dust called Lynds Dark Nebula 483.
The cloud is about 700 light years from Earth in the constellation Serpens (The Serpent).
Hide Caption 43 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is the largest Hubble Space Telescope image ever assembled.
It's a portion of the galaxy next door, Andromeda (M31).
Hide Caption 44 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA has captured a stunning new image of the so-called "Pillars of Creation," one of the space agency's most iconic discoveries.
The giant columns of cold gas, in a small region of the Eagle Nebula, were popularized by a similar image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope in 1995.
Hide Caption 45 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers using the Hubble Space pieced together this picture that shows a small section of space in the southern-hemisphere constellation Fornax.
Within this deep-space image are 10,000 galaxies, going back in time as far as a few hundred million years after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 46 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Planetary nebula Abell 33 appears ring-like in this image, taken using the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope.
The blue bubble was created when an aging star shed its outer layers and a star in the foreground happened to align with it to create a "diamond engagement ring" effect.
Hide Caption 47 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe This long-exposure image from the Hubble Telescope is the deepest-ever picture taken of a cluster of galaxies.
The cluster, called Abell 2744, contains several hundred galaxies as they looked 3.5 billion years ago; the more distant galaxies appear as they did more than 12 billion years ago, not long after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 48 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's NuSTAR telescope array generated the first map of radioactivity in the remnants of an exploding star, or supernova.
Blue in this image of Cassiopeia A represents radioactive material.
Hide Caption 49 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe A supernova was spotted on January 21 in Messier 82, one of the nearest big galaxies.
This wide view image was taken on January 22.
Hide Caption 50 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe The M82 supernova, seen here, has been designated SN2014J because it is the 10th supernova detected in 2014.
At 11.4 million light years from Earth, it is the closest Type Ia supernova recorded since systematic studies with telescopes began in the 1930s.
Hide Caption 51 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Is that a giant hand waving at us?
Actually, it's what's left of a star that died and exploded a long time ago.
Astronomers nicknamed it the "Hand of God."
NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR , took this image in high-energy X-rays, shown in blue.
The image was combined with images from another space telescope, the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Hide Caption 52 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Southern Pinwheel Galaxy, one of the largest and closest galaxies of its kind.
The center of the galaxy is mysterious , researchers say, because it has a double nucleus -- a supermassive black hole that may be ringed by a lopsided disc of stars, giving it the appearance of a dual core.
Hide Caption 53 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Hubble scientists say this is the best-ever view of the Tarantula Nebula, which is located in one of our closest galactic neighbors, the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Hide Caption 54 of 56 Photos: Wonders of the universe Those spots on our sun appear small, but even a moderate-sized spot is about as big as Earth .
They occur when strong magnetic fields poke through the sun's surface and let the area cool in comparison to the surrounding area.
Hide Caption 55 of 56
Just because we HAVE more than 140 characters doesn't mean we have to USE more than 140 characters in every single tweet.
Here are some tips for our new 280-character Twitter world:
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
CNN has produced this story in partnership with the GSMA #caseforchange project.
To find out more about how mobile connectivity can change the world, follow #caseforchange on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter.
(CNN) The digital age continues to spark creative developments in education.
Wireless gadgets are now commonplace in the typical American classroom.
But while technology is helping thousands of students reach new heights in their education, many others are falling behind.
Dubbed "the homework gap" by researchers, students without the use of reliable internet access at home find it harder to complete and submit homework assignments, further expanding the inequality already seen in low-income communities.
While some US schools provide their students with laptops or iPads, according to Pew Research Center , almost 5 million American households with school-aged children lack broadband in the home.
Low-income homes with children are four times more likely to lack broadband as middle or high income families.
Innovative methods With the gap widening, some school districts have taken it upon themselves to change this dynamic by introducing an innovative solution.
WiFi school buses are one new approach to help students without access to fast broadband at home get connected.
The school buses are equipped with routers and students use a public network to connect to the internet.
This allows children who have long commutes, which can be two hours each day, to finish homework assignments on their journey.
Richmond County School System in Augusta GA is one of the school districts piloting a WiFi school bus program.
According to a national survey in 2012, 24.4% of Richmond County's population lived in poverty with a high school graduation rate of just 61.8%.
Many households in the community did not have broadband access so the district, which has more than 30,000 students, introduced two WiFi school buses in 2016.
Kaden Jacobs, Richmond County School System's director of communications, says that the WiFi buses were introduced to close the digital divide students in the district were facing.
"Our goal is to offer all students in Richmond County equal access to broadband that is required for students to meet academic rigor and obtain 21st-century skills," says Jacobs.
The buses transport children to and from school and were parked at two community centers daily during the summer.
The district is currently analyzing how the program has impacted grades.
A global issue But the homework gap is not just an American problem -- schools all over the world are trying to battle the digital divide.
Cell phone ownership in developing nations is increasing substantially.
According to a report by Pew Research Center , cell phones are as common in Nigeria and South Africa as in the United States.
A report by Ericsson Mobility suggests that by 2020 around 70% of the world's population will be using smartphones.
Using this new trend to their advantage, schools around the world are implementing mobile learning programs as a tool to connect students outside of the classroom.
One example is a program in Niger that used exercises on a mobile phone to improve reading and numeracy in adult education.
In South Africa, a Nokia program called MoMath Project let children answer math problems via their cell phones and reportedly improved math skills by an average of 14%.
Equal opportunity Keith Krueger is the CEO of Consortium for School Networking (CoSN) a nonprofit professional association for education technology leaders.
He strongly believes the homework gap is a major issue that needs to be addressed all around the world.
"Teachers expect that students can do their homework from home, which requires Internet.
While many low-income students [in the United States] have a phone, it typically is on a data plan.
Imagine trying to write your senior thesis or apply for college on a smartphone using WiFi at a McDonald's," says Kreuger.
Innovative solutions like the WiFi school buses are crucial in helping to end this divide, says Kreuger.
Kreuger continues: "It makes bus time a new study hall to do homework.
And, this is equally true for times when students are transported to sporting or other school activities."
Until last year Coachella Valley Unified School District in California used WiFi school buses.
The buses were then left overnight in low-income neighborhoods for students to use.
Google also recently granted money to a school in South Carolina to equip their buses with WiFi access.
Innovations to bridge the homework gap might even help create more equal societies.
As Kreuger puts it: "This is today's civil right -- ensuring that all students have access to equal educational opportunity in a digital world."
Just as we now realize that fast food was "engineered to addict us," says author Franklin Foer, we must recognize the role that Big Tech plays in "shaping our future as a species."
One Russian-linked campaign posing as part of the Black Lives Matter movement used Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, Tumblr and Pokmon Go and even contacted some reporters in an effort to exploit racial tensions and sow discord among Americans.
Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta probe sent an unexpected final image back to Earth shortly before it made a controlled impact onto the surface of Comet 67P last September.
Hide Caption 1 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae has been found!
The Rosetta spacecraft's high-resolution camera took this image of the Philae lander on September 2, 2016.
The lander is wedged into a dark crack on a comet, named 67P/Churyumov--Gerasimenko, hurtling through space.
The discovery comes less than a month before the Rosetta mission's end.
Hide Caption 2 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae is wedged in a dark corner of Rosetta "We are so happy to have finally imaged Philae, and to see it in such amazing detail," says Cecilia Tubiana of the OSIRIS camera team.
She was the first person to see the images when they were downlinked from the Rosetta probe, according to the European Space Agency.
Hide Caption 3 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae found using images from Rosetta The image is detailed enough that viewers can pick out features of Philae's 3-foot-wide (1 meter) body.
Even two of its three legs can be seen.
Hide Caption 4 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser One of the primary objectives of the Rosetta mission was to drop the Philae lander onto the comet.
The probe was successfully deployed in November 2014, becoming the first probe to land on a comet.
But Philae failed to grab onto the comet and bounced around.
It fell silent a few days later.
Then on June 13, 2015, Philae came out of hibernation and "spoke" to mission managers at the European Space Agency for 85 seconds.
This photo above was taken by the lander's mothership, the Rosetta orbiter, after the lander started its descent to the comet.
Hide Caption 5 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta spacecraft captured this image of a jet of white debris spraying from Comet 67P/Churyumov--Gerasimenko on July 29, 2015.
Mission scientists said this was the brightest jet seen to date in the mission.
The debris is mostly of ice coated with dark organic material.
Hide Caption 6 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by Rosetta on July 8, 2015 as the spacecraft and comet headed toward their closest approach to the sun.
Rosetta was about 125 miles (201 kilometers) from the comet when it took this image.
Hide Caption 7 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae wakes up!
Mission managers posted this cartoon of the lander yawning after it came out of hibernation on June 13, 2015.
They also sent a series of tweets between the lander and its mothership, Rosetta.
Hide Caption 8 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko is a Jupiter-family comet.
Its 6.5 year journey around the Sun takes it from just beyond the orbit of Jupiter at its most distant, to between the orbits of Earth and Mars at its closest.
The comet hails from the Kuiper Belt, but gravitational perturbations knocked it towards the Sun where interactions with Jupiter's gravity set it on its present-day orbit.
Hide Caption 9 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by Rosetta on June 5, 2015, while the spacecraft was about 129 miles (208 kilometers) from the comet's center.
Hide Caption 10 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's navigation camera took this image of the comet on June 1, 2015.
Hide Caption 11 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta Mission is tracking Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on its orbit around the sun.
This image was taken on May 3, 2015 at a distance of about 84 miles (135 km) from the comet's center.
Hide Caption 12 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken on April 15, 2015.
Hide Caption 13 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta snapped this wide-angle view of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko in September 2014.
Rosetta was about 107 million miles (172 million kilometers) from Earth and about 92 million miles (148 million kilometers) from the sun when the photo was released.
Hide Caption 14 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser A camera on Rosetta took this picture of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on November 22, 2014, from a distance of about 19 miles (31 kilometers).
The nucleus is deliberately overexposed to reveal jets of material spewing from the comet.
The 2.5-mile-wide (4-kilometer) comet has shown a big increase in the amount of water its releasing, according to NASA.
The space agency says about 40 ounces (1.2 liters) of water was being sprayed into space every second at the end of August 2014.
Hide Caption 15 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this picture of a section of the comet's two lobes from a distance of about 5 miles (8 kilometers) on October 14, 2014.
Hide Caption 16 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta spacecraft's Philae lander is shown sitting on Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko after becoming the first space probe to land on a comet on November 12, 2014.
The probe's harpoons failed to fire, and Philae bounced a few times.
The lander was able to send back images and data for 57 hours before losing power.
Hide Caption 17 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's lander, Philae, wasn't able to get a good grip on the comet after it touched down.
This mosaic shows Philae's movements as it bounced across the comet.
Hide Caption 18 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae snapped these images after landing, and mission scientists used them to create a panoramic view of the landing site.
A graphic shows where the probe would be sitting in the photograph.
Hide Caption 19 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by a camera on the Philae lander during its descent to the comet on November 12, 2014.
The lander was about 1.9 miles (3 kilometers) from the surface at the time.
Philae touched down on the comet about seven hours later.
Hide Caption 20 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's OSIRIS camera captured this parting shot of the Philae lander after separation.
Hide Caption 21 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's lander Philae took this parting shot of its mother ship shortly after separation on November 12, 2014, as Philae headed for a landing on Comet 67P.
While Philae is the first probe to land on a comet , Rosetta is the first to rendezvous with a comet and follow it around the sun.
Hide Caption 22 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This mosaic is made of four individual images taken about 20 miles (31.8 kilometers ) from the center of the comet on November 4, 2014.
Hide Caption 23 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this image of comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on September 15, 2014.
The box on the right shows where the lander was expected to touch down.
Hide Caption 24 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The spacecraft sent this image as it approached the comet on August 6, 2014.
From a distance of nearly 81 miles (130 kilometers), it reveals detail of the smooth region on the comet's "body" section.
Hide Caption 25 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image, captured August 7, 2014, shows the diversity of surface structures on the comet's nucleus.
Hide Caption 26 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The comet's "head" can be seen in the left of the frame as it casts a shadow over the "body" in this image released August 6, 2014.
Hide Caption 27 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of the comet was taken on August 1, 2014, as Rosetta closed in its target.
Hide Caption 28 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's mission started on March 2, 2004, when it was launched on a European Ariane 5 rocket from Kourou, French Guiana.
Hide Caption 29 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta is named after the Rosetta Stone, the black basalt that provided the key to deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Scientists think the mission will give them new clues about the origins of the solar system and life on Earth.
The mission is spearheaded by the European Space Agency with key support from NASA.
Hide Caption 30 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This photo shows Rosetta being tested before it was wrapped in insulating blankets and loaded on a rocket for launch.
Hide Caption 31 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta has massive solar wings to power the spacecraft.
They were unfurled and checked out at the European Space Agency's test facilities before being packed up for liftoff.
Hide Caption 32 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser After its closest approach to Earth in November 2007, Rosetta captured this image of the planet.
Hide Caption 33 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta snapped this image of Earth in November 2009.
The spacecraft was 393,328 miles from Earth.
Hide Caption 34 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta passed asteroid Steins in September 2008, giving scientists amazing close-ups of the asteroid's huge crater.
The asteroid is about 3 miles in diameter.
Hide Caption 35 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this image of Mars as it looped through the solar system.
Hide Caption 36 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image was taken by an instrument on Rosetta's Philae lander just minutes before the spacecraft made its closest approach to Mars.
Part of Rosetta and its solar arrays are visible.
Hide Caption 37 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser On July 10, 2010, Rosetta flew about 1,864 miles from asteroid Lutetia, which is 10 times larger than asteroid Steins.
Hide Caption 38 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Look closely at the top of this picture.
See that dot?
That's Saturn.
Rosetta snapped the picture of asteroid Lutetia and captured Saturn in the background.
Hide Caption 39 of 40
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Jackson Gordon is no ordinary 21-year-old.
By day he is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University, but Gordon has another side to him -- a side altogether darker, tougher and more enigmatic.
Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Five years ago and 154 million miles away, NASA's Curiosity Mars rover successfully landed on the planet.
Take a look back at what the rover has been up to these past five years, including this selfie it took on January 19, 2016.
Hide Caption 1 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The bright blue speck in the middle of this image is NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The image was taken from another NASA spacecraft, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is in orbit above the planet, on June 6, 2017.
Hide Caption 2 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity has temperature and humidity sensors mounted on its mast.
Calculations in 2015 based on Curiosity's measurements indicate that Mars could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night.
Hide Caption 3 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity does a test drill on a rock dubbed "Bonanza King" to determine whether it would be a good place to dig deeper and take a sample.
But after the rock shifted, the test was stopped.
Hide Caption 4 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Wheel tracks from Curiosity are seen on the sandy floor of a lowland area dubbed "Hidden Valley" in this image.
Hide Caption 5 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover recently encountered this iron meteorite, which NASA named "Lebanon."
This find is similar in shape and luster to iron meteorites found on Mars by the previous generation of rovers.
A portion of the rock was outlined by NASA scientists.
Hide Caption 6 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity took this nighttime photo of a hole it drilled May 5 to collect soil samples.
NASA said this image combines eight exposures taken after dark on May 13.
Hide Caption 7 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the twilight sky and Martian horizon, taken by Curiosity, includes Earth as the brightest point of light in the night sky.
Earth is a little left of center in the image, and our moon is just below Earth.
A human observer with normal vision, if standing on Mars, could easily see Earth and the moon as two distinct, bright "evening stars."
Hide Caption 8 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The lower slopes of "Mount Sharp" are visible at the top of this image, taken on July 9, 2013.
The turret of tools at the end of the rover's arm, including the rock-sampling drill in the lower left corner, can also be seen.
Hide Caption 9 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rock on the left, called "Wopmay," was discovered by the rover Opportunity, which arrived in 2004 on a different part of Mars.
Iron-bearing sulfates indicate that this rock was once in acidic waters.
On the right are rocks from "Yellowknife Bay," where rover Curiosity was situated.
These rocks are suggestive of water with a neutral pH, which is hospitable to life formation.
Hide Caption 10 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity shows the first sample of powdered rock extracted by the rover's drill.
The image was taken by Curiosity's mast camera on February 20, 2013.
Hide Caption 11 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover drilled this hole, in a rock that's part of a flat outcrop researchers named "John Klein," during its first sample drilling on February 8, 2013.
Hide Caption 12 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity's first set of nighttime photos include this image of Martian rock illuminated by ultraviolet lights.
Curiosity used the camera on its robotic arm, the Mars Hand Lens Imager, to capture the images on January 22, 2013.
Hide Caption 13 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity A view of what NASA describes as "veined, flat-lying rock."
It was selected as the first drilling site for the Mars rover.
Hide Caption 14 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity used a dust-removal tool for the first time to clean this patch of rock on the Martian surface on January 6, 2013.
Hide Caption 15 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity recorded this view from its left navigation camera after an 83-foot eastward drive on November 18, 2012.
The view is toward "Yellowknife Bay" in the "Glenelg" area of Gale Crater.
Hide Caption 16 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Three "bite marks" made by the rover's scoop can be seen in the soil on Mars surface on October 15, 2012.
Hide Caption 17 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The robotic arm on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity delivered a sample of Martian soil to the rover's observation tray for the first time on October 16, 2012.
Hide Caption 18 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what the rover team has determined to be a piece of debris from the spacecraft, possibly shed during the landing.
Hide Caption 19 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover's scoop contains larger soil particles that were too big to filter through a sample-processing sieve.
After a full-scoop sample had been vibrated over the sieve, this portion was returned to the scoop for inspection by the rover's mast camera.
Hide Caption 20 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity cut a wheel scuff mark into a wind-formed ripple at the "Rocknest" site on October 3, 2012.
This gave researchers a better opportunity to examine the particle-size distribution of the material forming the ripple.
Hide Caption 21 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA's Curiosity rover found evidence for what scientists believe was an ancient, flowing stream on Mars at a few sites, including the rock outcrop pictured here.
The key evidence for the ancient stream comes from the size and rounded shape of the gravel in and around the bedrock, according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech science team.
The rounded shape leads the science team to conclude they were transported by a vigorous flow of water.
The grains are too large to have been moved by wind.
Hide Caption 22 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity completed its longest drive to date on September 26, 2012.
The rover moved about 160 feet east toward the area known as "Glenelg."
As of that day the rover had moved about a quarter-mile from its landing site.
Hide Caption 23 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows the robotic arm of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity with the first rock touched by an instrument on the arm.
The photo was taken by the rover's right navigation camera.
Hide Caption 24 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers used the Curiosity rover's mast camera to take a photo of the Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer.
The image was used to see whether it had been caked in dust during the landing.
Hide Caption 25 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers also used the mast camera to examine the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the rover to inspect its dust cover and check that its LED lights were functional.
In this image, taken on September 7, 2012, the imager is in the center of the screen with its LED on.
The main purpose of Curiosity's imager camera is to acquire close-up, high-resolution views of rocks and soil from the Martian surface.
Hide Caption 26 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the open inlet where powdered rock and soil samples will be funneled down for analysis.
The image is made up of eight photos taken on September 11, 2012, by the imager and is used to check that the instrument is operating correctly.
Hide Caption 27 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the calibration target for the imager.
This image, taken on September 9, 2012, shows that the surface of the calibration target is covered with a layor of dust as a result of the landing.
The calibration target includes color references, a metric bar graphic, a penny for scale comparison, and a stair-step pattern for depth calibration.
Hide Caption 28 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the three left wheels of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity combines two images that were taken by the rover's Mars Hand Lens Imager on September 9, 2012, the 34th day of Curiosity's work on Mars.
In the distance is the lower slope of "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 29 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The penny in this image is part of a camera calibration target on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity.
The image was taken by the Mars Hand Lens Imager camera.
Hide Caption 30 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover captured this mosiac of a rock feature called 'Snake River" on December 20, 2012.
Hide Caption 31 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The left eye of the Mast Camera on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity took this image of the rover's arm on September 5, 2012.
Hide Caption 32 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image one of three shows the rover and its tracks after a few short drives.
Tracking the tracks will provide information on how the surface changes as dust is deposited and eroded.
Hide Caption 33 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image two shows the parachute and backshell, now in color.
The outer band of the parachute has a reddish color.
Hide Caption 34 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image three shows the descent stage crash site, now in color, and several distant spots (blue in enhanced color) downrange that are probably the result of distant secondary impacts that disturbed the surface dust.
Hide Caption 35 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An image released August 27, 2012, was taken with Curiosity rover's 100-millimeter mast camera, NASA says.
The image shows "Mount Sharp" on the Martian surface.
NASA says the rover will go to this area.
Hide Caption 36 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity moved about 15 feet forward and then reversed about 8 feet during its first test drive on August 22, 2012.
The rover's tracks can be seen in the right portion of this panorama taken by the rover's navigation camera.
Hide Caption 37 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA tested the steering on its Mars rover Curiosity on August 21, 2012.
Drivers wiggled the wheels in place at the landing site on Mars.
Hide Caption 38 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity moved its robot arm on August 20, 2012, for the first time since it landed on Mars.
"It worked just as we planned," said JPL engineer Louise Jandura in a NASA press release.
This picture shows the 7-foot-long arm holding a camera, a drill, a spectrometer, a scoop and other tools.
The arm will undergo weeks of tests before it starts digging.
Hide Caption 39 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity With the addition of four high-resolution Navigation Camera, or Navcam, images, taken on August 18, 2012.
Curiosity's 360-degree landing-site panorama now includes the highest point on "Mount Sharp" visible from the rover.
Mount Sharp's peak is obscured from the rover's landing site by this highest visible point.
Hide Caption 40 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This composite image, with magnified insets, depicts the first laser test by the Chemistry and Camera, or ChemCam, instrument aboard NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The composite incorporates a Navigation Camera image taken prior to the test, with insets taken by the camera in ChemCam.
The circular insert highlights the rock before the laser test.
The square inset is further magnified and processed to show the difference between images taken before and after the laser interrogation of the rock.
Hide Caption 41 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An updated self-portrait of the Mars rover Curiosity, showing more of the rover's deck.
This image is a mosiac compiled from images taken from the navigation camera.
The wall of "Gale Crater," the rover's landing site, can be seen at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 42 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what will be the rover's first target with it's chemistry and camera (ChemCam) instrument.
The ChemCam will fire a laser at the rock, indicated by the black circle.
The laser will cause the rock to emit plasma, a glowing, ionized gas.
The rover will then analyze the plasma to determine the chemical composition of the rock.
Hide Caption 43 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, with a portion of the rover in the corner, shows the wall of "Gale Crater" running across the horizon at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 44 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, taken from the rover's mast camera, looks south of the landing site toward "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 45 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 46 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 47 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Two blast marks from the descent stage's rockets can be seen in the center of this image.
Also seen is Curiosity's left side.
This picture is a mosaic of images taken by the rover's navigation cameras.
Hide Caption 48 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This color full-resolution image showing the heat shield of NASA's Curiosity rover was obtained during descent to the surface of Mars on August 13, 2012.
The image was obtained by the Mars Descent Imager instrument known as MARDI and shows the 15-foot diameter heat shield when it was about 50 feet from the spacecraft.
Hide Caption 49 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This first image taken by the Navigation cameras on Curiosity shows the rover's shadow on the surface of Mars.
Hide Caption 50 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image comparison shows a view through a Hazard-Avoidance camera on NASA's Curiosity rover before and after the clear dust cover was removed.
Both images were taken by a camera at the front of the rover.
"Mount Sharp," the mission's ultimate destination, looms ahead.
Hide Caption 51 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The four main pieces of hardware that arrived on Mars with NASA's Curiosity rover were spotted by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The High-Resolution Imaging Science Experiment camera captured this image about 24 hours after landing.
Hide Caption 52 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the landscape to the north of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity was acquired by the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the first day after landing.
Hide Caption 53 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is one of the first pictures taken by Curiosity after it landed.
It shows the rover's shadow on the Martian soil.
Hide Caption 54 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows Curiosity's main science target, "Mount Sharp."
The rover's shadow can be seen in the foreground.
The dark bands in the distances are dunes.
Hide Caption 55 of 56
This feature is part of Vision Japan , a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here .
(CNN) Japan is building the world's fastest supercomputer, which it hopes will make the country the new global hub for artificial intelligence research.
The supercomputer is expected to run at a speed of 130 petaflops, meaning it is able to perform a mind-boggling 130 quadrillion calculations per second (that's 130 million billion).
Once complete (the target date is April 2018), the AI Bridging Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI) will be the most powerful supercomputer in the world, surpassing the current champion, China's Sunway TaihuLight, currently operating at 93 petaflops.
What makes a computer 'super'?
While the ABCI will not have a mouse or screen, it's not vastly different from a personal computer -- just souped-up, a whole lot faster, and much, much bigger.
"The current supercomputer system is one million times faster than your personal computers," explains Satoshi Sekiguchi, a director general at Japan's National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology.
Sekiguchi calculates that it would take 3,000 years for a personal computer to achieve what a supercomputer can do in just one day.
In terms of size, Japan's supercomputer will be comparable to a parking lot with space for 30 to 40 cars.
"The supercomputer that is currently under development would take up about 1,000 square meters of floor space," says Sekiguchi.
What will it be used for?
The ABCI could help Japanese companies develop and improve driverless cars, robotics and medical diagnostics, explains Sekiguchi.
"A supercomputer is an extremely important tool for accelerating the advancement in such fields," he says.
Its supersonic speed will also help Japan develop advances in artificial intelligence technologies, such as "deep learning."
But supercomputers are to thank for smaller everyday inventions too.
"The initial design of paper diapers was actually done using a supercomputer," explains Sekiguchi.
"However, mothers continue to use them without knowing that fact."
Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Sunway-TaihuLight Chinese supercomputer Sunway-TaihuLight is currently the fastest supercomputer in the world, operating at 93 petaflops.
That means it's able to perform 93 quadrillion (million billion) calculations per second.
China uses the supercomputer for weather forecasting, pharmaceutical research, and industrial design.
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers K Computer Fujitsu's K Computer, housed at the RIKEN institute in Japan, clocks in at 10 petaflops.
It was the fastest in the world from June to November 2011.
The supercomputer draws almost 10 megawatts of power about the same as 10,000 suburban homes.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers IBM Roadrunner The $130-million IBM Roadrunner was the first computer to break the petaflop barrier in 2008.
Operating at around 1 petaflop (performing 1 million billion calculations per second), the IBM Roadrunner was the fastest supercomputer in the world from June 2008 to June 2009.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers ASCI Red This US-built supercomputer was the first to break the 1 teraflop barrier (performing 1 trillion calculations per second).
It was the fastest supercomputer in the world from 1997 to 2000, and also the first supercomputer installation to use more than 1 megawatt of power.
Pictured here, VP Rick Stulen and Intel designer Stephen Wheat look at the innards of an ASCI Red rack.
Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Cray 2 The Cray-2 was the world's fastest computer between 1985 and 1989, capable of 1.9 gigaflops.
This was the first supercomputer to break the gigaflop barrier (1 billion calculations per second).
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers CDC6600 The world's very first supercomputer, the Control Data Corporation (CDC) 6600, only had a single CPU.
Released in 1964, the CDC 6600 achieved a peak performance of 3 million floating point operations per second (3 megaflops).
Hide Caption 6 of 6 $173m key to the future Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry will spend 19.5 billion yen ($173m) to build the ABCI and two research centers.
Photos: How Japan is living in the future High-tech aquarium It may look like sci-fi, but in Japan, this is reality.
Often Japanese technology offers a glimpse into the future, and in the futuristic world of Japanese tech, just about anything is possible.
At this aquarium in Tokyo -- the EPSON Aqua Park Shinagawa -- touch panel exhibits, neon lights and audiovisual displays transform the encounter with sea creatures into a psychedelic, multi-sensory experience.
Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Hydrogen cars Currently, only three auto manufacturers in the world sell hydrogen-powered cars -- and they're all Japanese.
In 2016 Honda launched the world's first commercially available hydrogen powered car -- called Clarity -- for the Japanese market.
Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Futuristic cemetery A Buddhist burial building in downtown Tokyo houses over 2,000 neon glass Buddha statues.
Each statue corresponds to a drawer containing the cremated remains of the deceased.
When a visitor enters the building they swipe an electronic pass card, which makes a single Buddha glow a different color, guiding the visitor to their loved one's statue.
Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bullet train Looking like something out of Star Wars, Japan's high-speed bullet trains run on the Shinkansen network, which stretches across 2,740 km.
They can hit speeds of 320 km/h.
Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Maglev train Even faster is Japan's maglev train.
In 2015 it hit 603 km/h on an experimental track -- a new world record.
Maglev trains use magnets to float above the tracks and move forward.
However, Japan's won't actually open to passengers for another decade.
Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart toilets High-tech toilets in Japan can check your blood pressure, urine, protein, weight and body fat.
That's over and above offering the standard front and rear spray features.
All of these options can be found on the control panel of the "Intelligence toilet," pictured, designed by Japan's largest toilet maker, Toto.
Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart Mirror Not your ordinary looking glass -- this mirror detects wrinkles, redness, pores and sun damage, and offers a range of suitable products to address them.
This Panasonic device also lets you virtually try out a variety of makeup looks -- and mustaches -- in the mirror.
You can event print out the makeup, set on a sheet like a temporary tattoo, from a 3-D printer and stick it on your face.
The Smart Mirror debuted in October 2016 at the Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies in Japan.
Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dementia tagging In order to keep track of senior citizens with dementia, Iruma, a Japanese city north of Tokyo, has tagged tagged the fingers and toes of the elderly with scannable barcodes.
Each nail sticker carries a unique identity number to help families find loved ones who are prone to getting lost.
Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows Many countries have winter fairs.
Many countries have light shows.
But they don't look like this.
Huge light shows have become a winter institution in Japan and the Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki has particularly eye-catching illuminations, featuring millions of light bulbs ...
Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows ... it even has a neon boat that sails over Technicolor water.
Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Future fashion Walk down the street in Tokyo's Akihabara district and you may spot people dressed like it's the 22nd century, decked out as future retro sci-fi steam punks.
And also maids.
Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Kirobo Mini Japan is the home of robotics, and there more than anywhere else, robots have found a place in society.
Toyota's Kirobo Mini companion robot is small enough to be carried around or sit in a car's cup holder.
It is able to strike up a conversation encourages safe driving by saying "Oops" when the driver brakes suddenly.
Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Hotel In Japan, robots turn up in unexpected places.
At the five-star Henn-na Hotel in Nagasaki Prefecture, humanoid robots greet Japanese-speaking guests at reception, while English-speaking guests are met by a robotic dinosaur.
Naturally.
Droids cart luggage to the hotel's 72 rooms and clean up after you.
Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot front of house Humanoid robot Pepper has taken over from human front of house staff at Hamazushi, a chain of sushi restaurants in Japan.
Pepper handles your seating, escorts you to your table and lets you order from a touch screen menu on its chest.
Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Restaurant But the robots at Tokyo's famous "Robot Restaurant" aren't quite what they seem.
Here, dancers in robot suits stage mock battles.
Performances have included fembots with Thor hammers, dinosaurs battling robots and a giant neon tank.
Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dancing holograms At Tokyo's Madame Tussauds wax museum, a special exhibit allows visitors, or rather, their holograms, to dance with the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio, Marilyn Monroe or Beyonc.
Visitors get a 3D face scan, which is transposed onto a hologram dancer for the 90-second dance performance.
Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Vending machines Vending machines aren't uniquely Japanese -- but Japan's vending machines are definitely unique.
From draft beer to batteries, bras to fishing bait, just about anything can be found in them.
A growing number of restaurants use vending machines as ordering systems.
Customers can browse through photos of the meals on offer before making a selection, paying at the machine, taking a ticket and choosing a seat.
Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Three-wheeled vehicles The Toyota i-Road is a three-wheeled, two-seat (driver and passenger sit in tandem) electric "personal mobility vehicle."
The little car has a 37-mile range and is able to squeeze into tiny parking slots and weave through traffic, while reducing congestion and carbon emissions.
Test drive pilots at the Toyota Tokyo Design Research Laboratory are in the process of trying out the technology.
Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Orphe smart shoes Wearable tech is big in Japan -- these smart shoes incorporate 100 LED lights and smart motion sensors in sneaker soles so the wearer can create patterns just by moving their feet.
The idea is to give dancers and performers another level of artistic expression.
Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Archelis wearable chair The Archelis chair is a wearable seat specially designed to provide surgeons with support during long surgeries.
The chair wraps around the legs and buttocks and is designed to support pressure points in the back, feet and legs without limiting range of motion.
Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV As well as the technology already on the market, Japan has a bunch of game-changing innovations waiting for commercial release.
At the flick of a switch, Panasonic's OLED television turns into a transparent pane of glass.
The OLED display doesn't need a backlight to give it a picture as each pixel lights itself .
Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV ... and the TV can serve as a glass pane of a cabinet.
You can slide it to access the shelves behind it, or adjust the height of the display.
The transparent television was first unveiled in Japan at the Consumer Electronics Show in 2016.
Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Artificial meteor showers Japanese space start-up ALE is getting ready to deploy a satellite into orbit, which will enable the company to paint the sky with artificial meteors.
Still undergoing research and development, the company plans to launch its first meteor show in 2018.
Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bendy batteries In the future this bendable lithium ion battery could be used in smart clothing, watches and fitness bands.
It can bend and twist up to 25 degrees without damaging the battery.
Unveiled at Japanese technology fair Ceatec in 2016, Panasonic's bendable battery could further provide scope for curved designs and foldable smartphones.
Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i Unveiled at tech show CES 2017, Toyota's super intelligent car will be tested on the streets of Japan in the next few years.
While the car has autonomous driving features, it still needs a human in the driving seat.
Its built-in artificial intelligence is designed to grow with the driver.
The front of the vehicle displays whether the Concept-i is in automated or manual drive.
The rear of the vehicle shows messages to let trailing cars know about upcoming turns ...
Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i ...
The doors are made almost entirely of glass to give passengers a better view of the road beneath them.
The rear wheels are built into the car's sleek white frame.
Hide Caption 26 of 26 "They [the government] recognize that artificial intelligence will be a key to the future, or the key to the competitiveness of the industry," says Sekiguchi.
Japanese firms often turn to the likes of Amazon, Microsoft and Google when looking to crunch big numbers.
But once it's running, Japanese researchers and companies will be able to pay to use the ABCI, rather than renting cycles on public clouds like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.
Race to the top?
Japan's K computer, which runs at just over 10 petaflops, claimed the title of world's fastest supercomputer for six months in 2011, before it was outperformed by the United States and China.
The K computer is named after the Japanese word "kei", which stands for 10 quadrillion.
But for Sekiguchi, it is not about the race to build the fastest supercomputer.
"Before, there was a competition in the computer industry itself, however, from now on, it is going to be more about what you can do with the computers," he said.
"It is no longer about which computer becomes the best in the world, but rather, creating an environment in which these new applications can be used properly."
Ingrem, a Chinese company has created the "husband pod," an arcade booth intended to stave off boredom for men who accompany their partners to the mall.
Source: CNN
Scientists have figured out how to grow organs from skin cells.
CNN's Rachel Crane explores a lab that is using this technique to revolutionize cancer treatments.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights "Int-Ball" will make astronauts' work hours more efficient The drone facilitates more real-time communication with crew on Earth (CNN) The Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency has released the first set of images and videos taken by its debut zero-gravity fully-autonomous camera drone.
Functionally, the JEM Internal Ball, or "Int-Ball" for short, will optimize communication between astronauts in space and scientists on Earth.
Aesthetically, it is the cutest little orb since Star Wars' BB-8 droid.
Star Wars actor Oscar Isaac poses alongside BB-8.
Int-Ball arrived in space at "Kibo," which is the Japanese Experiment Module on the International Space Station, on June 4 this year.
The photos were disclosed by JAXA on July 14.
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images FILE - Tech entrepreneur Sean Parker speaks during the 2011 Web 2.0 Summit on Oct. 17, 2011, in San Francisco, Calif. Napster founder and former president of Facebook Sean Parker on Wednesday shared that he believes the social media giant was designed with potentially addictive features that he believes exploit "a vulnerability in human psychology."
While speaking with Axios, Parker said that the "thought process" held during the creation of Facebook was as follows: "How do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?"
"And that means that we need to sort of give you a little dopamine hit every once in a while, because someone liked or commented on a photo or a post or whatever," Parker told Axios.
"And that's going to get you to contribute more content, and that's going to get you, you know, more likes and comments."
Parker called that process a "social-validation feedlack loop."
"It's exactly the kind of thing that a hacker like myself would come up with because you're exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology," he told Axios.
Parker said he and other founders of the now-ubiquitous social media platform knew what they doing and "did it anyway."
NBC Bay Area has reached out to Facebook for comment.
Flashing back to when Facebook was just getting going, Parker also said that even if people were against signing up at the beginning because they valued genuine and in-person human interaction, they would eventually cave.
The shift to digital human interaction has most likely changed the way people operate, Parker believes.
"It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways," Parker told Axios.
"God only knows what it's doing to our children's brains."
Counter protesters confront Jason Kessler, an organizer of "Unite the Right" rally, after Kessler tried to speak outside the Charlottesville City Hall on August 13, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Twitter said Thursday that it will "pause" its verified account system in the wake of criticism over an organizer of the Charlottesville rally having received a coveted blue check mark on his profile.
Jason Kessler, a white nationalist who has taken credit for organizing the "United the Right" rally that led to the death of a counterprotester, promoted his new Twitter verification on Tuesday.
His profile features a confederate flag and notes that he has written for far-right websites.
Kessler was charged with a felony perjury charge just last month for allegedly lying to a judge that he was not the aggressor when a man was assaulted earlier this year.
Back in August, Kessler used Twitter to insult Heather Heyer, the women who was killed while protesting at the Charlottesville rally.
He had called her fat and a disgusting communist, and said that her death was payback time.
He later claimed he was hacked, then blamed prescription drugs and alcohol as the reason behind the tweet.
He briefly deleted his account.
Powerful Earthquake Kills Hundreds Near Iran-Iraq Border A powerful earthquake that struck the Iraq-Iran border region has killed hundreds of people in both countries and injured thousands.
NBC's Ali Arouzi reports from Tehran.
(Published Monday, Nov. 13, 2017) The move to verify Kesslers account comes after Jack Dorsey, CEO of Twitter, had recently said the service was planning to toughen rules on hate speech then take on its verification policy.
Not as high a priority as enforcement, but its up there, he said last month, Bloomberg reported.
Twitter explains on its website that verification is for accounts in the "public interest" and "a verified badge does not imply an endorsement."
But the verified account of a white supremacist caused an outburst from Twitter users against Kessler.
Some users claimed Dorsey was a Nazi supporter for allowing Kesslers account to be verified.
"Verification was meant to authenticate identity & voice but it is interpreted as an endorsement or an indicator of importance," Twitter's support account said in response.
"We recognize that we have created this confusion and need to resolve it.
We have paused all general verifications while we work and will report back soon."
Narcan Explained: What Is It and How Do You Use It?
Ninety-one people in the U.S. die every day from opioid-related overdoses, but theres a tool that can reverse the effects of an overdose that more and more law enforcement agencies and paramedics are now carrying with them as part of their standing operating protocol.
Its called Narcan, and here is what you need to know about what it is, how it works and how to use it.
(Published Friday, Nov. 10, 2017) Dorsey retweeted the message and assured he was working to fix the problem.
"We shouldve communicated faster on this," he said, acknowledging that the "system is broken."
Twitter also faced criticism over its policies last month when actress Rose McGowan was briefly unable to post on the service after a tweet about sexual harassment included a private phone number.
Facebook is asking some users to send nude photos of themselves in an effort to combat social media "revenge porn."
People in Australia who are concerned that a former partner may distribute intimate photos of them on Facebook can use Messenger to send the photos to be "hashed," according to the office of Australia's e-safety commissioner.
Users would fill out a form before sending the message to themselves using the Messenger app.
Facebook said the process involves storing image-matching data, and the photos themselves would not be saved, though they would be reviewed by a trained Facebook team.
Australian e-safety Commissioner Julie Inman Grant said it is one of four countries the others being the U.S., U.K. and Canada participating in the test program, but Facebook told "Today" that it is still in talks with the other three nations about expanding there.
"This pilot has the potential to disable the control and power perpetrators hold over victims, particularly in cases of ex-partner retribution and sextortion, and the subsequent harm that could come to them," Inman Grant said in a statement.
One in 25 Americans who use the internet have had sensitive images posted without their permission or have had someone threaten to do so, according to a study from the Data & Society Research Institute last year.
The U.S. Marines were hit by a non-consensual image-sharing scandal this year, prompting Commandant Gen. Robert B. Neller to ask the men in his Corps this March, "How much more do the females of our Corps have to do to be accepted?"
In the digital world today, deleting something never really deletes it, Adam Levin, founder of cybersecurity firm CyberScout, told "Today."
"The reality is that we're living in a world where breaches have become the third certainty in life, where hackers are sophisticated, they're determined, they're persistent, they're very creative and there is no right to be forgotten," Levin said.
Outside of the Facebook Messenger pilot project, anyone who thinks they have been a victim of revenge porn can report the photos through Facebook's dedicated reporting process, revamped in April.
In this March 13, 2007 file photo, Stephen Hawking speaks at Zellerbach Auditorium on the UC Berkeley campusin Berkeley, California.
Hawking delivered the annual J. Robert Oppenheimer Lecture in Physics to a sold out crowd.
Professor Stephen Hawking, the former professor of mathematics at the University of Cambridge and author of best-selling "A Brief History of Time," said Sunday during a summit in China that the human species had 600 years to survive on planet Earth, NBC News reported.
Hawking has publicly expressed additional fears about the future of artificial intelligence (AI), the need for a new Space Age and the serious realities of global warming in the past.
Hawking said the hypothetical day when humans will supposedly have to leave Earth has been likened to a Doomsday, NBC News reported.
Hawking has also helped to launch the Breakthrough Initiatives, a series of projects seeking to probe the big questions of life in the Universe, including finding and communicating with extraterrestrial life.
Consumer reporter Susan Hogan is Working 4 You to ensure you don't fall for a scam that looks like an innocent email from Netflix.
(Published Monday, Nov. 6, 2017) An Australian cyber security firm is warning Netflix subscribers about a scam email aiming to steal users personal information by tricking them into thinking that accounts are in danger of being suspended, "Today" reported.
MailGuard posted an image of the email in a blog post Friday, calling it "relatively well-designed" because of its ability to generate "individualized messages with specific recipient data."
Users of the streaming service reported receiving suspicious emails that tell recipients their Netflix billing information needs updating and that they must "restart their membership."
The email contains a link that takes subscribers to a fake Netflix website where they are asked to log in and enter information including credit card numbers.
A screenshot of the phishing email targeting Netflix subscribers was published by cyber security firm MailGuard.
Photo credit: MailGuard "Of course, this website is completely bogus and is just a mechanism for the scammers to steal the victims identity and credit card information, MailGuard said.
It was not immediately clear how many of Netflix's more than 109 million worldwide subscribers have received the email.
A new smartphone wants to raise the level of mobile gaming with a bolder display and more power.
The Razer Phone, an Android smartphone, boasts a 120Hz display and a large battery to keep users energized for hours of use and gaming.
The new device has a UltraMotion display with a refresh rate that is double most other smartphones.
The 5.72-inch LCD screen is designed for no lag or stuttering while producing clear and colorful images.
The phone has an aluminum body and is powered by Android Nougat with 8GB of RAM.
While it contains a 4,000 mAh battery, it also remains cool to the touch, thanks to internal thermal diffusers.
But the Razer Phone is designed to be a video and gaming device.
Dual rear 12 megapixel cameras provide amazing images at nearly any distance.
Dolby Atmos brings cinematic audio through two front speakers with dedicated amplifiers.
But what about the games?
Razer is partnering with Square Enix, Tencent and others to provide exciting and competitive gaming to smartphones.
Arena of Valor, a multiplayer online battle arena, will let players battle each other in team fights.
"The future of gaming is rapidly expanding to mobile devices, and both Razer and Tencent are at the forefront of fast-tracking development," said Vincent Gao, global marketing director at Tencent Games.
"Arena of Valor brings gamers a fast-paced, competitive experience, and the Razer phone was built to handle the visuals, sound and quick-reflex mechanics of the game."
Other popular titles include Final Fantasy XV Pocket Edition, Tekken, World of Tanks Blitz, and Titanfall: Assault.
The games are being optimized for the Razer Phone to run from 60 frames per second up to 120 frames per second, keeping the action clean and responsive.
The phone will be priced at $699.99 in the United States, and preorders begin on Nov. 1.
The phone will go on sale at Razerzone.com, select Microsoft Stores, and Amazon.com on Nov. 17.
The U.S. House Intelligence Committee released some of the Facebook ads purchased by Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign.
As political pressure mounts on social media companies to say where ads are coming from, Twitter will reveal more information about political advertising on its platform.
Twitter said in a blog post on Tuesday it would clearly label political electioneering ads, which the Federal Election Commission (FEC) defines as any ad used to promote a specific candidate for elected office or affiliated party posted within 30 days of a primary election or 60 days of a general election.
Electioneering ads can also include any ad clearly promoting a political candidate at any time.
As CNBC reported, the ads will have some sort of visual marker, likely a purple dot next to the user handle, and a purple box with the text "Promoted by" and the name of the sponsor.
Now everyone can get a taste of what scientists see on the red planet.
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory collaborated with Google to produce Access Mars, a free immersive experience that be accessed with a computer, mobile device or virtual reality/augmented reality headset.
Access Mars: Experience access Mars by clicking here and learn about Curiositys mission here.
Using imagery from NASAs Curiosity rover, users can explore the desert terrain while poking around nooks and crannies.
The program features four notable regions: Curiosity's landing site, Murray Buttes, Marias Pass and Pahrump Hills.
The rovers current location on Mt.
Sharp will be continually updated as new imagery comes in.
The software is adapted from a similar program used by NASA scientists to study Martian geology.
"We've been able to leverage VR and AR technologies to take our scientists to Mars every single day," said Victor Luo, lead project manager at JPL's Ops Lab, which led the collaboration.
"With Access Mars, everyone in the world can ride along."
The experience was crafted by pairing Curiosity's imagery and scientific data with WebVR, an open-source virtual reality software that be accessed by anyone with an internet connection.
Visitors can learn more details about Curiositys experiments such as photos of digging sites, soil mineral compositions and even a selfie the rover took so scientists could monitor wear and tear.
"Immersive technology has incredible potential as a tool for scientists and engineers," Luo said.
"It also lets us inspire and engage the public in new ways."
For people on vacation, being watched on hidden cameras in your room should be the furthest thing on their mind, but police are warning people to be on the lookout after an alarming case last month involving a vacation rental, according to "Today."
An Indiana couple found a hidden camera and microphone in a smoke detector pointed toward their bed at their Airnbnb rental in Longboat Key, Florida.
The homeowner was arrested and charged with video voyeurism, police said.
It is surprisingly easy to hide cameras and microphones in everyday household items, according to Scott Black, owner of Bethlehem Spy Shop in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
"You can be 2 thousand miles away and as long as there's an internet connection,'' Black said, "we can monitor this from anywhere in the world."
Powerful Earthquake Kills Hundreds Near Iran-Iraq Border A powerful earthquake that struck the Iraq-Iran border region has killed hundreds of people in both countries and injured thousands.
NBC's Ali Arouzi reports from Tehran.
(Published Monday, Nov. 13, 2017)
Astronauts aboard the International Space Station tested a fidget spinner in zero gravity.
They had time to play with the popular toy in between three scheduled space walks this month.
Users can protect themselves by getting the latest patch updates for their smartphone and laptop, NBC News reported.
A newly discovered Wi-Fi security flaw reveals that your home network is hackable, giving outsiders access to everything from private chats to baby monitors, NBC News reports.
The attack, called Krack, takes advantage of the longstanding connection between devices and routers that is supposed to deliver a fresh, encrypted session every time you connect.
"When I woke up this morning and saw this one, I was taken aback," said Bob Rudis, chief data scientist at threat intelligence company Rapid7.
The gaping hole in the Wi-Fi protocol is fixable, and the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team has been reaching out to the many vendors who are affected.
Rudis recommends checking with your internet service provider for the latest information on updates.
Putin Explains How 'Patriotic' Hackers Work
SpaceX launched and landed its second rocket in three days.
The unmanned Falcon 9 blasted off from Kennedy Space Center in Florida before delivering a satellite and landing the leftover booster on an offshore barge.
It is the third time a SpaceX has reflown a rocket.
Bloomberg via Getty Images, File File - Facebook Inc. logo is displayed at the top of the login page for facebook.com on a computer screen.
Facebook and Instagram went down for many users on Wednesday, with problems on the social media giant spiking, according to the website status-tracking page Downdetector.
Facebook acknowledged that people weren't able to use the site, or Instagram, which it owns.
"We're aware that some people are currently having trouble accessing Facebook and Instagram.
We're working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible," a Facebook representative said.
There were thousands of reports of problems starting Tuesday morning about 10 a.m.
ET, though the spike receded about three hours later.
The reports came from across the nation, Europe and South America, according to Downdetector's map.
Powerful Earthquake Kills Hundreds Near Iran-Iraq Border A powerful earthquake that struck the Iraq-Iran border region has killed hundreds of people in both countries and injured thousands.
NBC's Ali Arouzi reports from Tehran.
(Published Monday, Nov. 13, 2017) It wasn't immediately clear caused the issue.
Facebook's troubleshooting dashboard noted an increased level of in errors.
A company that links to Facebook's back-end in order to let companies post to social media, SocialFLow, said there was a problem in a tweet before noon.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
When the iPhone first launched, the only way to get Apple's latest smartphone was through a two-year contract through AT&T.
Things have changed, NBC News reported.
Consumers now have the option to finance the new iPhone 8, 8 Plus and upcoming iPhone X from Apple and the major wireless carriers, as a shift from two-year contracts to carrier financing becomes popular.
Experts say that it's important for people to read the fine print and know what they're signing up for.
"If you do finance through them, they kind of have you on the hook, says John Oldshue, owner of SaveOnPhone.com.
Not only will they come right after you for the rest of the money if you decide to switch carriers in the middle of that time period, but some have a penalty for leaving the carriers.
Apple Rolls Out New iPhone X on iPhone's 10th Anniversary Apple has unveiled the iPhone X, a new flagship model that coincides with the tenth anniversary of the popular device.
The new phone has an edge-to-edge screen that eliminates the "home" button to unlock it, in favor of a biometrics sensor called Face ID.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2017) NBC News' Better ran down all the options for customers looking to buy the latest iPhones.
A scientist searching for a young male alligator snapping turtle that was put in a Southern Illinois creek at least a year ago instead grabbed a 22-pound adult female, raising hopes for those trying to protect a creature that hadn't been spotted in the area for three decades.
Illinois Natural History Survey herpetologist Chris Phillips called his finding of the turtle, at least 18 years old, a "move in the right direction" in the effort to save the state-endangered species.
The discovery was chronicled in an article in this month's Southeastern Naturalist co-authored by Ethan Kessler, a graduate student of natural resources and environmental sciences at the University of Illinois.
"It gives us hope that reproduction is happening," Kessler said.
Still, both Kessler and Phillips aren't quite sure what exactly the find says about these secretive creatures that have been around for millions of years.
This particular turtle that was living in Union County's Clear Creek, where scientists have been releasing turtles in Union County's Clear Creek because no wild alligator turtles had been found in Illinois since 1984.
"Maybe there is a hidden population we don't know about," Kessler said, adding that it's more likely that this turtle was just the last survivor of what was once a bigger population of turtles or a hearty traveling turtle that somehow made its way up the Mississippi River.
However it got there, before it was found by Phillips it found at least one other turtle.
The scientists know that because on the day Phillips reached down and grabbed the female turtle he thought he was reaching down for a smaller male turtle that has been wearing a radio transmitter ever since scientists released it into the same creek at least a year ago.
It was because the water is so murky, Phillips had no way of knowing that he was grabbing the bigger turtle and not the smaller one that was so close that it was ultimately pulled out of the water in the same spot.
That leaves both Kessler and Phillips wondering if Phillips was interrupting the kind of activity that a species needs to increase its numbers.
"He (the smaller turtle) had sidled up to her so maybe they were making plans," said Phillips.
Sadly at least for the scientists just what plans the turtles were making may never be known thanks to a failure in technology.
"We put a transmitter (on the larger turtle) but the battery died three months later," Phillips said.
"She's in there but there is no way we're going to find her."
For iPhone X users who want a perfectly rectangular display, they can now splurge on Notch Remover, a new 99 cent app designed to camouflage the top bar that interrupts the complete edge-to-edge display.
Interested in Apple?
Add Apple as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Apple news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest After Apple CEO Tim Cook unveiled the 10th-anniversary edition of the iPhone pronounced iPhone 10 in September, the design has generated controversy after its edge-to-edge display included a notch at the top, which houses all the technology behind the advanced front-screen camera and Face ID.
The notch causes the now most expensive smartphone on the market not to have a completely rectangular display, as most phones do.
App developer Axiem Systems, the makers of photo editor applications for both iOS and Android, is the brainpower behind Notch Remover.
Apple The app doesnt actually remove the notch but instead masks it by modifying the wallpaper on the phone to adjust for the notch, Notch Removers App Store description reads.
Since Notch Remover is available through Apple's App Store, it would have been approved by Apple, according to its developer guidelines that say the company reviews all apps submitted to the App Store.
But this innovation may also go against Apple's developer guidelines that instruct companies not to attempt to hide such features as the notch.
Dont attempt to hide devices rounded corners, sensor housing, or indicator for accessing the Home screen by placing black bars at the top and bottom of the screen, Apples guideline for app developers reads.
Don't use visual adornments like brackets, bezels, shapes, or instructional text to call special attention to these areas, either.
Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty Images Apple and Axiem Systems did not immediately responded to ABC News requests for comment.
Missouri's attorney general announced Monday that his office is investigating Google for potential violations of the state's consumer-protection and antitrust laws.
Republican Attorney General Josh Hawley, who also is running for Democratic U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill's seat in 2018, told reporters that he issued an "investigative subpoena" to the tech giant to gather information.
Asked whether his Senate bid influenced his decision to investigate, he said the goal is to "protect the people of Missouri."
Hawley's office is checking into what Google does with the user information it collects and allegations that it inappropriately scrapes information from competitors' websites.
It's also looking into allegations that the company manipulates search results to favor its own websites over competitors', which has been the subject of recent scrutiny in Europe.
Google spokesman Patrick Lenihan said in a statement that the company has not yet received the subpoena.
"However, we have strong privacy protections in place for our users and continue to operate in a highly competitive and dynamic environment," Lenihan said.
The Missouri investigation comes on the heels of a $2.7 billion antitrust fine issued to the tech giant by the European Union in June for unfairly featuring its own shopping services in its influential search results.
Federal regulators in the U.S. also have investigated the company over antitrust claims, but Google settled with the Federal Trade Commission in 2013 without making any major concessions on how the company runs its internet search engine.
Federal regulators didn't find any reasons to impose radical changes.
Hawley's office argues that federal regulators were wrong not to sue Google and that inaction left an opening for a potential state suit.
Hawley said the Federal Trade Commission under former President Barack Obama "did not take any enforcement action against Google, did not press this forward and has essentially given them a free pass."
Hawley's office said Missouri's strong consumer-protection laws could help with a potential lawsuit over user data.
Associated Press writer Michael Liedtke contributed to this report from San Francisco.
Interested in Spain?
Add Spain as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Spain news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Spain on Monday warned its European Union partners about a disinformation campaign aimed at destabilizing its volatile northeastern region of Catalonia, which Madrid claims appears to be coming from Russia.
Spanish Defense Minister Maria Dolores de Cospedal told reporters that "many of the actions come from Russian territory," but that it's not yet possible to determine what their exact source is or if the Russian government is involved.
She said some of them are "repeated from Venezuelan territory."
The Spanish government took control of Catalonia's powers and called a snap regional election for Dec. 21, after the Catalan government held a banned independence referendum on Oct. 1.
Several regional government ministers have been jailed, and the region's ousted leader, Carles Puigdemont, is in Brussels with four associates fighting extradition to Spain for trial.
They could face up to 30 years in prison on charges of rebellion, sedition and extortion.
De Cospedal declined to guess what impact the disinformation might be having on the election campaign or how big the fake news campaign might be.
She said the number "is changing every day.
The figure cannot be specified."
Earlier, referring to a recent London meeting between WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange and a prominent Catalan pro-independence figure, Spanish Foreign Minister Alfonso Dastis said there were signs that Assange and others "are trying to interfere and manipulate" amid the Catalonia crisis.
Spain said last week that the signs don't necessarily mean the Russian government is involved, and it hasn't made public any evidence to back the interference claim.
The EU's strategic communications unit the East StratCom Task Force has recently reported several instances of disinformation coming from Russian news outlets linked to the Kremlin.
An analysis last month on the Russian talk show Vesti Nedeli said that the view from some Russian television stations is that Europe is "falling apart" and that Spain is being compared to Ukraine, whose Crimean Peninsula was annexed by Russian troops in 2014.
Ciaran Giles in Madrid contributed to this report.
A test version of the Dream Chaser, a reusable spacecraft that resembles a small space shuttle, made a successful free flight and landing in California after being hoisted by helicopter high over the Mojave Desert, officials of Sierra Nevada Corp. said Monday.
The flight Saturday moved the program closer to achieving unmanned cargo flights to the International Space Station and back to Earth under a NASA contract, possibly as soon as 2020.
Slung below the helicopter on a 200-foot (61-meter) tether, the full-scale atmospheric test version of the Dream Chaser was hoisted to an altitude of 12,324 feet (3,756 meters) and released.
The craft then made a completely autonomous descent and landing, rolling out about 4,200 feet on an Edwards Air Force Base runway in the high desert north of Los Angeles.
The free flight lasted 60 seconds, reaching a maximum speed of 330 mph (531 kph) and touching down at the targeted spot on the runway at a speed of 191 mph (307 kph).
In the middle of the flight it performed a maneuver, turning left and right and then coming back to the centerline.
"It is a good day for us," Mark Sirangelo, a Sierra Nevada Corp. executive, said in a conference call with reporters.
"It is in our mind a signal that our program has moved another step closer to operations and orbital flight."
Officials were confident that they had all the data needed from the flight but the vehicle would be capable of making another drop test if needed, said Sirangelo, who likened it to the shuttle Enterprise, which was used for test flights in the atmosphere before the other shuttles actually went into orbit.
The Dream Chaser has been in development by the Sparks, Nevada, company for more than 10 years.
It has been significantly upgraded since its previous free flight in 2013 which ended with a mishap when its left main landing gear did not deploy properly.
It is 30 feet (9 meters) long, about one quarter the length of a space shuttle and is a type of craft known as a "lifting body" in which aerodynamic lift is generated by its shape rather than traditional wings.
Tail fins angling upward at the rear provide control.
NASA proved the lifting body concept by flying a series of wingless aircraft at Edwards in the 1960s and '70s.
Orbital flights will be made by a space-capable version of the Dream Chaser that will be launched atop a booster rocket.
Sierra Nevada has selected United Launch Alliance's Atlas 5 to launch the first two Dream Chaser cargo missions, which are scheduled to blast off from Cape Canaveral, Florida, in 2020 and 2021.
Those missions will land at Kennedy Space Center.
An email scam has been specifically targeting Netflix's millions of subscribers, threatening to suspend their accounts if they dont update their billing information.
Interested in Netflix?
Add Netflix as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Netflix news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The email asks its readers to click the link, leading them to a fake Netflix homepage and prompting them to enter their private information, according to MailGuard, an Australian cybersecurity firm.
A well designed Netflix email targets some of the 110 million Netflix subscribers worldwide!
Check out the steps: https://t.co/kUK2o4WR3S pic.twitter.com/LBV6WLuSbP Action Fraud (@actionfrauduk) November 6, 2017 Netflix said it is aware of the ongoing scam, adding that the company takes security seriously and has measures in place to detect fraudulent activity.
Unfortunately, scams are common on the internet and target popular brands such as Netflix and other companies with large customer bases to lure users into giving out personal information, Netflix said in a statement to ABC News.
The company will never ask for any personal information to be sent over email and advises its subscribers to be careful of phishing emails that lead to false websites, according to its security page.
Thomas Trutschel/Photothek via Getty Images The phishing scam invites victims to use the fake online form to enter their address, drivers license number, credit card details and more, said MailGuard.
Scammers can make their fake emails and bogus websites look pretty convincing, so its always a good idea to check carefully that the email comes from the actual company domain and not a scammer, advised MailGuard on their company blog.
Interested in Climate Change?
Add Climate Change as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Climate Change news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Protesters drowned out speeches by White House advisers and business representatives Monday at an event the U.S. government sponsored at the U.N. climate talks in Germany promoting the use of fossil fuels and nuclear energy.
About 200 protesters stood up 10 minutes into the event and began singing an anti-coal song to the tune of "God Bless the U.S.A." They were ushered out of the room without further incident.
The event late Monday was the only one the U.S. delegation organized at the ongoing climate talks in Bonn.
The American delegates are being closely watched by diplomats from the other 194 nations at the conference because of President Donald Trump's announcement that he wants to quit the 2015 Paris climate accord.
Before the panel event, the governors of Oregon and Washington Kate Brown and Jay Inslee said Trump's rejection of climate change was "a dead end."
"What you're going to hear today is essentially Donald Trump trying to sell 8-track tapes in a Spotify streaming world," Inslee told reporters.
"That is not going to cut it."
Both Oregon and Washington are part of a coalition backing the Paris accord , George David Banks, a White House adviser who was part of the U.S. panel, said ruling out the use of fossil fuels and other non-renewable sources of energy was only controversial "if we choose to bury our heads in the sand and ignore the reality of the global energy system."
After the singing protesters left, the panel faced largely hostile questions from the audience about the facts and figures presented to support the continued use of fossil fuels.
The event took place as a new report released Monday showed global carbon emissions will reach a record high in 2017, dashing hopes that levels of the heat-trapping gas might have plateaued following three consecutive years when they didn't go up at all.
The talks in Bonn, now in their second week, are intended to hammer out some of the nitty-gritty details for implementing the Paris accord.
Participating countries agreed to keep global warming significantly below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) Key topics include how to measure individual countries' efforts, taking stock of what's been achieved so far and setting the new emissions reduction targets needed to reach the Paris goal.
Developing countries also are pushing for rich nations to pay for some of the devastating impacts climate change inevitably is going to have, particularly on poor communities around the world.
Poor nations see the issue of financial compensation, known in U.N. parlance as "loss and damage," as a matter of fairness.
They argue that rising sea levels and more extreme weather will hit them disproportionately hard even though they have contributed only a fraction of the carbon emissions blamed for global warming.
Rich countries counter that they are already paying billions of dollars to help developing nations reduce emissions such as by switching to renewable energy and to adapt to climate change.
"Without that support forthcoming from the developed countries, there's going to be some real fireworks at the end of this week," said Alden Meyer, strategy and policy director for the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy group in Washington.
Formal decisions on most issues won't be taken until next year's meeting in Poland, but few want to leave progress until the last minute.
Green groups said it might fall to leaders to break a deadlock over issues such as compensation for countries hardest-hit by global warming.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron will take part in a high-level event Wednesday.
While other developed countries reject the Trump administration's stance on the Paris agreement, their views on loss and damage are largely in step with Washington's.
"It's fair to say that other developed countries are hiding behind the U.S. on the loss and damage," Meyer said.
"They need to be called out on this."
The other issue that's being hotly debated in Bonn is what emissions-cutting measures are necessary before 2020.
While some countries already have taken reduction steps, activists say they fall far short of what's needed to ensure emissions peak in three years' time after which it would become much harder to achieve the most ambitious goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 F.) Follow Frank Jordans on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/wirereporter
Denver became the latest city to require rooftop gardens or solar panels on big new buildings, which backers say will keep the outdoor air cooler, make storm water easier to manage and reduce the amount of energy burned by air conditioners.
A ballot initiative mandating environment-friendly roofs in Denver had 54 percent approval in final but unofficial returns Thursday.
Denver joins San Francisco, New York, Paris, London and other global cities that require or encourage builders to put "green roofs" on large new buildings.
Rooftop gardens and solar panels absorb some of the sun's heat or put it to work generating electricity.
Greenery absorbs rainwater and releases it more slowly, so storm sewer systems aren't overwhelmed, advocates say.
"The world-class cities are realizing that roof space is an asset for the city's residents and for the building owners, so they're either requiring, or incentivizing or both the use of that roof space," said Steven Peck, founder and president of Green Roofs for Healthy Cities in Toronto.
Denver's measure goes further than most, requiring many existing buildings to be retrofitted with green roofs whenever the old roof wears out and is replaced.
Older buildings that can't support the heavier weight of a green roof can get an exemption.
Opponents worry the mandate will be costly and hurt nonprofits and affordable housing programs.
They also argued the city should have tried incentives to encourage green roofs, not require them.
Advocates concede green roofs cost more, but they argue that they pay for themselves in about six years by keeping buildings cooler, resulting in lower utility bills, and they protect underlying roof materials from wear, so they last longer.
Proponents also say green roofs can help cool off urban "heat islands," which occur when dark, exposed city surfaces bake in the sun all day and release the heat into the air at night.
Peck and others claim a host of other benefits: Rooftop gardens are amenities for building residents and office workers, they raise the value of the property and they make buildings more attractive to tenants.
Opponents said it can cost up to $27 a square foot (0.1 square meter) more just to make a new building strong enough to support the weight of a green roof.
That doesn't include the price of the soil and plants or the cost of watering the plants in a dry climate like Denver's, said Kathie Barstnar, co-chairwoman of Citizens for a Responsible Denver, a coalition that campaigned against the measure.
Barstnar also said the wording of the measure means owners of older buildings that are exempt from the green roof mandate must pay a fee every time they replace the old roof with a new conventional one.
Barstnar said her group has not decided what to do next but has not ruled out some type of legal challenge.
Brandon Rietheimer, who managed the Denver Green Roof Initiative campaign, acknowledged the wording is confusing.
He said backers never intended to make owners of existing buildings pay for an exemption, and they will ask city officials to clarify that.
He defended use of a mandate, saying incentives are too slow.
"Incentives will only do a building here and there," he said.
The mandate will also create a more certain market for green roof builders, he said.
"They can really allocate funds and really bring that industry here to the city, which really drives cost down," he said.
Follow Dan Elliott at http://twitter.com/DanElliottAP .
His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/dan%20elliott.
The Latest on the Spain-Catalonia political crisis (all times local): 2:40 p.m. Spain's defense minister says the government is analyzing who is behind a disinformation campaign targeting the region of Catalonia amid suspicions that Russia and Venezuela might be involved.
Maria Dolores de Cospedal has told reporters in Brussels that "many of the actions come from Russian territory," but that it's not yet possible to determine exactly what their source is.
She said some of them are "repeated from Venezuelan territory."
The minister declined to say what impact the disinformation might have on the Dec. 21 regional elections in Catalonia, or how big the fake news campaign is.
She said the number of fake news items about Catalonia "is changing every day.
The figure cannot be specified."
12:25 p.m. Spain's foreign minister says he will brief his European Union counterparts on alleged cyber-meddling from Russian territory and elsewhere aimed at spreading misinformation about the independence push in the northeastern region of Catalonia.
Alfonso Dastis said he would tell the EU's top diplomats Monday in Brussels that data showed internet traffic by media networks "in Russia and other countries" after a banned Oct. 1 secession referendum in Catalonia.
Referring to a recent London meeting between WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange and a prominent Catalan pro-independence figure, Dastis also said there were signs that Assange and others "are trying to interfere and manipulate" amid the Catalonia crisis.
Spain said last week that the signs don't necessarily mean the Russian government is involved.
Spain's government hasn't provided evidence to back the interference claim.
The chances of a hurricane flooding parts of Texas, like Harvey did, have soared sixfold in just 25 years because of global warming and will likely triple once again before the end of the century, a new study says.
Study author Kerry Emanuel, a meteorology professor and hurricane expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, found that what was once an extremely rare event 20 inches of rain over a large area of Texas could soon be almost common.
From 1981 to 2000, the probability of 20 inches of rain happening somewhere over a large chunk of Texas was 1 in 100 or even less, Emanuel said.
Now it's 6 in 100 and by 2081, those odds will be 18 in 100, he said.
"The changes in probabilities are because of global warming," Emanuel said.
The study was released Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
Emanuel said he hurried the study to help Houston officials think about what conditions they should consider when they rebuild.
Texas state climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon said he was struck by the potential for much higher rainfall that Emanuel's simulations predict for the future and how important it is for the design of critical structures like dams and nuclear facilities.
"If the worst-case precipitation scenario is getting worse, as Kerry's study and other evidence implies, that safety margin is shrinking," Nielsen-Gammon said in an email, highlighting Emanuel's results that also show the worst-case storms becoming wetter and more common.
Gabriel Vecchi, a climate scientist at Princeton who wasn't part of the study, said the study confirms what scientists have already thought: "that the most extreme rainfall events will become more likely as the planet warms."
"These results highlight the importance of finding ways to incorporate our understanding of climate change in long-term urban planning, storm water management and in flood mapping," Vecchi said in an email.
To do the study Emanuel had to use some innovative modeling techniques.
Global climate models used for future warming studies aren't detailed enough to simulate hurricanes.
Hurricane models don't say anything about the larger climate.
So Emanuel combined the models and then created thousands and thousands of fictional storm "seedlings" to see what would happen.
Emanuel's calculations used the 20-inch (half a meter) rainfall total because that was the initial figure discussed as the storm was dying down.
Later measurements showed that Harvey's rain was far heavier and far rarer than initially reported.
After Emanuel had started his work, records showed Harvey's Houston-wide rainfall ended up closer to 33 inches (84 centimeters).
And in individual areas pit peaked at 60 inches (1.5 meters).
Emanuel called those numbers "biblical."
"By the standards of the average climate during 1981-2000, Harvey's rainfall in Houston was 'biblical' in the sense that it likely occurred around once since the Old Testament was written," Emanuel's study said.
While several scientists praised the study's technique, Christopher Landsea, science operations chief at the National Hurricane Center, had some reservations.
He said Emanuel's results don't fit with other climate change model projections which do show higher rainfall totals but also show a decrease in the number of storms.
On a calm, clear morning, historic wooden fishing boats float tranquilly on the glassy waters of the Dutch harbor of Spakenburg.
Yet just over a century ago, they were slamming through the houses lining the harbor as a powerful storm unleashed flooding that devastated this picturesque fishing village.
These days, an innovative new self-raising dike protects the village on the edge of Eemmeer Lake, 50 kilometers (30 miles) southeast of Amsterdam.
The 300-meter (984-foot) long barrier is concealed in the sidewalk when not in use, and is lifted up to 80 centimeters (31 inches) by the very floodwaters it is designed to keep out.
It's just the latest example of Dutch ingenuity and planning in this low-lying nation's constant battle with water and increasingly, technology like it is becoming a lucrative Dutch export.
"We live here in a very vulnerable place," said Roeland Hillen, director of the Dutch Flood Protection Program.
"We have to adapt to survive."
That message resonates with many other flood-prone countries now attending climate change talks in Bonn, where delegates from some 195 nations have gathered to discuss rules for implementing the 2015 Paris climate accord.
The meeting in the former German capital, which runs until Friday, is being presided over by Fiji, one of the many small island nations threatened by rising sea levels.
"We will feel the impact of climate change all over the world most profoundly through water," said Henk Ovink, the Netherlands' Special Envoy for International Water Affairs, who is at the Bonn conference.
The Dutch government teamed up earlier this year with Japan and the U. N. Environment Program to create a Global Center of Excellence on Climate Adaptation in the Netherlands that will be formally launched Tuesday on the sidelines of the Bonn conference.
The center aims to "support those who struggle to put climate adaptation effectively into practice in all parts of the world," the government said.
Housing the water expertise center in the Netherlands was a no-brainer.
Some 26 percent of this nation of 17 million people lies below sea level and 29 percent is vulnerable to river flooding.
The Dutch struggle to keep the country dry has been a constant fact of life for centuries.
The center will have bases in the northern city of Groningen and in a new floating office in the port city of Rotterdam.
The Dutch government earmarks 1 billion euros ($1.16 billion) per year to keep up its defenses against high water.
The money is spent on maintaining and strengthening dikes and levees and on other water mitigation measures.
By 2050, the country aims to reinforce some 1,900 kilometers (1,180 miles) of dikes and levees, Hillen said.
But while the costs are high, expertise and technology developed by the Dutch are becoming increasingly valuable commodities.
Annual exports of Dutch water technology and expertise have doubled since 2000 to just under 8 billion euros ($9.3 billion) a year.
"Water is an asset and a threat," said Ovink.
Recent contracts involving Dutch companies include Netherlands-based Arcadis being selected as part of a consortium involved in a 10-year "seawall resiliency project" to strengthen a century-old San Francisco harbor wall that protects an area including the city's beloved Fisherman's Wharf.
Back in Spakenburg, experts say the self-raising dike is a good example not only of new techniques for holding back rising tides, but also how to integrate such barriers in spatial planning.
Sinking the wall into the sidewalk means that it does not spoil views of the picturesque harbor for tourists or locals.
The technology already is being put to use in projects in England, Vietnam and China.
Ovink stresses that it is just one of a multitude of defenses the Dutch have developed to hold water at bay.
"There is no (single) fix," he said.
"It's a culture of living with water."
Transcript for Walmart boosts online prices for certain food and household items It's a basic rights falling prices except on line the Wall Street Journal reports Wal-Mart has been boosting prices for some food and household items online.
As it tries to drive foot traffic at its stores.
An online retailer in China meanwhile also an all time record for sales Saturday was a countries on official retail holiday similar to war our Black Friday Alley battle.
Raked in 25 billion dollars in just 24 hours for comparison on Black Friday last year sales for online retailers in the US.
Work combined 3.3 billion dollars now and brace yourself more than demon.
That is controversial 2018 challenger demon is now heading to dealers who boasting an 840.
Horsepower it can hit zero to 105 seconds of the Damon comes at two separate case the black LA cable only at least 340 horsepower price tag 85000 dollars.
There's your tech by Saturday.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple fixes iPhone 'I' glitch I have some big big news for highs on news.
Take a look we all have been seeing it that weird a symbol.
That popped up if you recently updated your phone changing.
You're tied to an a an adding a question mark in a box resulting a lot of texts like I sent a question mark in a box can you can meet you downtown.
It was really frustrating so the glitch obviously making a lot of people crazy like myself can you feel the passion of my voice here.
Some good news there is now a fix you just need to install.
The latest IOS update but that up it's what got us in trouble in the first place get the last updates I was finds.
Smart man I had to go to settings and change some steps someone sent me a little fix it kit but I think others of its auditing and fix I'd just like certain screening in my phone every time.
Got his tax.
But anyway I think that's over.
Bush happy we're family.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple releases update to fix autocorrect bug In today's tech ICI glitch is no more iPhone and iPad users can finally type the letter I hit again.
Apple has released an IOS update to fix the glitch that auto corrected and high two and a with a question mark.
PayPal as making it easier for people to pay their share the company launched a new service called many polls users create a money pool and other people can contribute.
There's no fees if the money is given through PayPal account credit and debit card contributions can be made for a feat.
Amazon says it's going to debut pop up shops inside some whole foods stores.
For the holiday shoppers will be able to check out Amazon devices like echo fire TV and Kindle.
Whole foods says more than 100 of its stores now carry those Amazon devices to corporate synergy.
As a ride yes you can buy organic granola.
And it can.
Think time.
Boozer terabytes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for British inventor sets jet suit record Finally tonight here get ready for take off no plane needed just a jet suit.
Blew over Iron Man here's ABC's James moment.
Meet the real life Iron Man UK inventor Richard crowning.
And tonight the former marine is officially take Guinness world record holder for the false this flight in a jet seats Browning says inventing is in his beloved.
And just like mobile superheroes.
He's had his trials and faith.
But now with six jet engines on his back and arms making Ivana.
Thousand horse power.
The skies literally the limit left feeling when you did start to lift all Condace.
In a disengage from the ground and you weren't coming back about his phenomenal let's hope your own zone do you.
I got a chance to fire itself.
Well they're taking off is too dangerous to anyone not properly trained.
And if you feel like trying it out well Browning does make display exceeds the price as sky high 450000.
Dollars.
James Longman ABC news London.
One step at a time James.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Redesigned iPad expected in 2018 And today's second lights of the future of Apple's iPad tablets new high end version will incorporate iPhone in ten features like slimmer edges.
And facial recognition according to a Bloomberg News report.
It also have no home button it's expected to be unveiled next year.
And apple fans can soon get a closer look at the company's massive new campus the visitor center at apple park opens a week from tomorrow the space ship.
Is a two point eight million square foot building the visitor center will have a retail store in Apple's first ever public cafe.
And this real life Iron Man.
They just set a new world record for the fastest speed ever hit in the jets is well flyer at a park in England he hit 32 miles per hour.
The high tech suit is being considered for use by the military.
And Hollywood has lots of people are interested in this I gotta say it looks pretty cool.
Those are your check by have a great day.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Twitter expands character length And we have big news from Twitter this morning.
The social media giant is doubling its character limit for nearly everyone.
Most tweets will now fit 280 characters.
That's a lot of responsibility.
Our chief business correspondent Rebecca Jarvis is here with us this morning.
What you got, Rebecca?
So, Michael, as I'm sure you can imagine a lot of reaction to this, where else, on Twitter.
One of my personal favorites this tweet from NBA referee, now that we all have 280 characters, we expect your Twitter complaints about specific calls against your favorite teams to be calm, well-reasoned and full of complete sentences.
Thanks in advance for this positive step forward in basketball officiating-related discourse.
Yes, so, yes, we shall see if that tweet holes.
Wishful thinking I would say but Twitter long discussed giving users more categories, more ability to share more of their thoughts on Twitter.
They stuck to 140 because that's how many characters would fit in a text message.
That's how Twitter got its tart as a text message.
Why are they doing this?
Their bottom line is what's key here.
They can make more money when more are tweeting.
More are using Twitter.
They recognize that some people feel confined by that 140.
This 280 gives people a little more optionality but, again, it's about making more money and drawing Moore people onto the platform.
You have to be creative.
You have to be a little more clever and to the point and I like also those tweet storms.
We'll see if they keep up now that -- the thread of multiple tweets, now you can say it all maybe in one.
We shall see.
I was part of that test group that got an early 280, double, and didn't really change what -- I didn't even realize it.
That's an interesting point.
They said actually the people in the test group, most of the time they actually stuck to 140. .
Not now.
Get ready.
Didn't want to brag that we had the 2 0.
Once you get used to 280, 420 is next.
Just saying.
Your number.
Good number as your friend would This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How to protect your smartphone from fake apps Back now with that frightening headline about fake apps.
More than a million phones vulnerable to potential hackers this week after people downloaded a fake version of a popular messaging app and it turns out this happens more often than you may think.
Gio Benitez is here with more.
Good morning, gio.
Reporter: Good morning.
We're talking about nearly 3.5 million fake malicious apps out there at any time that hackers can use to see everything you do on your phones.
The latest app was disguised as the popular whatsapp and Google removed it and suspended the developer.
As you're about to see, the risk is very real.
We're inside a coffee shop in Washington, D.C. With a group of young people who have no idea that some of them are about to be hacked.
Here we go.
Reporter: Here's why, just this September a massive breach made headlines.
One of the biggest outbreaks ever.
Reporter: Hackers introduced 50 malicious apps also known as doppelgangers, fake apps that mirror the real thing into the Google play store.
Then millions of unsuspecting android users download the bad apps, a total of 4.2 million times.
One of those apps disguised as a seemingly simple app called lovely wallpaper.
You don't realize it's a fake.
So if you download a nasty version of minecraft, for example, you actually seem to get minecraft and it seems to work but in the background the attackers are able to access your information.
Reporter: James line is a cybersecurity expert at sophos and gave android phones to all of our volunteers as part of our demonstration.
We told them to use the phones as they normally would.
What they don't know is James has already installed a malicious app on the phones.
Now watch with the group sitting in another part of the coffee shop.
We can retrieve their tech messages.
There it is.
Hey, it's me, stunning.
There's a little emoji.
Reporter: Next James triggers one of their cameras.
He will have no idea the camera is just activated and there's a photo of one of our users.
Hi, guys.
Reporter: It turns out every one of our volunteers had signed into their social media accounts.
Did anyone notice anything strange happening on your phones.
Not realizing James had stolen all of their passwords.
The person should have noticed something going on was you.
Oh, was that -- did you take that of me while I was on my phone?
Reporter: While you were 0 the phone.
This is the selfie cam.
That's scary.
Reporter: We decided to up the ante with one of the students taking him outside.
He had no idea that inside the coffee shop -- Tracking him now and can see where he is.
Reporter: James was live streaming his camera and pinpointing his location.
He has access right now to this.
Oh, no.
James can even control his text messages.
What is this?
Hey, can you send me your password.
I didn't text that.
You didn't.
It says you did.
Reporter: James says someone doesn't even have to be on their phone to be hacked.
Even when you weren't using the phone, we still got a picture of you.
Oh, what?
How?
So the phone was just sitting there on the table looking right up at you.
Reporter: Experts say the danger is far greater than just a stolen selfie.
Once inside the criminals into your phone they can access user names and password, credit cards.
Basically to be able to profit from your device without you knowing.
Reporter: And Google tells us it has been tracking this particular malware for months and it's constantly removing bad apps from the playstore and added to its review proceed Sures but the company says it relies on the communities of users and developers to watch and find those ma wlishs app.
I'm watching that.
I'm so scared.
I want to go back to a land line but what should people do if you already have been hacked?
It's not enough to change your password.
It's not enough.
Once the hacker is in, the hacker is in.
So really if you think you have a bad app you have to delete it and then you have to wipe your phone.
You have to restore it but when you're looking at those app store, you want to make sure you're looking at the company, the developer of that app.
Make sure it's a legitimate company and then download it only if you know it's legit.
Wow.
Thanks, gio.
That was very, very informative.
It sure was.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Auto-correct bug in iOS 11.1 frustrates iPhone users In today's tech sites frustrated iPhone users a bug in their phones new operating software is changing lower case eyes to capital raise and a question mark.
Apple says the problem can be fixed through the keyboard settings by adding a tax replacement the company says it'll fix a problem in future update.
A sent Chad outage triggered a millennial meltdown yesterday with users worldwide not being able to connect to the app for at least four hours the unexplained outage triggered a flood of complaints on Twitter no less.
No word from snaps out on what caused the outage.
And one too many on fulfill cravings for McDonald's favored has inspired a brand you have the price check app lets you know when the ice cream machine at your local McDonald's is out of service.
If you just need to have that Oreo nick Larry the apple find the closest Mickey VA's with the workings soft serve machine.
Is a real world problems.
Those you're attacked by soft.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Talk of a Sprint and T-Mobile merger is off the table It's an insect bites talks are off the table for T-Mobile and sprint merger a combined company would have had 130.
Million subscribers meantime sprint announced a partnership with the country's fourth largest cable company Al peace.
Under its optimum brands the deal allows Al t.s to provide mobile services for Sprint's network.
Technology is proving to be an annoying make some Broadway actors say ringing phones and glowing screens are ruining shows one infamous case.
This man climbed up onto the stage to plug his cell phone into an outlet blue.
Actors say alcohol contributing to the bad behavior as more theaters sell booze to maximize profits just tacky.
How to countries suffer Modi that'll make you smile and may even bring a tear to your high.
So apple says the face with tears of joy is actually number one in this nation yet we use it all the time in.
Pizza crying on now desert tech might have a great day.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump's Twitter account briefly deactivated by Twitter employee on last day, company says It is are trying to pulse and we've learned actually why president trumps Twitter account was briefly deactivated around 7 o'clock last night visitors to act real Donald Trump's other message sorry.
That page doesn't exist whole thing lasted about eleven minutes but apparently.
It was a Twitter staffer that caused this whole thing.
The look at these messenger came up.
I'm so here's orders explanation I through our investigation we have learned that this was done by a Twitter customer support employee who did this.
On the employees the last date we are conducting a full internal review needs just via someone's daughter account and on this last day.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Australian customers first to buy new iPhone X on sale today And today sex bites a new iPhone on sale customers in Australia.
Refers to get their new iPhone 10 this morning but apple fanatics are lined up at stores all across the US right now.
The company says it expects sales of the new phone to fuel its most profitable quarter ever.
Some people in Tennessee are enjoying the brilliant colors of autumn for the first time with the help.
Of special lenses a look at point in the smoky mountains recently installed high tech view finders for the colored lines so that.
Can now see all that fall foliage.
But a lovers had a chance a little out of Tennessee.
One family can win tonight and Denmark 25 million brick Lego house here being me is co sponsoring the contest candidates have to answer the simple question.
If you and your family had an infinite supply of Lego bricks.
What would you build a house.
Furniture.
IKEA send us your tech right.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Retailers already previewing Black Friday sales It today sect likes retailers already previewing their Black Friday sales Nintendo is pushing its portable gaming consoles with price cuts on its Judea and 3-D S. Costs go up big sales on TVs and Google com and until tomorrow morning Dell yes Dell is making some of its Black Friday deals available.
Including deep discounts on laptops behind the wheel of that with a new way to connect Bluetooth headphones android phones.
It's called facts bear just turn on a pair of compatible headphones near your android phone.
Put it in Bluetooth pairing mode and then just tap the notification to connect.
Phone and answered our stories now has 300 million daily active users that's more than double snapped chance users stories rolled out three years later than stabbed chat but with a remarkably similar look at people's sense that they stole the pattern from an instrument from sapped its residents.
Similar to summer.
Those are Democrats have a great day that.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
A scientist searching for a young male alligator snapping turtle that was put in a Southern Illinois creek at least a year ago instead grabbed a 22-pound adult female, raising hopes for those trying to protect a creature that hadn't been spotted in the area for three decades.
Illinois Natural History Survey herpetologist Chris Phillips called his finding of the turtle, at least 18 years old, a "move in the right direction" in the effort to save the state-endangered species.
The discovery was chronicled in an article in this month's Southeastern Naturalist co-authored by Ethan Kessler, a graduate student of natural resources and environmental sciences at the University of Illinois.
"It gives us hope that reproduction is happening," Kessler said.
Still, both Kessler and Phillips aren't quite sure what exactly the find says about these secretive creatures that have been around for millions of years.
This particular turtle that was living in Union County's Clear Creek, where scientists have been releasing turtles in Union County's Clear Creek because no wild alligator turtles had been found in Illinois since 1984.
"Maybe there is a hidden population we don't know about," Kessler said, adding that it's more likely that this turtle was just the last survivor of what was once a bigger population of turtles or a hearty traveling turtle that somehow made its way up the Mississippi River.
However it got there, before it was found by Phillips it found at least one other turtle.
The scientists know that because on the day Phillips reached down and grabbed the female turtle he thought he was reaching down for a smaller male turtle that has been wearing a radio transmitter ever since scientists released it into the same creek at least a year ago.
It was because the water is so murky, Phillips had no way of knowing that he was grabbing the bigger turtle and not the smaller one that was so close that it was ultimately pulled out of the water in the same spot.
That leaves both Kessler and Phillips wondering if Phillips was interrupting the kind of activity that a species needs to increase its numbers.
"He (the smaller turtle) had sidled up to her so maybe they were making plans," said Phillips.
Sadly at least for the scientists just what plans the turtles were making may never be known thanks to a failure in technology.
"We put a transmitter (on the larger turtle) but the battery died three months later," Phillips said.
"She's in there but there is no way we're going to find her."
A test version of the Dream Chaser, a reusable spacecraft that resembles a small space shuttle, made a successful free flight and landing in California after being hoisted by helicopter high over the Mojave Desert, officials of Sierra Nevada Corp. said Monday.
The flight Saturday moved the program closer to achieving unmanned cargo flights to the International Space Station and back to Earth under a NASA contract, possibly as soon as 2020.
Slung below the helicopter on a 200-foot (61-meter) tether, the full-scale atmospheric test version of the Dream Chaser was hoisted to an altitude of 12,324 feet (3,756 meters) and released.
The craft then made a completely autonomous descent and landing, rolling out about 4,200 feet on an Edwards Air Force Base runway in the high desert north of Los Angeles.
The free flight lasted 60 seconds, reaching a maximum speed of 330 mph (531 kph) and touching down at the targeted spot on the runway at a speed of 191 mph (307 kph).
In the middle of the flight it performed a maneuver, turning left and right and then coming back to the centerline.
"It is a good day for us," Mark Sirangelo, a Sierra Nevada Corp. executive, said in a conference call with reporters.
"It is in our mind a signal that our program has moved another step closer to operations and orbital flight."
Officials were confident that they had all the data needed from the flight but the vehicle would be capable of making another drop test if needed, said Sirangelo, who likened it to the shuttle Enterprise, which was used for test flights in the atmosphere before the other shuttles actually went into orbit.
The Dream Chaser has been in development by the Sparks, Nevada, company for more than 10 years.
It has been significantly upgraded since its previous free flight in 2013 which ended with a mishap when its left main landing gear did not deploy properly.
It is 30 feet (9 meters) long, about one quarter the length of a space shuttle and is a type of craft known as a "lifting body" in which aerodynamic lift is generated by its shape rather than traditional wings.
Tail fins angling upward at the rear provide control.
NASA proved the lifting body concept by flying a series of wingless aircraft at Edwards in the 1960s and '70s.
Orbital flights will be made by a space-capable version of the Dream Chaser that will be launched atop a booster rocket.
Sierra Nevada has selected United Launch Alliance's Atlas 5 to launch the first two Dream Chaser cargo missions, which are scheduled to blast off from Cape Canaveral, Florida, in 2020 and 2021.
Those missions will land at Kennedy Space Center.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The security services have warned about the dangers of toys being exploited by malicious hackers Consumer watchdog Which?
has called on retailers to stop selling some popular toys it says have "proven" security issues.
Those toys include Furby Connect, the i-Que robot, Cloudpets and Toy-fi Teddy.
Which?
found that there was no authentication required between the toys and the devices they could link with via Bluetooth.
Two of the manufacturers said they took security very seriously.
Sloppy security The lack of authentication meant that, in theory, any device within physical range could link to the toy and take control or send messages, the watchdog said.
"Connected toys are becoming increasingly popular, but as our investigation shows, anyone considering buying one should apply a level of caution," said Alex Neill, managing director of home products and services at Which?
"Safety and security should be the absolute priority with any toy.
If that can't be guaranteed, then the products should not be sold."
Hasbro, which makes the Furby Connect, said in a statement that it believed the results of the tests carried out for Which?
had been achieved in very specific conditions.
Image copyright AFP Image caption German parents were told to destroy dolls that could be used to spy on children "A tremendous amount of engineering would be required to reverse-engineer the product as well as to create new firmware," it said.
"We feel confident in the way we have designed both the toy and the app to deliver a secure play experience."
I-Que maker Vivid Imagination said there had been "no reports of these products being used in a malicious way" but added that it would review Which?
's recommendations.
Spiral Toys, which makes Cloudpets and Toy Fi, did not comment.
Other toys tested by Which?
included the Wowee Chip, Mattel Hello Barbie and Fisher Price Smart Toy Bear - but these were not found to have serious security concerns.
Cyber-security expert Prof Alan Woodward, from Surrey University, told the BBC it was a "no brainer" that toys with security issues should not be put on sale.
"Sadly, there have been many examples in the past two to three years of connected toys that have security flaws that put children at risk," he said.
"Whether it is sloppiness on the part of the manufacturer, or their rush to build a product down to a certain price, the consequences are the same.
"To produce these toys is bad enough, but to then stock them as a retailer knowing that they are potentially putting children at risk is quite unacceptable."
Image copyright Getty Images The BBC has discovered a security flaw in the office collaboration tool Huddle that led to private documents being exposed to unauthorised parties.
A BBC journalist was inadvertently signed in to a KPMG account, with full access to private financial documents.
Huddle is an online tool that lets work colleagues share content and describes itself as "the global leader in secure content collaboration".
The company said it had fixed the flaw.
Its software is used by the Home Office, Cabinet Office, Revenue & Customs, and several branches of the NHS to share documents, diaries and messages.
"If somebody is putting themselves out there as a world-class service to look after information for you, it just shouldn't happen," said Prof Alan Woodward, from the University of Surrey.
"Huddles contain some very sensitive information."
Image copyright Huddle Image caption The BBC was presented with KPMG's documents In a statement, Huddle said the bug had affected "six individual user sessions between March and November this year".
"With 4.96 million log-ins to Huddle occurring over the same time period, the instances of this bug occurring were extremely rare," it said.
As well as a BBC employee being redirected to the KPMG account, Huddle said a third party had accessed one of the BBC's Huddle accounts.
KPMG has not yet responded to the BBC's request for comment.
How was the flaw discovered?
On Wednesday, a BBC correspondent logged in to Huddle to access a shared diary that his team kept on the platform.
He was instead logged in to a KPMG account, with a directory of private documents and invoices, and an address book.
The BBC contacted Huddle to report the security issue.
The company later disclosed that a third party had accessed the Huddle of BBC Children's programme Hetty Feather, but it said no documents had been opened.
How did this happen?
During the Huddle sign-in process, the customer's device requests an authorisation code.
According to Huddle, if two people arrived on the same login server within 20 milliseconds of one another, they would both be issued the same authorisation code.
This authorisation code is carried over to the next step, in which a security token is issued, letting the customer access their Huddle.
Since both User A and User B present the same authorisation code, whoever is fastest to request the security token is logged in as User A.
How has Huddle addressed this?
Huddle has now changed its system so that every time it is invoked, it generates a new authorisation code.
This ensures no two people are ever simultaneously issued the same code.
"We wish to clarify to Huddle users that this bug has been fixed, and that we continue to work to ensure such a scenario is not repeated," the company told the BBC.
"We are continuing to work with the owners of the accounts that we believe may have been compromised, and apologise to them unreservedly."
Image copyright Lovense Image caption Lovense's toys vibrate more the louder the ambient noise its app's detects A smart sex toy-maker has acknowledged that a bug with its app caused handsets to record and store sounds made while its vibrators were in use.
Lovense was alerted to the issue by a Reddit user who had discovered a lengthy recording on their phone.
The Hong Kong-based firm said that the audio file was not transmitted off the device and has now issued a fix.
But one expert said the case highlighted the risks of using internet-connected gadgets.
The matter gained attention after being reported by The Verge news site.
Audio-activated Lovense's Remote app allows its sex toys to be controlled via Bluetooth.
It uses a smartphone's microphones to listen to nearby sounds so that noises can be used as a trigger if desired.
What was not clear was that the audio was being stored - the company's privacy site states that it "designed our system to record as little information about our users as possible".
However, last Thursday one owner flagged the issue.
"I was going through my phone media to prepare it for a factory reset and came across a... file named "tempSoundPlay.3gp," wrote the user nicknamed tydoctor.
"The file was a full audio recording six minutes long of the last time I had used the app to control my... vibrator.
(We used it at a bar while playing pool).
"At no time had I wanted the app to record entire sessions using the vibrator."
The company responded the next day describing the issue as being "a minor bug" that was limited to Android devices, and added that "no information or data is sent to our servers".
It subsequently reported that it had released an update that addressed the problem.
Lovense explained that it still needed to make recordings to provide sound-activated vibrations, but the files would now be much shorter-lived.
"The fix deletes the temporary audio file... after exiting the Sound Control feature and the app will do an additional check and delete each time the app is started," it explained.
Theft risk Earlier this year, another internet-connected sex toy manufacturer - Standard Innovation - was forced to pay more than 2m to its customers after its app was discovered to be sending back data about owners to the company.
Image copyright Lovense Image caption Lovense's app listing warns that the software is new and may include bugs One researcher said Lovense's mistake appeared to be mild in comparison.
"It was an unwise thing to record but the actual risk to users was relatively low unless someone stole their phone," commented Ken Munro from Pen Test Partners.
A second expert added that making a temporary recording was not, in itself, too concerning.
"While this file could be stored in RAM [random-access memory], it is much easier and more efficient to stream it to disk for temporary storage," blogged a researcher known as RenderMan.
"This makes sense, especially when it was clear that the file was meant to be purged once it was no longer needed."
However, this is not the first time that vulnerabilities have been discovered in Lovense's software.
Last December, the company had to tackle a variety of flaws that made it possible to discover users' email addresses.
Mr Munro advised that owners of smart sex toys and other "internet of things" kit needed to accept there were risks involved.
"Anything that uses a camera and a microphone potentially has the opportunity to cause a privacy invasion," he said.
"At present, there's a complete lack of standards, so it's a Wild West right now."
Image copyright Jack Dongarra, Sunway TaihuLight System report Image caption China's Sunway TaihuLight supercomputer remains the world's fastest China has overtaken the US to have the most supercomputers in the list of the world's fastest 500 systems.
The communist nation accounted for 202 of the globe's highest performance machines, according to the latest Top500 survey.
By contrast, the US had 143.
That marks its lowest level since the bi-annual study began, 25 years ago, but still secured it second place.
Japan placed third with 35 systems, and Germany fourth with 20.
In the previous survey, published in June, the US still had a lead of 169 supercomputers to China's 160.
The reversal of fortunes reflects China's increased investment in research and development - according to a recent study, the country now accounts for about 20% of the world's total R&D expenditure.
Scientific studies Supercomputers are typically large, expensive systems featuring tens of thousands of processors designed to carry out specialised calculation-intensive tasks.
Examples include: climate change studies nuclear weapons simulations oil prospecting weather forecasting DNA sequencing modelling biomolecules Performance is measured in petaflops (one thousand trillion floating point operations per second).
A flop can be thought of as a step in a calculation.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption This supercomputer - Germany's DKRZ - is used for climate research China's fastest computer - the Sunway TaihuLight - maintained its lead as the world's speediest, performing at 93 petaflops.
By contrast, the US's fastest - Titan - ranks fifth in the world, with a maximum performance of 17.6 petaflops.
The list's authors said the latest figures also indicated China had overtaken the United States in terms of aggregate performance, accounting for 35.4% of the list's total processing power versus the US's 29.6%.
Erich Strohmaier - one of the survey's co-founders - told the BBC that many of the Chinese systems had been created to earn money, with the owners renting out their processing power to local and international firms.
"At the very high end - the systems in the top 10 - those are there for two reasons," he added.
"One is simply the prestige attached with [being in the lead] in a market that used to be a prime example of US technology dominance.
"The other is to do with scientific exploration and national security - a lot of these systems are used for calculations related to weapons systems."
Image copyright youtube Image caption The remaining videos about Awlaki are news items and documentaries, says YouTube YouTube has removed nearly 50,000 videos featuring radical Islamist preacher Anwar al-Awlaki, who was killed in a drone strike in 2011.
Awlaki was renowned for preaching violence as a religious duty, although at the time of his death his family denied he was a terrorist.
The remaining videos are mainly documentaries and news items, reports the New York Times.
The BBC understands this is a result of human review, not machine learning.
Slow to act To help ensure that the videos stay off YouTube, once humans flag a video for removal it is run through a formatting system that creates a digital fingerprint or "hash".
Uploaded videos are compared to this hash to spot when people are trying to share copies of banned content.
Awlaki posted many different types of videos to YouTube.
Some were explicit calls to violence, but others were commentaries on Islam and its history.
Most of these videos are believed to have been purged from the site.
If he were alive today, Awlaki would have been banned from owning a YouTube channel because he was named as a terrorist on UK and US government lists.
Anti-extremism groups lodged their first complaints about Awlaki's videos in 2009, but until last year it was still possible to find copies of his most explicitly violent material on YouTube.
A long series of complaints and reports from groups working to counter extremism detailed Awlaki's influence and called on YouTube to act.
Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, from George Washington University's research programme on extremism, told the New York Times that YouTube "deserved credit" for removing the videos.
YouTube's design often led people to discover Awlaki's content inadvertently, he said.
However, he added, Awlaki's videos were still easy to find on other video sites and social networks.
Video A pair of algorithms which work together to generate photorealistic faces has been developed by Nvidia.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Skip Twitter post by @Gaydar To Henry.
The man who revolutionised gay dating.
Our founder and our friend.
Thank you for dreaming.
You will be forever in our hearts.
Gaydar xxx pic.twitter.com/16nhdpHW1v Gaydar (@Gaydar) November 12, 2017 Report The founder of groundbreaking dating site Gaydar has died in his native South Africa.
Henry Badenhorst, 51, died after falling from a tower block on Saturday, news website Buzzfeed reported.
He died a decade after his co-founder and former partner Gary Frisch fell to his death in London.
The two created Gaydar, which became the world's largest dating site for gay and bisexual men, in 1999 when a friend said he was too busy to find a partner.
Mr Badenhorst told the Guardian in 2009: "We put him on Excite [a search engine], which had a dating section where you could upload a picture.
But it took two weeks for him to get a response, so we said that we were sure we could create something specifically for the gay market."
How it changed life for gay men At one time Gaydar boasted more than four million subscribers.
The founders would go on to launch an award-winning radio station.
As a result, Mr Badenhorst, who was born in Johannesburg, was named in the top five of the Independent's Pink List of influential gay men and women at least twice in the mid-2000s.
He stepped back from the company in 2010, three years after Mr Frisch's death, which deeply affected him.
But seven years later, Mr Badenhorst's legacy, both on and offline, within the LGBT community and outside it, can be felt as strongly as ever.
"He realised he changed the world in a way that surprised him," Rob Curtis, Gaydar's current managing director told the BBC.
It has, Mr Curtis said, made it safer for all LGBT people to meet.
"It was difficult for gay men to find each other, and they were really the first gay social network - and the legacy of that has lived on," he added.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Gaydar would go on to have more than five million users across the globe Patrick Strudwick, an LGBT editor for the news website Buzzfeed, said the entire idea was "revolutionary".
"The idea you can go to your computer and interact with them in real life without having to go to gay bars or cruising or gay cafes or whatever was a pivotal moment in the history of gay and bisexual men," he told the BBC.
A safer option But it was more than just a way to meet men.
"In countries where being gay is a crime, people were now able to find new contacts and organise," Mr Curtis said.
Even in counties where being gay or bisexual was accepted, the impact on mental wellbeing cannot be underestimated.
"Before the internet, gay people did think they were the only gay person in the world.
That feeling of isolation cannot happen any more," Mr Strudwick said.
"What Henry and Gary did was enormous."
Not only that, but the sheer number of connections the site has made over the years - whether they be romantic, sexual or platonic - could not help but shape the community.
Forerunner to Facebook When Gaydar first launched, the idea we would one day be "swiping right" as we searched for love could not have been imagined.
Eighteen years later, millions of people are logging onto these apps each day - be they straight, gay or bisexual.
And none of it, arguably, would have come to be had it not been for Gaydar.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Millions of people now use dating apps every day "Gaydar was revolutionary, really, in the ways that gay and bisexual men meet - and the ripples fanned out much further," said Mr Strudwick.
"The idea that you can both have your own profile page and also search for people by where they are - these thing really changed the wider culture.
"It was the forerunner to Facebook.
The idea an individual would have their own page, it was entirely novel.
The GPS element was later made an updated with things like Tinder and Grinder."
"Before that, it was the personal ads," said Mr Curtis.
"Now we have GPS-based locations."
A clever, caring person The irony, perhaps, was that Mr Badenhorst was not a user of his own product.
Instead, the South African admitted to Mr Strudwick, he chose to meet people "the old-fashioned way".
"I go to bars," he said in the 2009 interview, one of the few he ever gave.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Inside Africa's only gay radio station Mr Badenhorst was a private man, but one who was much loved and admired.
Mr Strudwick and the tech millionaire became friends after the interview.
He last spoke to him a few months before his death.
The product, Mr Strudwick concedes, has its controversies.
Making the community too selective, for one.
Others have accused sites like Gaydar and Grindr of leading to the closures of gay bars.
But Mr Badenhorst also used it to connect people with health workers, says Mr Strudwick.
"Henry was an incredible, clever, gentle and caring person," he said.
"He cared about people, he cared about his community, "His product was controversial, but he was kind-hearted, gentle and wanted to prevent gay men suffering."
The exact details surrounding Mr Badenhorst's death remain unclear.
Image copyright APple Apple has addressed a glitch that caused some iPhones to unexpectedly start auto-correcting the letter "i" to a capital "A" and a question mark.
The issue emerged when people updated their phones to version 11.1 of the iOS operating system.
In a tweet, Apple said people could "fix it by installing the latest software update".
The update also addresses an issue with Siri.
The company has not explained what caused the problem.
The problem was highlighted last week when people trying to tweet messages such as "I got a new iPhone" found their posts were appearing as "A[?]
got a new iPhone".
At the time, Apple outlined a temporary fix for the problem on its website.
The fix involved editing the keyboard settings in iOS so that the right character, either an upper or lower case "i", was used.
An online discussion forum on Apple's website includes comments from people affected by the bug.
"This is super-annoying," wrote one.
Image copyright Getty Images I've been nervously chatting to Lara on the dating platform Match.com for two minutes.
She's flattered me about my age ("so young!")
and she says she's going to take care of me.
I like her already - but Lara is not real.
She - or rather, it - is a chatbot, an artificially intelligent computer program developed to communicate with people online.
The bot was launched in France in 2016 and then rolled out in the UK in April 2017, to help potential clients get started in their search for love by setting up their Match profile for them.
It was the first to be released by a major dating site and the firm claims that 300,000 people a month complete their dating profiles with help from Lara.
Image copyright Match.com The chatbot is not a voice-controlled interface - you communicate by typing - but it can operate in 12 languages, asking users simple questions about what they are looking for and what they are like.
Experts say it can also encourage people to be more honest about what they really want, rather than write what they think others will want to see.
"The profile is the big hurdle [for the industry]," says Mark Brooks, a dating sector consultant.
"People don't really want to create a profile, it's not much fun.
"But if you are having a conversation with somebody they will be more willing.
And if you can create a profile from a conversation it will probably be closer to the truth."
Match says Lara boosted registration rates by 30%, and it can now also recommend matches based on user data.
Image copyright Getty Images While the bot isn't supposed to break hearts, the chat is affable, friendly, informal.
It asks friendly questions, you answer, and there's a short, reassuring response before the next request for information.
Try to go off script, however, and you won't get very far.
"How are you?"
I asked Lara.
"Hello, hello," she replied with a winking emoticon.
"Do you have any hobbies?"
(I never said I was good at chatting people up).
"I don't understand.
Which gender are you?"
she replied, giving me a choice of two buttons to press.
"Do you understand me?"
"Oops, your email address is invalid," she responded, with a sad face.
Perhaps we're not soulmates after all.
"[Clients] know it's a bot, they are 100% aware they are not talking to a human," says Xavier De Baillenx, innovation lead at Match.
"You have to engage users with the right tone of voice," he adds.
"We tested Lara with no personality, Lara with jokes - and we found that having a personality can be more effective."
The Match group has now also launched Julia, a similar chatbot for its over-50s dating site Our Time and Mr De Baillenx says there are more "agents" on their way.
But why aren't there more of them in the dating space already?
Perhaps one reason is that people can be notoriously rude to bots.
Microsoft's Twitter bot experiment Tay had to be disabled within a day when those who communicated with it taught it to be racist and misogynistic, and a popular Japanese app called The Boyfriend Maker was terminated when its virtual boyfriends started engaging in very lewd chat.
Image copyright Twitter Image caption Microsoft's Twitter experiment Tay developed extreme views very quickly "I call this the 'abducted by aliens' problem," said Ludwig Konrad Bull, MD of Elixirr, speaking at the recent iDate conference in London.
"You would never write on a form that you've been abducted by an alien.
But for some reason, you're more likely to say that to a bot.
"If you look at how similar a robot is to a person, the more similar the robot is to the person, the more empathetic that person is towards the robot, but right before the robot seems just like a person people start really despising it.
People don't want machines to be as intelligent as humans right now."
Mr De Baillenx says not many of Match's customers try to do "weird things" with Lara.
But John Taylor, CEO of action.ai, believes chatbots aren't yet mature enough for people to resist trying their luck - the language skills are just not there, as I discovered with Lara.
"A chatbot is about how you have a conversation with a business or a person who is not real," he says.
"We want people to talk naturally to a chatbot and be understood.
But the technology is not there today.
We have technology which solves that problem but it's not broadly available on the market."
Xavier de Baillenx admits that the language side "is not so easy".
"With Lara we spend quite a long time on understanding human language," he says.
Repeat business In future though, a chatbot could offer a lot more to the dating space than getting you started on your search for love - which could prove lucrative for those in the business.
"It's a strange industry," says Mark Brooks.
"If we do a good job we wave goodbye to our customers.
"There's a lot we are missing out on by not helping people with their relationships once they have found that person."
Whether people are ready to accept relationship advice from the likes of Lara remains to be seen.
"Maybe chatbots can be used to train people how to date.
There's a lot of psychology involved, best practice.
It could probably give you tips and tricks," says Srini Janarthanam from Chatomate, talking at at iDate.
"And if you don't get to date anybody else, maybe you can date the chatbot."
Image copyright Getty Images Uber has struck a deal that could lead to a huge investment by a consortium led by Japanese conglomerate Softbank and San Francisco group Dragoneer.
The size of the potential investment has not been disclosed, but reports say it could be up to $10bn (7.6bn).
The ride-hailing company said the money would fuel Uber's expansion and investments in technology.
But it could transform its corporate structure and see a share listing by 2019, if the deal goes ahead.
"We've entered into an agreement with a consortium led by SoftBank and Dragoneer on a potential investment," Uber said.
"We believe this agreement is a strong vote of confidence in Uber's long-term potential."
If completed, the firm plans to use the funds to expand its business further as it faces increasing competition at home and abroad.
As well as boosting its investments in technology, Uber said it would strengthen its corporate governance.
That could help bring stability to the world's most valuable start-up after a year of scandals, infighting and the ousting of former chief executive Travis Kalanick in June.
Early adopter Softbank, the Japanese telecommunications and technology giant, declined to comment on the potential investment when contacted by the BBC.
However, Softbank chief executive Masayoshi Son said last week that "whether we make an investment in Uber, or not, is not decided yet".
Analysis: Rory Cellan-Jones, BBC Technology Correspondent It has been a dreadful year for Uber - with boardroom rows, allegations of a toxic culture within the company, and damaging clashes with regulators, notably in London.
Why then does SoftBank still think a business making substantial losses is worth $68bn?
On one view, it is making a bold bet on a future where Uber's rapid pace of growth continues in cities around the world, where rivals melt away, and where its huge investment in autonomous driving pays off, transforming the economics of transport.
On another, it is just a speculative punt from a firm that has got $100bn burning a hole in its pocket.
That is how much sovereign wealth funds and tech giants like Apple have put into the SoftBank Vision fund and its founder Masayoshi Son seems in a hurry to spend it.
The mere existence of this huge fund is helping to fuel the tech valuation bubble - if it bursts, then splashing so much cash in Uber's direction may look rash.
He said a deal would depend on "pricing and the terms and conditions" as most of Softbank's investment would be used to buy out shares from current investors.
Buying the existing shares would reportedly allow Softbank to take a 14% stake in Uber, while $1bn is said to have been set aside to buy new shares.
Mr Son added that while Uber was struggling with "management issues", he believed it was still a "good company".
Sources told the BBC it could take up to a month for the investment deal to be wrapped up.
Once completed, it would mark the latest in a series of overseas investments by Softbank including: SoftBank has not revealed how much of the money to be invested in Uber would come from its technology focused Vision Fund, which has more than $93bn at its disposal.
Mr Son is known to have an eye for potentially transformative industries and trends.
He was an early investor in Alibaba and owns close to 30% of the Chinese e-commerce giant's shares.
Image copyright YouTube: Kids Fun TV Image caption One unofficial cartoon shows Peppa Pig having teeth pulled at the dentist YouTube is to restrict the availability of videos showing children's characters in violent or sexual scenes if they are reported by viewers.
Last week, a blog post by writer James Bridle highlighted how YouTube was still being swamped by bizarre and indecent videos aimed at children.
The site says it already stops such videos earning advertising revenue.
YouTube said its team was "made up of parents who are committed to improving our apps and getting this right".
But critics say YouTube is not taking enough action by waiting for viewers to report inappropriate videos.
'Something's wrong' The problem of video-makers using popular characters such as Peppa Pig in violent or sexual videos, to frighten children, has been widely reported.
However, Mr Bridle's blog post went deeper into what he called the rabbit hole of children's content on YouTube.
He gave examples of videos aimed at children that were not necessarily violent or sexual but were sinister, "disturbing" or otherwise inappropriate.
Often it appeared that the videos had been algorithmically generated to capitalise on popular trends.
Image copyright YouTube: Animals For Kids Image caption In one clip, Spiderman and Elsa, from Frozen, fire machine guns "Stock animations, audio tracks, and lists of keywords being assembled in their thousands to produce an endless stream of videos," he said.
Many used popular family entertainment characters such as Spiderman, and Elsa from Frozen, and had been viewed millions of times.
"Someone or something or some combination of people and things is using YouTube to systematically frighten, traumatise, and abuse children, automatically and at scale," he wrote.
YouTube says it has already barred such videos from earning advertising money when they are reported by viewers, to try to remove the incentive to produce them.
However, many of the videos do not get reported by viewers and continue to carry advertisements.
YouTube has now said it will give such videos an age restriction if they are reported by viewers, so they cannot be viewed by people under 18.
Image copyright YouTube: Babyfun TV Image caption Some of the videos are not rude or violent but use Disney characters in odd situations Age-restricted videos are blocked from appearing in the YouTube Kids app, which is primarily curated by algorithms.
They also cannot be viewed on the YouTube website unless people are logged in with an adult's account.
However, a report in the New York Times found that inappropriate videos have previously slipped through the net.
YouTube says it uses human reviewers to evaluate whether flagged videos are appropriate for a family audience.
In his blog post, Mr Bridle said he did not know how YouTube could stamp out the problem.
"We have built a world which operates at scale, where human oversight is simply impossible, and no manner of inhuman oversight will counter most of the examples I've used in this essay," he said.
Image copyright Getty Images Boeing kicked off the first day of the Dubai Airshow by announcing the first big sales news of the five-day event.
Emirates has ordered 40 Boeing 787 Dreamliners in a deal worth about $15bn (11.3bn) at list prices.
The Dubai airline's chairman, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum, said the aircraft had been chosen over the Airbus A350.
He had been expected to announce a big order for the Airbus A380 superjumbo at the media briefing.
Airbus desperately needs more orders for the A380, the biggest passenger aircraft in the skies.
The Franco-German company and Emirates were understood to be in intense final negotiations to have an announcement ready for this week's show.
Emirates, the largest airline in the Middle East, is already the biggest customer for Boeing's 777, with 165 in service and another 164 on order.
Sheikh Ahmed said Sunday's order raises the cost of its purchase of Boeing aircraft to $90bn.
Some of the new 787s will be used to replace older planes, while others will be used to expand the airline's network.
Image copyright Emirates Image caption Emirates flies more than 160 Boeing 777 planes Boeing welcomed the deal, which Kevin McAllister, head of its commercial aviation division, said would sustain many jobs in the United States.
Deliveries of the aircraft are scheduled to start in 2022.
Also on Sunday, Azerbaijan Airlines said it was buying five Dreamliners, as well as two Boeing freighters, in a deal worth an estimated $2bn.
Amid the display of military hardware and the latest civil aircraft, it is the traditional rivalry of Boeing and Airbus that grabs the airshow headlines.
So far this year, Boeing has won about 65% of the new orders placed for aircraft globally.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Airbus unveiled an updated version of the A380 earlier this year Neither Emirates nor Airbus would comment on the status of the rumoured A380 order, which would help protect jobs at the aircraft manufacturer's plant in north Wales, where the wings are made.
Emirates has been the biggest customer for the A380, having bought 142 of the almost 320 that are in service or on the production line.
The last order for the superjumbo came two years ago, when Japan's ANA purchased just three planes.
In July Airbus said it would again cut annual production of the A380 from 12 to eight.
Two years ago Airbus was making 28 planes a year.
Image copyright @Nasa/Twitter Image caption The unmanned cargo ship was about to be launched to the International Space Station (ISS) A rocket launch in Virginia was aborted at the last moment when a small aircraft flew into restricted airspace.
The unmanned cargo ship was about to be launched en route to the International Space Station (ISS) when mission control called "abort, abort, abort!".
They had spotted a small aircraft flying in restricted airspace at 500ft (150m) near Wallops Island.
The launch will be attempted again on Sunday morning at 07:14 EST (12:14 GMT).
The cargo ship was filled with 7,400 lbs (3,356 kg) of food, supplies, equipment and science experiments for the ISS.
Orbital ATK, which has a $1.9bn (1.4bn) contract with Nasa to resupply the space station, was sharing live updates before the launch.
At first, the preparations were going smoothly.
Skip Twitter post by @OrbitalATK Range is green and launch team is GO!
Just about 10 minutes until launch Orbital ATK (@OrbitalATK) November 11, 2017 Report As the clock ticked down, it looked as if the ISS would soon be receiving an exciting delivery.
Until, suddenly, this happened.
Orbital ATK said there were "no issues until an aircraft flew into restricted airspace", adding that they would be "ready to go tomorrow morning".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The lack of skilled teachers is the biggest problem, the report found More than half of England's secondary schools, 54%, did not offer GCSE computer science in 2015-16, a report from the Royal Society has found.
It urged the government to increase spending on computer education tenfold over the next five years to ensure youngsters can "unlock the full potential of new technologies".
The biggest issue was the lack of skilled teachers, the report found.
The Department for Education said more pupils were choosing the subject.
"We want to ensure our future workforce has the skills we need to drive the future productivity and economy of this country and that is why the government made computing a compulsory part of the national curriculum," said a spokesperson.
"Computer science GCSE entries continue to rise more quickly than any other subject.
"We recently saw an increase in entries to Stem subjects [science, technology, engineering and maths] for the English Baccalaureate (EBacc) and the number of girls taking Stem subjects at A-levels has increased by over 17% since 2010.
"Since 2012, the department has pledged 5m to the Network of Teaching Excellence in Computer Science programme, which has built a national network of nearly 400 computer science specialists (who) schools can commission to provide bespoke training for their teachers."
Computer science in numbers The number of schools not offering the subject at GCSE represented 30% of the total number of pupils in England Across the UK, the report found that that only 11% of students in England took GCSE computer science In 2017 only 20% of GCSE candidates in the subject were female and the figure fell to 10% at A-level Bournemouth had the highest percentage of pupils (23%) opting to take computer science Hartlepool, Harrow and Bracknell Forest had the highest proportion of school offering the subject at GCSE level, not including the Isles of Scilly which has a 100% rate as it teaches it at its only school Two in three schools near the UK's technology hub in East London, did not offer it to pupils as a GSCE option Other London boroughs, including Islington, Kensington & Chelsea, Tower Hamlets and the City of London also had a low proportion of schools offering the subject The Royal Society, the UK's independent scientific academy, is concerned about how the lack of computing expertise will affect the future workforce.
Prof Steve Furber, who worked on the report, said: "Computing teachers have told us that they feel the government rushed in a new curriculum without giving them the support or money to deliver it.
"The report paints a bleak picture in England, which meets only 68% of its computing teacher recruitment targets and where, as a result, one in two schools don't offer computer science at GCSE, a crucial stage of young people's education."
He added that, "overhauling the fragile state of our computing education" would require an ambitious, multipronged approach.
The Royal Society called for: A 60m investment in computer education over the next five years The training of 8,000 secondary school computing teachers Analysis by Rory Cellan-Jones, BBC News technology correspondent This report highlights what some teachers have been telling me for a while - that the revolution in computing education in the UK has stalled.
Five years ago a head of steam built up behind the idea that children needed to be taught coding and that the ICT GCSE was not fit for purpose, teaching little more than how to use Microsoft Office.
The government responded by taking ICT off the National Curriculum and replacing it with computer science.
But this course is proving far more demanding of both pupils and teachers, and many schools have decided that it is just not worth the bother at a time when resources are tight.
Some ICT teachers who had always argued that it was a practical course, attractive to a far wider range of children, are now saying "I told you so".
But across the world of computing education there's agreement on one thing - more money needs to be spent on training teachers in this vital subject.
Prof Furber's views were echoed by technology firms Microsoft and Google, who are both working to increase computer skills among schoolchildren.
Google's UK managing director Ronan Harris said: "There is still much more to do to ensure young people across the UK have access to computer science education.
"Whatever school they attend or whatever field they plan to go into, every student should have the opportunity to understand the principles and practices of computing."
And Microsoft's UK chief executive Cindy Rose said: "The risk, if we don't make these investments now, is that too many young people struggle to access new opportunities and the UK loses its advantage in a world being transformed by technology."
Image copyright designer491 Image caption Many people still use passwords that are very easy to guess Cyber-thieves grab almost 250,000 valid log-in names and passwords for Google accounts every week, suggests research.
The study by Google and UC Berkeley looked at the ways email and other accounts get hijacked.
It used 12 months of log-in and account data found on websites and criminal forums or which had been harvested by hacking tools.
Google said the research helped secure accounts by showing how people fell victim to scammers and hackers.
During the 12 months studying the underground markets, the researchers identified more than 788,000 credentials stolen via keyloggers, 12 million grabbed via phishing and 1.9 billion from breaches at other companies.
Phishing involves attempts to trick people into handing over personal information and keyloggers are programs that record every key someone presses when using a computer.
Physical location The most useful information for cyber-thieves came from keyloggers and phishing attacks as these included valid passwords in 12%-25% of attacks, it found.
Phishing attacks posed the biggest risk to users as these helped malicious hackers scoop up about 234,000 valid names and passwords every week.
By contrast, keyloggers only yielded about 15,000 valid credentials each week.
Cyber-attackers also sought to grab other information that could be useful in attacks, said the researchers.
Data about a person's internet address (IP) as well as the device they were using and their physical location were all potentially useful for attackers seeking to defeat security checks.
Popular passwords found in data breaches 123456 password 123456789 abc123 password1 111111 qwerty 12345678 1234567 Gathering this data was much harder, found the research, with only 3.8% of people who had credentials leaked also giving away IP addresses and fewer than 0.001% surrendering detailed device information.
In a blog, Google said it would use the results of the research to refine the ways it spotted and blocked attempts to take over accounts.
In particular it would enhance efforts to use historical data about where users logged in and the devices they used to thwart impersonation attacks.
The company has a range of resources for people affected or looking to protect themselves.
However, the researchers acknowledged that the "multi-pronged problem" of account hijacking required efforts in lots of different areas.
It noted that only 3.1% of people who had an account hijacked subsequently started using improved security measures, such as two-factor authentication, after they regained control of a lost account.
Because of this, they said, educating users about better ways to protect accounts should become a "major initiative".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Two Uber drivers take opposing views on how the company should treat them Taxi-hailing app firm Uber has lost an appeal against a ruling that its drivers should be treated as workers rather than self-employed.
Last year a tribunal ruled drivers James Farrar and Yaseen Aslam were Uber staff and entitled to holiday pay, paid rest breaks and the minimum wage.
Uber appealed, arguing its drivers were self employed and were under no obligation to use its booking app.
The firm said it would appeal against this latest ruling, too.
Uber which has up to 50,000 drivers using its app in the UK, claims 80% of them would rather be classed as self employed.
Uber said there were two further possible stages in the appeal process - the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court.
The Employment Tribunal upheld its original decision that any Uber driver who had the Uber app switched on was working for the company under a "worker" contract.
Image caption James Farrar is one of the two drivers at the centre of the case It said they were therefore entitled to workers' rights.
Uber has faced regulatory and legal setbacks in a host of cities around the world.
In London, where it has the bulk of its business, it is fighting to retain its licence to continue operating.
'Huge relief' James Farrar, from Hampshire, told the BBC how he was feeling: "Just huge relief.
I really hope it will stick this time and that Uber will obey the ruling of the court.
"I'd like Uber to sit down and work out how as quickly as possible that every driver who is working for Uber get the rights they are entitled to."
Image copyright PA How did the Uber case come about?
The law firm Leigh Day started the legal action against Uber on behalf of 25 members of the GMB union, which initially included Mr Farrar and Mr Aslam, although the two pursued this latest case with a different union, the IWGB.
Leigh Day is still involved in legal action against Uber and represents a total of 68 drivers in a group claim against the company.
The company's Nigel Mackay said, in theory, any Uber driver in the UK could benefit from Friday's tribunal ruling, should it stand uncontested: "The judgment directly applies to the original 25 claimants in the claim, and since then another 43 drivers have joined.
"However, given that all Uber drivers work in essentially the same way, then there is no reason why the same principles wouldn't apply across all drivers in the UK and they would all be free to join the claim and be entitled to compensation."
IWGB's general secretary, Dr Jason Moyer-Lee, said: "Today's victory is further proof, as if any more was needed, that the law is clear and these companies are simply choosing to deprive workers of their rights."
The GMB union said the ruling, by the Employment Appeal Tribunal (EAT), was a "landmark victory" for workers' rights, especially in the gig economy, a system of casual working which does not commit a business or a worker to set hours or rights.
Maria Ludkin, the GMB's legal director, said: "Uber must now face up to its responsibilities and give its workers the rights to which they are entitled.
"GMB urges the company not to waste everyone's time and money dragging their lost cause to the Supreme Court."
Image copyright PA Tom Elvidge, Uber UK's acting general manager, said: "Almost all taxi and private hire drivers have been self-employed for decades, long before our app existed.
"The main reason why drivers use Uber is because they value the freedom to choose if, when and where they drive and so we intend to appeal."
He went on to say that EAT's decision relied on an assertion that drivers were required to take 80% of trips sent to them when logged into the app, but, he said, "as drivers who use Uber know, this has never been the case in the UK".
He also said a number of changes had been made to the app over the last year, and that Uber had "invested in things like access to illness and injury cover".
Image copyright BT Householders who receive poor service from their telecoms provider are to get automatic compensation, the regulator Ofcom has announced.
From 2019 they will get 8 a day if a fault is not fixed, paid as a refund through their bill.
This is less than the 10 that was proposed when Ofcom began its consultation earlier this year.
Providers will also have to pay 5 a day if their broadband or landline is not working on the day it was promised.
If an engineer misses an appointment, they will have to give 25 in compensation.
Ofcom has estimated as many as 2.6 million people could benefit from the new rules.
142m pay-outs The agreement covers consumers who have contracts with BT, Sky, Talk Talk, Virgin Media and Zen Internet - which make up around 90% of telecoms customers in the UK.
Plusnet and EE are expected to join the scheme at a later date.
How compensation will work Image copyright Getty Images Consumers will have to phone up to complain initially Service not working, and not fixed after two days: 8 compensation a day Missed engineer appointment, or less than 24 hours notice of cancellation: 25 for each appointment Delayed starting date: 5 a day "Waiting too long for your landline or broadband to be fixed is frustrating enough, without having to fight for compensation," said Lindsey Fussell, Ofcom's consumer group director.
"So providers will have to pay money back automatically, whenever repairs or installations don't happen on time, or an engineer doesn't turn up.
"People will get the money they deserve, while providers will want to work harder to improve their service."
Ofcom said the scheme would not come in to operation until early 2019, because of the complexity of the changes.
It said that billing systems and online accounts would need to be altered, and staff would need to be re-trained.
Help In total, customers can expect to get 142m in pay-outs every year, according to Ofcom's estimates.
At the moment telecoms users can get compensation in theory, but only around 15% of those who complain manage to get a refund.
Even then most only get small amounts, said Ofcom.
Anyone wanting to obtain compensation under the current arrangements can find help on the Ofcom website.
Which?
said that those providers who have not already joined the automatic compensation scheme should do so.
Image copyright Getty Images Twitter has suspended its verified-profile scheme and described it as "broken", following complaints over the type of accounts being verified.
Typically, prominent people, including musicians, journalists and company executives, get a blue icon on their profile after proving their identity.
However, some far-right and white-supremacist accounts have now also been verified.
Twitter founder Jack Dorsey said the scheme would now be "reconsidered".
Image caption Verified profiles display a blue badge next to their name In a statement, the company said: "Verification was meant to authenticate identity and voice, but it is interpreted as an endorsement or an indicator of importance.
"We recognise that we have created this confusion and need to resolve it."
The company said no further "general" accounts would be verified, while it worked on a fix.
Twitter has been making a series of changes to address abuse and harassment on the social network.
Last week, it published a rewritten version of its rules, which it said would make them easier to understand.
Image caption Universities are going to be given tougher guidance on their advertising claims Universities are going to face a crackdown on how they advertise and market courses to attract students.
With hundreds of thousands of young people in the process of applying, universities are going to be warned by the advertising watchdog that they need to prove the accuracy of their claims.
It is expected that universities will be told not to mislead or exaggerate in language used in adverts for students.
They will scrutinise claims such as being in the "top 1%".
The University of Reading has already had to take down its claim to be the top 1% of the world's universities, because it could not be objectively substantiated.
Next week the Advertising Standards Authority is expected to identify up to six more universities which have breached the advertising code - along with issuing tougher guidelines on what is permissible language in marketing.
Image copyright University of Reading Image caption The University of Reading had to stop saying it was in the top 1% in the world It has emerged that two universities have already agreed to clarify advertising.
The watchdog says the University of Bedfordshire faced a complaint about claiming to have "gold standard" teaching quality - when the university held a silver award in the new teaching excellence ratings.
Liverpool John Moores University was challenged over being more specific about its claim to be "university of the year".
It won the title in this year's "Educate North Awards".
'Competing for students' Universities are competing for students and their fee income and have been putting increasing efforts into how they appeal to potential applicants, selling marketing information on websites and on open days.
There has been a proliferation of league tables and rankings which are used to base claims about "world class" status for universities or individual degree courses.
The advertising watchdog has been considering whether university claims are justified by any "objective substantiation" - and without "adequate substantiation", can rule them to be "misleading".
If advertisers persistently refuse to accept rulings from the watchdog, they can be referred to trading standards officers, who could impose fines.
But the advertising watchdog says advertisers are more likely to comply rather than face "bad publicity".
The University of Reading was told in the summer that it could be "materially misleading" to market itself as being in the top 1% of all world universities - a claim made by several other UK universities.
The claim had been based on Reading's ranking in a number of international league tables - but without a clear agreement over how many universities there are in the world, such a claim was deemed as unacceptable.
The university agreed to remove the claim and the complaint was "informally resolved" without a formal investigation or ruling.
But it is understood that the issue was then raised with wider university representative groups - because many universities make such specific claims about their international reputations.
Image copyright Warner Bros Interactive Image caption A logo but no footage has been released for the new game The maker of Pokemon Go has revealed it is working on a Harry Potter-themed follow-up that will also include augmented reality features.
Niantic said players would find and fight fantasy beasts in real-world neighbourhoods in the smartphone game, which has yet to get a release date.
Pokemon Go reportedly had about 45 million daily players at its peak and generated more than $1.2bn (915m) in sales.
One expert said the Harry Potter brand had the potential for similar success.
Publisher Warner Bros Interactive owns the video game rights to the Harry Potter series.
It has previously developed Lego-branded tie-in titles via its TT Games subsidiary as well partnering with Electronic Arts to create action-adventures that launched alongside the movies.
Warner said Niantic's Harry Potter: Wizards Unite was just one of several new games based on JK Rowling's characters that are planned.
They will all be released under a new label - Portkey Games - so-named because Portkeys transport wizards from place to place in the books.
Image copyright Niantic Image caption Niantic continues to add features and characters to Pokemon Go Claims that Niantic would make a Harry Potter-themed game were first reported in July 2016 but were dismissed as a hoax, not least because the San Francisco-based developer was still rolling out Pokemon Go at the time.
The Pokemon title became the first mainstream hit for augmented reality, in which real-world views captured via a camera are mixed together with computer graphics on the screen.
Niantic had previously attempted to popularise AR with Ingress, a location-based sci-fi game released in 2012.
But it was only after it took on an established brand that it caught the wider public's attention.
Image copyright Warner Bros Interactive Image caption Lego-themed Harry Potter titles have already proved to be highly popular on games consoles "I think the Harry Potter game is a huge deal," commented Piers Harding-Rolls from the IHS Markit consultancy.
"If you look at the different major franchises out there, I don't think there are many that could do Pokemon Go justice as a follow-up."
Relatively few details have been provided at this point about the forthcoming game, except that it will involve players learning spells before exploring their neighbourhoods to search for mysterious artefacts and fight "legendary beasts" with the option to team up with others to "take down powerful enemies".
Potter fans have been told they will have to wait until next year to discover more.
The title is likely to take advantage of enhanced augmented reality features provided by Apple and Google via their ARKit and ARCore developer tools, which were not available when Pokemon Go launched.
But Niantic may be mindful that many of Pokemon Go's remaining fans play it with its AR features switched off because it makes the game easier to play and helps save battery life.
"I expect the Harry Potter augmented reality experiences will be more robust and complex than they were in Pokemon Go, which should make the game more dynamic and the experience more engaging," Mr Harding-Rolls predicted.
"But I still don't think they will be essential to the experience."
Image copyright KSAT 12 / Reuters Image caption FBI agents joined local law enforcement at the scene Apple has offered to help the FBI unlock the smartphone of the gunman who killed 26 people at a church in Texas last Sunday.
Devin Kelley wounded 20 others at the First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs and was later found dead in his vehicle, some miles away.
The FBI said his handset had been sent to its central crime lab, in Virginia, as local police could not unlock it.
Apple said it had "immediately" offered to help.
The company said it worked with law enforcement agencies every day and had trained "thousands" of officers about the best way to handle its devices and how to request information.
If Kelley had saved his phone data on Apple's iCloud service, this too may hold information about numbers called, messages sent and pictures it was used to take.
Dead man's finger "It actually highlights an issue that you've all heard about before, the advance of the technology and the phones and the encryptions," said FBI special agent Christopher Combs.
"Law enforcement, whether at the state or local or the federal level, is increasingly not able to get into these phones."
However, there has been speculation the FBI may have missed an early chance to get at data on Kelley's phone.
Apple iPhones locked with a fingerprint ask for a passcode only after they have not been unlocked for a 48-hour period.
And it is therefore possible the phone could have been unlocked by the dead man's finger in the hours after his death, provided it had not run out of battery, or been deliberately switched off or rebooted.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Revenge porn - where ex-lovers share intimate images without consent - can cause misery for victims Humans rather than algorithms will view the naked images voluntarily sent to Facebook in a scheme being trialled in Australia to combat revenge porn.
The BBC understands that members of Facebook's community operations team will look at the images in order to make a "fingerprint" of them to prevent them being uploaded again.
Facebook will notify the person once the photo has been "hashed'.
It will then be up to the sender to delete the image.
The trial, which could be extended to other countries, is seen as a way of of allowing users greater control over their intimate photos - offering a a pre-emptive protection against future misuse of the pictures by disgruntled ex-lovers.
'Redouble efforts' Users wanting to take part in the scheme must first complete an online form on the Australian e-safety commissioner's website.
Then they need to message themselves their nude photos via Messenger and the e-safety commissioner's office will notify Facebook of their submission.
A Facebook community officer can access those photos to "hash" them, and they will then notify the person via the secure email provided via the commissioner's website.
Revenge porn is a growing issue in Australia where studies suggest that one in five women aged 18-45 may have been victims.
Experts in the field have welcomed the initiative but have warned that it will only tackle the problem on Facebook and its associated sites, WhatsApp and Instagram.
Prof Clare McGlynn, from Durham Law School, said that the UK should establish a similar organisation to Australia's e-safety commission.
"We must redouble efforts to challenge the root causes - challenging those who share images without consent," she said.
"We must condemn such forms of non-consensual sexual activity in the strongest terms, and work with young people on this."
Image copyright Getty Images Vodafone has announced plans to provide up to five million UK properties with "full fibre" internet connections.
The telecoms firm company is partnering with broadband network specialist CityFibre to achieve the goal by 2025.
Vodafone said the initiative would deliver a "superior product at a lower cost" than relying on Openreach's infrastructure, as it does at present.
Openreach, which currently supplies broadband across the UK, said it welcomed the move.
However, one expert said the BT division would be concerned.
Higher demand "Full fibre" broadband refers to the fact that fibre-optic cables run directly to properties, rather than relying on copper cables to connect the buildings to roadside cabinets.
This provides a more robust and faster connection, but is more expensive to deploy.
Vodafone says customers can expect to receive gigabit speeds - 1,000 megabits per second or higher - when it begins to roll out the service next year.
Under the deal, CityFibre will own and operate the new network and Vodafone will get exclusive rights to it for an unspecified period of time.
Construction of the first phase of the project is due to begin before July, and will initially aim to connect one million properties, In addition, Vodafone will use the network to support radio base stations it intends to deploy ahead of the launch of a 5G mobile data service.
"Vodafone has made investment in fibre build-out a massive priority in the last two to three years - particularly in Spain and Italy," commented Mark Newman, chief analyst at the ConnectivityX research firm.
"The amount of data the mobile networks are carrying is going up by 50% a year - and as you build more and more mobile sites to cope with the demand in traffic... you need more fibre to carry that signal back from the base stations into the network."
Privately unhappy Openreach is already pursuing a plan to connect fibre to 10 million UK homes and businesses by the mid-2020s.
It said it hoped Vodafone's plan would "complement" its own effort.
"As we've said consistently - investing in more fibre-to-the-premises technology across the UK will need commitment from the whole industry," said a spokesman.
But Mr Newman, said the division was likely to be privately unhappy about the development.
"Openreach is a pretty good business for BT," he explained.
"Any operator that chooses to install their own fibre or go to a third party is going to mean one less customer."
Image copyright Getty Images Travel website TripAdvisor has added tags informing users of hotels where sexual assaults have been reported.
The warning badges are designed to identify health, discrimination and safety issues, the company said.
The announcement came after the website was accused of deleting several reviews in which users reported being sexually assaulted at hotels in Mexico.
Three hotel resorts in the Playa del Carmen region of Mexico were flagged with the new warning tag on Wednesday.
"These badges will remain on TripAdvisor for up to three months; however, if the issues persist we may extend the duration of the badge," TripAdvisor spokesman Kevin Carter told the New York Times.
"These badges are intended to be informative, not punitive," he added.
Image copyright CBS The decision to create the badge system was made following an investigation by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel newspaper that found the website had repeatedly deleted a 2010 post by a Texas woman alleging she had been raped by a hotel security guard at the Iberostar Paraiso Maya resort.
Kristie Love, 35, was reportedly told her 2010 forum post was deleted several times because it violated the company's "family-friendly" policy.
The newspaper spoke to other women who were allegedly assaulted at the same hotel and also had their reviews deleted by TripAdvisor.
More than 400 million people visit TripAdvisor every month, according to CBS News.
Customers who visit flagged pages will now see a small red box at the stop stating: "TripAdvisor has been made aware of recent media reports or events concerning this property which may not be reflected in reviews found on this listing.
"Accordingly, you may wish to perform additional research for information about this property when making your travel plans."
Decisions to add or remove badges will be made by a committee of employees, Mr Carter said.
The company has also announced a new policy to explain to users why reviews or forum posts are deleted.
If one is removed, TripAdvisor said it will "be more clear about the reasons the review doesn't meet guidelines and what part of it is in violation".
The move comes amid mounting allegations of sexual misconduct against prominent men, after dozens of women accused Hollywood movie mogul Harvey Weinstein of sexual assault or harassment.
He has denied the charges against him.
Image copyright Reddit Image caption The /r/incels subreddit was banned on Tuesday Social website Reddit has banned a controversial subreddit dedicated to "involuntarily celibate" men, known as incels.
The 41,000-strong community was ostensibly a support group for men who wanted to have sex, but found themselves unable to form romantic relationships.
Over time, the group became a repository of misogynistic abuse, rape threats and febrile discussion of "Chads" - men apparently not afflicted by incels' sexual insufficiency.
The move comes within three weeks of the website banning several other subsections, mostly affiliated with the extreme right, for hosting "violent content".
Image copyright Reddit Image caption The Incels subreddit sometimes went 'private', unavailable to the wider Reddit membership From Tuesday, users attempting to access the subreddit - a self-contained community on the Reddit website - were instead faced with a generic message announcing the ban.
"This community has been banned," the message states.
"This subreddit was banned due to a violation of our content policy, specifically, our site-wide rules regarding violent content."
You might also like: In the past week, threads featuring on the subreddit have ranged from overtly misogynistic, to violent, to self-pitying.
"A reminder that no female has ever looked at you and thought you were attractive," proclaims one thread, a few lines above another declaring "women are horrible human beings in every aspect of life".
In October, one member of the incel group reportedly impersonated a woman to ask another subreddit dedicated to legal advice "how rapists get caught".
Skip Twitter post by @FemalesFighting A member of r/incels pretended to be a woman to ask r/legal advice on how to get away with rape.
This pit of misogyny needs to be shutdown!
pic.twitter.com/b4unbFQNTV Fighting For Females (@FemalesFighting) November 8, 2017 Report Some posts on the forum have glorified Elliot Rodger, a man who killed six people in a 2014 California rampage after publishing a "manifesto" detailing his hatred of women.
It is unclear if there was a specific incident which led to the subreddit's closure, but the ban came after some users discussed castrating another user's roommate.
Reddit updated its policy on violent content in October.
Discussing the changes, a Reddit administrator said existing rules governing violent content were too vague.
"Going forward, we will take action against any content that encourages, glorifies, incites or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people," they wrote on a subreddit dedicated to updating the site's moderators.
A Reddit spokesperson told The Guardian: "Communities focused on this content and users who post such content will be banned from the site.
As of November 7, r/Incels has been banned for violating this policy.
"Reddit is the home to some of the most authentic conversations online.
We strive to be a welcoming, open platform for all by trusting our users to maintain an environment that cultivates genuine conversation."
Free speech Historically, Reddit has tolerated publication of content which is offensive or discriminatory in the name of free speech.
But in recent years a number of high-profile subreddits have been banned, though a number of highly controversial communities remain.
In February 2017, the r/AltRight subreddit was closed.
The community had been a key discussion forum for members of the far right.
In November 2016, a subreddit dedicated to discussion of the false Pizzagate conspiracy theory was also prohibited.
Earlier this year Reddit shut down r/Physical_Removal for inciting violence, such as promoting the use of physical violence against political opponents.
The subreddit gained notoriety in the aftermath of a far-right rally in Charlottesville which saw a counter-protester murdered by a white supremacist.
Image copyright CasPhotography More than $150m (115m) of a crypto-currency called Ethereum may have been permanently frozen after a code bug was accidentally triggered.
The bug was in code written by Parity Technologies to create digital wallets holding virtual coins - called Ether.
It let someone hunting for bugs become the joint owner of hundreds of wallets.
However, when the unidentified person tried to reverse their mistake they stopped the original owners of the wallets getting access too.
Find and fix In a statement, Parity Technologies said all wallets created after 20 July this year were affected by the mistake.
It provided a link to a separate page on which Ether holders could check to see if their wallet was among this vulnerable batch.
Parity expressed regret over the "great deal of stress and confusion" the incident had caused.
It added: "We continue to investigate the situation and are exploring all possible implications and solutions."
It is not yet clear whether Parity will be able to rectify the mistake.
This is because the unidentified person who triggered the problem used a function that "suicided" code that could have been used to resurrect the wallets.
Estimates of exactly how much of Ethereum's coins has been frozen vary widely.
Low estimates put the figure at $150m but others suggest it could be as high as $300m.
The bug was triggered while an unnamed developer was looking through the Parity code for ways that it could be exploited.
Only wallets created after 20 July are affected because they use an updated version of Parity's wallet program issued to fix another bug that led to $30m of Ethereum coins being stolen.
Ethereum is a crypto-currency similar to Bitcoin that uses a large network of computers to verify transactions and generate new coins.
Currently, one Ether digital coin is worth about $314.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Revenge porn has affected up to one in five Australian women, according to one study Facebook is testing a system that allows users to message themselves their nude photos in an effort to combat so-called revenge porn.
It will store a "fingerprint" of images to prevent any copies of them being shared by disgruntled ex-lovers.
The trial is in Australia, where studies suggest one in five women aged 18-45 may have had image-based abuse.
But one expert says there will still be problems outside Facebook and related sites such as WhatsApp and Instagram.
Facebook said it looked forward "to getting feedback and learning" from the trial.
Revenge porn is a growing issue in Australia, according to e-safety commissioner Julie Inman Grant, who is working with Facebook on the trial.
"We see many scenarios where maybe photos or videos were taken consensually at one point, but there was not any sort of consent to send the images or videos more broadly," she told ABC News.
'Innovative' She sought to reassure potential victims who might be concerned about proactively sending themselves intimate photos.
"It would be like sending yourself your image in email, but obviously this is a much safer, secure end-to-end way of sending the image without sending it through the ether," she said.
"They're not storing the image, they're storing the link and using artificial intelligence and other photo-matching technologies."
Users wanting to take part in the trial must first file a report with the commissioner, who will in turn share it with Facebook.
Prof Clare McGlynn, an expert from Durham Law School, described it as "an innovative experiment".
"I welcome Facebook taking steps to tackle this issue, as it has often been very slow to act in the past.
However, this approach is only ever going to work for a few people and when we think of the vast number of nudes taken and shared each day, this clearly isn't a solution," she told the BBC.
Graham Cluley, a security consultant, said that security would be the priority.
"Facebook knows that there will be many people concerned about how it handles such sensitive content, and I imagine they have put a good deal of thought into minimising the chances that anything goes wrong."
In March, Facebook was embroiled in a scandal when it emerged that a 30,000-strong private members group, Marine United, was routinely sharing images of nude women.
The group - made up of US marines - shared photographs of naked and semi-naked female colleagues.
In response to the revelations, Facebook introduced a feature that tagged pictures reported to it as revenge porn using photo-matching technology.
It used this to prevent the image spreading and closed down the majority of accounts reported to it as hosting such images.
Video An experimental interactive audio drama has been released by the BBC as a "skill" for the Amazon Echo smart home speaker.
Rory Cellan-Jones tried out the Inspection Chamber and asked Henry Cooke from BBC Research & Development whether people would want to interact with a drama.
Google says it is "not happy" that its search results displayed false information about Texas gunman Devin Patrick Kelley, who killed 26 people.
The search engine displayed a carousel of posts "popular on Twitter" that contained false stories that Kelley was a Muslim and a left-wing extremist.
Google's Danny Sullivan said the tweets were promoted by the site's "ranking algorithm", which would be improved.
"We want to get this right," he said on Twitter.
Google was criticised in October after the Top Stories section of its search results contained fake news about the Las Vegas shooting.
Mr Sullivan, who is Google's public liaison for search, said changes to the site's algorithms had prevented the same situation happening with the Texas shooting.
"We took deserved criticism after our Top Stories section carried misleading information after the Las Vegas shooting," he wrote.
"Early changes put in place after Las Vegas shootings seemed to help with Texas."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Texas shooting: How to spot a hoax However, this time it displayed false tweets in its search results suggesting Kelley was a member of a pro-Bernie Sanders group, that he had converted to Islam and that he was a "radical alt-left" activist.
Mr Sullivan said the false tweets appeared for only a "short time" and they were displayed below legitimate search results.
He promised the feature would be improved over time.
Skip Twitter post by @dannysullivan Bottom line: we want to show authoritative information.
Much internal talk yesterday on how to improve tweets in search; more will happen.
Danny Sullivan (@dannysullivan) November 7, 2017 Report But some people criticised Google for keeping the function on its search results before it was fixed.
"Just kill the feature until it works," said journalist Peter Bright.
'The NHS is the last bastion of communism' Viewsnight is BBC Newsnight's new place for ideas and opinion.
Here, Karol Sikora argues the NHS is the "last bastion of communism" and needs a total rethink.
Video BBC Click's Kat Hawkins looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including: British inventor Richard Browning sets the first world speed record for "flying a body-controlled jet engine power suit" A robot that can summon and operate lifts to access floors in a building has been designed Uber and Nasa announce they are joining forces to build pilotless flying taxis See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Amputee shows off 'Iron Man arm' Amputee James Young has worked with prosthetics designers to create a unique limb that looks like something straight out of a science fiction movie.
Video A wireless sensor network to monitor and help tackle forest fires has been developed at the University of Westminster.
The sensors are part of a European-wide firefighting research project and tested on fires in Greece, Spain and Israel.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Pollution inside a car can be worse than on the pavement - It acts as a gas chamber, trapping nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and soot-like particles.
Especially when you're stuck behind the exhaust of the car in front.
Richard Westcott reports.
Video Self-driving car company Waymo has said it is confident enough in its technology to ditch the human safety driver and open up its fleet to the public.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption This year's Singles Day sales amounted to $25.3bn (19bn), a 42% increase on last year I still remember growing up in communist China in the 1970s, when my mother and neighbours would use their ration tickets to buy meat at a state-run store.
Very little thought went into shopping because there was not much to buy.
People simply bought what little was available.
Even in the 1980s, shopping in Beijing was little better.
Back then, shopping was just something you had to do to get what you needed.
It certainly wasn't the big extravaganza it has become with the popularity of Singles Day.
Now in its ninth year, the day is officially called the 11.11 Global Shopping Festival.
11.11 stands for the 11 November, when it is held.
The two numbers were chosen to symbolise the wishes of single people to be in a relationship, as two elevens next to one another appear like two couples.
It was originally a non-commercial festival started by male college students who didn't have a girlfriend.
They created a day to get together to celebrate bachelorhood.
But the Chinese retailer Alibaba caught on to it and has turned it into the largest online shopping day in the world.
Alibaba says more than one million retailers worldwide took part this year, including US department store Macy's.
Alibaba says this year's sales amounted to $25.3bn (19bn), $7.5bn more than in 2016.
Only half way into this year's Singles Day, sales had already surpassed last year's total.
As I digest these figures, my mind flashes back to childhood images of everyone wearing the same style of button-down shirts and elastic-waisted baggy trousers - so-called Mao suits.
We were lucky if we got a set of new clothes once a year.
Relatives and friends have proved to me how widespread Singles Day has become.
One of my cousins buys six months' worth of household supplies on that day.
A friend spends as much as $500.
Some people spend much more.
Even my uncle in his seventies has jumped on the bandwagon this year, buying underwear and snacks online.
So what happened to bring about this dramatic change in China?
I attribute it to Chinese people's strong sense of curiosity and willingness to try new things.
After all, they had few choices in previous decades.
But also - the love of a good bargain!
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption China's Singles Day: The made-up festival Discounts can be 30% or more, but there's a limited supply on the best buys, so shoppers stay up past midnight on their computers to fight for the good deals.
Shoppers can use apps to virtually try on clothes before they buy them.
Ahead of Singles Day there are a lot of events, including a four-hour fashion show.
Viewers on their mobile phone can immediately make online purchases of the clothes they see the models wearing.
Local shops can deliver to their door.
But whatever happened to the traditional Chinese values I was raised on - thriftiness, frugality, and getting by with what you have?
Image copyright AFP Image caption A delivery man delivers parcels during Singles Day in Shanghai They have been shoved aside.
At least by some well-to-do and increasingly wasteful middle-class urban dwellers.
Some people have become so hooked on materialism that they have become credit card slaves, owing huge debts.
Regardless, Singles Day is a wakeup call for the rest of the world, especially companies wanting to sell to Chinese people.
They've got to do things the Chinese way if they want to win them over.
China is no longer just following, it is leading the world in e-commerce and consumer engagement.
At the stroke of midnight, when the world's biggest online shopping event came to an end, the staggering sales figure on Alibaba's website was a sign of just how much China has changed.
Cindy Sui is a Taiwan-based BBC correspondent who has lived and worked in China for many years.
Image copyright Taryn Southern Image caption Taryn Southern is making an entire album co-written by artificial intelligence software "Ugh," my dad used to grunt when I switched on Radio 1 .
"This music sounds like it was written by a computer".
It's a criticism that's been levelled at synthpop for years.
But what if it was true?
Taryn Southern, a YouTube star and content creator, has just released a song she wrote with the help of artificial intelligence.
Called Break Free, it's a brooding ballad that wouldn't sound out of place on the Hunger Games soundtrack.
Southern wrote the lyrics and melody, but the backing track was built by her laptop, after she punched in a number of settings for the song's mood, tempo and instrumentation.
"My new collaborator is not human," she grins.
"It's an AI algorithm".
As a YouTuber, Southern is used to adapting new technology, and her interest in AI was sparked by an article on The Verge, describing how programmers at Sony had fed the Beatles' back catalogue into a computer and urged it to write a new Lennon-McCartney track.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Could AI eventually write songs in the style of The Beatles?
And would you want it to, even if it could?
The result may have been hilariously naff, but it prompted the headline: "This AI-written pop song is almost certainly a dire warning for humanity."
Southern was less sceptical.
"I'm a naturally curious person," she says.
"So I did some research."
Last January, she started downloading open-source programmes which promised to write songs from scratch.
"Most of these algorithms work by ingesting a large amount of data from a certain genre, so the AI can learn the 'rules'," she explains.
"What chord structures are most common, that sort of thing."
Musicians' fears Pulling out her laptop, she fires up one of the programmes.
We ask it to write a Reggae song, using Scott Joplin's The Entertainer as inspiration.
The result is well, as terrible as the description sounds.
But there's a recognisable bounce to the bassline, and a distinct progression from intro to verse to chorus.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's quick guide to Artificial Intelligence Southern admits it takes a lot of tinkering to get a decent song out of the software.
"It requires a fair amount of human collaboration.
You can't just press a button and create magic."
Indeed, she's been collaborating with companies who make the software - including a startup called Amper Music, IBM's Watson, platform and Google's Magenta - helping them improve, and even "hacking" the composing tools herself.
Less than a year since she started, Southern has an EP of songs ready for release; and plans to have an album - I Am AI - available next year.
"There are some awesome new toys coming out that I really wanted to include," she says.
Image copyright Taryn Southern Image caption The singer says the speed of the software means she can write a song from scratch in under an hour Earlier this week, Southern performed Break Free live for the first time at the WebSummit in Lisbon, Portugal.
It received an enthusiastic welcome from the audience of tech-heads and coders.
But what have other musicians made of her experiments with AI?
"It's totally split down the middle," she says.
"Half of them have been very interested in learning about it; while other ones have said, 'Why are we playing around with this stuff.
It's going to be take our jobs.'"
Unsurprisingly, Southern isn't swayed by that argument.
She says AI is "just a tool" like a drum machine or synthesizer.
'The message was human' "The reality is that humans adapt.
It's the tools that become irrelevant."
"It's the heart that makes the music," she insists, directing me to a video on her YouTube channel called Voices In My Head.
"On that video, the music was created by artificial intelligence.
But the message was human - and a deeply personal one at that."
"I think people will find a way to embrace it.
It's inevitable."
But she does foresee legal issues over who owns the songs created by AI.
"With my song Break Free, I actually gave Amper, who made the AI, some of the back-end royalties.
I felt that was appropriate.
"They composed the song, it's just there was a heavy amount of arrangement afterwards.
"So these questions are coming up and I'm doing my best to figure it out in a way that is favourable to artists."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video BBC Click's Nick Kwek looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including: WhatsApp releases a Delete For Everyone function allowing users to retract comments after they have been sent Ford develops a robot which tests car seats by sitting in them Sony announces it will bring back its famous robot pet dog, Aibo See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video BBC Click's Marc Cieslak looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including: Nissan demonstrates the sound its electric cars will make following a US ruling they must make a noise for safety reasons Amazon proposes a system that will allow them to access people's homes to deliver parcels A robot that can swim and fly - the developers hope the technology could be developed for search and rescue robots See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A graphene-based tattoo that could function as a wearable electronic device to monitor health has been developed at the University of Texas.
Gold is often used in electronic components, but graphene is more conductive, can be hundreds of times thinner and allows the tattoo to wrinkle naturally with skin.
It is hoped that as the cost of graphene falls, such tattoos will become affordable for medical use.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Click visits the University of Tokyo where a high speed camera has been developed.
It can process an image faster than the eye can see and make a moving object appear stationary.
The developers believe it has the potential to revolutionise how sporting events are broadcast.
Spencer Kelly went to find out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'There's no weather station measuring what's going on' A shortage of weather data is putting many African countries at an economic disadvantage, experts believe.
The BBC's Click team went to Tanzania to meet some tech start-ups trying to change the outlook.
Tanzania is at the centre of a meteorological experiment that promises to transform lives across Africa.
Tech start-up, Kukua, wants to introduce hundreds of low-cost weather stations in the country and beyond, to fill what has become a troubling data void.
The World Bank is also backing a scheme being rolled out in Dar es Salaam and elsewhere to spread personal weather monitors.
Without accurate weather data, people don't have evidence of what the weather is doing at ground level across the continent.
And this, as former TV weather presenter Peter Gibbs explains (see video), can be a matter of "life and death".
Climate change has brought more extreme weather conditions to many parts of the world and Africa is no exception.
Farmers also face less predictable seasons.
"Climate change has made an impact over recent years.
At first we lost harvests to droughts and recently to heavy unexpected rain," say smallholder farmers, Agnes Chekira and Asha Ahmadi.
Image caption Click presenter Dan Simmons meets Tanzanian smallholders Agnes Chekira and Asha Ahmadi "If the rains come too early at the end of the longer rainy season our beans rot.
But it's harder now to tell what will happen."
A short drive away, also in the Lushoto district of northern Tanzania, we meet Peter, a runner bean grower.
Earlier this year he lost his entire crop at the start of the shorter spring rainy season.
"Timing is everything.
If you plant the seeds too early and heavy rains come in the first days, the seeds and dry top soil will be washed off the hillside and into the river channels at the bottom of the fields," he says.
Knowing what the weather might do helps him work out when to add pesticides and fertilisers, he explains.
Peter has been one of the first farmers in the region to sign up to a text alert scheme that tells him each day what the weather is expected to do in his area.
Image caption Runner bean farmer Peter lost $100 worth of seeds in heavy rains Kukua provides the data from several of its new weather stations it has installed in the area.
They are low-cost - about $2,500 (1,900).
"Obviously the weather stations themselves don't give us a forecast directly but we are able to send the information they collect back to the forecasters in Europe and provide better, more reliable advice on the ground," says Micha van Winklehof, Kukua's chief executive.
The World Meteorological Office estimates there are just over 1,100 active weather stations in the whole of Africa - a continent of 54 countries, many with starkly different climates.
And the number of stations has halved over the last 30 years due to inadequate government funding, maintenance costs and limited resources.
Dr Joseph Mukabana, in his recent report for the African Ministerial Conference on Meteorology, says this "poor and sparse" network needs to be expanded to at least 12,000 to provide basic weather services and help manage climate change.
It has created "key gaps in our abilities to predict high-impact weather events", he says.
This dearth of weather stations means that what meteorologists call "ground truthing" - verifying predictions made from satellite data with earth-based evidence - is very difficult.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption An automatic weather station for Africa One station has to cover an area of 27,000 sq km (10,425 sq miles) on average, meaning that what should be hard evidence is often just "best guess".
Kukua wants to install thousands of weather stations across Africa.
They are already in Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, and Ghana, as well as Tanzania.
The first went up in 2016 and the 100th will be in by the end of 2017, paid for by large agricultural companies who will also benefit from more accurate information about what's happening on the ground.
"On a large scale we have clients interested in climate change and how that's affecting the cocoa belt in West Africa," says Mr van Winklehof.
"Firms want to know where to base their operations, not just now but in the future."
Weather data is also useful for renewable energy firms wanting to know where to place their wind farms, and for insurance companies needing to assess flood risk and verify claims.
The US-based International Research Institute for Climate and Society believes that giving farmers access to reliable weather forecasts can help them increase yields by 20%, and sometimes by as much as 80%.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "That's the difference between eating to survive and sending your kids to school," says Mr van Winklehof.
He hopes the data might also be useful for national health departments and non-governmental organisations looking to predict outbreaks of cholera and the spread of malaria - diseases closely linked to rainfall, humidity and temperature.
Kukua plans to sell the data the weather stations collect to fund further installations, raising the question that risk low-income farmers could be priced out.
"The question is, will they openly and freely share the data with everyone at some stage," says David Lemayian, co-director and head of technology at Code for Africa, a not-for-profit organisation campaigning for free access to such information.
He wants to see weather and air quality data made freely available across the continent so all sectors can benefit.
Image caption Code for Africa's weather sensors can measure air quality Kukua insists it will share data, but is less clear about when and how.
Code for Africa is collaborating with the World Bank to spread small, automated weather sensors across Tanzania, Kenya, and other African countries.
By the end of 2017 it hopes to have 300 of the basic-looking units working in four countries.
"Climate change is severe and is happening here in Africa, and we're finding it's women and children who are hurt the most," says Mr Lemayian.
The $35 sensors measure temperature, humidity, and the size of particles found in the air.
"We found the biggest amount of interest has come from mothers wanting to know about the air quality near their homes for the sake of their babies' health," says Mr Lemayian.
There are several other projects aiming to fill the weather data void in Africa.
But if commercial organisations keep the data to themselves, campaigners argue, local communities could suffer.
Image copyright Twitter/@OaPb6uPdvtOTNtR Image caption Pro-Ukrainian, neo-Nazi or just actors in in a "fake news" video?
A Russian "troll factory" in St Petersburg is working with the self-styled "Donetsk People's Republic" in eastern Ukraine to produce extreme propaganda videos that aim to discredit pro-Ukrainian elements and stir up the conflict in the region, BBC Russian has learned.
A series of fake news videos produced by a group called the Russian Liberation Movement have emerged on YouTube dating from 23 August.
The videos show extremist groups with hidden faces, distorted voices and posing with weapons.
The fighters identify themselves with a confusing array of labels.
At times they describe themselves as pro-Russian rebels in Ukraine, as pro-Ukrainian rebels in Russia and even as fighters from so-called Islamic State - even though they have also made videos potentially deeply offensive to Muslims.
Image caption Screenshots from some of the videos created by the "Russian Liberation Movement" 'The Fatherland' In one of these videos, six armed men are draped in a neo-Nazi flag.
They appear to be extreme Russian anti-government nationalists, helping Ukrainians to fight what they describe as "Putin's bloody regime" in Eastern Ukraine and claim they are "turning their gaze towards the Fatherland".
In another video, the Russian Liberation Movement claims responsibility for a suspected arson attack in the Russian city of Rostov, saying it was their "first successful attempt at a terrorist act on Russian soil".
The suspected arson attack did indeed happen - one person was killed and more than 100 houses were damaged - but there's no indication that it was linked to political groups or terrorism.
In later videos, the militants explain how to seize a building and use hand grenades.
They also hoist a pig's head on to a Koran and send "greetings" to Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov.
But BBC Russian has discovered a number of similarities between characters and locations in the videos and people and backgrounds in other online films which aim to recruit men to defend the "Donetsk People's Republic" - indicating that the videos are fakes produced by anti-Ukraine fighters operating in the region.
You might also be interested in: Earlier this year pro-Russian fighters in Donetsk declared a breakaway republic called Malorossiya, although Moscow did not recognise the split.
Western governments accuse Russia of helping the rebels in the region with regular troops and heavy weapons.
Despite strong evidence to the contrary, Moscow denies that, while admitting that Russian "volunteers" are helping the rebels.
The Russian Liberation Movement videos were distributed through seven fake accounts on the Russian social network VK.
The accounts used false names and photographs of random people as profile pictures.
The accounts were opened just a few days before the material appeared and were largely reposting entertainment content in an effort to look "real".
BBC Russian also found that a social media account sharing the material was computer generated and belonged to a botnet - a large controlled network of social media accounts.
Although they weren't hugely viral - generally receiving fewer than 1,000 views each - YouTube and other social media sites have since deleted the videos.
Image caption In an arson attack in Rostov, buildings were burnt to the ground, 118 houses were damaged and one person was killed.
The Russian Liberation Movement claimed responsibility, but there's no indication the group had anything to do with the attack - or is even a real group of fighters at all 'Gothic prince' The propaganda machine in the "Donetsk People's Republic" began after Ukraine's 2014 revolution ousted President Viktor Yanukovych.
A former police investigator, Ivan Borozenny, reinvented himself online as a "gothic prince" called Dalyant Maximus.
He took part in the annexation of Crimea as part of the pro-Kremlin People's Liberation Movement.
Maximus now co-operates with the "Ministry of State Security" of the "Donetsk People's Republic", where he appears in some of the videos.
Image caption Dalyant Maximus dressed up as a "knight" and a similar uniform in videos released by the hacker group Cyberberkut Image caption A limited edition helmet like the one worn by Dalyant Maximus in videos The common backdrop for the pro-separatist films and the faked anti-Ukraine propaganda videos is the Izolyatsia art centre in Donetsk which was seized by separatists.
Maximus published one video promoting the special forces of the "Republic".
And the art centre was also the setting for a fake propaganda video about fighters from so-called Islamic State fighting in a Ukrainian National Guard division, uncovered by BBC Russian in 2016.
That video was published by the pro-Russian hacker group CyberBerkut.
Interactive: View the Izolyatsia art centre in Donetsk in 2012 - and the same location in a propaganda video in 2015 Interactive , 2015 "", 2012 The video features music from the computer game Quake - as do other CyberBerkut videos in which Dalyant Maximus plays the lead and directs.
His name isn't in the credits and his face is hidden under a limited edition hand-made knight's helmet.
BBC Russian found that Maximus, who is a regular on historical military re-enactment forums, bought his helmet in 2014.
Video messages In the videos, Dalyant also sends impassioned messages to the Ukrainian security forces.
In one he taunts them for living under a "Jewish occupation".
In one of them he calls CyberBerkut a "division" of the "Interior Ministry" of the "Donetsk People's Republic".
He also declares that he leaked the personal details of Ukrainian soldiers to hackers.
On the same online channels where Dalyant Maximus videos are disseminated, other "masked showdowns" filmed by the Donetsk rebels are posted.
They claim responsibility for an explosion in a local bar which injured 13 people, for blowing up part of a military hospital and a cash machine, and many other bombs placed on railway tracks and bridges.
In one video they produced, real acts of terror are listed alongside made-up ones - like the "murder of five American instructors at a tank repair factory" - all along to the soundtrack of the American film Rocky.
'Media Fakes Department' The propaganda machine in Donetsk also has links to the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a so-called "troll factory" in St Petersburg is famous for employing young Russians to post thousands of comments on Western news sites and social media networks, for hacking and botnets, and for spreading fake stories online.
Some fake items created by CyberBerkut have connections with the agency.
For example, in April 2016 the IRA published a video which appeared to show where an advertising sign in New York's Times Square had been hacked to show an image of Vladimir Putin winking.
The video was a fake.
Image caption A shot from a promotional video from the "Ministry of State Security" for the "Donetsk People's Republic" and a shot from a Cyberberkut video which claims that ISIS fighters are allegedly serving in the Ukrainian National Guard Later CyberBerkut published a similar faked photo purporting to show Kiev, and calling the Ukrainian government a "junta of war criminals".
The hacking agency was also behind an elaborate ruse designed to discredit a Putin opponent and wealthy former Russian businessman living in exile, Mikhail Khodorkovsky.
At the end of 2016, a video appeared which showed a man in a mask who introduced himself as a former employee of a Khodorkovsky media project called the Centre for Directing Investigations.
The video claimed to show photos taken in the centre's Moscow headquarters, which showed apparently damning signs on doors leading to the "Media Fakes Department" and the "Social Media Department".
The video claimed that behind those doors, saboteurs sowed panic among with false reports about poisoned medicines.
The masked man promised further "revelations" but then claimed that he was beaten up by Khodorkovsky's employees.
Like the Russian Liberation Movement, the anti-Khodorkovsky videos were provable fakes.
BBC Russian tracked the location of the pictures to a business centre not in Moscow but in St Petersburg, close to the headquarters of the Internet Research Agency.
You might also be interested in: Image caption These flags appear at the beginning of the videos produced by the Ministry of State Security of the self-proclaimed "Donetsk People's Republic" Aggression increases The revelations point to a problem for the propaganda-makers - making their often-absurd claims believable.
But Aric Toler of the investigative website Bellingcat, suspects that believability may not be the whole point.
"I think that the fakes are not meant to be extremely convincing," Toler says.
"All it takes is a few popular news outlets... to run a headline about a video of a Ukrainian far-right group 'reportedly' making a threat.
The vast majority of people only look at headlines for stories and won't see any future retractions - so the damage is done."
Toler believes that the fake Russian Liberation Movement claiming the suspected Rostov arson - despite any evidence to back up the claim at all - may also have been somewhat effective.
"Perhaps the video was a smokescreen to hide the real purpose of the arson, or maybe it's just an opportunity to create this bogeyman of the anti-Putin ultranationalist."
Reporting by Andrei Soshnikov Additional reporting by Anastasia Golubeva, BBC Russian Do you have a story for BBC Trending?
Email us.
More from Trending: 'Russian trolls' promoted California independence Image copyright Getty Images Social media accounts with ties to Russia pushed a huge Twitter trend in favour of an independent California on US election night 2016, BBC Trending has learned.
READ MORE You can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending, and find us on Facebook.
All our stories are at bbc.com/trending.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Would having your own personal stylist on demand help you decide what to wear?
Dressing angst.
We've all had it.
Does this outfit make me look fat?
Is it inappropriate for work?
Is it something someone half may age would wear?
Should I just give up and stay in bed forever?
It's then we need help and advice from people we trust.
"I've sat in a changing room in my underwear for ages waiting for my friends to get back to me," says Sophia Matveeva, founder of fashion advice app, Style Counsel.
"I wanted their advice on the outfit I was thinking of buying.
And my friends on WhatsApp were always asking me what they should wear, but we'd often be in different time zones and the answers would come too late."
Fashion dilemmas like this gave her the idea for an app to help women crowdsource advice from stylists and sister fashionistas in a safe, troll-free environment.
"Young women have always cared about what others think about their look, but social media has amplified this", says Ms Matveeva.
"Your image can reach far more people than ever before - it's like being a celebrity, and this has made us a lot more worried."
Image copyright Style Counsel Image caption Style Counsel founder Sophia Matveeva believes fashion is a social activity Style Counsel users wanting advice on an outfit can post a photo and receive "yes" or "no" answers from other users, or more detailed advice from vetted fashion stylists and bloggers "within minutes", she says.
So far around 7,000 people have downloaded the app, and more than 90 stylists are on hand to dispense advice.
Photos are being uploaded from North America and Australia, as well as the UK, she says.
Fashion advice is a growing business, with dozens of apps, such as AskAnna, Mallzee and StyleDotMe, springing up, primarily targeting young women.
Image-focused social media platforms such as Instagram and Pinterest have been a key place for fashion enthusiasts to share ideas and opinions for some years.
And all this data about people's like and dislikes is gold dust for retailers.
"The most expensive piece of research retailers pay for is to find out why something didn't sell.
Our platform tells them why - that's valuable feedback," says Ms Matveeva.
This endless appetite for customer data undoubtedly prompted retail giant Amazon to launch its Echo Look camera.
The $200 (150) voice-controlled device - powered by Alexa - can take full-length photos and videos of your outfit and send them to the accompanying smartphone app.
Image copyright Amazon Image caption Amazon's Echo Look camera and app will give advice on which outfit suits you best A "style check" function then compares photos and gives its algorithmically-derived opinion of which outfit is better, based on fit, colour, style and current fashion trends.
Amazon says its own panel of fashion experts has helped develop this function.
But will this rather impersonal form of advice really appeal to social, sharing-obsessed twentysomethings?
"Women, more than men, are social creatures - AI will never stop us talking to each other," says Ms Matveeva.
"We need human-first technology.
Girls will always want the approval of the cool girl at school, and on Instagram there are millions of cool girls."
Most young people like to search for and buy clothes online via their mobiles these days - no queues, less stress.
But getting the right fit is difficult and leads to hundreds of billions of dollars worth of items being returned each year, at great cost to retailers.
Image copyright Adriana Tripa Image caption Isabelle Ohnemus says social media helps online shopping to be a social experience "Every brand has its own sizing parameters - there are no international standards," explains Isabelle Ohnemus, chief executive of EyeFitU, a fashion website that finds clothes to fit your figure.
"This is why returns are so high.
"We can set up your size profile in a few seconds with 80% accuracy just knowing your gender, height, weight and age," she says.
EyeFitU has about 60 retailers on its site - "mostly big international brands", says Ms Ohnemus - and using all the data it has collected, translates these differing national and brand sizings to suit your actual shape.
Tech company Metail is also trying to solve the size issue by enabling shoppers to create digital 3D versions of themselves that they can they dress up virtually on retailers' websites.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "You can create your own body model giving your main measurements - height, weight, bust size, inside leg, neck size, hips and waist," explains Metail chief executive Tom Adeyoola.
"We can reach 92-96% accuracy just on those measurements."
You can then go on to a Metail-friendly fashion website and see what your digital avatar looks like wearing any of the clothes you select.
The images are altered by computer to fit your figure.
To get to this stage Metail has to have photographed the retailer's range of clothes as worn by a manikin standing on a revolving turntable.
The special photo rig can "shoot 200 garments a day", says Mr Adeyoola.
When you think that an online fashion retailer like Japan's ZozoTown can have 500,000 items in its range, that's a lot of photos to take.
Mr Adeyoola hopes that his firm's technology will help make buying clothes online "a much more interactive and engaging experience" - as it used to be in-store.
It will also provide retailers will valuable insights into our personal preferences.
So far 7.5 million people have created "Me-models" of themselves, he says.
Image copyright Amazon Image caption With Amazon's Prime Wardrobe service you can try clothes at home first before you buy Of course, the biggest drawback of online shopping is that you can't touch and feel the clothes before your buy - another reason why returns are such a big issue.
This is why Amazon has launched its Prime Wardrobe "try before you buy" service.
Prime subscribers can order online but have seven days before deciding which clothes to keep and which to return in the prepaid box.
All without paying a penny up front.
Global fashion retailer Asos, which has 15.4 million active customers worldwide, recently followed suit in the UK with its own "try before you buy" option.
"The challenge of not being able to try on items before buying them is an an e-commerce perennial," says Dan Winter, Asos director of corporate communications.
"So it made sense to explore a try before you buy service here in the UK.
With this option, customers don't have to worry about waiting for refunds because they will only be paying for what they choose to keep."
But when it comes to making those choices, we get by with a little help from our friends.
Twenty years ago this week, when the BBC News website launched, there were fewer than eight million people online in the UK - there are now about 60 million.
In 1997, it was the age of Tamagotchis, Minidiscs and PalmPilots.
Mobile phones at the time included the Nokia 6110 and the futuristic Motorola StarTAC flip phone.
Most people used dial-up internet connections with top speeds of up to 56Kbps.
On desktop, screen resolutions were pretty small - but they would get bigger.
Below there's a selection of the website's pages from 1997 to 2017, showing how it has evolved to meet the changing needs of users while still offering the latest news, features and analysis.
1997 - Rising star BBC News Online launched in November 1997, following several forays on the internet, covering: the Budget in 1995 the Olympics in 1996 the general election in May 1997 the funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales, in September 1997 CNN 's website was already up and running.
The Guardian was also among the early internet pioneers.
The BBC News website was only 620 pixels wide at its launch - that is slightly more than half the width of the current site.
In the first week or so, stories published on the new website included: 1999 - Blue to red In November 1999, the site had its first revamp.
The old blue banner and red star was replaced with a red header more in line with the rest of BBC News, and the search function moved to the top of the page.
The website's then executive editor, Mike Smartt, explained the changes to users and promised "ambitious plans for audio and video news".
2001 - Terror attack The attack on the Twin Towers in New York in September 2001 shocked the world, and large numbers turned to the BBC News website to find out the latest information.
Several years before social media, thousands of people emailed the website with their thoughts - including many caught up in the attacks.
For the first time, content from users became central to online coverage, with compelling witness accounts and photos published in stories and in a special report on the disaster.
2003 - Major overhaul In 2003, the old linear format was dropped in favour of a wider, horizontal layout.
The aim was to make the site easier for users to find their way around and see more stories at first glance.
2008 - Cleaning up In 2008, the site got even wider, and for the first time video could be played from within story pages.
The world map in the navigation was dropped a couple of years later.
2010 - Major revamp In 2010, the website got a "fresh, updated design", which also offered "easier ways to share stories with others", according to the then editor, Steve Herrmann.
By now, increasing numbers of users were coming to the news website from Facebook and Twitter.
The BBC News app was launched in July 2010, giving users quick access to all the latest headlines from across the world while they were on the move.
The biggest story of the year was the UK general election, which had its own special report site.
2015 - Mobile friendly In 2015, the website became "responsive" - meaning its layout was designed to display well on different devices and screen sizes.
By this point, about 65% of users were coming to the news website from mobiles and tablets.
NHS tracker 1999 v 2017 The look might change, but that doesn't mean we're not covering the same important issues.
Here's the NHS performance tracker from 1999, when the government of the day published a new set of clinical indicators giving death rates in individual hospitals in England for the first time.
With the NHS under unprecedented pressure today, we still give users the chance to examine data on how services in their area are doing, using a more detailed, interactive tracker.
Slice and easy We managed to squeeze in a further redesign for 2017.
News editors can change the number of stories in the full-width, horizontal slices, with the option of "dialling up the volume" during major news events.
We can now offer a more visual front page.
Dropping the right hand side column and going full-width means video and news stories are integrated on the page.
.
Image copyright Twitter/@realDonaldTrump After US President Donald Trump's Twitter account was briefly deactivated last week by a Twitter employee, many people started wondering if there would be a similar period of silence this week.
After all, Mr Trump is currently in China, known for its "great firewall" that blocks access to many foreign websites, including Twitter.
As it happens, the president has kept up his tweeting in China, thanking his hosts for their hospitality, firing a warning at North Korea, and even changing his Twitter header image to one of him, Chinese president Xi Jinping, and the two first ladies, surrounded by dozens of Chinese performers.
So what's going on?
There's two sides to this - a technical aspect, and a political one.
Twitter is blocked on China - but not for the privileged or tech-savvy Thousands of websites and social media platforms are blocked in mainland China.
Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Whatsapp are all blocked or disrupted, as are websites the authorities consider sensitive.
(The BBC News website has been blocked in the past, as have the New York Times and the Economist).
Many people circumvent China's firewall by using virtual private networks (VPNs), although the government is now cracking down on VPN vendors.
But the Chinese authorities aren't beyond making exceptions to the rules.
Skip Twitter post 2 by @realDonaldTrump On behalf of @FLOTUS Melania and I, THANK YOU for an unforgettable afternoon and evening at the Forbidden City in Beijing, President Xi and Madame Peng Liyuan.
We are looking forward to rejoining you tomorrow morning!
https://t.co/ma0F7SHbVU Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 8, 2017 Report Officials briefly contemplated relaxing its censorship laws in a Shanghai Free Trade Zone back in 2013.
And the official news agency, Xinhua, uses Twitter to promote its articles - to the consternation of many Chinese social media users who have accused the government of double standards.
Ahead of Mr Trump's arrival, China's Vice Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang assured reporters he would be able to tweet as much as he wants, saying: "We take everything into account on receiving foreign heads of state, so you should have no reservations about Mr President's ability to keep in touch with the outside."
It's an approach that's been criticised by rights groups.
Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, told Bloomberg: "If President Trump is able to tweet from China it's because he enjoys privileges President Xi systematically denies to people across that country."
So how is Mr Trump accessing Twitter?
Journalists travelling with Mr Trump have found they can access Twitter on their mobile phones, as long as they are using 3G or 4G roaming networks on a foreign sim card.
In practice, foreign officials visiting China are told to follow strict security guidelines, and have sometimes been advised against using their own phones or laptops in the country.
So Mr Trump probably isn't just tweeting off his usual mobile phone.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Mr Trump is a prolific tweeter - while Mr Xi is not For obvious reasons, the US hasn't given the full details of their arrangements to ensure Mr Trump can go online securely.
But, while en route to Beijing, a White House official did assure reporters that Mr Trump would keep up his tweeting from China, saying "I'm sure we've got the gear aboard this airplane to make it happen."
Mr Trump's first three tweets from China were sent from a web browser, rather than a phone.
However, his fourth tweet, where he celebrates the one-year anniversary of his election win, was sent from an iPhone, data from Tweetdeck shows.
Twitter is a political tool Don't forget that tweeting is also a political act for Mr Trump - he's used it to announce policies, lambast political rivals, and criticise other countries - including China.
If Mr Trump had decided to stay off Twitter in China, it could have been perceived as him being silenced, albeit virtually, by Chinese censorship.
That could explain why the White House official emphasised to reporters that "the president will tweet whatever he wants [while in China].
That's his way of communicating directly with the American people."
However, observers have also picked up on the contrast in tone between Mr Trump's tweets in Beijing, and some of his previous posts.
Although Mr Trump's Wednesday tweets focused on thanking his hosts for the "beautiful welcome", adding "Melania and I will never forget it!
", he has previously used Twitter to criticise China's currency devaluation, and argue that China has not done enough to deter North Korea from its nuclear ambitions.
Skip Twitter post 3 by @realDonaldTrump ...they do NOTHING for us with North Korea, just talk.
We will no longer allow this to continue.
China could easily solve this problem!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 29, 2017 Report Meanwhile, Chinese state media outlets have enthusiastically picked up on Mr Trump's latest China tweets, and the fact he has changed his header image to one of him with Mr Xi.
"Mr Trump was full of feeling after visiting the Forbidden Palace - and even changed his Twitter header photo!"
TV station iFeng reported on Chinese microblog weibo, with a thumbs up emoji.
Of course, there was no mention of the fact that Twitter is not officially accessible in China.
Image copyright Post Office Bank of Singapore Image caption Children at Admiralty High School in Singapore show off their new payment wristbands Asia is driving the massive growth in online shopping, with youngsters in particular leading the charge.
But why are they so keen and what are they spending their money on?
In Admiralty Primary School, in Singapore's Woodlands neighbourhood, a group of students has just joined the e-commerce world.
"Now I don't need to think about losing my wallet," says Bosco Wong, a 10-year-old student, sporting a new wristband for making digital purchases while at school.
The wearable band, called "Smart Buddy", is sponsored by the Post Office of Singapore Bank, and everyone at Admiralty has just received one.
It is all part of Singapore's drive to go cashless, and the country's Education Minister Ong Ye Kung was at his school to launch them.
Parents can track and manage their children's purchases online.
Asia - its younger generations, in particular - has embraced online shopping and digital payments with remarkable enthusiasm.
And given the UN's estimate that there are 720 million people aged 15-24 living there - dwarfing North America's 47 million and Europe's 82 million - it's no wonder Asia is driving the e-commerce explosion.
China, which overtook the US in 2015 as the country with highest e-commerce spending, now accounts for 40% of the world's online commerce.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Jack Ma founded Alibaba in 1999 Retail giant Alibaba, founded by billionaire Jack Ma, recently reported a 61% rise in quarterly revenues to 55.1bn yuan ($8.3bn; 6.4bn), thanks largely to the popularity of its online shopping platforms, Tmall and Taobao.
Monthly active users of its Chinese retail marketplaces grew to 549 million in September, up 20 million from three months ago - that's an astonishing rate of growth.
By 2020, 60% of all those aged 18-29 will live in Asia and will have a disposable income of $6tn (4.6tn), says consultancy firm Accenture - that's higher than any preceding generation.
But why are Asia's youngsters so keen on buying online and what do they spend their money on?
Well, this has clearly been a technology-driven phenomenon, with the smartphone as the key innovation changing consumer behaviour.
About two-fifths of younger people in Asia have bought something online via their mobile, says Accenture.
"I do buy quite a lot of books online," says Theophi Kwek, 22, who recently finished university at Oxford and is now doing national service in Singapore's army.
Books from overseas are cheaper than they are in Singapore, he says.
He often uses UK sites and says shipping "usually takes a couple of weeks at most".
Image copyright Theophi Kwek Image caption Singaporean Theophi Kwek likes buying books online from abroad But Yi Ying Ng, the 27-year-old founder of AllSome, a parcel tracking service, is part of a rising trend to connect other Asian markets to China's engine.
The volume of packages from China to Malaysia has gone up from about one million a year in 2012, to about 73 million now, says Ms Ng.
She takes goods from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, and delivers them to online buyers in Singapore and Malaysia, where she is originally from.
She will be expanding next year to Indonesia, then Thailand, she says.
When she started her company five years ago, posting a parcel from China cost $15-25 and took 30-50 days.
She has found ways to lower this to $5, and shorten the delivery time to three days, she says.
But her real innovation is helping small merchants to sell to friends and family through Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat, she says.
"We're trying to help everyone become a merchant, a decentralised approach," she says.
Image copyright Ng Yi Ying Image caption Yi Ying Ng wants to help everyone sell online Research from TMI Strategy suggests that worldwide, 62% of e-commerce users under 30 take their cues in purchases from influential users online, whether friends on social media or specialist bloggers.
Ms Ng calls her approach "social commerce".
Most of her merchants are between 24-28, she says, and most of their customers are in their early twenties.
But while China increasingly sells online to the rest of Asia, younger people in its rising urban middle classes are buying goods and services online from further afield.
Qiaoyun Zhang and Xiaochen Xu are parents in their thirties, and live in Beijing's prosperous business and embassy district, Chaoyang.
Recently they started using a platform called VIPKid to buy live English lessons from teachers in North America, for their four-year-old daughter, Lu-Ke.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "My husband and I seldom use English in our daily life," says Ms Zhang, "and maybe our English is not that good.
So we don't want to teach our children to speak English."
The lessons last 25 minutes and their daughter takes four of them a week on an iPad.
"North American teachers, they are very patient compared with Chinese teachers," Ms Zhang says.
Companies wanting to sell to these younger Asian audiences like Mrs Zhang should realise brand loyalty doesn't any more exist, says Michael Talbot, co-founder of 3radical, a brand engagement firm working in East Asia.
His firm provided the technology behind Singapore's Smart Buddy.
"These young people, they're not disloyal, they're just using tools in a very competitive landscape.
It's fundamentally different from having one high street with a Chinese, an Indian, and a couple of pubs," he says.
Loyalty schemes accordingly tend not to work in China, Vietnam and Thailand, but games tied into a brand and incorporating an element of luck have cultural appeal there, says Mr Talbot.
So how will the likes of 10-year-old Bosco Wong be shopping in future?
Using his voice to authenticate a purchase perhaps?
Tapping the side of his augmented reality glasses?
Whatever the technological innovations, these Asian Tiger cubs are likely to be in the vanguard as e-commerce continues to sweep across the world.
When Rachel Burns posted a photo of a singalong at work on her Facebook page, she had no idea that her actions would end her career.
The BBC's Laurence Grissell has been following her story for the past year.
"I absolutely loved my job.
It's my vocation, I love caring for people," Rachel says.
For 21 years, until December 2015, Rachel worked at Park Hall, a residential care home for elderly people and vulnerable adults in Reigate, southern England.
She'd started there as care assistant, and worked her way up.
She'd been the manager for the last eight years.
"There were always activities going on.
I wanted the clients to have a decent quality of life."
One of the activities that Rachel organised for the residents at Park Hall was a regular music night, every Friday.
"We'd put flowers on the tables," Rachel says.
"The residents would all get dressed up and we'd have a different supper every week."
As a keen amateur singer, Rachel would perform at the music nights, everything from Roberta Flack and Nina Simone to Boney M. "The staff would get up dancing with the residents.
You'd see smiles on their faces - it really was such a lovely thing to see."
Image caption The Reverend David Walford, Rachel Burns and singer Roy Matthews performing at Park Hall, Christmas 2014 (Photo: Rachel Burns) One Friday Rachel returned home after music night and decided to share some of the special moments from the evening online.
"I was quite elated at how the night had gone," Rachel says.
"I posted the picture thinking that it would just be seen by a few people, mainly staff, on Facebook."
But two months later Rachel got a phone call summoning her to head office.
"As soon as I got there, when I saw their faces, I knew I was in big trouble."
Rachel had done four things wrong.
She'd posted the photo on Facebook, she'd identified a Park Hall resident in the photo - a man with Down's syndrome who, eager to be photographed, had jumped into the shot beside her - she had also posted a video of the music night, and she was Facebook friends with a relative of one of the residents.
Should I really have had my career of 21 years taken away for one mistake?
Rachel Burns, Former care home manager These were all breaches of Surrey County Council policy.
Two days later Rachel was suspended from her job.
From the word go, Rachel held her hands up and admitted all the council's allegations but nonetheless wanted to appeal against their decision.
"I know I shouldn't have put that picture up there, but should I really have had my career of 21 years taken away for one mistake?
I wanted justice because I didn't believe what they had done to me was fair."
Find out more Rachel lost her appeal and was given just two days to decide whether she would accept demotion - with a significant pay cut - or face dismissal.
She asked for extra time to consider her options, but the council refused.
Instead, Rachel, who by now had been signed off with stress and anxiety, received a telephone call demanding that she come to a decision immediately.
"I said, 'I'm off work sick, my doctor doesn't feel I can make such a life-changing decision at the moment.'"
But Rachel was told if she didn't accept the demotion she would be dismissed from her 45,000 a year job, with immediate effect.
"I got a letter the next day which said, 'I'm sorry you have decided to accept dismissal.'
And that was it."
Claire Pooley's brother is the Park Hall resident in the photo that Rachel posted on Facebook.
Claire says her brother loves to be the centre of attention and loves to share photographs of himself with the rest of his family.
The Friday music nights were the highlight of his week.
"He loves singing and dancing," Claire says, "Rachel and the guys allowed him to just blossom on a Friday evening.
"The moment we walked in the door we knew Park Hall was a special place," Claire's husband Graham continues.
"The atmosphere, the culture and the behaviour - people were happy there and had a lot of stimulation."
The couple say that the Park Hall staff always encouraged Claire's brother to get up and sing at the music nights.
None of us had a problem with it - gross misconduct or not Claire Pooley, Relative of Park Hall resident "He would practise and get ready for it - although he sang the same three songs every week," Graham says.
"We loved watching him - it brought him alive, it was wonderful."
Neither Claire nor Graham feel that Rachel should have been fired for posting the photo of Claire's brother.
"None of us had a problem with it - gross misconduct or not," Claire says.
"After 21 years is it appropriate to sack the manageress who's created a culture and environment at this special home in the way that they have?"
asks Graham.
"The answer is no, it's not."
It's autumn 2016 and Rachel has decided to take Surrey County Council to an employment tribunal for unfair dismissal.
"They have to understand that this is my life that we're talking about here," she says.
"I want my career back."
A preliminary hearing date is set for early November.
But she can't afford any formal legal representation and so is planning to face the council's barristers with only the help of her close friend, the Reverend David Walford, a retired healthcare chaplain who's never done anything like this before and admits he's out of his comfort zone.
"I'm very happy to stand up in front of people," David says.
"What I'm not sure of is facing people who have had a lifetime's career in legal work."
David was at Park Hall on the evening that the photo was taken.
Like Rachel, he's a singer and would perform at the Friday night music shows.
"I've seen a lot of care homes in my time as a parish clergyman and as a hospital chaplain.
I knew the difference between what I'd usually see and Park Hall.
Care with love, not care out of duty - that's what Rachel was giving.
The thought that Rachel was being taken out of that actually brought me to tears."
Care with love, not care out of duty - that's what Rachel was giving Rev David Walford, Retired healthcare chaplain To make matters worse, Rachel's husband Gary is very unwell.
"He's had the brain tumour for four years," Rachel says.
"He was very healthy, but he walks with a stick now."
Not only is Gary unable to work, but without a reference Rachel can't find a new job.
She and Gary are racking up huge debts living off their credit cards, but she hopes her money worries will be sorted out once the case is resolved, with any luck out of court.
Two weeks before the date of the preliminary hearing Rachel is doing an unpaid gig at a local pub.
She's on stage singing Stuck In The Middle With You by Stealers Wheel and urging the punters to get up on the dance floor.
"It's just so much stress, it's crazy," Rachel says later, "which is why nights like this are brilliant, just to let off some steam."
Image caption Throughout the trial, Rachel kept performing The day of the preliminary hearing in Croydon arrives.
Rachel, who always believed the case would be settled out of court, says she never thought in a million years it would come to this.
She's nervous.
"I've got to stand up against one of Surrey's senior solicitors to defend myself when I made one mistake in a 21-year career.
They have crucified me."
The judge sets a date for a full hearing, but it's seven months away, at the start of June.
Then, out of the blue, towards the end of December, Rachel receives a settlement offer from the council.
For a couple of days, she considers accepting the 7,500, before having a change of heart.
"It was a joke, an absolute joke," Rachel says.
"And it's not even about money now, it's about showing them for what they are."
With the case dragging on, Rachel is really feeling the strain.
She is anxious and depressed.
So much is at stake - by now, she and Gary are in dire straits.
Their debts are mounting, and they're seven months in arrears with the rent on the house in Reigate that they share with their border collie, Bramble.
Image caption Rachel's husband Gary and their dog, Bramble "We are scraping pennies, literally pennies," she says.
"It's never-ending, it never goes away.
"All I did was put up a picture of a client enjoying their life in the care home that I loved working in," she says, beginning to cry.
By June 2017 the couple are at breaking point.
They have no money in the bank and no savings to fall back on.
Rachel is fearful that they're going to lose everything, including the roof over their heads.
"It just goes to show that when you think you have everything it can be snatched away from you just like that, for one mistake," she says.
I've had to watch my wife slowly falling apart, because of what they've done to her Gary Burns, Husband The trial is taking its toll on David, too.
He's exhausted.
"This case has just become monstrous," he says.
Two days before the tribunal is due to start Rachel decides that she's packing it in, she can't go on.
Her husband Gary pleads with her for almost three hours not to walk away now.
This isn't the first time Rachel's doubted the wisdom of continuing with the case.
"This case has destroyed her," Gary explains.
"She has no confidence any more, she doesn't sleep any more, we argue much more now.
It's been disastrous.
"I've had to watch my wife slowly falling apart, because of what they've done to her."
Finally, in early June, in a rundown corner of West Croydon, Rachel's employment tribunal gets under way.
She has given evidence and a number of witnesses have spoken and been questioned.
But two days into the proceedings the judge has to adjourn the hearing when Rachel becomes very distressed.
"It just got too much," she says.
"I thought, 'You've broken me to the point where I don't have the self-esteem at the moment to go back into management.'
And it's such a shame.
I said I was sorry, I told the judges the absolute truth."
The case finally concludes but without any decision.
Rachel will have to wait another seven weeks for an answer.
Image caption The Rev David Walford agreed to help Rachel Burns with her defence It's the beginning of August 2017, nearly 20 months since Rachel was first suspended from her job, and she has some exciting news.
"I won!
Oh, my God, I won!"
The court has upheld her claim of unfair dismissal.
The judge decides that Surrey County Council's decision to demote Rachel was within the band of reasonable responses, given that she'd admitted the allegations against her.
But she concludes that the timescale the council gave Rachel to decide whether she would accept redeployment or face dismissal - just two working days - wasn't long enough.
This procedural aspect, she says, was a fundamental flaw.
"Justice has prevailed!"
Rachel says.
"It's amazing that if you believe in something and you know your worth you just keep going.
You keep going, and going and going."
But Rachel will have to return to the employment tribunal on 13 November for a remedy hearing at which the court will decide how much she should be given in compensation.
She has no idea how much that's likely to be but fears that the sum will be reduced because she admitted the allegations against her.
She and Gary now have debts to the tune of about 50,000 and are 14 months in arrears with their rent, and although Rachel now has a reference from Surrey County Council, it states that she was fired for serious misconduct, so the prospect of her finding work is still uncertain.
"As a manager myself I wouldn't look very favourably on that candidate," she says.
Despite the win, going back to work will be a struggle.
Before losing her job two years ago, Rachel had been signed off with stress, and she still suffers from anxiety and depression.
Meanwhile the job she loved has gone forever.
Park Hall closed its doors on 30 June as part of Surrey County Council's plans to shut down all six care homes it owned and ran.
The residents were rehomed.
"I really loved Park Hall," Rachel says.
"It was like a family to me more than going to work."
Image caption Rachel with her husband Gary More from The Untold Text by Sarah McDermott, photographs by Phil Coomes Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Image copyright Gemma Day Image caption Nosh Detox founder Geeta Sidhu-Robb used bloggers to help promote her brand Online businesses now have a wealth of digital tools and techniques at their disposal to help them get noticed in the global marketplace.
Geeta Sidhu-Robb, founder of juice and health food delivery service, Nosh Detox, was using social media to promote her business long before it became fashionable to do so.
Ten years ago, in fact.
On a tight budget and needing to convince a sceptical public, she tapped in to the power and reach of bloggers to promote her diet and wellbeing products.
"Juice fasts didn't really exist in the UK at the time," recalls the former corporate lawyer and single mum of three.
"In fact some people actually thought a detox could kill you."
"We couldn't afford PR [public relations] agencies or expensive advertising campaigns, so we'd talk to pretty much anyone with an online presence and persuade them to take photos, film us on YouTube and write about us," she says.
The bloggers would include a link to her website on their pages - occasionally in return for some Nosh Detox freebies Ms Sidhu-Robb admits.
This helped push the business to the top of organic - not paid-for - search rankings.
A 2m turnover and Hollywood A-list clientele followed, along with significant followings in Russia and Australia.
It shows how, on social media, a little can go a very long way when it comes brand promotion.
Image copyright EyeFitU Image caption Isabelle Ohnemus is a big believer in finding the right social media "influencer" for your brand Now social media marketing is a business in its own right.
Convenient and low cost, with a potentially vast audience reach, the platforms have overtaken all other media for small businesses, says research firm BIA Kelsey.
Former investment banker Isabelle Ohnemus has extensively used "influencers" to promote her Zurich-based fashion company EyeFitU, which is an online platform aimed at remedying some of the sizing inconsistencies across fashion brands.
Usually young, fashion-conscious females with a prominent online presence act as "brand ambassadors" for EyeFitU, promoting the company to their followers on Instagram, Snapchat or Facebook.
Big brands will sometimes pay in excess of $30,000 (23,000) to such influencers for a single post, but smaller companies with more modest budgets can still get in on the action.
"There is a trend for going with smaller-scale bloggers rather than those with million-plus followers," says Ms Ohnemus,.
"Having those kinds of numbers doesn't necessarily mean a higher number of conversions."
In other words, it's the quality of the following not the size that matters.
People who trust an influencer's opinion are more likely to buy the brand's goods, she says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Reality TV star Marnie Simpson fell foul of the Advertising Standards Authority Of course, there are rules governing this sort of social media influencer marketing, so you have to be careful.
Geordie Shore TV star Marnie Simpson recently got into trouble for uploading images of products from two firms she had business relationships with, without identifying them as adverts A spokeswoman for the UK's Advertising Standards Authority tells the BBC: "Our current codes state that if an advertiser gives payment to a social media influencer - this can be in the form of a monetary payment or a freebie - and there is control over the contents of the ad, the social media post would be considered an ad; thus the influencer must clearly indicate somewhere on the post that this is an advertisement."
Know your customer One of the main advantages of an online business compared to a traditional bricks-and-mortar shop is the amount of data you can gather about your customers.
You can find out which search words people use to find your business, for example, which images they respond to the most, and which website content they share on other platforms.
This all helps to refine and target your marketing efforts.
Free monitoring tools, like BuzzSumo and Metrixapp, not to mention Google Analytics, are all powerful helpers for the small business.
Image copyright Gourmet Meat Club Image caption Gourmet Meat Club found that images of cooked food were more popular than raw ingredients Vikas Shah, visiting professor of entrepreneurship at the MIT Sloan School of Management, says: "You can easily start by using many free SEO [search engine optimisation] tools on platforms like Google and Twitter, and because this activity is very much results driven, you will see a fairly robust relationship between spend and return on investment."
Gourmet Meat Club, an online provider of free range British meat, is one of the 54% of websites globally using Google Analytics to delve into customer quirks.
Recent insights reveal that Android mobile users visit more web pages than those on an Apple phone, and images of cooked food generate more views in a digital ad campaign than images of raw ingredients.
Furthermore, the technology tracks the most popular food searches online, giving Gourmet Meat Club the opportunity to create content based on the very latest trends.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "It's crucial to act fast," says Stuart Cordingley, the firm's managing director, "jumping onto popular searches as soon as they emerge to get ahead of the competition and be present where the public is discussing its new favourite food topics."
This is the best way for the brand to get "ample exposure", he says.
Data is now "central to the marketing mix".
This up-to-the-minute content is sent to journalists and shared on the firm's own Facebook and Twitter pages.
Social media marketing expert Andy Barr says it is an example of how online businesses are increasingly morphing into social media communities, creating content that positions them as authorities on particular topics.
But he also advises supplementing this approach with social media advertising.
"As a general rule of thumb, it's worth spending between 7-12% of your total monthly revenue or income on social media promotion for the best results," he says.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption EXPLAINED: What is a VPN service?
A Russian law regulating the use of technologies enabling users to search the internet anonymously came into force on 1 November.
Many are worried the law will make it harder for Russians to bypass internet censorship.
Signed by President Vladimir Putin in July, the law imposes restrictions on proxy avoidance tools.
These tools include virtual private networks (VPNs) and anonymous proxy servers (anonymisers).
VPN providers will be obliged to closely cooperate with Russian media watchdog Roskomnadzor and comply with its requests.
What's a VPN?
A VPN is a private network created over a public network.
Despite popular belief, VPNs cannot make online connections completely anonymous, because some VPN providers can keep users' logs.
However, they can still increase a user's privacy and security by hiding their IP address.
In a corporate work setting, VPNs allow employees to securely access an intranet from outside the office.
Both VPNs and anonymisers allow a user to appear as if they were connecting to the internet from another location.
What exactly is banned?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Under the new law, VPNs can be used only to access websites not banned by Russia Despite widespread speculation, the law does not directly ban the operation of VPNs and anonymisers.
However, it does restrict access to banned websites with the help of these tools.
VPN providers will get access to Roskomnadzor's blacklist of banned websites and will be entitled to provide the use of their servers "within the legal framework", the banki.ru banking portal reports.
Leonid Levin, the head of the Russian State Duma's information policy committee, has previously said the law is meant to block access only to "unlawful content" and is not intended to impose restrictions on law-abiding citizens, according to business daily RBC.
Will it work?
Roskomnadzor has been developing measures to identify suspect websites, as well as ways to block them.
However, in practice this is very difficult, and it may have unwanted consequences.
For instance, the watchdog has a single register of banned domain names.
In June, one of Google.ru's web pages contained a redirect to a blocked online gambling domain, so due to the ban, the search engine was blocked for several hours.
Image copyright Tor Project Image caption The Tor Project is free software and an accompanying network that lets people visit websites anonymously According to IT experts, the law provides exemption for corporate VPNs.
However, it remains unclear how exactly Roskomnadzor will distinguish between corporate and public VPNs.
At present, it is impossible to differentiate them, says Leonid Yevdokimov, an expert at the Tor Project - a US-based team that creates software to let people visit websites anonymously and access otherwise hidden parts of the net.
What will happen?
Some Russian social-media users have been agonising over whether the watchdog will now be able to restrict internet access from home if they search for a banned website.
IT experts are unanimous that it will not.
It is up to search engine operators such as Google and Yandex to "shield" users from such banned websites, and if they fail to do so, they can be held responsible, banki.ru says.
Most lay internet users would not notice any changes once the law came into force, the communications director at media holding Rambler&Co, Matvei Alexeyev, told the BBC.
He sees it as a step towards greater transparency of VPN servers.
Video Microsoft's Xbox One X is the most powerful games console in the world.
It comes equipped with a 4K Blu-ray player and can display 4K, 60 frames-per-second (fps) graphics in high dynamic range (HDR).
The console will cost 449 in the UK and $499 in the US.
BBC Clicks Marc Cieslak finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video The Elbphilharmonie concert hall in Hamburg, Germany, has been designed with the help of algorithms.
Each of the 10,000 acoustic panels in the hall is unique and designed to give the best listening experience.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Adobe has unveiled new tools at its recent Adobe Max conference and artificial intelligence was at the heart of it.
BBC Clicks Richard Taylor finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Microsoft has opened a hi-tech studio dedicated to creating mixed reality content to be viewed via the Hololens augmented reality headset.
The BBC's North America technology reporter Dave Lee checked it out.
Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC
