Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid

(Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell sharply in late morning trading on Monday after North Korea accused the United States of declaring war and a selloff in technology stocks accelerated.
North Koreas foreign minister said President Donald Trump had declared war on North Korea and that Pyongyang reserves the right to take countermeasures.
The five tech giants - Facebook (FB.O), Amazon (AMZN.O), Apple (AAPL.O), Netflix (NFLX.O) and Alphabet (GOOGL.O) - were down between 3.7 percent and 1.05 percent, weighing on the three major indexes.
The S&P technology index .SPLRCT slid 1.37 percent, on track for its worst single-day percentage loss since Aug. 17.
The index, however, has climbed 23 percent so far this year, outperforming the 11.5 percent gain in the broader S&P index.
Technology stocks have been outperformers for a while, so it could be a slight amount of profit taking, said Randy Frederick, vice president of trading and derivatives for Charles Schwab in Austin, Texas.
Heightened expectations of another interest rate hike this year following comments from a Federal Reserve official also added to the downbeat sentiment.
The central bank is on track to gradually raise interest rates as factors depressing inflation are fading and the U.S. economys fundamentals are sound, New York Federal Reserve President William Dudley said.
Investors are also awaiting a speech by Fed Chief Janet Yellen later in the week for more guidance on the monetary policy.
At 11:16 a.m.
ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI was down 92.38 points, or 0.41 percent, at 22,257.21, the S&P 500 .SPX was down 9.5 points, or 0.38 percent, at 2,492.72 and the Nasdaq Composite .IXIC was down 62.65 points, or 0.97 percent, at 6,364.28.
Six of the 11 major S&P sectors were lower.
While tech sector was the biggest laggard, the energy index SPNY> was the biggest gainer, rising 0.91 percent.
Oil prices hit eight-month highs after major producers said the global market was on its way toward rebalancing.
General Motors (GM.N) rose 2.36 percent after Deutsche Bank upgraded the automakers stock to buy, pointing to its autonomous vehicles, which could be ready for deployment within quarters.
Allergan (AGN.N) was up more than 3.72 percent after the drugmaker authorized a $2 billion buyback of its shares and said its chief financial officer would retire.
Chicago Chief Charles Evans and his Minneapolis counterpart, Neel Kashkari are scheduled to speak later in the day.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the NYSE by 1,404 to 1,342.
On the Nasdaq, 1,656 issues fell and 1,075 advanced.
FILE PHOTO: William Dudley, President of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, answers a question, after addressing the Indian businessmen at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) in Mumbai, India May 11, 2017.
REUTERS/Shailesh Andrade

SYRACUSE, N.Y. (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is on track to gradually raise interest rates given the recent inflation weakness is fading and the U.S. economys fundamentals are sound, an influential Fed policymaker said on Monday, reinforcing the central banks confident tone.
New York Fed President William Dudley, among the first U.S. central bankers to speak publicly since a decision last week to hold rates steady for now, cited the soft dollar and strong overseas growth among the reasons he expects slightly above-average U.S. economic activity and a long-sought rise in wages.
With a firmer import price trend and the fading of effects from a number of temporary, idiosyncratic factors, I expect inflation will rise and stabilize around the (Feds) 2 percent objective over the medium term, he told students and professors at Onondaga Community College.
In response, the Federal Reserve will likely continue to remove monetary policy accommodation gradually, added Dudley, a close ally of Fed Chair Janet Yellen and a permanent voter on monetary policy.
Dudleys comments were similar to his speech earlier this month, and reinforced the growing expectation that the Fed is set to raise rates for a third time this year in December.
That notion was driven home by Fed forecasts published last week, when the central bank held rates but announced the beginning of a long process of shedding bonds it accumulated to boost the economy.
Still, others at the Fed are less anxious to tighten policy in the face of price readings that have sagged since February, despite strong jobs growth.
Futures traders give a December rate hike about a 55-percent probability, according to Reuters data.
Dudley nodded to the three devastating hurricanes that have struck parts of the U.S. south and the Caribbean, noting their effects will likely make it more difficult to interpret economic data in coming months.
He said, though, that the effects would likely be short-lived and noted that such events tend to boost economic activity as rebuilding gets underway.
In a speech focused on workforce development, he said the Fed, which is tasked with achieving maximum sustainable employment, cannot declare success if we have people who want to work but lack the skills to fill available jobs.
Yet he noted that the Feds tool kit is limited and best works to provide incentives for firms to invest and grow.
There are greater incentives for businesses to invest in labor-saving technologies and the labor market improves, he said.
Investment spending should also benefit from a better international outlook and improvement in U.S. trade competitiveness caused by the dollars recent weakness.
FILE PHOTO: The corporate logo of financial firm Morgan Stanley is pictured on the company's world headquarters in New York, U.S. April 17, 2017.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton

NEW YORK (Reuters) - The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said on Monday it ordered Wall Street investment bank and securities brokerage Morgan Stanley (MS.N) to pay $13 million in fines and restitution to clients for inadequately supervising certain short-term trades.
FINRA, the securities industrys self-regulator, said that between January 2012 and June 2015 hundreds of Morgan Stanley brokers advised thousands of clients to sell unit investment trusts before the product had matured and to roll the product over into a new one.
Unit investment trusts, like mutual funds and closed-end funds, pay investors a return based on how the trusts investments perform, and they are designed to be held for a certain amount of time after which they close.
By selling an investors position in the trust early and rolling it over into a new trust, the client may pay higher sales charges over time, which FINRA said raises questions about how suitable the move is for the investor.
The regulator pointed to some instances where Morgan Stanley brokers sold clients unit investment trusts less than 100 days before the funds end, and rolled the money over into new trusts.
FINRA also found the brokerage did not adequately train supervisors to recognize unsuitable short-term training, and did not have a proper system in place to detect and stop the orders before execution.
The regulator fined Morgan Stanley $3.25 million, and ordered that it pay clients $9.78 million in restitution.
Morgan Stanley consented to FINRAs findings but did not admit or deny the charges.
In a statement from Morgan Stanley spokeswoman Margaret Draper the firm said it was pleased to cooperate with FINRA and that the matter was resolved.
Morgan Stanley interviewed more than 65 employees as part of a firm-wide investigation into the accusations, FINRA said.
The logo of Swiss power technology and automation group ABB is seen in front of a logo of General Electric in Baden, Switzerland September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann

ZURICH (Reuters) - Power grids maker ABB is buying General Electrics Industrial Solutions business for $2.6 billion in a bet it can improve the divisions lackluster margins over the next five years, the Swiss engineering company said on Monday.
Zurich-based ABB sees potential for annual cost benefits of $200 million with the deal, which includes an agreement for long-term use of GEs brand and a strategic partnership.
In 2016, the GE business had sales of $2.7 billion.
The GE products include circuit breakers, switchgear, components for lighting control and power supply equipment for facilities including data centers.
ABBs portfolio includes similar products.
ABB is seeking to better penetrate the North American market and gain access to GEs larger installed base of electrical installations worldwide.
ABB said the business had been an unloved child and pledged to upgrade aging products with its own technology to help arrest a declining U.S. market share.
ABB is suspending its $3 billion share buyback program as part of the deal, which will bolster its position as the second-biggest supplier of electrical components behind Frances Schneider Electric.
ABB is also wagering on being able to cut costs and boost profitability at the Georgia-based GE unit.
The key rationale of the integration is, first we will make this business better.
And then afterwards, we will make this business bigger and better, said ABB Chief Executive Ulrich Spiesshofer.
ABB expects integration costs of $400 million.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of Swiss power technology and automation group ABB is seen in Baden, Switzerland June 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann/File Photo

The GE units operating earnings before interest, taxes and amortization (EBITA) are just 6 percent of sales, less than half the 15 percent operating margin at ABBs comparable Electrification Products division.
Spiesshofer said he agreed to the transaction only after striking a supply partnership where ABB and GE will increase buying and selling from each another.
Without that, the economics wouldnt have worked, he told reporters on a call.
With the supply partnership, the economics at the price of 0.9 times revenue is working.
GE has been under pressure from activist investor Nelson Peltzs Trian Fund Management to sell assets and focus on higher-margin businesses.
Some analysts said the price was surprisingly high given the GE businesss low profitability.
GE Industrial Solutions isnt in top shape, so ABB has its work cut out for it, said Zuercher Kantonalbank analyst Richard Frei.
ABB said it would finance the deal -- likely its last for some time -- with cash and did not need to raise equity capital.
Its shares were little changed in early trading.
GE had resumed negotiations to sell the business to ABB after moderating its price expectations, people familiar with the matter told Reuters in August.
Credit Suisse and Dyal Co acted as financial advisers to ABB, and Davis Polk & Wardwell provided legal counsel.
A photo illustration shows the Uber app on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph in central London, Britain September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

LONDON (Reuters) - Ubers [UBER.UL] new boss Dara Khosrowshahi apologized to Londoners for the taxi apps mistakes and pledged to make changes as the Silicon Valley firm tries to overturn a decision to strip it of its license in one of its major markets.
The British capitals transport regulator on Friday deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service and decided not to renew its license to operate, which will end this week, citing the firms approach to reporting serious criminal offences and background checks on drivers.
Mayor Sadiq Khan, a Labour politician who has criticized the firm in the past, said on Monday he had asked Transport for London (TfL) to be available to meet CEO Khosrowshahi.
Ubers 40,000 drivers, one third of the citys total number of private hire vehicles, will continue to take passengers until an appeals process is exhausted, which is likely to take several months.
London police complained this year that the app, which is backed by Goldman Sachs (GS.N) and BlackRock (BLK.N), was either not disclosing, or taking too long to report, serious crimes including sexual assaults and that this put the public at risk.
Its ... true that weve got things wrong along the way.
On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes weve made, Khosrowshahi wrote in an open letter to Londoners.
We will appeal the decision on behalf of millions of Londoners, but we do so with the knowledge that we must also change, he said.
The loss of the San Francisco-based start-ups license in one of the worlds wealthiest capitals comes after a tumultuous few months that led to former CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick being forced out.
Khosrowshahi, who is less than a month into his new job, did not specify which mistakes Uber had made in London.
Ubers UK head of cities, Fred Jones, said the firm was working with the police to work out how it can better report incidents.
He also said TfL, which declined to comment on Monday, had not been clear about it concerns.
Once we understand them we can work with them to figure out what is it that they would like us to do and how can we move forward and I think thats the important next step, Jones told BBC radio.
ARMY OF LAWYERS

Khan, who backed TfLs decision, said the transport body was open to meeting Ubers boss but attacked the Silicon Valley companys response to losing its license.
I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers, theyve also made aggressive threats about taking us to court and the rest of it, he told BBC radio.
You cant have it both ways: on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner for all sorts of things but on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said, adding companies that played by the rules were welcome in London.
The firm has until Oct. 14 to formally appeal TfLs decision and the case is likely to be filed at Westminster Magistrates Court in London.
Uber, which began operating in London in 2012, has faced regulatory and legal setbacks around the world amid opposition from traditional taxi services, and has been forced to quit several countries including Denmark and Hungary.
However, it has also managed to overturn bans and other crackdowns.
Earlier this year, Italy briefly blocked Uber from operating, citing unfair competition, but lifted the prohibition a week later, while in Taiwan it resumed services in April after talks with the islands authorities, ending a two-month suspension.
A petition calling on London to overturn its decision not to renew Ubers license had gathered more than 750,000 signatures at noon on Monday.
This ban shows the world that London is far from being open and is closed to innovative companies, who bring choice to consumers and work opportunities to those who need them, the petition says.
FILE PHOTO: American International Group Inc. (AIG) headquarters seen on the day of the company's 2017 annual shareholder meeting at 175 Water Street, New York, U.S., June 28, 2017.
REUTERS/Suzanne Barlyn

(Reuters) - American International Group Inc (AIG.N) said on Monday it will reorganize into three new business units and will no longer have separate commercial and consumer units, marking the first significant move by new Chief Executive Brian Duperreault.
Under the new structure, AIG will have a general insurance unit, a life and retirement unit and a standalone technology unit.
Two of those businesses will be led by longtime Duperreault colleagues whom he recruited to AIG in July.
The shakeup marks Duperreaults first major action after taking the helm of the company in May after former CEO Peter Hancock stepped down, citing a lack of confidence from the board and investors.
Widely seen as a turnaround expert, 70-year-old Duperreault has said he wants to grow AIGs businesses.
AIGs stock has underperformed rivals and the broader market for nearly a decade.
Peter Zaffino, former head of Marsh & McLennan Cos Incs (MMC.N) brokerage business, whom Duperreault previously named as AIGs chief operating officer, will be CEO of AIGs general insurance unit.
The new life and retirement unit will be headed by Kevin Hogan, who has a long AIG history and most recently ran the insurers consumer insurance unit.
Seraina Macia, former head of Hamilton USA, the North American arm of Duperreaults former company, Hamilton Insurance Group Ltd, will be CEO of the technology unit, AIG said.
FILE PHOTO: A banner for American International Group Inc (AIG) hangs on the facade of the New York Stock Exchange, in New York, U.S., on October 16, 2012.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo

AIG agreed to buy Hamilton USA for $110 million in May.
Rob Schimek, CEO of AIGs commercial unit, will leave the company at the end of October, AIG said.
The restructuring better aligns with how investors actually prefer to analyze AIG, said Keefe, Bruyette & Woods analyst Meyer Shields.
AIG said it expects its year-end financial reporting to reflect the new structure, which will also be aligned with its incentive and performance management plans.
The reorganization comes as the insurer is trying to convince U.S. regulators to shed its systemically important financial institution label, which triggers stricter oversight and greater capital requirements.
AIG received the label after it received $182 billion in a government bailout during the financial crisis.
Since the crisis, AIG has sold dozens of businesses, including two Asian life insurance operations and one of the worlds biggest aircraft leasing businesses.
It recently sold a mortgage-insurance unit.
It remains the largest commercial insurer in the United States and Canada.
FILE PHOTO: Store employee helps a customer with his purchase during the Black Friday sales event on Thanksgiving Day at Target in Chicago, Illinois, U.S., November 24, 2016.
REUTERS/Kamil Krzaczynski

CHICAGO (Reuters) - Target Corp (TGT.N) said on Monday it would increase its minimum hourly wage this year by a dollar to $11, vowing to raise this by the end of 2020 to $15 an hour -- the so-called living wage labor advocates across the United States are campaigning for.
The Minneapolis-based retailer, which plans to start hiking minimum pay across its stores to $11 an hour in October, provided assurances that the move would not hurt its previously announced full-year and quarterly earnings forecasts.
Amid increasing competition for workers in a strengthening labor market, the Fight for Fifteen movement -- a union-led push for a $15 minimum wage -- has been gaining traction in cities across the country.
Targets decision comes less than three months after the Minneapolis City Council approved a measure requiring large companies to pay workers least at $15 an hour by 2022, following decisions by other liberal-leaning U.S. cities to raise the minimum wage.
The retailer, which employs more than more than 323,000 people, said the $11 hourly wage would also apply to the more than 100,000 workers Target is hiring for the holiday season.
Chief Executive Brian Cornell told reporters on a call that Mondays decision would leave Target better prepared for the upcoming holidays, helping the retailer to attract new employees and retain existing workers in an increasingly complex retail environment.
Target, which does not typically make wage increases public in this manner, previously raised minimum pay by a dollar in both 2015 and 2016, pressured by labor groups and a competitive job market driven by minimum wage increases at Wal-Mart Stores Inc (WMT.N).
Wal-Mart, the largest retailer and private sector employer in the United States, last raised its minimum wage for store workers in 2016 to $10 per hour.
Target, which has been investing heavily this year to drive traffic and compete with online rivals, said it still expects third-quarter adjusted earnings of between 75 and 95 cents a share and full-year adjusted earnings of $4.34-$4.54 a share.
Last month, the company reported its first increase in comparable sales in five quarters, raising expectations that its turnaround plans under Cornell were taking hold.
FILE PHOTO: A logo of Toshiba Corp is seen on a printed circuit board in this photo illustration taken in Tokyo July 31, 2012.
REUTERS/Yuriko Nakao/File Photo

TOKYO (Reuters) - Toshiba Corp (6502.T) told its main banks on Monday it has not signed the $18 billion sale of its semiconductor business because Apple Inc (AAPL.O), a member of the buyer group, has not agreed on key terms, two people involved in the deal said.
The struggling Japanese conglomerate announced last Wednesday it had chosen a consortium led by U.S. private equity firm Bain Capital LP to buy the prized chip unit - a move that would end a nine-month sale process and plug a vast hole in Toshibas finances, preventing it from being removed from trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
But the signing of the deal to sell the worlds No.
2 producer of NAND memory chips, initially expected the following day, has dragged on, forcing Toshiba to explain the predicament to its bankers on Monday, the people said.
They told Reuters that Toshiba asked the lenders to roll over 680 billion yen ($6.1 billion) in credit lines set to expire on Sept. 30.
The lenders have been demanding that Toshiba sign a definitive agreement with the Bain-led group, which also involves South Korean chipmaker SK Hynix Inc (000660.KS), as a condition for the funding.
Details of the issues with Apple couldnt immediately be ascertained.
Toshiba said in a statement to Reuters: While we cannot comment on the detail of the deal procedure, we aim to sign the agreement with the purchaser as early as possible.
Apple didnt immediately reply to an emailed request for comment.
Press representatives for Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp and Mizuho Bank, the biggest of Toshibas seven main lenders, couldnt immediately be reached outside office hours.
Apple, which is considering investing in the unit through preferred shares, has not submitted the necessary commitment letter, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the talks were private.
The consortium also has not received approval from the lenders on 600 billion yen ($5.4 billion) in financing for the sale, due to legal challenges posed by unsuccessful bidder and joint-venture partner Western Digital Corp (WDC.O), the people said.
California-based Western Digital has taken Toshiba to court to stop any sale without its consent.
FILE PHOTO: A house built by the D.R.
Horton company is seen for sale in Arvada, Colorado January 24, 2017.
REUTERS/Rick Wilking

(Reuters) - D.R.
Horton Inc (DHI.N), the No.1 U.S. homebuilder, drastically cut its 2017 forecast for cash flow from operations due to delays caused by the recent hurricanes, becoming the second homebuilder to say natural disasters have hurt operations.
The companys shares were down 3.7 percent at $35.52 in light premarket trading on Monday.
Horton, which mainly sells single-family homes, said it expected about $150 million of cash flow from operations, down from its previous forecast of about $300 million.
The company said it did not expect the recent hurricanes to hurt its preliminary 2018 forecast.
Earlier this month, the No.2 U.S. homebuilder Lennar Corp (LEN.N) said it expected hundreds of home deliveries in Florida, Georgia and South Carolina to be delayed because of Hurricane Irma that ravaged the Atlantic coast.
Horton also said it expected backlog conversion to be about 85 percent for the current quarter ending Sept. 30.
The company had forecast a range of 88 percent to 90 percent.
Fort Worth, Texas-based D.R.
Horton said it expected selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to be about 8.6 percent, compared to a previous forecast of 8.3 percent to 8.4 percent.
While demand for housing remains robust, there is an acute shortage of homes for sale partly due to a lack of labor, which has weighed on the housing market for about two years.
Harvey and Irma could worsen the housing shortage as scarce labor is being used for the rebuilding efforts and materials are bid higher.
Irma, one of the most powerful Atlantic storms on record, killed more than 80 people in the Caribbean and the United States and followed Harvey, which killed more than 80 people when it struck Texas in late August and caused massive flooding in Houston.
Horton said at a RBC Capital Markets conference this month that Texas accounts for about 25 percent of the total number of homes that it sells, while Florida is about 20 percent.
The Allergan logo is seen in this photo illustration November 23, 2015.
REUTERS/Thomas White/Illustration/File Photo

(Reuters) - U.S. drugmaker Allergan Plc (AGN.N) on Monday authorized a $2 billion buyback of its common stock, sending its shares up after a week of disappointing news on its drug development pipeline.
Allergan shares have fallen by around a fifth in value since late July but were up nearly 4 percent in morning trading on Monday.
The company also said its Chief Financial Officer Tessa Hilado, 53, would retire.
The planned stock buyback follows Allergans completion of a separate $15 billion repurchase, and after the company reported mixed trial data for its experimental treatment of NASH liver fibrosis.
Allergan on Friday also received a refusal to file letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for an expanded approval for its Vraylar drug to treat symptoms associated with schizophrenia in adults.
Allergan said it had begun to search for a new finance chief, but declined to provide further comment on Hilados departure.
Analysts at Bernstein, based on discussions with Allergans investor relations team, said Hilados departure was her personal decision and should not be viewed as suggesting issues this year or 2018.
Hilado did not have broad support among Allergan investors and her exit would not be a particularly strong negative, they added.
Hilado joined Allergan in 2014 and will continue in her current role until a successor is named.
Allergan, which said it was committed to boosting its dividend payout annually, also backed its 2017 financial guidance and its commitment to pay down $3.75 billion of debt in 2018.
The drugmaker had $30.24 billion in current and long-term debt and capital leases as of June 30.
While the CFOs departure may create greater uncertainty, we take the companys reaffirmation of 2017 guidance and third quarter revenue projections as offsetting positives, Wells Fargo analyst David Maris said.
The global accountancy firm Deloitte said Monday it was the victim of a hack that targeted its email system.
The cybersecurity breach, which was first reported by The Guardian newspaper on Monday, impacted "only very few clients," Deloitte said in an emailed statement.
The firm said it contacted "governmental authorities immediately after it became aware of the incident .... No disruption has occurred to client businesses, to Deloitte's ability to continue to serve clients, or to consumers."
Deloitte is one of the "big four" accounting firms, offering audit, tax and advisory services to large global corporations.
It reported global revenue of nearly $39 billion in its latest fiscal year, and risk advisory was one of its fastest growing business segments.
It's competitors include PwC, EY and KPMG.
The Guardian reported Monday that the hack compromised "confidential emails and plans of some of its blue-chip clients," but the breach went unnoticed for months.
It reported that six clients were told their information was "impacted."
Related: Why the SEC hack in a really big deal

Deloitte did not provide further information about when the breach happened or how many emails were accessed.
This is especially embarrassing for a firm that prides itself on helping other companies thwart online cybersecurity attacks.
The company's website boasts that its "Cyber Intelligence Centre integrates state-of-the-art technology with industry insight to provide round-the-clock business-focused operational security [to clients]."
Deloitte is just the latest firm to fall victim to a high-profile cybersecurity breach.
Equifax (EFX) announced this month that there was an incident in which hackers were able to gain access to personal information for about 143 million Americans, along with a large number of Canadian and British individuals.
This spurred the FBI and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to launch investigations.
At least 50 class action lawsuits have been filed against the company.
Even the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was recently hacked.
The financial regulatory agency said its network was hacked last year, possibly allowing intruders to make money by seeing crucial financial information before everyone else.
SEC officials said the problem that made them vulnerable to the hack was quickly discovered and fixed.
But it "resulted in access to nonpublic information" that "may have provided the basis for illicit gain through trading."
An investigation is under way.
--Chris Liakos contributed to this report.
Grab a cup of coffee.
Joe Biden wants to discuss the news.
The former vice president has launched a new daily podcast-like program called "Biden's Briefing" in which he shares the articles he's reading.
He's partnered with a new startup called Ground Control to create the audible programs, which are between 3 to 15 minutes long.
Topics range from healthcare and climate change to the economy.
Entertainment and sports talent firm Creative Artists Agency and voice operating system SpokenLayer also collaborated on the project.
It's now available via services like iTunes and Spotify, and it's compatible with Amazon's Alexa voice assistant.
"It isn't just a collection of stories I've enjoyed, it's part of a much bigger conversation," Biden said during an episode.
"The world is changing quickly, and now more than ever we need to broaden our perspective and be better informed."
Biden gives a brief intro, and then a voice over actor reads the entire article.
Related: Voice-powered search is replacing typing -- and other internet trends

"These briefings include a range of thoughts and opinions, some of which I agree with and some I don't, but all of which I think are important to spend some time thinking about," Biden added.
Articles are sourced through partnerships with more than a dozen news outlets, including Bloomberg, BuzzFeed and Politico.
It's unclear whether Biden is an investor in Ground Control or if he gets paid for the program.
Ground Control, which launched in August, is developing voice-based entertainment experiences like Biden's Briefing with an initial focus on current events and interactive games.
CEO Mike Macadaan said it plans to add more partnerships with celebrities from the entertainment, sports, politics and music spaces.
"There are a lot of areas of interest [Biden] has that people don't know about ... like transportation, technology and science.
He's a big time consumer of content," Macadaan told CNN Tech.
"He wanted a unique way to get what makes an impact on him out to his audience."
The startup is tapping into the increasing use of smart speakers by offering its products via Amazon Alexa.
Although they have not been mass adopted, virtual assistants like voice-enabled speakers are becoming more widely used by Americans, according to an eMarketer forecast earlier this year.
The research firm estimates 35.6 million Americans will use a voice-activated assistant device at least once a month this year, an increase of 128.9% compared to last year.
Related: Alexa has a new friend: Cortana

"Consumers are becoming increasingly comfortable with the technology, which is driving engagement," Martn Utreras, VP of forecasting at eMarketer, said in a report.
"As prices decrease and functionality increases, consumers are finding more reasons to adopt these devices."
By 2020, tech research firm Gartner estimates 75% of U.S. households will have a smart speaker.
The NFL says it won't fine teams that stayed in the locker room during the national anthem on Sunday.
The Seattle Seahawks, Tennessee Titans and Pittsburgh Steelers stayed off the field during the playing of "The Star-Spangled Banner."
One player from the Steelers, Alejandro Villanueva, walked out from the tunnel for the anthem.
The teams decided to sit out after President Trump said NFL owners should fire players who protest during the anthem.
The president referred to a player who disrespects the flag as a "son of a bitch."
Players have been kneeling during the anthem since last year, when former 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick took a knee to protest the treatment of black Americans, particularly by the police.
Related: ESPN takes on the politics of Trump

NFL rules say teams have to be on the field at least 10 minutes before kickoff.
Normally, skipping the anthem would violate that rule.
Failure to be on the field on time typically results in a fine, NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart said.
Lockhart told reporters Monday there would be "no discipline" for teams that weren't on the field on Sunday.
Megyn Kelly launched her daytime makeover on Monday with "Megyn Kelly Today," conspicuously trying to reintroduce herself in the mold of Oprah Winfrey or Ellen DeGeneres -- complete with a caffeinated, cheering studio audience -- while establishing distance from her time as a Fox News anchor.
It's absurdly early, of course, to draw any conclusions about the efficacy of the Kelly experiment.
Still, after tepid marks for her prime time newsmagazine and now her addition to "Today," it's worth considering that NBC News brass leapt at the opportunity to snag a high-profile news star without having fully thought through how best to deploy her.
Related: Megyn Kelly turns to daytime for a shot at her own 'Oprah effect'

Wasting no time, Kelly opened the show by essentially seeking to reintroduce herself in this new role, complete with a mission statement and biography, which included discussing the sudden death of her father when she was a teenager.
"The truth is I am kind of done with politics for now," she stated, citing the show's objective as providing the audience a place to share "a laugh with us, a smile, sometimes a tear, and maybe a little hope to start your day."
Given that she was best-known for combatively grilling guests (HBO's John Oliver provided a montage on Sunday) before her run-ins with then-candidate Donald Trump, hope is certainly a change for Kelly.
But there she was mounting a charm offensive -- fielding questions from the audience, receiving flowers from her husband and warmly yukking it up with the cast and producers of "Will & Grace," in an interview that wouldn't have looked out of place on any other daytime talk show or "Access Hollywood."
Related: Megyn Kelly makes the case for Alex Jones interview

The same tone characterized a taped piece in which the "Today" team introduced Kelly to her new gig, which simply felt like a hurried attempt to soften the image of the franchise's newest host by adding her to NBC's morning family.
Kelly closed with "Settle for More," a segment designed to provide moments of hope and uplift -- the premiere's focus was a Chicago nun, who received some lovely gifts from sponsors -- but which simultaneously promotes her book.
Kelly told the New York Times that the morning program is "the show that I was born to do.
This is what I was meant to do."
That sense of mission, of purpose, would only seem to ratchet up the self-imposed pressure, as if much more was needed given NBC's high-stakes investment in her.
Kelly is a polished interviewer.
Yet whatever her interests and concerns about psychic health, it's at best questionable to introduce a show that so consciously seeks to create space between itself and serious news at a moment when there's such an abundance of it.
In the aforementioned taped segment, which was followed by a welcoming toast from the "Today" crew, Kelly asked Kathie Lee Gifford for the secret to success in daytime.
Her answer: "Being authentic."
Based on first impressions, Kelly is working awfully hard at being herself.
And as they say in TV, if she can fake that, the rest should be easy.
Architects are turning to one of the oldest construction materials to solve a new problem: how to build homes without damaging the environment.
A London firm says sustainable timber could help the city address its housing shortage while reducing carbon emissions.
"If you look at a building's climate footprint over 14 years, it is about 80% the building materials that go into it," Andrew Waugh, a founding partner at Waugh Thistleton, told CNNMoney.
"We need to change the way we live for climate change."
Buildings are responsible for approximately 45% of carbon emissions in the U.K. but very little attention is paid to the role of construction materials, Waugh said.
Waugh Thistleton has just built a 10-story, 17,000-square foot structure entirely of timber in east London.
They billed it as the world's largest construction made out of cross laminated timber (CLT), an engineered hardwood.
Related: Detroit's tiny homes offer a big chance for struggling residents

The material, which the architects say isn't a fire hazard, is made by squeezing together sheets of lumber using a strong adhesive and a powerful hydraulic press.
"Building up these cross layers of timber, that's what gives this panel its real unique strength," Waugh said, comparing it to cement or steel.
His firm built its first timber tower in London in 2008, showing the material could be used for more than just small houses and primary school classrooms.
Greener, lighter and saves on space

Timber is considered to be kinder to the environment than materials such as cement and steel, whose production generates large amounts of greenhouse gases and consumes lots of water and sand.
Trees, on the other hand, are a renewable resource and replace carbon dioxide in the atmosphere with oxygen.
Waugh's firm gets its timber from sustainably managed forests in Austria.
The panels it uses are relatively light compared with steel and concrete, meaning less fuel is required to transport them to construction sites.
That weight advantage also means more floors can be built on a single piece of land, providing more space for living in densely populated London neighborhoods.
Related: This tech startup is launching a hipster bus route in London

Timber buildings have thinner wall and flooring panels than their concrete counterparts, allowing larger living spaces.
The density of the panels also helps keep heat in, which saves on energy bills.
And though using timber in tall buildings might seem like a fire risk -- a particular worry in London after the deadly Grenfell Tower blaze -- CLT is fire resistant, according to Stora Enso, a producer of renewable materials.
CLT chars, rather than burns, meaning it keeps its structural integrity for longer than some other materials such as steel.
Crossover SUVs are taking over the earth.
Everybody makes them.
Everybody buys them.
It's getting boring.
But occasionally, in this great sea of semi-sort-of-SUVs, something stands out.
Like the new Alfa Romeo Stelvio, for instance.
First, it stands out because it's an Alfa Romeo, an Italian brand that only recently re-entered the American market after cutting out 22 years ago.
While it looks like a lot of other crossovers from the back, the triangle-centered Alfa grill on the front clearly marks it as something new.
To really understand what sets the Stelvio apart though, you have to drive it.
Few crossover SUVs are actually fun to drive.
Most are varying shades from "Blech" to "Blah" but a handful elicit a genuine "Ooh!"
The Stelvio is firmly on the fun end of the spectrum.
And the one I drove up and down a snaking mountain road in California wasn't even the high-powered Quadrifoglio version.
That will be available later and will cost lots more than the roughly $45,000 280-horsepower Stelvio I was in.
Even this relatively ordinary Sport version was responsive and nimble, particularly in Dynamic mode, one of three driving modes available with the twist of a knob.
The turbocharged four-cylinder engine even lets out a respectable growl.
The Stelvio darts eagerly into a curve and, once there, stays even and composed.
The most surprising thing, though, was how smoothly it rides.
Usually, especially in SUVs, the trade off for that kind of exciting roller-coaster cornering is a stiff ride.
The Stelvio has genuine panache.
Inside, the Stelvio has a fairly nice interior with the start-stop button mounted on the steering wheel, as in a Ferrari, where you can thumb it with your hands in driving position.
One real gripe with the Stelvio is with the tiny computer screen that controls the stereo, navigation and such.
This screen is even smaller and narrower than it first looks.
And the interface seems inelegant, too.
Finally there is the issue of reliability.
The Stelvio is too new to say how dependable it will be but, if history is any guide, well... let's hope it isn't a guide.
Alfa Romeo is one of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles' brands and, at FCA (FCAU), poor vehicle dependability is a longstanding corporate tradition.
(All of FCA's brands lie at the bottom of Consumer Reports' dependability rankings).
An FCA spokesperson insists, however, that the new Alfa Romeo products will break from this dismal past.
I'm skeptical but hopeful.
It'd be great if the Stelvio could as dependable as it is enjoyable.
NFL owners -- including many who sided with their players in protests this weekend -- were big donors to President Trump's inauguration festivities.
At least $7.75 million of the $106 million raised for Trump's inaugural committee came from NFL owners and the league, according to public records.
NFL Ventures, a lucrative business unit of the league, gave $100,000.
And many owners gave far more.
That includes $1 million from Shahid Khan, the Pakistani-American owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars, who linked arms with his players during the National Anthem before his team's game in London.
In a statement, Khan also criticized Trump, who said that when any player disrespects the flag, owners should say, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now."
Related: How NFL owners responded to Trump

The Kraft Group, the business of Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who has been a vocal supporter of Trump, also gave $1 million.
So did Robert McNair, owner of the Houston Texans and a contributor to the Trump campaign.
Both issued statements critical of Trump's comments and supporting the right of players to take a knee during the anthem, as did Cleveland Browns owner Jimmy Haslam, who gave $100,000 to the inaugural along with $300,000 from his company.
Related: After Trump, sports media gets political in a whole new way

Some of the owners who gave money to the inaugural issued statements supportive of players' right to take a knee during the anthem but not directly critical of Trump.
Those include Stan Kroenke, owner of the Los Angeles Rams, who gave $1 million, and Tampa Bay Buccaneers co-chairman Joel Glazer, whose brother and co-chairman, Ed, gave $250,000.
Christopher Johnson, who has run the Jets since Trump tapped his father, Woody, to be ambassador to Britain, also issued a statement supportive of the players but not directly critical of Trump.
Woody Johnson gave $1 million to the committee.
Related: How NFL owners responded to Trump

The committee collected $1 million each from two owners who did not address Trump's comments this weekend: Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, who gave through a corporation, and Washington Redskins owner Daniel Snyder.
Jones, whose Cowboys play Monday night, had earlier had been critical of players who protested during the anthem.
Snyder's Redskins issued a statement that did not directly make reference to the anthem protests or Trump and also did not mention Snyder by name.
Target is giving its workers a raise.
The company announced Monday that it would increase the minimum hourly wage for all workers to $11 next month.
Target (TGT) also committed to a $15 minimum wage by the end of 2020.
The company says the increase will also apply to the more than 100,000 hourly workers it is hiring for the holidays.
Related: New study casts doubt on the benefit of Seattle's $15 minimum wage

Target has been steadily raising its minimum wage for the past few years.
Last year, it hiked the amount to $10 an hour.
The $11 wage is higher than the minimum wage in 48 states, and it matches amounts in Massachusetts and Washington, Target says.
It's also much higher than the current federal minimum wage of $7.25.
Chancellor Angela Merkel looks set for a fourth term after her party won the most votes in Germany's election.
But her victory was marred by a surge in support for the Alternative for Germany.
The anti-immigrant AfD party took 21% of the vote in the east of the country, where industrial decline has left people feeling insecure.
Merkel has presided over strong economic growth and record low unemployment during her 11 years in office, but inequality has increased under her watch.
Speaking on Sunday night, Merkel said she wanted to win back AfD voters and would try to address their concerns about the economy and immigration.
The number of Germans at risk of slipping into poverty is the highest since the country was reunited in 1990, and that risk is greatest in what used to be East Germany.
Here's a look at German inequality by the numbers:

Income for the rich up 27%

Germany's economy grew by 22% between 1991 and 2014, helping to fuel income growth of 12%.
But the benefits have not been shared equally.
The richest 10% of households saw their real incomes jump by 27% between 1991 and 2014, according to the German Institute for Economic Research.
Middle class incomes increased by 9% over the same period, while households at the bottom saw their incomes drop by 8%.
Wages paid to workers increased by 5% between 2000 and 2016.
Meanwhile, income from investments and business activities jumped by 30%.
Related: Germany's hidden hunger

Markus Grabka, an economist with the German Institute for Economic Research, said that weaker labor unions, tax reforms that benefited the rich and an increase in single person households have contributed to inequality.
Outsourcing and automation have made the situation even worse.
10% own 60% of the wealth

The income gap has translated into major differences in wealth.
The richest 10% the population owns 60% of assets, while the bottom 40% have almost nothing, according to Germany's central bank.
Inequality has risen steadily since 2005 despite unemployment dropping to record lows, according to Grabka.
Grabka said the big question is whether all households "benefit from the strong recovery of the German economy."
Huge efforts have been made to develop the poorer East since it was reunited with West Germany.
But the risk of slipping into poverty is still significantly higher today in former Communist territory, where many industry towns have experienced a steady decline.
"A large share of companies were closed in East Germany and the post-reunification construction boom [ran out in the 1990s]," said Oliver Rakau, chief Germany economist at Oxford Economics.
Related: How German economy stacks up

16%: The risk of falling into poverty

The share of Germans at risk of falling into poverty has jumped from 11% two decades ago to 16% in 2014.
Grabka said that another key factor is an increasing number of jobs that don't pay well.
Nearly 7 million Germans are working part time, precarious "mini jobs" that pay up to 450 ($540) a month.
Many rely on welfare payments to get by.
Germany introduced a national minimum wage in 2015 in hopes of tackling the problem, an initiative supported by Merkel.
But the chancellor, whose slogan is "prosperity and security for all," was largely silent on the issue of inequality during the campaign.
Her main challenger, Martin Schulz, paid more attention to the issue, arguing that Germany's export success has been built on low wages.
-- A version of this story was first published on Sept. 20.
Uber's new CEO issued an apology to Londoners on Monday just days after city officials said they would not renew the company's license.
"While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way," Dara Khosrowshahi wrote in a letter first published in London newspaper The Evening Standard.
"On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes we've made."
London's transport authority announced Friday that it would not renew Uber's license when it expires at the end of September, saying the company was not "fit and proper" to operate in the city.
Transport for London (TfL) said it didn't like the company's approach to reporting serious crimes.
Also at issue: a controversial piece of software called "Greyball" that prevents officials from monitoring Uber's app.
(Uber says it has never used, or considered using, the software for the purposes the London authority cited.)
Uber has said it plans to challenge the decision in court.
It also started a petition urging London mayor Sadiq Khan to keep Uber in the city.
By Monday, more than 760,000 people had signed it.
Khan, who has backed the ban, welcomed Khosrowshahi's apology and indicated it could open the door to talks between the company and city transport officials.
"Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London," the mayor said in a statement.
"Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him."
Khosrowshahi took over as Uber's top exec last month.
This is his first public apology as CEO of the company.
His predecessor, Travis Kalanick, left behind the fallout from a PR crisis that was kicked up earlier this year amid allegations that managers didn't adequately address reports of sexual harassment.
Critics say the firm has an overly aggressive culture that encourages its managers to flout local regulations.
It's also been the subject of controversies over passenger safety, along with driver background checks and pay.
Related: What happens if Uber loses London?
Khosrowshahi said in the letter that he was committed "to help Uber write its next chapter."
"We won't be perfect, but we will listen to you; we will look to be long-term partners with the cities we serve; and we will run our business with humility, integrity and passion," he wrote.
-- Chris Liakos, Jackie Wattles and Sara Ashley O'Brien contributed to this report.
One of China's biggest tech firms is pumping money into an old school profession: used car salesman.
Didi Chuxing, China's homegrown answer to Uber, just invested $200 million in an online platform for trading used cars, an industry that's shifting into high gear in China.
The platform, RenRenChe, directly connects individual car sellers with buyers.
Its name literally translates to "People People Cars."
China's used car market is poised for explosive growth.
The China Automobile Dealers Association expects used car sales to reach 12 million vehicles this year, an increase of roughly 20% from 2016.
The easing of government restrictions on used cars should also help fuel industry growth.
Related: China's Uber worth $50 billion after raising more cash

For Didi, which defeated Uber's attempt to build a successful China business, used cars offer a potentially lucrative addition to its growing empire.
"They want to own as much business as possible related to transportation," said Andy Tian, an entrepreneur and co-founder of Beijing-based Asia Innovations Group.
And "selling cars is a lot more profitable than selling rides," he added.
RenRenChe's services will soon be available on Didi's app, exposing the used car platform to the ride-hailing company's more than 17 million drivers.
"I can see Didi drivers selling their cars on RenRen," said Kitty Fok, a Beijing-based analyst with research firm IDC.
Related: As Uber stumbles, rivals mobilize abroad

Investing in the platform also gives Didi yet another way to influence the transportation industry, Fok said.
The company already invested tens of millions of dollars into Chinese bike-sharing startup Ofo earlier this year, and has partnerships with other ride-hailing firms around the world.
Didi, which was valued at around $50 billion earlier this year, brings more heavyweight financial backing to RenRenChe.
Chinese internet giant Tencent (TCEHY) is also an investor in the used car platform, injecting $85 million in 2015.
Didi declined to comment on RenRenChe's current valuation or what size stake it received in exchange for its $200 million investment.
RenRenChe wasn't immediately available for comment.
Didi was formed in 2015 through the merger of ride-hailing apps Didi Dache and Kuaidi Dache.
The company is led by Cheng Wei, a former Alibaba manager who founded Didi Dache in 2012.
Meh about Merkel: Angela Merkel won a fourth term as German chancellor but with a reduced share of the vote as a far-right party made major gains.
Investors aren't batting an eye.
European markets were largely flat in early trading and the main German index -- the Dax -- was swinging between minor gains and losses.
Asian markets mostly closed the day in negative territory.
U.S. stock futures were dipping a bit, but the move down was modest.
Merkel, 63, has led the European Union's largest economy for more than 11 years.
She will now have to build a coalition government, probably with two minor parties -- the liberal FDP and the center-left Greens.
Negotiation nations: Negotiators are meeting on Monday over two important trade topics: Brexit and NAFTA.
Britain and the EU are taking another stab at Brexit negotiations, after Prime Minister Theresa May tried to inject new impetus into the talks with a speech Friday.
She said Britain would seek a transitional arrangement of about two years, effectively delaying the impact of Brexit until 2021.
But the EU wants to see much more detail concerning the rights of millions of European migrants, and exactly how much Britain is prepared to pay in a divorce bill, before it will move on to discuss future trading arrangements.
Separately, the renegotiation of NAFTA, the trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico, is continuing.
Little progress has been made so far on key issues, such as car manufacturing.
The third round of talks began on Saturday in Ottawa and will run through Wednesday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news.
In your inbox.
Subscribe now!
Stock surge -- Imagination Technologies: Shares in Imagination Technologies (IGNMF) were surging by about 32% in London after the tech firm said it had agreed to be acquired for 550 million ($744 million) by a Chinese-backed private equity firm called Canyon Bridge.
Imagination Technologies owns and licenses intellectual property that helps power the graphics on the screens of Apple's iPhones, tablets, iPods, TVs and watches.
Imagination fell on hard times earlier this year after Apple (AAPL, Tech30) told the British firm it plans to stop licensing the company's technology after about two years.
That news sent Imagination shares crashing by as much as 72%.
However, investors aren't 100% convinced the deal will be done because Canyon Bridge's planned takeover of Lattice Semiconductors (LSCC) was blocked earlier this month by President Trump on national security concerns.
The British government has said it will consider blocking foreign takeovers of critical infrastructure to protect national security.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news

4.
Coming this week:

Monday -- Fourth round of Brexit negotiations begin

Tuesday -- Earnings from Nike (NKE), Carnival (CCL) and Darden Restaurants (DRI)

Wednesday -- U.S. Energy Information Administration releases weekly crude inventories report

Thursday -- Earnings from Accenture (ACN) and BlackBerry (BBRY, Tech30); Report released on U.S. gross domestic product for the second quarter

Friday -- Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) meets with Senate Intelligence Committee; Brazil unemployment data released; Elon Musk speaks about his Mars plans at a conference in Australia
Major commercial airlines are still struggling to fly to Puerto Rico after last week's hurricane.
Hurricane Maria's destructive path through the U.S. territory left at least 10 people dead.
The storm also razed buildings, flooded streets and cut off power and communications for millions of people.
Residents who are looking to escape the devastation, meanwhile, don't have many options.
At San Juan Luis Muoz Marn International Airport, the island's main air travel hub, flights in and out were extremely limited.
The devastation at Puerto Rico's biggest airport is another in a series of operational blows to U.S. airlines.
Houston, Miami, Orlando and other airports across the southeastern U.S. have been shuttered as a result of extreme weather causing thousands of flight cancellations and forcing airlines to adapt amidst the cascading disruption.
Some airlines this weekend described a bleak scene in Puerto Rico.
"Due to connectivity challenges, including air traffic control constraints and lack of power at the airport, operations are limited for all airlines," said American Airlines (AAL) in a statement.
Related: Puerto Rico officials describe 'apocalyptic' conditions

The company said it has been able to send in resources on relief flights.
Its first trip of that kind was Friday, when a plane took relief workers and family members from Miami to the island, along with food, water, lanterns, cots, tarps, fans, batteries, boots and generators.
The airline sent just one more plane to the island over the weekend.
United Airlines (UAL) said it sent a relief flight to the island Saturday with "15,000 pounds of food, water and amenity kits for our employees."
Another plane on Sunday took blankets and other supplies.
United said an additional cargo trip is planned for Monday.
Related: Clinton calls out Trump administration's response to Puerto Rico devastation

Late Saturday, JetBlue Airways (JBLU) said that it planned to send three planes to Puerto Rico and fly three planes from the island to certain cities in Florida and New York on Sunday.
"These flights are carrying much needed supplies and personnel," JetBlue said at the time, adding that it expects to have a more robust flight schedule in and out of San Juan by Tuesday.
The company did not respond to a request for comment Sunday.
Southwest Airlines (LUV) was slated to resume flights on Saturday, but the company said it was met with some unexpected issues.
It was only able to send an "assessment flight" into San Juan over the weekend.
The company was still "struggling with the lack of infrastructure and coordination" at the San Juan airport, Southwest spokesperson Thais Hanson said Sunday.
She added that regular service likely won't resume until Wednesday.
Delta (DAL), which was also expected to restart some of its San Juan operations Saturday, reported an "unfavorable assessments of airport and area infrastructure."
Delta said it operated just one relief flight Sunday.
It plans to send two more Monday.
--CNN's Nicole Chavez and CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.
President Trump's supporters in the media came out in full force this weekend, supporting the President after he called for the firing of NFL players who have chosen to raise awareness of racial injustice by kneeling during the national anthem.
"Don't give me this crap that you want to support reform and stand up against social injustice," snarled Judge Jeanine Pirro on her Fox News show Saturday evening.
"Shame on you.
Shame on all of you.
And shame on you too, Roger Goodell, for not showing you love this country as much as the president does."
That sentiment was shared widely in the pro-Trump media universe, where Trump was portrayed as a patriot taking the battle to wealthy athletes who were characterized as behaving in an un-American manner by refusing to stand for the "Star Spangled Banner."
"What is it about the modern day @TheDemocrats party where they kneel during anthem, torch US flags and cheer cop killers?"
asked Jim Hoft, the publisher of the far-right Gateway Pundit, a blog trafficked by millions of people each month.
What is it about the modern day @TheDemocrats party where they kneel during anthem, torch US flags and cheer cop killers?
Jim Hoft (@gatewaypundit) September 24, 2017

Pro-Trump media personalities also sought to suggest the decreased ratings for NFL games were tied to protests on the field.
Ratings for NFL games are down, but not to the extent suggested by Trump and his allies.
Sean Hannity, perhaps Trump's most loyal supporter on cable news, did not call for a boycott, but tweeted on Saturday that NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell appeared to be lecturing Trump and his fans, warning, "If @NFL and players choose to continue to make political statements (their right) I predict fans who disagree will flee (their right also)."
Looks like the @nflcommish wants to lecture @POTUS and fans who prefer football over political statements.
How many people fought, bled.....  Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) September 23, 2017

If @NFL and players choose to continue to make political statements (their right) I predict fans who disagree will flee (their right also) https://t.co/JzOoce0SUU  Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) September 23, 2017

A column by Daniel Flynn published on the far-right website Breitbart echoed that point.
"If you want to see 'divisive' and a 'lack of respect,' turn on an NFL game and watch men making millions refuse to stand up for two minutes during the 'Star Spangled Banner.'
Or, maybe, you opt not to do this," the Breitbart column said.
"Increasingly, that ranks as the popular choice."
In other corners of the web, Trump's supporters seemed to contend it was hypocritical for the NFL to allow players to express themselves on the field for one cause, but not another.
On "The Donald" subreddit, a forum where die-hard Trump supporters gather and from which narratives in the pro-Trump media universe are often birthed, a top post noted that the NFL did not permit the Dallas Cowboys to wear decals on their helmets supporting the Dallas police.
The decals had aimed to pay tribute to the officers who lost their lives after a 2016 downtown shooting.
Trump's supporters in media also got creative when trying to discredit the President's critics.
In a bizarre "Fox & Friends Weekend" segment, host Pete Hegseth read the statement from the Golden State Warriors announcing the team would not be accepting the customary invite to the White House for winning the NBA championship and said, "I mean, equality, diversity, and inclusion.
It reads like a left-wing rap sheet."
Newt Gingrich, who was being interviewed for the Fox News segment, added, "First of all, didn't they just win a championship?
What is equal about winning a championship?"
Hegseth then asked, "Are there women in the NBA?
What about the WNBA?
That's not equal."
Trump and his allies are perhaps willing to engage in the debate over NFL protests because the position they have taken is popular with the base.
A Quinnipiac University poll conducted in 2016 found that White Americans, who make up a large part of Trump's base, largely disapprove of national anthem protests.
On Sunday, in response to the President's inflammatory remarks, the protests on the field amplified.
Many players took a knee ahead of the game between the Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars.
The Pittsburgh Steelers were also remained in their locker room during the national anthem.
Megyn Kelly is a talented, experienced television anchor.
She is also an arrestingly glamorous presence on air.
And coming off a year of highly personal confrontations with Donald Trump, she is certainly a well-known name to most Americans.
What she is not, however, is Oprah.
For reasons perhaps only understood by the management of NBC News, the network seems intent on trying to turn Kelly, whose chief claim to fame was her frequently sharp and steely questioning of mostly political figures on her old Fox News prime time show, into a Winfrey-esque empathetic emblem of empowerment.
Evidence: In the heavy-rotation promos NBC has broadcast for Kelly's new show over the past months, the promise has been that viewers will see a kinder, gentler version of Megyn Kelly, one looking to do no less than bring together an "incredibly divided" nation.
"My hope is that the show can be a unifying force," Kelly says in one especially gauzy promotion, a show "with courage, that can at times be provocative," a show that is "also fun and uplifting and empowering and can make people feel like: fists in the air at the end of it."
Did I mention Oprah?
NBC's plan for Kelly is to change the usual group-schmooze format of the four-hour-long daily "Today" show franchise--which Kelly will be joining with her 9 AM show, starting Monday morning--into the old-fashioned daytime show format: solo host talking to a live audience, mostly about family, work and "lifestyle" issues, and interviewing celebrities.
That format, usually tried in syndication, has not worked in many recent tries, from Anderson Cooper to Katie Couric.
For that and several other reasons, Kelly is running head on into a din of doubting voices as she launches her rebranded career on NBC.
Perhaps the most significant of the other reasons: her Sunday evening interview showwith newsmakers and celebrities--was a conspicuous flop this past summer.
The ratings for "Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly" were weak and the reviews were brutal.
Related: How NBC botched the Megyn Kelly rollout

But Kelly is also drawing skeptical comments because in style (elegant, toney) and affect (coolly intelligent, unflappable) she seems a less than ideal match, at least going in, with some of the fundamentals of morning television.
The chief of those: appeal to women.
In the morning hours, especially on network TV, ratings success among women is the whole game.
On Fox, Kelly thrived with an audience dominated by older men.
Women viewers tend to like their morning hosts to be genuine, easy to identify with, capable of the kind of intimate connection women have with their close friends.
They can be rich of course (as Kelly, with her reported $17 million-a-year contract, and all TV hosts are); but concerns about raising kids, financial issues, health care, and having a positive home life are usually essential.
Being capable of some spontaneous silliness is a plus.
Kelly certainly qualifies as a devoted wife and mom; she has emphasized her affinity for the other qualities in the promos; but for her to succeed, those will have to be unveiled naturally in the morning competition.
Speaking of that competition, Kelly will be up against the current champ in most of these categories: Kelly Ripa, on ABC.
Her "Live with Kelly and Ryan" already tops "Today" in the 9 AM ratings.
And it may not help Megyn Kelly that the demographics of morning television skew so disproportionately towards minority women viewers.
African-American women make up over 20% of the morning female audience, with Hispanic women over 12%.
Kelly should not be tarred with presumptions about her viewers because she made her name at a conservative network hardly known for its popularity among minority viewers.
She ought to have a chance to carve out her own reputation on her new show.
Related: Can Megyn Kelly succeed at NBC?
But some moments from her previous work may have lingering after-effects among minority viewers--such as her discordantly insistent contention on one Fox show that Santa Claus "is what he is--which is white."
What Kelly most needs is time, to find her bearings and a persona that works in the morning.
Time may be a tough ask, because her profile is so high.
After NBC expended much effortand moneyto land her, the scrutiny is certain to be intense and unforgiving from the moment she introduces her new show Monday.
It doesn't help that NBC displaced some popular talent (minority talent, as it happens), like Tamron Hall and Al Roker to make room for her.
Making Oprah the model only sets the degree of difficulty even higher, maybe off the charts.
If Kelly wants a more workable model to aim for, one that better fits both her skills and the image she brings to the table, she should probably look to a different host of mornings past: Diane Sawyer.
When Sawyer made the move from prime time magazine reporting to anchoring on ABC's "Good Morning, America" starting in 1999, she brought along similar doubts about being too glam and too icily detached to connect with morning viewers.
She was rich, married to a Hollywood legend in Mike Nichols, childless, and seemingly a resident of a class not approachable for the average viewer.
But Sawyer managed the transition surprisingly well.
She co-anchored the show for a decade, during which "GMA" revived and closed the once-yawning ratings gap with "Today."
Sawyer relied on hard work and preparation, but she also had an advantage that Kelly will not have: a co-anchor and cast of others surrounding her on the air.
It much easier to reveal personal traits, quirks, and inner feelings when interacting with other people on a show.
Solo hosts engage mostly in monologue rather than dialogue.
NBC is asking Kelly to do it all on her own, and in front of an audience.
That generally calls for the talents of an entertainer more than a host or a journalist.
It is a grinding, tough environment in which to find a home and thrive.
Unless you're Oprah.
President Trump this weekend attacked the National Football League and its players who protest during the national anthem.
Many of the league's owners, executives and team presidents fired back, after the league's commissioner issued a statement on Saturday.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell

The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.
There is no better example than the amazing response from our clubs and players to the terrible natural disasters we've experienced over the last month.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities.
Atlanta Falcons

Owner Arthur Blank

We are at our very best when we are working together, building unity and including everyone's voice in a constructive dialogue.
Creating division or demonizing viewpoints that are different than our own accomplishes nothing positive and undermines our collective ability to achieve the ideals of our democracy.
Related: NFL owners are not happy with Trump's rhetoric

Baltimore Ravens

Owner Steve Bisciotti

We recognize our players' influence.
We respect their demonstration and support them 100 percent.
All voices need to be heard.
That's democracy in its highest form.
Buffalo Bills

Owners Terry and Kim Pegula

President Trump's remarks were divisive and disrespectful to the entire NFL community, but we tried to use them as an opportunity to further unify our team and our organization.
Our players have the freedom to express themselves in a respectful and thoughtful manner and we all agreed that our sole message is to provide and to promote an environment that is focused on love and equality.
Related: Under Armour sticks up for 'athletes' and 'flag'

Chicago Bears

Chairman George McCaskey

What makes this the the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
Through important dialogue with our players and team, this divisive political situation has unified our franchise for the present and the future.
Cleveland Browns

Owners Dee and Jimmy Haslam

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the president or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Our stance in support of the liberties of peaceful, personal expression afforded to our players and all Americans will remain strong, and we will continue to encourage our players to respectfully use their earned platform to inspire positive change in our nation and throughout society.
Denver Broncos

Chairman and CEO Joe Ellis

Our players have shown a tremendous commitment to raising awareness for important societal issues by using their platform in a positive way ... As an organization, we could not be more proud, appreciative and grateful for our players.
We'll continue to support them and work together to advocate for values of respect, diversity and inclusion.
Detroit Lions

Owner and chairwoman Martha Firestone Ford

Our game has long provided a powerful platform for dialogue and positive change in many communities throughout our nation.
Thanks primarily to our players, the NFL also has been a unifying force in our country and impactful change has and hopefully will continue to be the result of peaceful expression, done so in order to highlight social injustices of all kind.
Negative and disrespectful comments suggesting otherwise are contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions.
Green Bay Packers

President and CEO Mark Murphy

It's unfortunate that the president decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL.
We strongly believe that players are leaders in our communities and positive influences ... We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good.
As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely.
Related: How Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Houston Texans

Founder, chairman and CEO Robert McNair

The comments made by the president were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now.
I hope the reaction from our players results in positive action for our league, our communities and our country as a whole to make a positive difference in our society,

Indianapolis Colts

Owner Jim Irsay

I am troubled by the president's recent comments about our league and our players.
Sports in America have the unique ability to bring people from all walks of life and from different points of view together to work toward or root for a common goal, and the Indianapolis Colts are proud to be a part of that tradition in our home city and state.
Jacksonville Jaguars

Owner Shad Khan

It was a privilege to stand on the sidelines with the Jacksonville Jaguars today for the playing of the U.S. national anthem at Wembley Stadium.
I met with our team captains prior to the game to express my support for them, all NFL players and the league following the divisive and contentious remarks made by President Trump, and was honored to be arm in arm with them, their teammates and our coaches during our anthem ... We have a lot of work to do, and we can do it, but the comments by the president make it harder.
That's why it was important for us, and personally for me, to show the world that even if we may differ at times, we can and should be united in the effort to become better as people and a nation.
Kansas City Chiefs

Chairman and CEO Clark Hunt

I believe in honoring the American flag and supporting all of those whose sacrifices protect the many freedoms we have in this country, including the right to have differences of opinion.
Sports have long been a unifying force -- especially in challenging times -- and hatred and division have no place in our game.
Los Angeles Chargers

Chairman Dean Spanos

I wholeheartedly agree with the commissioner's statement.
The NFL and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
What our country needs right now is a message of unity, civility and mutual respect.
Los Angeles Rams

Owner and Chairman Stan Kroenke

We believe in the tenets of the national anthem, which is a pillar of this country; just as freedom of speech is another pillar and a constitutional right.
We will continue to support our players' freedom to peacefully express themselves and the meaningful efforts they make to bring about positive change in our country.
Miami Dolphins

Owner Stephen Ross

Our country needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness.
We need to seek to understand each other and have civil discourse instead of condemnation and sound bites.
I know our players who kneeled for the anthem and these are smart young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone.
They wanted to start a conversation and are making a difference in our community, including working with law enforcement to bring people together.
We all can benefit from learning, listening and respecting each other.
Minnesota Vikings

Owners Zygi and Mark Wilf

As owners, it is our job to foster an environment that recognizes and appreciates diversity of thought and encourages using this platform in a constructive manner.
Rather than make divisive statements, we believe in promoting thoughtful, inspiring conversation that unifies our communities.
We are proud of our players, coaches and staff for the important role they play in our community, and we fully support their constitutional right to respectfully and peacefully express their beliefs.
New England Patriots

Chairman and CEO Robert Kraft

I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the president on Friday.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics.
I think our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal.
Our players are intelligent, thoughtful and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
New Orleans Saints

This statement was released jointly with the Pelicans, the city's NBA team.
Our organization takes great pride in equality and inclusion and find the comments by the President disappointing and inappropriate relative to our players on this issue.
... Our players and our organization serve the New Orleans community selflessly and do so without care of race, creed or sexual orientation and that makes us a better city and a better team.
We believe strongly in honoring our flag and the national anthem and what it represents and we support our players.
We all must strive to show that we are all Americans and continue to work towards equality for all.
New York Giants

Owners John Mara and Steve Tisch

Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive.
We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society.
New York Jets

Chairman and CEO Christopher Johnson

It was an honor and a privilege to stand arm-in-arm unified with our players during today's national anthem.
We are very proud of our players and their strong commitment to work in our community to make a positive, constructive, and unifying impact.
Philadelphia Eagles

Owner, chairman and CEO Jeffrey Lurie

The best of us lend our compassion and determination to the aid of others.
Every day I see the genuine dedication and hard work of our players.
And I support them as they take their courage, character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
Having spoken with our players, I can attest to the great respect they have for the national anthem and all it represents.
We at the Philadelphia Eagles firmly believe that in this difficult time of division and conflict, it is more important than ever for football to be a great unifier.
Pittsburgh Steelers

President Art Rooney

Our players have stayed unified and have respected the fact that, like our country, there are diverse opinions in our locker room.
It is a difficult time in our country.
I hope that eventually we will come together as a nation to respect the diverse opinions that exist and work together to make our communities better for all our citizens.
Tennessee Titans

Owner Amy Adams Strunk

I am proud to stand with our players and support them in their work on and off the football field.
I completely agree with Commissioner Goodell that we are better off as a nation when we are unified and pulling together.
... Our players make public contributions day-in and day-out and when I hear anyone making disparaging remarks about them, I know it has to be the result of not knowing what they bring to our communities or what they have accomplished.
San Francisco 49ers

CEO Jed York

The callous and offensive comments made by the president are contradictory to what this great country stands for.
Our players have exercised their rights as United States citizens in order to spark conversation and action to address social injustice.
We will continue to support them in their peaceful pursuit of positive change in our country and around the world.
Seattle Seahawks

President Peter McLoughlin

We fully support our players' use of their freedom of speech and peaceful action to highlight the existing racial and other divides in our country.
Our players completely respect the military and veterans of our country; however they believe these issues need to come to the forefront.
Tampa Bay Buccaneers

Co-Chairman Joel Glazer

The Buccaneers recognize every individual's constitutional right to freedom of speech, which is crucial to the American way of life that we cherish.
We are equally committed to the principles of inclusivity and respect differing points of view that should be afforded to all Americans.
Washington Redskins

The Redskins issued the following unsigned statement:

Football has always served as the great unifier, bringing people together to celebrate the values of courage, commitment and achievement.
We are proud of the players, coaches and fans of the Washington Redskins for all that they have done to improve the lives of others in neighborhoods all across our region.
We are also grateful for the sacrifices made by the brave men and women of our armed forces that have provided us the freedom to play football.
In that great tradition, the Washington Redskins will work to address divisions and bring unity, civility and respect to our greater community.
--CNN's David Close and Quand Thomas contributed to this report.
ESPN confronted the politics of Trump and race head-on Sunday.
The network began its pregame show "Sunday NFL Countdown" with a discussion about President Trump's incendiary rhetoric about NFL players who protest during the national anthem.
One of the show's regulars, former head coach Rex Ryan, said he supported Trump and introduced him at a campaign event.
But he was visibly angry when talking about the president's comments.
"I never signed up for that," Ryan said.
"I never wanted that.
That doesn't mean I support 100% of the things that he says and clearly this is a case."
The protests were started last season by Colin Kaepernick, who dropped to one knee during the national anthem before games to protest the treatment of African Americans, especially by police.
In a speech on Friday night, and then in a series of tweets, Trump has said the NFL should fire any player who protests during the national anthem.
Team owners and players have responded by condemning Trump.
Many players vowed to protest on Sunday.
Related: Trump's strange history with pro football

Ryan said he had gained a new perspective on the protests.
"I looked at it from a different standpoint.
I looked at it from all the men and women who stood for our country," Ryan said.
"I was wrong when I looked at it initially.
Now this year, I look at it as it's a far, far greater thing than just that."
He said he now recognizes "the greater picture of it."
Former NFL player Charles Woodson added that it's "unbelievable that after nearly 400 years of slavery, we're still going through this.
Still.
And not just from anybody" but from the president.
Show host Sam Ponder pointed out that Kaepernick has not been signed by any NFL team to play this season.
"He's still at home watching these games on TV," she said.
"We can hope that people don't shy away from the conversation."
Former wide receiver Anquan Boldin said that "there's a misconception about the kneeling.
We're protesting inequality.
We're also standing for slain police officers."
He said "we all recognize that we live in a great country, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't need to be worked on."
"It's unfortunate that it's taken this to see where guys are coming from."
Former quarterback Matt Hasselbeck, who is white, also said his perspective had been affected.
He said he used to view the anthem from the perspective of military veterans but had started to see it from the side of African Americans.
"I don't know what it's like to be Randy Moss at 17 years old," he said, referring to a fellow member of the show.
"That's kind of what has changed for me this year."
Moss, who is African-American, said he appreciated Hasselbeck's comments.
At one point, he leaned over to shake Hasselbeck's hand, calling him "brother."
Related: With 'son of a bitch' comments, Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Earlier this month, ESPN was in the middle of a political firestorm after anchor Jemele Hill tweeted that "Donald Trump is a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself w/ other white supremacists."
Conservative media outlets, including Fox News, accused ESPN of political bias.
Trump jumped in to trash talk ESPN on Twitter.
After several days of headlines, ESPN President John Skipper sent an internal memo reminding his staff to focus on journalism and not politics.
An ESPN spokesperson said Sunday morning's pregame discussion was on point with the network's mission.
"If you read Skipper's note he said we would -- as we always have, really -- cover the intersection of sports and politics," the spokesperson said.
Fox and CBS broadcast the national anthem live during football games Sunday -- a notable shift away from the usual practice.
NBC says it will do the same in prime time.
ESPN, which also abandoned its usual pregame chatter to talk politics, will air the anthem live on Monday.
And as photos of athletes kneeling and locking arms during the anthem streamed in, the news media quickly repurposed those images, despite the usual limitations on NFL content.
The news of the day was about much more than what happened on the field.
Make no mistake: Sports TV became political on Sunday in a whole new way.
It would have been nearly impossible for sports broadcasters to ignore the story.
Trump kicked off a firestorm two days earlier when he criticized the National Football League and attacked athletes who kneel during the national anthem to draw attention to social justice issues.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired.
He's fired,'" Trump told a crowd in Alabama on Friday.
Related: NFL airing unity ad in prime time on Sunday

It's not a new issue.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers -- a show of protest against racial injustice.
But Trump's decision to wade into the fray now didn't just renew interest in the matter.
His remarks also undeniably drove the tone of sports coverage on Sunday.
To start, the "Star Spangled Banner" typically isn't covered apart from the Super Bowl and other major events.
But both Fox and CBS, which began airing NFL games at 1 p.m.
ET, aired the anthem live.
NBC said it would air the anthem live during Sunday Night Football and "cover any news around it as merited."
And ESPN said it will air the anthem live for "Monday Night Football."
Yahoo Sports also did that while broadcasting the day's first game between the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Baltimore Ravens in London.
The cameras were focused on players of both teams who kneeled along with Jaguars owner Shahid Khan and former Ravens all-star Ray Lewis.
Lewis was recently signed by Fox Sports as an NFL analyst.
Related: With 'son of a bitch' comments, Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Trump was also the main focus of conversation during pregame shows on ESPN and Fox.
ESPN's "Sunday NFL Countdown" show spent its first 22 minutes exclusively on the president -- a significant decision for a network that insists it is not a "political organization," despite tangling with Trump in recent weeks.
"We do like to stick to sports around here.
That's why we all got into this.
We love sports," said host Sam Ponder.
"But before we do that, we've got to talk about the biggest news in the NFL today, and it is inherently political because it involves the President of the United States."
Former head coach Rex Ryan was strikingly candid on the show.
Ryan, who voted for Trump and introduced him at a campaign event, said he was angered by Trump's comments.
"I never signed up for that," Ryan said.
"I never wanted that.
That doesn't mean I support 100% of the things that he says and clearly this is a case."
An hour later, Fox's pregame coverage followed.
"The athletes of this country, we're looked up to, OK?"
said Tony Gonzalez, former NFL tight end, on the network's pregame show.
"There's kids that are watching.
Whatever the president, his point that he was trying to get across there, it's going to backfire on him.
And all you did was just bring everybody together from the sports world."
After several players stood with their arms linked together during the anthem Sunday, Trump weighed in again.
"Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable," he tweeted.
"Bad ratings!"
--CNNMoney's Jackie Wattles contributed to this story.
With President Trump taking aim at the NFL and its players who protest during the national anthem, the league has broadcasted a message of unity.
The NFL dusted off a one-minute ad that it produced for the Super Bowl earlier this year.
It was originally made to "demonstrate the power of football to bring people together," the league said.
CNN learned exclusively that the ad would run before the game.
So the NFL ran the ad again on NBC's "Sunday Night Football" telecast on Sunday.
The decision was finalized on Sunday morning.
"We think this is the single best response to demonstrate what we are about," an NFL spokesman told CNN.
"It stands in stark contrast to some who practice the politics of division."
The idea is to take the high road -- avoiding any direct reference to Trump -- by airing an inspirational message.
Inside these lines, we can bring out the best in each other and live united.
pic.twitter.com/nQpUrKFL4T  NFL (@NFL) September 24, 2017

The ad was titled "Inside These Lines."
It was created by the ad agency Translation for Super Bowl LI.
Forest Whitaker was the narrator.
In the ad, Whitaker says:

"Inside these lines, we don't have to come from the same place to help each other reach the same destination.
Inside these lines, we may have our differences, but recognize there's more that unites us.
Inside these lines, it's a game of inches, and there's no such thing as an easy yard when you're fighting to move forward.
Inside these lines, we're not only defined by our victories, but by the way we handle our defeats.
Inside these lines, we can bring out the best in each other,

And live united--

Inside these lines."
Facebook continues to resist calls for public disclosure of the Russia-linked ads that targeted American voters last year.
But Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, is still pushing.
"We want to try to find a way," he said, "to make some of those ads and other information public."
Facebook provided data about the pro-Trump propaganda to special counsel Robert Mueller's team after Mueller obtained a search warrant earlier this month.
At first Facebook declined to provide the data to Congressional investigators, but on Thursday the company reversed itself.
"We've not received any of their information yet.
They will disclose that to us next week," Warner said in an interview with CNN on Saturday.
"We're going to try to work with them on how we can get that information then out to the public," he said.
Speaking on CNN's "Reliable Sources," Warner said he wants both Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) executives to come in for a public hearing about the matter.
How Facebook sees the Russian ad scandal

Campaign ads on Facebook and other social networking sites currently face none of the disclosure requirements that TV and radio ads do.
Warner is working with fellow Democratic senator Amy Klobuchar to seek co-sponsors for a bill that would change that.
"Every American wants to know that the political advertising they're seeing or viewing, whether it's on television or on their iPhone, that they know, one, it's not coming from a foreign nation or foreign agents, and two, they ought to be able to see the content, even if it's not directly focused on them," Warner said.
He was referring to the idea of "dark posts" on Facebook and other web sites, when advertisers target specific audiences and hide the ads from everyone else.
"If you're for or against a candidate, or for or against a cause, you ought to be able to see the content that's being launched against you, particularly if it comes from a foreign source," Warner said.
Facebook said on Thursday that it will voluntarily implement disclosure features for "political" ads.
There are big and unanswered questions about how Facebook will define political ads versus other kinds.
Related: Is it enough?
Not content with voluntary action by Facebook, Warner wants legislation that will be enforceable and will apply to other web sites as well.
Speaking the language of Silicon Valley, Warner said he views the legislation as "an iterative process."
When pressed about whether Congress should seek to restrict, not just regulate, political ads on the web, Warner demurred, saying "I want to start with the lightest touch possible."
So far Warner has no Republican co-sponsors, but he said he believes he'll get there.
"In 2016, the Russians tried to help Mr. Trump.
But the Russians are not pro-Republican or pro-Democrat," he said.
"I strongly believe there will be an awful lot of Republican support" for the bill.
In the interview, Warner did not limit his criticism to Facebook.
In the run-up to election day, he admitted, there was not a full understanding of Russian attempts to meddle in the election.
The intelligence community" did not "fully connect all the dots, unfortunately, until after the election," he said.
Facebook, too, was slow to recognize it.
"Ten months ago Facebook was saying, 'Hey, that's crazy, there was no Russian interference, there was no Russian involvement.'
What we've seen now is that there was dramatic Russian involvement," Warner said, "both in terms of paid advertising, as well as these so-called fake accounts, and we still don't know the total number of fake accounts.
I don't think we know the full extent of Russian advertising."
A growing number of everyday entrepreneurs are taking their hobbies and turning them into an extra source of income in a practice that has become known as the side hustle.
What I am talking about is creating an income by generating a project without quitting your day job," Chris Guillebeau, author of "Side Hustle: From Idea to Income in 27 Days" told ABC News.
Guillebeau adds that the side hustle is different from taking on a typical second job in that the idea is to turn your passions into a source of income.
The new trend, partly fueled by the internet, is also bringing in big bucks for some.
"My side hustle is running hiking tours in the city of San Francisco," Alexandra Kennin told ABC News.
"I'm earning about $50,000 a year just from the side hustle."
Alicia Ostarello and Angie Sommer said that their side hustle is to write wedding vows and speeches for others through their business "Vow Muse."
When not writing vows, Ostarello works as a copywriter for a tech firm and Sommer as a structural engineer.
The pair said they each earn about gross $15,000 a year from their side hustles.
ABC News

Tech giant Airbnb, known for its room-rental services, is also helping promote side hustles, after recently adding an "experiences" option in 40 different cities where people can sign up to sell walking tours, catered meals, painting classes or anything else you may have to offer.
Kennin said she does her side hustle in part to stay balanced, as her day job as a marketing manager keeps her mostly indoors and tied to her desk.
"I had sat at a desk for 10, 12 years in corporate environments and I realized I had moved all the way to San Francisco from Philadelphia and I didn't know the city that well," Kennin said.
Sommer told ABC News that the key to succeeding at a side hustle is that you have to be passionate about the extra work.
"You have to like it," Sommer said.
"That's the hard part.
You're tired, you have other things going and you still have to, like, have the energy and have the desire to do something else."
Guillbeau recommends taking it slowly at first, "I am telling people to look at what they have, the skills they have, invest a small amount of time and let's see how that goes."
Kenning, however, said she just encourages people to get started however they can.
"My advice for people who want to start a side hustle is just to get out there and do it," she told ABC News.
The Securities and Exchange Commission waited until Wednesday to disclose a hack of its corporate filing system that occurred last year.
The disclosure raises questions about the agency's ability to protect important financial information and comes as Americans are still weighing the consequences of the massive hack at Equifax.
The SEC, the federal agency responsible for protecting investors and ensuring markets function properly, is under fire after disclosing the hack of its electronic network that whisks company news and data to investors.
The breach occurred despite repeated warnings in recent years about weaknesses in the agency's cybersecurity controls.
Experts question the length of time taken to disclose the breach, and why the SEC isn't meeting the same security standards it demands of corporate America.
"Public companies have a clear obligation to disclose material information about cyber risks and cyber events.
I expect them to take this requirement seriously," SEC Chairman Jay Clayton warned in a speech in July.
While it discovered the breach to its corporate filing system last year, the agency says it only became aware last month that information obtained by the intruders may have been used for illegal trading profits.
"It took quite a while," said Robert Cattanach, an attorney at Dorsey & Whitney and former trial attorney for the Justice Department, whose work includes cybersecurity and data breaches.
"The integrity of our whole trading system is dependent on keeping this information secure.
... People have got some 'splaining to do."
The SEC didn't explain why the initial hack was not revealed sooner, or which individuals or companies may have been affected.
The disclosure came two months after a government watchdog said deficiencies in the corporate filing system put the system, and the information it contains, at risk.
The agency also didn't disclose any information about who might have carried out the breach.
A hack by Chinese or Russian actors can't be ruled out, experts say.
"Certainly state actors would be on the list of suspects that come to mind," said Marcus Christian, a former federal prosecutor who is an attorney working in Mayer Brown's cybersecurity and national security practices.
Still, he added, the list also would include "regular old criminal actors."
U.S. prosecutors in Manhattan brought criminal charges last December against three Chinese traders, accusing them of using nonpublic information stolen from two New York law firms to rack up nearly $3 million in illegal profits.
The SEC filed a similar civil action, marking the first time the agency laid charges of hacking into a law firm's computer network.
The confidential information was said to be linked to clients of the firm considering mergers or acquisitions.
Clayton disclosed the hack in a statement posted to the SEC's website.
It comes just two weeks after the credit agency Equifax revealed a stunning cyberattack that exposed highly sensitive personal information of 143 million people.
Clayton is scheduled to appear Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee, and he is certain to be questioned about the hack.
Democratic Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, a member of the committee, said in a statement Thursday that the disclosures by the SEC and Equifax show "that government and businesses need to step up their efforts to protect our most sensitive personal and commercial information."
The SEC chief blamed the breach on "a software vulnerability" in the filing system known as EDGAR, short for Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system.
EDGAR processes more than 1.7 million electronic filings a year.
Those documents can cause enormous movements in the stock market, sending billions of dollars into motion in fractions of a second.
Clayton, a Wall Street attorney appointed by President Donald Trump to the SEC post, said the agency has been assessing its cybersecurity since he took over as chairman in May.
Experts note, however, that both agency and congressional investigators have been critical for years of the SEC's handling of its information technology security.
Early this decade, the SEC inspector general's office uncovered security lapses involving SEC staffers who examined the data-protection systems of the stock exchanges.
Some of the staffers used unencrypted laptops to store sensitive exchange information  and then carried the laptops to a Las Vegas conference for information-security professionals that is known to attract hackers.
The 2011-12 investigation raised concerns of a potential breach of the exchanges' information.
David Weber, a professor at the University of Maryland's business school and a former assistant SEC inspector general for investigations, worked on that probe.
The agency "clearly has not held itself to the same standard that it expects regulated companies to adhere to" and "needs to up its game," he said in an interview Thursday.
In 2015, an impostor slipped through the EDGAR filing system with a bogus $8 billion takeover bid for Avon Products.
The stock rocketed 20 percent, but it quickly dropped, burning anyone who'd bought shares of the cosmetics giant at pumped-up prices.
The SEC later sued a Bulgarian investor for allegedly orchestrating bogus acquisition bids for Avon and two other companies.
The hack of EDGAR is especially concerning because of how widely investors have used and trusted the system, which first came online in the early 1990s.
Companies periodically file earnings and a range of financial information, and they alert investors to important developments that could affect their share prices, like government investigations, executive shake-ups and approaches for a takeover.
Some experts say gaining access to the system is too easy and the SEC should consider stricter vetting, though they caution that doing so wouldn't guarantee blocking scammers from getting through.
Experts say stricter requirements could include passwords, personal ID, secret questions and answers, security tokens that continuously flash new ID numbers, fingerprints, eye scans or voice recognition.
U.S. stock indexes inched lower Monday in a quiet open to trading for the week.
Technology stocks fell, but gains for oil producers and other energy companies kept the losses in check.
KEEPING SCORE: The Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 2 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,500, as of 10 a.m. Eastern time.
The Dow Jones industrial average dipped 15 points, or 0.1 percent, to 22,334, and the Nasdaq composite dropped 32, or 0.5 percent, to 6,394.
Smaller stocks held up better than the rest of the market.
The Russell 2000 index rose 4 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,454.
TECH TURBULENCE: Tech stocks in the S&P 500 lost 1 percent, the steepest drop among the 11 sectors that make up the index.
Losses were broad across the sector: Facebook fell 3.3 percent, chipmaker Nvidia lost 2.4 percent and semiconductor company Broadcom fell 1.7 percent.
ENERGIZED: The price of benchmark U.S. crude oil rose 65 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $51.31 per barrel.
Brent crude, the international standard, gained 88 cents to $57.30 per barrel.
The higher prices helped lift stocks across the energy sector, which rose 1 percent.
Marathon Oil gained 2.6 percent, and Noble Energy rose 2.4 percent.
REVVED UP: Genuine Parts jumped to the biggest gain in the S&P 500 after it said it would buy Alliance Automotive Group, a European distributor of auto parts, tools and workshop equipment.
Genuine Parts valued the deal at $2 billion, including the repayment of debt.
Genuine Parts gained $6.15, or 7 percent, to $94.13.
MARKETS ABROAD: Germany's DAX index rose 0.2 percent after Chancellor Angela Merkel won a fourth term.
Merkel's party and its allies, though, lost some seats as they turned in one of their weakest postwar results.
The results sent the euro lower and underscored the tricky challenge Merkel has in forming a coalition with new partners to lead Europe's biggest economy.
The CAC 40 fell 0.3 percent in Paris, and the FTSE 100 slipped 0.1 percent in London.
In Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 rose 0.5 percent, South Korea's Kospi slipped 0.3 percent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 1.4 percent.
YIELDS: The yield on the 10-year Treasury note slipped to 2.24 percent from 2.25 percent late Friday.
The two-year fell to 1.42 percent from 1.44 percent, and the 30-year held steady at 2.78 percent.
CURRENCIES: The euro fell to $1.1882 from $1.1941 late Friday, and the British pound slipped to $1.3519 from $1.3527.
The dollar inched up to 112.15 Japanese yen from 112.05 yen.
COMMODITIES: Gold slipped 80 cents to $1,296.70 per ounce, silver fell 5 cents to $16.93 per ounce and copper lost a penny to $2.93 per pound.
Natural gas dropped 1 cent to $2.95 per 1,000 cubic feet, heating oil rose 2 cents to $1.83 per gallon and wholesale gasoline added 2 cents to $1.65 per gallon.
U.S. homebuilders are feeling less optimistic about their sales prospects, reflecting concerns that rebuilding efforts following hurricanes Harvey and Irma will drive up costs for construction labor and materials.
Even so, builders' overall view of the new-home market remains positive.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo builder sentiment index released Monday slipped to 64 this month.
That's down three points from a downwardly revised reading of 67 in August.
Readings above 50 indicate more builders view sales conditions as good rather than poor.
The index has been above 60 since September last year.
The latest index fell short of analyst predictions, which called for a reading of 67, according to FactSet.
Readings gauging builders' view of sales now and over the next six months declined from last month.
A measure of traffic by prospective buyers also fell.
Sales of new U.S. homes are running ahead of last year's pace, reflecting strong demand for homes as the economy has continued to create jobs.
Still, sales posted their biggest one-month drop in nearly a year in July, sliding 9.4 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 571,000.
August new-home sales figures are due out next week.
Sales stumbled this summer as a supply crunch elevated average home prices nationwide.
In response, builders are ramping up the supply of new homes, providing a crucial outlet.
But the number of newly built properties available is still below historical levels.
While home construction is up about 2.3 percent so far this year, builders say they are hamstrung by shortages of skilled workers and land parcels ready for new construction.
That dearth of skilled construction labor is expected to get worse as the wake of Hurricane Harvey, which plowed through Texas and Louisiana late last month, and Hurricane Irma, which slammed into Florida earlier this month.
Rebuilding in the aftermath of the two deadly and devastating storms is expected to drive construction costs higher and cause delays.
"The recent hurricanes have intensified our members' concerns about the availability of labor and the cost of building materials," said NAHB Chairman Granger MacDonald, a homebuilder and developer from Kerrville, Texas.
"Once the rebuilding process is underway, I expect builder confidence will return to the high levels we saw this spring."
This month's builder index was based on 328 respondents.
A measure of current sales conditions for single-family homes fell four points to 70, while an outlook for sales over the next six months slid four points to 73.
Builders' view of traffic by prospective buyers edged down one point to 47.
Mazda is recalling more than 60,000 midsize cars in the U.S. and Canada because a wiring problem can knock out power-assisted steering and the passenger air bag.
The recall covers Mazda 6 sedans from 2015 and 2016.
The company says in documents posted by the U.S. government that wires under the front passenger seat can rub against welding debris, causing them to short.
A loss of power-assisted steering can increase the risk of a crash, although none have been reported.
Owners should see multiple warning lights if the problem happens.
Dealers will inspect the cars and install insulating tape or a protective pad to shield the wires.
The recall is expected to start on Sept. 29.
Transcript for Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

doctor's office or pharmacy.
Next tonight, your money and grocery store and big box stores competing for it.
And this question, would you let Walmart in when you're not home if they delivered groceries right to your refrigerator?
Rebecca jarv Rebecca Jarvis tracking your money.
Reporter: What if you didn't feel like you had to be at two places at once.
Walmart taking the convenience of home delivery a few steps farther testing a new service.
The driver enters a one-time use code.
Reporter: The company partnering with lockmaker August home placed an order online and Walmart's delivery person can gain entry to your home, even stock your fridge, all while you're watching in realtime on your smartphone.
I think for younger folks working and putting in all kinds of hours and having a large commute it's a tremendous idea.
Reporter: But raising questions, too.
Not so sure about them coming in my home when I'm not there.
Reporter: Bottom line, David, this is one more step in the major competition between Walmart and Amazon.
Both retailers dueling to increase convenience and of course, profits, too.
David.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Hey guys welcome to reeled is happy Friday I'm Rebecca Jarvis the chief business technology and economics correspondent at ABC news and we have a great guest here with us today.
Rate valeo he is the founder of Bridgewater.
Associates which is the largest hedge fund in the world a 160.
Billion dollars under management and he is also the author.
Of this awesome new book it's called principles.
And it takes us on a road trip through your life through all of these stories all of these lessons learned along the way.
You starting your work behind.
From your two bedroom apartment here in New York City 1975.
Welcome to real biz.
Tell us about the book tell us about the inspiration and why he would write something like this today.
I wanted to writer because.
I wanted to pass along.
Just different things that I learned in order to be successful.
What I did.
Was every time I was in the situation.
I would write down the criteria for making a decision.
And so like created this collection of principles over a period of time when in this type of situation that type of situation what to do.
Then and I didn't want.
Publicity I wanna be private but in 2000 they we and to spend the financial crisis.
And we did well and we received a lot of attention because of the way that we think differently.
And it was misunderstood.
Generally.
So I put the principles that I wrote on line there was downloaded about three and a half million times and received a lot of thank you notes.
And now I'm at a stage of my life while making the transition.
I'm making the transition from political the second stage of my life took the third stage in my life.
You know I think that it's that one was elected three stages basis.
In the first stage of your life your dependent on others and you learn.
In the second stage of your life fewer weren't working.
And others are dependent on you.
And then you get to assert import pictures successful and you're no longer interest it and being more successful yourself.
The thing that you want to do was make other people successful it's like your parents at a certain age you want to make the other people successful.
And 2017.
Is really my transition year.
For the set second stage of my life with the third stage and wildlife.
And I had this cookbook of recipes so to speak that when I was operating in that and various circumstances.
I would use and it it's been miraculous.
It's been so it helps people understand each in other words by writing down a principal.
We've been able would have better understandings with the people I work went.
And we've also been able to convert them and algorithms.
That means that the computers are making decisions with us.
So it's been very very impact fool and so the main reason I'm passing along his own want to pass along what I've learned that's been helpful.
In order to help of the people.
I also hope.
That it will encourage other people too bright they are principally because not just my principles whatever the recipes for success are.
If you would have think can I get the principles for I wish Steve Jobs I was Einstein I wish all of those people.
Wrote their recipes when I was encountering something what what I do at that moment.
You know so if others right principles.
We'll also know.
How to deal with each you know I think to be principal I think right now in the country.
We have to think what is being principles what principles.
Bind us together what divide us.
Can we be clear about those and walked the talk for all those reasons I felt it was compelled to pass them along.
Were any taking questions from all of you so if you do have questions feel free to leave them in the comment section something that you write about.
In in the book ray.
That I really respect is this idea that the right answer might not be the answer that you come to you but you're looking for the right answer can come from anywhere.
And to your point about finding the right principles.
There are a lot of Smart people in this world in there are ways to reverse engineer success by looking at what they've done by looking at what you've done.
How did you make yourself open.
And maybe it was in that sort of first to second stage in life how did you.
Make yourself open as a leader who.
Need to be trusted needed to be seen as the person with the vision but also be open to taking ideas from elsewhere.
Misstates.
The power of mistakes.
In the talk about this as well will this is how I learned.
And so it was of a changing moment and in 1982.
I had put the greatest failure of my life.
A head in two stated that they were there.
Our country's wouldn't be able pay their don't expect that the banks and so on and it turned out to be right about that got a lot of tension for that.
On Wall Street greed congress asked me testify in all of this.
And I thought one when they would have that bank defaults Mexico defaulted on its debt and on August.
I thought than we were going to have an economic problem and we did have a debt problem but we didn't have an economic problem the exact.
Bottom in the stock market I thought things were.
Going to collapse and they went all right and I was so wrong.
That I had to let everybody ago.
And I got down to the point where I was so broke that I had to borrow 4000 dollars from that.
To help pay for my family's expenses and things.
And it was incredibly painful moment.
But it was the best thing maybe that ever happened one of the best things.
Because.
As I reflected on that it changed my attitude rather than thinking I'm right I started asked myself satellite no one.
It gave me the humility that I needed to balance with my audacity.
It made me asked that question.
How to one knows them right and it gave me an open mindedness what I think is one of the greatest tragedies of mankind.
And it's because it's so easily fixed is that people have in their minds.
Their own.
Opinions.
That are often wrong.
The best opinion may not be the one in your head and so what if you start to think.
How to Lenovo.
Right and you go out and stress tests that opinion and yeah do it in an open minded way.
And you take in things all of a sudden you realize that you can have the best thinking of anyone around you.
And so the important thing is to be right but it doesn't have to come from you the idea in your head right and that led me to create an idea and their credit company reports.
I wanted to.
Brightest independent thinkers who would challenge feature each other to create an idea meritocracy.
And eyes I describe in the book.
You know how that meritocracy working and that's basically just three things.
First everybody's got to put their honest thoughts on the table to look at yes of people don't do that right so you have to encourage right.
So put the honest thoughts on second.
You have Stewart and Julian value thoughtful disagreement not view it is conflict.
Right OK you can't have that thing in your style make.
I'm comfortable with the conflict you have to go with the conflict and allow it to happen.
It is Reverend Wright.
Is there an opportunity to learn.
How can I do how could we collectively make a better decision than we do individually.
And then third.
If used if that's still doesn't resolve it.
You have to have idea America credit worries of getting past that disagreement.
In other words know who knows and knows we have what we call believability waited decision.
And that has been the key to the success.
Cause the power.
Of getting the best ideas and collectively working.
And that humility that fear of being wrong raises the probability of being right.
That's been the key so one of the key elements here is to do that you know but.
They eat the book is filled with a lot of those kinds of suggestions that if you can operate with this principle that as the State's these various recipes and lots of things.
Well what I like about it is it's taking whoever you are and it optimizing it because this well while you have played in the field of finance throughout your life.
This is the kind of user manual that anybody who's a manager whether your.
Starting a new company that deals in widgets or you're running a restaurant.
Or you are hoping to someday do one of those things or anything frankly as a leader this is a guide book and it starting point for people.
Yes and I found from a lot of of the people's reactions I believe it's true for me.
It is even be on that.
It's any relationship.
OK it's any relationship or it's even just figuring out yourself and what is the right way to make decisions.
The rich and well.
That's what that's what the word principles mean.
Yeah right how do you deal with reality to get what you want effectively.
And there's only two things you need to do to be successful.
You need to know what the best decisions are on you have to have the courage to make them.
And when you start to realize that what you have in your head may not be the best and and get it wherever it is.
It's powerful for you whatever does life.
Would of the decisions you're making.
Totally agree OK we have got questions.
Okay Matt asks what's your favorite recipe and haircut.
Are there a lot of different recipes.
But again just building on this thing I would say.
Think for yourself.
No way.
That you don't know.
OK you don't all know all the things that you need to.
So to be able to have that radical open mindedness.
To know your weaknesses.
And to know what to do about.
They're only five things you need to do really.
In order to get what you want the first thing is you have to have your audacious goals.
You you have to do when you're going to your goals.
You're going to and challenging your problems in your failures.
You have to die knows those problems to get at their root causes.
And those root causes may be weaknesses you or mistakes that you see you have to embrace those.
And look at those who I have a week and then you have to design your way out of whatever that weaknesses or whatever that mistake is to get around that problem.
And that may include if you have a weakness to be able to work with people who were strong where you or we can't.
And then with that design.
To then pushed through to results XQ that is so.
And other words.
Know what you don't know yes and no had to deal with it recognize.
That what you don't know is much greater than what you do know.
My daddy used to always say the more you know the more you know you don't that's right.
Right and so knowing how to deal with your not knowing not not embrace your weaknesses.
Know them figure out how to deal with them and do that collectively.
It's very powerful.
So how do you think about this what your hiring and how do you diagnosed.
And another person sitting across Romeo and determine whether or not they're aware those five things and that they would work out the team will not the people normally are not used to being in an environment in which there's that.
Radicals straightforward news and and dealing with those things.
And you talk about your honesty and realizing along the way that sometimes that radical honesty.
Didn't always go the way that you are expecting it to.
Right.
So the way we deal with it is we try to explain that explain in the book.
It's explained before they come we show people what the environments like a chilling videos.
You know we take everything for everybody to see.
We take everything for everybody to see.
OK so that that's way you have to have an idea meritocracy.
So because of people can't see things that you form their own opinion and right so we'll show them what it's like.
And then they make an intellectual decision.
They want this and then they come in because.
You know.
I guess there would described bridge ordered one sentence or hostess it's an idea meritocracy.
In which the goals or equally to have meaningful work and meaningful relationships.
The relationships part is as much the reward.
I and to do that we need to be radical truthful witness and radical transparency.
Because of what you can have an idea meritocracy.
And that's been the magic formula so weak weak first say you wanna do it intellectually.
It's like going into the Navy SEALs you might say I want to do it can't hurt you up for this and then you go in and you experience it.
And people go through an adjustment process and it typically takes about eighteen months all behavior modification typically takes about eighteen months.
Of getting used to it.
About a third of the people it's not for you know it just doesn't work out.
For that reason.
About the majority of people once they get to that perspective of having this transparency they could speak up vacancy that they want people can.
Communicate their protocols for having real idea meritocracy.
Then they don't want to work anywhere else.
Because they have relationships but they also know that there's office politics.
You know normally.
Behind the C rights at all.
You don't know what somebody's thinking about.
Velocity two years that's not the same here.
So there's a transition team and so it's from the answer your question.
It's from the beginning of exploiting it it's by showing of the videos it's by having toe in the water rates by going there fighting out of its right.
And then they have all.
Witty line it's all part of the evolutionary process right.
It's part of self discovery.
I don't think there's probably anybody that I know who's gone to company Bridgewater.
Who hasn't found it fabulous self discovery process I guarantee you it interest.
And if fruits and if it's for you it's phenomenal it's like getting fit it's a you know I was thinking.
Yeah it's sort Europe.
Nobody likes to exercise.
You know ward the diet or whatever may be that's necessary to do that but to have behavior change and make you feel more effective.
It's great.
So anyway that's different reactions.
Great answer.
And how I like that questions of Isabel was asking.
For those of you out there.
Where to the principles come from early life teaching.
Our principles come from interacting with reality.
And then reflecting on those interactions.
I've an expression.
I think it is Georgian troops that I experience.
Plus reflection.
Equals progress.
And what I mean is if you're doing something wrong.
You're gonna get communicated by pain and if you're successful.
You're not gonna change.
But it in the pain and on this day.
There's probably a lesson so washed my attitude stored to change whenever I would make a painful mistake.
I would think of it is a puzzle.
That would give me a jab.
If I could solve the pots and the puzzle was.
What would be the principles that I would use so that when I encountered the same situation again.
I would have a better result.
And the jab.
Would be that principle to have a better results and by writing them down.
So why thing.
That you are very systematic about your approach Yahoo!
This isn't a Willy Nilly reflection of going over the same pot again in the getting good.
Doesn't stick.
If so it seemed like they come from or.
Encounters with reality.
Particularly painful encounters if you loosen there's okay.
It's screaming at you.
That you need a principle to don't doing the same thing again.
And if you ride it down this is like thirty years of writing these.
Okay and then you look at it with people and you communicate with people is that a good way of dealing with that thing.
And edit and then one another one comes law.
As the same things happen over and over gray.
When another one comes along and you look at that principle or even when you're dealing with people you together agree on that study only a lose lose situation.
It compounds.
And it and that's where to build them they the principles that's most effective way.
I want it there's so many places I could go with this but I want to talk to a little bit about current events and what's happening in the world.
A question that I frequently get from people were looking up the market now the Dow the S&P 500 have hit new all time highs it seems like almost every other day this year.
Based on article at you mentioned that the world feels like 1930s.
Yup yup.
Where do you think we are in this current cycle and can it really last when.
Companies like apple and Amazon and FaceBook are 30% of the growth we've seen in stock so far.
Links but why it's very similar in 1937.
In we had a debt crisis in 2000 and day and in that period we had interest rates come down to zero.
And that was like 1933.
32 when interest rates it is a reaction to the Great Depression that's right.
And then there's the Federal Reserve in both of those cases the only time this century up.
Printed a lot of money and bought a lot of financial assets and so from the bought 2000.
Until the present.
Just like from 1932.
Until 1937.
Asset prices went up a lot of money supplies increased Wright what more money supply and the economy's rebound in him okay.
But that rebound.
Had a two tier economy read it it it there was one economy that did grates or if you look at measures like.
The unemployment rate and if you look at the stock market and so on that spot.
But if you divide the economy into two parts you see that there's two very different parts to Africa.
To put that in perspective the top 110 of 1% of our populations now worth.
Is equal to the 90%.
Combined the bottom 90% c'mon.
If you look at the bottom 60% of the population.
They have miserable existence economy has not worked for hasn't had any glee at having rat wages haven't gone up and.
And yeah percent of the country doesn't have a 401K or any kind of backed notes.
The aggregate no sense and worse than that.
It's the only.
Place in the world we're death rate to rise in another words.
Combination of opiates.
Suicide.
And other words bad economy he just carved out that 60% economy.
That's a very bad economy and so we have.
Just like the 1935.
To forty period.
And so we have that gap.
That's the biggest issue of our time it's reflected in the elections OK it's a big issue.
If the economy was to have a downturn.
Yesterday.
It would be a lot of anger that would be a wealth conflict that would be a social conflict between political con right.
So add were also what the point 1937.
Was the point where they stopped pushing those interest rates and.
Roderick there is now hiking they're not buying their their peeling back on on their purchases of asset write.
And so we are now in a situation.
In which we this Federal Reserve has got to be very careful.
The written because.
First.
All assets are sensitive to interest rate changes.
And we have a more leverage economy have that polarity.
So as we move forward.
The less of them 1930s.
It doesn't mean we have to repeat 1930s.
But the lesson of 1937.
Is with those large obligations.
And with that.
And there is in a symmetric risk on the down side and so to be careful about tightening monetary policy.
Because if you ask the Federal Reserve they can't explain the relationship between unemployment and inflation.
Ray okay.
What we won't really don't have inflation right now even though the unemployment rate has gone down in the one thing.
That you heard from fed chair Janet Yellen multiple times in the last.
Press conference earlier this week.
They can't really figure out why inflation isn't going up.
List you can't figure it out okay I have my own what you need to carry.
But I think that they're defining labor as unemployment.
Rather than the new world labor and think about it is a combination of technologies for good that is almost robots.
And technology competing with people and now what is the work force.
And the competition.
Between technology.
Other words what's happening now.
Is that as algorithms.
Are built they start to replace a lot of jobs estimated that over than you know next.
Twenty years we could lose about 40% of our work.
Yet you talked about it competent artificial intelligence algorithms automation all of those things can run have an impact of very significant want it.
Well it's not if it'd happen.
So when we look at this if the Federal Reserve does not know why flee his rise it okay.
And the risks array symmetric on downs are okay because it's so much easier.
To you know that tightening monetary policies that work causes a lot of debt when you raise interest rates.
You know that the brakes were on hand but if you're close to zero on interest rates and you've done a lot of quantitative easing.
And also asset prices have gone up in their very interest rates.
If you know all those things that you know it's not as easy on that it's a symmetric on the downside also socially and politically.
So wait at least until you see more sides of inflation.
Before worrying about the tightening of monetary policy that's the lesson of 1937.
The let in 1937 that was a small tightening set the stock market down 50% and caused a lot of social conflict.
That was the thing so be careful it's analogous to 1937.
So and I know we have to wrap things up here but what do you think about the fact that it very likely we'll see the Fed hike interest rates in December and then three more times next year from what they've signal is that.
If if all things are steady as they are at this moment if everything was held constant as they are at this moment.
And the Fed does exactly what it has signaled it will do.
Where do you think that puts us an okay spot or in a dangerous place.
I think that would be in a dangerous placed on the other hand let me say they're for the last I would say.
22 and a half years.
The Fed gave such indications before right and they haven't necessarily make that they didn't do any bat.
Okay they did they didn't do less lower right because.
As they.
Were feeling their way along.
They were they saw that that would not be a good move in hand so I believe that the picture that the Fed is painting.
In terms of its combination of interest rates are letting the balance sheet Ron down.
Will be not what they will end up doing probably.
Because I think that would be too tight at a dangerous time so I don't think they'll do that.
But time will tell.
Last question everybody.
Worst advice you received your career.
Make people.
Love they should make people happy.
I think I should I think I should help people be successful.
And that sometimes.
Happiness in that move that in the moment mood.
Is something that is the opposite you know the world is made up of first order consequences and second water yes.
And often the first to water consequences.
Eat something that tastes good.
Good in the moment that type of mentality commit necessarily pay off in the long run a lot of the time in actually so.
Think about what you.
You know.
Think about what is going to be what you really want and think about the second order consequences to get what you want.
Because we have two brains and harboring rail and we have the thoughtful part of our brain and it pre frontal cortex port thoughtful.
And then we have that emotional.
And emotional so wonderful thing but there are two types of emotions those that'll harm us and those are really that all what we want inspiration.
You know all of those good ones and to know that there's a great trick in life.
And that great trick of life is that those first order consequences.
That are the emotional ones can get us in trouble.
I believe that to be true so I would say that you know the worst is look beyond the first order consequences.
Fantastic rate Elliott thank you so much for joining us thank you it was really an interesting conversation the book is called principal.
Amazon might be sold out right now so if you're going.
Well put year old lottery and you're he'll be on the top of the list that'll come it's been and allot them and so.
If it'll get there which is phenomenal so culprits irate Alley a thank you so much street for stopping by thank you and have a great weekend everybody be well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

I would assure the steps that were taken to protect election integrity and make sure that FaceBook is a force for democracy.
And while the amount problematic content that we found so far remains relatively small.
And he attempted interference is a serious issue.
So you're dying thing it's that we're going to be working on over the next few months first.
We are actively working with the US government on its ongoing investigations into Russian interference second.
We will continue our own investigation.
Into what happened on FaceBook in this election third.
Going forward and maybe the most important steps we're taking is we're going to make political advertising more transparent.
Fourth.
We will strengthen our own ad review process for political.
We are increasing our investment in security and specifically in the election integrity.
Sixth.
We will expand our partnerships with election commissions around the world seven.
We will increase sharing of threat information with other technology and security companies.
We are working proactively.
To strengthen the democratic process finally.
We've been working to ensure the integrity of the German elections this we.
From taking action against.
Thousands of fake accounts are partnering with public authorities that the federal office for information security team sharing security practices with the candidates and parties.
We're also examining the activity of accounts we've removed and we've not yet found similar type.
Interference effort in Germany.
And this is incredibly important and we've been focused on this for a while.
Now with the same time.
It's important not to lose sight.
Some of the more straightforward and in larger ways that FaceBook please role in elections and these effects operated much larger scales of a hundred times or a thousand times bigger than what we're discussing here.
In 2016.
People billions and billions of interactions and open discussions on FaceBook that they have never happened before offline.
Candidates had direct channels to communicate with tens of millions of citizens.
And campaign spent tens of millions organizing.
An advertising online to get their messages out further.
We organized get out the vote efforts helped as many as two million people registered to vote who might not have voted under its.
Many these dynamics were new in this election.
And at a much larger scale then had ever seen before history adamant.
And they were much larger in scale than any of the interference that we found.
We will continue working with the government to understand the full extent Russian interference.
And we will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world.
But also to give everyone a voice it to be a force for good and democracy everywhere.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

We turn to a major new lawsuit for women at Google claiming g@nder discrimination.
Saying the company pays men more than women and gives women fewer opportunities.
Our chief business correspondent Rebecca Jarvis is here with the story.
Good morning, Rebecca.
Good morning, Michael.
Yes, that's rye of the three women have tied the lawsuit accusing Google of discriminating against female employees by systematically paying them lower compensation than Google pays to male employees performing substantiallily similar work.
Essentially it is saying they're underpaying them denying them promotion opportunities and they want to make it a class action suit covering all women who worked at Google within the last four years.
And a spokesperson for Google telling me they disagree with the central allegations and that the company has extensive systems to place -- to ensure that we pay fairly.
The department of labor is also investigating Google's hiring practices.
This is not the end.
We'll continue to hear about this.
When is this going to stop?
The more people talk about this, the more it's exposed if it is, in fact happening, the more change we can make.
We can hope.
Yes, absolutely.
Yes, we can.
All right.
Thanks, guys.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

All right, switching gear now to a story about one CEO's strategy to help her get ahead in silicon valley.
She says she dyed her hair brown to be taken more seriously in the tech world.
ABC's Rebecca Jarvis has more.
All right, why are we in Oakland?
Eileen Carrey is a successful CEO in silicon valley known for co-founding glassbreakers, a diversity and inclusion opportunity software company.
This morning it's not her top tech that has everyone talking.
It's her hair.
Made the decision based on research to change my perception in a way so that it improved the likelihood of, you know, being taken more seriously as a leader, as opposed to maybe a sexual object.
Reporter: One of her secrets to getting ahead, proactively fighting the blond stereotype.
Going from this to this.
When I first started the company I I was given stress from a friend who just broke down and plain and simple terms about perception, how I would be perceived.
Reporter: While running her company as a blond in a male dominated workforce she feared her hair color made it less likely she would be taken seriously by potential investors.
I kept getting comments about, it's so up pressive that you're so young and you started this company like I was 23 but I'm 31.
So I dyed my hair.
I wanted to appear a little less sexy.
Reporter: Karen Shackleford says this feeling is common in the workplace.
There are research study has show women who dress more femininely, wear more jewelry, look more attractive are less likely to be hired for managerial positions.
She said she heard plenty of stories like her own and not just in silicon valley.
That's something that happens all over America in our school, in our offices, in our government.
So this is a phenomenon that does not affect me but all of us.
Indeed.
So great to have Rebecca and editor in chief of "Marie Claire" with us.
I know you have a podcast called no limits.
How does this story compare to all you've seen in the tech world.
A podcast Ann has been on and want you on soon, Lara.
We are hearing this everywhere.
Fundamentally an issue with women trying to be heard, that desire to be seen as something more than a sex object and to be taken seriously and that's really what's happening here.
It takes different forms, but women all over the workfce are trying to be heard and taken seriously.
And, Anne, this really is about more than hair, isn't it?
This is a larger conversation.
Well, yeah, I think there are two things at play.
One silicon valley definitely has a sexism problem and that has got to change.
But secondly women no matter where we work are going to be judged on our appearance more harshly than men and you have to play that game.
Do I think you need to change the color of your hair, absolutely not.
If that gives you confidence to walk in a room and own it then I say go for it.
I'll ask you, Rebecca.
You talked to so many powerful women.
What advice do you have to women who want to get ahead, specifically in the tech world?
I think one really simple and straightforward piece of advice that I heard from a top female CEO in silicon valley is to speak up once a day in a meeting.
And that's something that you can make a commitment to yourself and do.
Just say, every day once a day I am going to speak up in a meeting.
I'm going to make it comfortable for myself, because it does get more comfortable the more that you do it and the more you talk, the more you're heard.
You think you'll be heard loud and clear, blond or brunette?
Absolutely.
Just carry yourself with confidence.
I love that, I mean at the end of the day that is ulth they what it's all about, we hope.
Really great conversation you guys.
Thank you so much.
Coming up, everybody, the

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: $24 million winner claims prize with 2 days left

Now Playing: Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

Now Playing: Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Now Playing: Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

Now Playing: Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

Now Playing: Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

Now Playing: Florida Irma evacuee wins $10K in NC lottery

Now Playing: Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

Now Playing: Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

Now Playing: Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

Now Playing: Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Now Playing: Massachusetts woman quits job after $758.7M Powerball win

Now Playing: Superior outdoor products made in America

Now Playing: Johnson and Johnson ordered to pay $417M to one woman over cancer claims

Now Playing: Woman wins $1.6 million on Vegas airport slot machine

Now Playing: AMC tries to legally block MoviePass service

Now Playing: The best ways to save on back-to-school essentials
Transcript for Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

That is a scene in Miami right now.
100-mile-an-hour winds.
You see the palm trees swaying.
That is not the worst of the storm.
That's Miami right now.
Miami police waning officers are sheltered in place.
They're not able to respond to anyone in trouble.
We're going the talk more with with chief business and economics reporter Rebecca Jarvis.
The mayor doesn't know what the damage will be like.
We know lit cost a lot.
If the estimates are right, George, this will be the costliest storm in U.S. History.
Hurricane Irma now potentially going to cost $200 billion.
Back to back with hurricane Harvey, which could cost as much as $180 billion.
Back to back two of the most expensive storms in history.
Greater than Katrina, which cost $160 billion.
You have to think about the area this storm is tracing.
Some of the most populated areas.
8 1/2 million properties in potential risk.
The crops.
Florida is a place we get Orange juice from.
A number of produce products.
$1.2 billion in crop damage is estimated right now.
Gnat ongoing issue, the fact that there are major gasoline out outages.
The fourth largest shipping port in the country is shut down.
Getting back to business is going to take a long time.
That's even though the biggest city?
The state, Miami, getting hit hard by wind.
But spared the worst.
Spared the worst.
But you have this all up and down the west coast now.
Gasoline outannals.
People have rushed to get out of town.
As a result of this storm.
But still, you have very likely going to see huge, huge economic implications from the storm.
They could really expand into the national economy.
It could show up in the gdp figures going forward as well.
Nat ewe dowd, ymatthew dowd, you were advising George Bush in the hurricane Katrina aftermath.
Many people forget that hurricane Katrina horribly tragic, three weeks later, wee had hurricane Rita.
We had two major hurricanes.
When you look back, the lessons learned from people by Katrina.
And two, how important the likely action and local decisionmaking and local authority is from the city to the state.
The two governors, governor Abbott and Scott, have both responded well.
The city officials have been all over this pip think secondarily, the president's response.
I have to say, mother nature doesn't dwiscriminate and is not partisan.
They expect our leaders not the be partisan.
President trump has emphasized supporting the local officials.
He has.
Absolutely.
He's been on task.
I think in the midst of this when he made the deal on the debt ceiling and FEMA funding, he did it in a bipartisan way.
In the midst of the tragedy, this is the best week of the president's Prez zen si.
Your dad is there.
He's 83.
In his closet with mattresses.
Holed up.
E H knows he'll be there for the next 12, 24 hours.
A long day ahead.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

You started working out you said early on with fairy.
And you move your way up.
Inside of the company to CEO which I really admire the idea of learning the whole business before you get to that top plea in the company he.
What are some of the most important lessons you learned along the way.
I think for me it's been about.
I never really started out my career theories.
You see.
It wasn't this.
It was about.
It got to get it where.
It is.
So much how they.
It was about Natalie.
We're.
Hugh B will also be.
I you.
And else people.
Which is essentially.
Total fantasy.
What I hear what you love something first of all passion is so important to being an evangelist it actually and really caring about it not speaking at not being like some outside of its like oh yeah I love this thing but actually don't really.
But then once you're in it and you're experiencing it you.
Really understand it and you know how it works and packets to the execution part you can appreciate.
If you make a change in fact of the company you can appreciate.
What all of the people inside of the company working are gonna respond to that changed life.
And you're expanding a lot now I read is at 39.
Locations one hour 41 might be.
Four one by the end of this year and you're expanding I read Stockholm in the line.
Yet we we just.
I'm curious internationally.
Our people is nuts about working out as they are in the days to go it's hard it did and.
Definitely not me.
It appears like a pop star break.
I'm targeting and seeking to manage it can we get influence some oh.
Oh my eyes.
I don't think that we had.
There are until.
Oh my Angel but at times do.
And he can attest how fun it is time yeah.
Party in the lighting gas sexy in there's definitely won't like.
Performance element to it that people are connecting it.
Internationally regardless.
Intense exercise is.
Stockholm was super massive people when I did my influences.
15% of the people that well when you.
That's that's the term of those.
That at least at twelve point zero when you're damaged twenty.
It's twelve miles an hour.
Wow you know that's article driving yet but they're being you know by sitting there writing and I let.
Hands.
London these symptoms.
In Dubai.
Pastor is.
Dubai is interesting a lot of B kind of fitness brands from the US and they're and second location after new York and LA.
Is due by them.
It's it seems like it's a market that a lot of people want to be and why do you think that is.
And there are a lot of acts that swimming.
American and you walk and been to divide I have I actually have visited a friend of mine with there it's really isn't walker.
The city and you see.
Peak American concepts like restaurants case that two locations.
So it's definitely a place that says.
There.
What would be your number one tip to people out there who want to start a workout regiment.
But they're afraid.
And I think about it I was deeply.
I think when you can make working social.
It just as fun if you running next to someone other areas are outside and having a hard time if something that.
Mara choose something that you really enjoy it because then you'll want to go back but enjoyment is relative because when I am very class I'm having fun.
Yeah but I feel so home good afterwards.
And I feel so strong and so empowered and I see the results but that's what keeps me coming back so what ever your motivation is do something that makes you feel good that you're not like dragging yourself there and eating it.
Because then you're just you're it you're not and keep it out.
And for I talked a lot of people I'm like an evangelist pretty bad but I love berries and that I talked a lot of people about an I'm not ready yet and it I would before I was.
When I might first there is class literally the instructor was joking.
When he said take your inclined to 15% and out like this is really funny and then everywhere rallies are I was like wait they're serious about this.
So I was not ready I wasn't in shape but I went and got through it kept going that's what gets you instincts and that's what I was told it was just comic the bandit.
And was people always say it.
Varies I didn't.
That you weren't like super eight I don't worry about jobs there and me.
And you.
Should.
Well and I very much and it's it's your instructor when they know which are there's there's started.
Is it that these two.
And they're just.
The other misconception that you haven't met but because of the boot camp at some weakening the Alley you.
And quietly cute lady peace is comrade faster it's not like like everybody in the same we're all struggling together and the instructors are really supportive.
No it doesn't drill sergeant.
By its board when it comes to you eat up that it right from the customers while employees.
Leadership alliance use your instructors.
To me and hide people that.
Our or or out there was watching right now we liked commencement without high.
Cardona and a lot of them think they are governed positive off them.
Is inspirational and this is what people that the news that those.
That's true they desperation.
But I believe that you were.
As a after values in place to make sure that we especially this level you and higher in people.
We understand there's very it is and why.
Six two decades.
And a lot of have to do treat.
William treatment.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the big spike in gas prices heading into the last weekend of summer vacation.
Here's Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight, gasoline prices surging.
The national average for a gallon of regular is now $2.55, up 50 cents.
In Dallas, what looks like a parking lot is really the endless line for gas, and many pumps there already out.
Harvey affecting more than 20% of America's refining.
And major pipelines that ship fuel have been stopped or slowed.
But tonight these tankers refueling those stations emptied out by panic after the storm.
Analysts expect prices to jump three to five cents a day before backing up in mid-september.
Rebecca, thank you.
There's still much more ahead on "World news tonight" this Friday.
Handcuffed at the hospital.
Outrage after video shows a

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the devastation in Texas causing an instant spike in gas prices nationwide.
The largest refinery in the U.S. Shutting down.
Drivers already paying more for gas, heading into the last weekend of summer.
Here's ABC's chief business correspondent, Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight with much of the country's energy complex underwater, the ripple effect.
From coast to coast, gasoline prices rising and set to spike further.
Gasbuddy predicting the national average for a gallon of gas now $2.43 will increase 15 to 25 cents in coming weeks.
It's less money in my pocket.
Reporter: The storm shutting down nearly a quarter of U.S.
Refining capacity.
This Chevron plant in Baytown, Texas, inundated.
15 gulf coast refineries, including motiva, the largest in the country now shuttered.
Tom, they are changing these prices at this pump as we speak.
Hiking them and this price spike is expected to last another two to three weeks, Tom.
So many with road trips planned ahead.
All right, rebaek ka.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

consumer alert.
Amazon is taking on the supermarkets by taking over whole foods and cutting prices on staples by up to 40%.
It could be the start of a major price war and Adrienne Bankert has the story.
Good morning, Adrienne.
Reporter: How excited are you that whole foods is no longer going to cost your whole paycheck, guys.
Yeah, thank you.
In Manhattan they sold completely out of some items by 6:30 P.M.
The reaction online staggering as customers enjoyed phenomenal deals.
Whole foods has had a reputation for being way too expensive.
From the looks of things that is changing.
This morning a grocery revolution that could have a direct impact on your bill.
The first changes now from that ambitious purchase by Amazon of whole foods, the chain slashing its prices in almost 500 stores Monday and up to 43% drop on some of your most popular products from bananas to avocados, apples and eggs.
Rotisserie was flying off the shelves.
Reporter: The big question will they match?
They're conventional stores.
What will happen?
They'll change.
If they don't they're out of business.
Reporter: Retail experts weighing in on whole foods and Amazon's move could set off a boom of benefits.
We're seeing price drops in whole foods.
In the long term we're going to see a lot more competition for grocery stores, especially those that cater to the high earner demographic.
Reporter: And is it megastore Walmart that Amazon and whole foods really have in their sights with these drops?
Amazon with this acquisition of whole foods and that price drop is really trying to take that market share away from Walmart, especially when it comes to grocery and they're getting very close.
Reporter: And more changes in store with Amazon's brand.
The echo on sale next to the quinoa and kale.
So it's really phenomenon flal how far prices have dropped.
Some example.
We went to a whole foods in new York City, a couple.
Fuji apple, organic kind, $3.49 a pound.
Now only $1.99 a pound.
That 43% drop and Hass avocados like the one I have in my hand here, 2.99 a pound last week.
Now they're just $1.99 a pound, 33% savings.
A lot of people saying they want their avocado toast and guacamole.
Now you can have a lot.
It will depend on the store as to what the price drops will be but you'll see a lot of those sale signs and I think everybody will be happy about it.
The lines will be even longer than they already are.
That's the thing.
We talked to some people would said that there was stuff that was cleared out yesterday and a lot of people going for the avocados.
Those price, it's worth it.
Worth standing in line.
It is true, everybody always says that joke the whole foods whole paycheck.
I'm glad you pointed that out.
Not anymore.
No more.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Not only is this a big test.
For the president is also.
Potentially big blow for the US economy that's correct because as we know many of our US oil refineries are there in the gulf and they are also taking a beating so we had.
ABC's Rebecca Jarvis here to talk about the massive economic impact this is having on the region and across the country that's right Amy and Dan and one of the things that you'll see from all of this as well there's a huge Schuman tool an emotional hole on many.
There is an economic hole on every one in the country and that's because of the location that it's happening here this is the heart.
Of our energy patch 45%.
Of our country's refining capacity exists there in the Gulf of Mexico a third of that capacity is right in the ranged where this storm is hitting.
And gasoline prices are projected to climb anywhere from five cents to 25 cents a gallon.
Throughout the country and 25 cents would be on the end where if a refinery actually gets hit many of them are shuttered for the moment if one gets hit destroyed.
That's where you would really see the bigger spike in prices.
Also on that human told side of things housing so many of these highly populated areas are going to face housing challenges 200000.
Homes at least.
In the path of this storm.
And the estimates right now are that anywhere from one to two billion dollars in damage could be done shortly from the wind and storm that doesn't even include the flooding to.
That's when you love your sorry we're twelve years out from from Katrina where several years up from sandy in this area and people are still recover from both of those storms right now.
And this is what homeowner see every time there's a terrible storm the time that it takes to recover is much longer than the storm itself.
Well Rebecca we certainly appreciate we know that the flood damage wasn't included in that and we know that is the biggest concern.
For so many people who are now taking care of people who were in the storm zone it's the flooding we're worried about as you said earlier it's the water that kills as well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
A look at some of the key business events and economic indicators upcoming this week:

HOUSING MARKET BAROMETER

Economists expect that sales of new U.S. homes rebounded in August after falling sharply the previous month.
Sales sank 9.4 percent in July to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 571,000, the biggest one-month drop in nearly a year.
Still, sales so far this year are outpacing last year's.
More buyers are turning to newly built houses as the supply of existing homes for sale has fallen steadily.
The Commerce Department releases its new home sales data Tuesday.
New home sales, seasonally adjusted annual rate, by month:

March 638,000

April 590,000

May 618,000

June 630,000

July 571,000

Aug.
(est.)
580,000

Source: FactSet

STRONG FINISH?
Jabil Circuit delivers its latest quarterly report card Wednesday.
Financial analysts predict the electronics manufacturing company closed out its fiscal fourth quarter with better earnings and revenue than in the same period last year.
Jabil posted improved results in the third quarter.
That followed two quarters of lower earnings.
GROWING FASTER?
Economists project that the U.S. economy's rate of growth accelerated sharply in the second quarter.
The Commerce Department is expected to report Thursday that the gross domestic product increased at a 3 percent annual rate in the April-June quarter, unchanged since its August estimate.
It marks a sharp acceleration from the 1.2 percent pace set in the first three months of the year.
GDP, seasonally adjusted annual rate, by quarter:

Q1 2016: 0.6

Q2 2016: 2.2

Q3 2016: 2.8

Q4 2016: 1.8

Q1 2017: 1.2

Q2 2017 (est.
): 3.0

Source: FactSet
U.S. stock indexes inched lower Monday in a quiet open to trading for the week.
Technology stocks fell, but gains for oil producers and other energy companies kept the losses in check.
KEEPING SCORE: The Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 2 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,500, as of 10 a.m. Eastern time.
The Dow Jones industrial average dipped 15 points, or 0.1 percent, to 22,334, and the Nasdaq composite dropped 32, or 0.5 percent, to 6,394.
Smaller stocks held up better than the rest of the market.
The Russell 2000 index rose 4 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,454.
TECH TURBULENCE: Tech stocks in the S&P 500 lost 1 percent, the steepest drop among the 11 sectors that make up the index.
Losses were broad across the sector: Facebook fell 3.3 percent, chipmaker Nvidia lost 2.4 percent and semiconductor company Broadcom fell 1.7 percent.
ENERGIZED: The price of benchmark U.S. crude oil rose 65 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $51.31 per barrel.
Brent crude, the international standard, gained 88 cents to $57.30 per barrel.
The higher prices helped lift stocks across the energy sector, which rose 1 percent.
Marathon Oil gained 2.6 percent, and Noble Energy rose 2.4 percent.
REVVED UP: Genuine Parts jumped to the biggest gain in the S&P 500 after it said it would buy Alliance Automotive Group, a European distributor of auto parts, tools and workshop equipment.
Genuine Parts valued the deal at $2 billion, including the repayment of debt.
Genuine Parts gained $6.15, or 7 percent, to $94.13.
MARKETS ABROAD: Germany's DAX index rose 0.2 percent after Chancellor Angela Merkel won a fourth term.
Merkel's party and its allies, though, lost some seats as they turned in one of their weakest postwar results.
The results sent the euro lower and underscored the tricky challenge Merkel has in forming a coalition with new partners to lead Europe's biggest economy.
The CAC 40 fell 0.3 percent in Paris, and the FTSE 100 slipped 0.1 percent in London.
In Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 rose 0.5 percent, South Korea's Kospi slipped 0.3 percent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 1.4 percent.
YIELDS: The yield on the 10-year Treasury note slipped to 2.24 percent from 2.25 percent late Friday.
The two-year fell to 1.42 percent from 1.44 percent, and the 30-year held steady at 2.78 percent.
CURRENCIES: The euro fell to $1.1882 from $1.1941 late Friday, and the British pound slipped to $1.3519 from $1.3527.
The dollar inched up to 112.15 Japanese yen from 112.05 yen.
COMMODITIES: Gold slipped 80 cents to $1,296.70 per ounce, silver fell 5 cents to $16.93 per ounce and copper lost a penny to $2.93 per pound.
Natural gas dropped 1 cent to $2.95 per 1,000 cubic feet, heating oil rose 2 cents to $1.83 per gallon and wholesale gasoline added 2 cents to $1.65 per gallon.
Grain futures were lower Monday in early trading on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Wheat for Dec. delivery was down .40 cent at $4.490 a bushel; Dec corn lost 1 cent 3.5240 a bushel; December oats lost .20 cent at $2.476 a bushel while Nov. soybeans declined 8.20 cents to $9.760 a bushel.
Beef lower and pork was lower on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
October live cattle lost 1.98 cents at $1.0960 a pound; September feeder cattle was down 1.95 cents at $1.5145 a pound; October lean hogs was off .05 cent at $.5575 a pound.
Target Corp. is raising its minimum hourly wage for its workers to $11 starting next month and then to $15 by the end of 2020 in a move it says will help it better recruit and retain top-quality staff and provide a better shopping experience for its customers.
The initiative, announced Monday, is part of the discounter's overall strategy to reinvent its business announced earlier this year that includes remodeling stores, expanding its online services and opening up smaller urban locations.
Target quietly raised entry-level hourly wages to $10 last year from $9 from the previous year, following initiatives by Walmart and others to hike wages in a fiercely competitive marketplace.
But Target's hike to $15 per hour far exceeds not only the federal minimum of $7.25 per hour but the hourly base pay at Walmart, the nation's largest private employer, and plenty of its other retail peers whose minimum hourly pay now hovers around $10.
As part of its $2.7 billion investment in workers, Walmart Stores Inc. had raised its entry-level hourly pay for workers to $9 in 2015 and then to $10 in 2016.
With Target's large influence in the retail, its hike could force some rivals to match the pay in order to compete.
"We see this not only as an investment in our team but an investment in an elevated experience for our guests and the communities we serve," Brian Cornell, CEO of Target, told reporters on a call Friday.
Shares of the Minneapolis company fell 2 percent early Monday morning as investors worried about how much the wage hike would hurt the bottom line.
Target reiterated its third-quarter and full-year profit guidance but said that it would update investors early next year about how higher wages will affect long-term profits.
The changes come at a time when there's growing concern for the plight of the hourly worker.
Thousands of workers have staged protests to call attention to their financial struggles and to fight for $15 hourly pay.
Last November's election of a Republican-controlled Congress dampened hopes of an increase in the $7.25 per-hour federal minimum wage.
But advocates have continued to press for hikes on the state and local level.
At the same time, competition for lower-skilled workers has heated up, and retailers, likely hobbled by the threat of e-commerce, are falling behind.
As shoppers get more mobile-savvy, retailers are seeking sales staff who are more skilled at customer service and in technology such as using iPads to check out inventory.
But with the unemployment rate near a 16-year low, the most desirable retail workers feel more confident in hopping from job to job.
Thirty-two percent of all first jobs in the U.S. are in retail, according to The National Retail Federation, the nation's largest retail group, and stores overall have more job openings now than they did a few years ago.
Hourly pay at restaurants and hotels is up 3.5 percent from a year earlier, a much better raise than the 2.5 percent gain for all employees.
For workers at transportation and warehousing companies, where e-commerce growth is fueling hiring, pay is up 2.7 percent in the past year.
Retailers, however, have lifted pay just 1.8 percent in the past year.
That may be spurring more workers to leave for better opportunities: Separate government data shows the number of retail workers quitting their jobs this year and last is at the highest in a decade.
The average hourly pay for cashiers is now $10.14, according to the Hay Group's survey of 140 retailers with annual sales of at least $500 million.
The survey was conducted in May.
A year ago, the hourly pay was $9.79.
Target says that its minimum hourly wage of $11 is higher than the minimum wage in 48 states and matches the minimum wage in Massachusetts and Washington.
It says the pay hike will affect thousands of its more than 300,000 workers, but it declined to quantify the percentage of its workforce.
It said the increase to $11 per hour will apply to the more than 100,000 hourly workers that Target will be hiring for the holiday season.
Target declined to say what the average pay will be for its hourly workers with the increased wages.
Ken Perkins, president of Retail Metrics LLC., a retail research firm, called Target's decision "astute."
But he says only healthy rivals will be able to afford to match Target's hourly pay hike, creating a larger divide between thriving stores and those that are struggling.
"Target is really trying to gain market share in an environment where there is tremendous upheaval," Perkins said.
But he believes that there may be only a few dozen retailers like Best Buy, Home Depot and Walmart that can mirror what Target is doing.
Target's wage increases come as the discounter is seeing signs that its turnaround efforts are starting to win back shoppers.
In August, Target reported that a key sales figure rose in the second quarter, its revenue beat Wall Street expectations and its online sales jumped 32 percent.
The increase for the key sales measure reversed four straight quarters of declines.
At that time, the company also boosted its earnings expectations for the year.
Target is spending $7 billion over three years to remodel old stores, open small ones in cities and college towns and offer faster delivery for online orders.
It is also adding more clothing and furniture brands, and said that its children's line Cat & Jack brought in $2 billion in sales since its launch a year ago.
Cornell said that Target has been moving toward dedicated workers in specific areas like beauty and clothing, and the wage increases will only help improve customer experience.
Walmart has been benefiting from its investment in its workers.
The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has seen lower turnover among workers and has gotten much better scores by customers for its service.
Walmart's namesake U.S. division reported a 1.8 percent increase in revenue at stores opened at least a year during its fiscal second quarter, marking the 12th straight period of gains.
Walmart's wage investments, however, did take a big bite out of profits.
Target's shares fell $1.19 per share to $57.80 in early trading Monday.
AP Economics Writer Chris Rugaber contributed to this report from Washington.
Follow Anne D'Innocenzio at http://www.Twitter.com/adinnocenzio
The latest on developments in financial markets (All times local):

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening modestly lower on Wall Street, led by declines in technology companies.
Apple fell 1.3 percent in early trading Monday following a report that it was telling parts suppliers to slow down delivery of iPhone X components.
Materials companies and retailers were also lower.
International Paper fell 1.1 percent and Amazon lost 1.5 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 3 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,499.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 10 points, less than 0.1 percent, to 22,341.
The Nasdaq lost 36 points, or 0.6 percent, to 6,391.
Swiss robotics and industrial machinery maker ABB is buying the electrification services unit of U.S. conglomerate General Electric in a deal valued at $2.6 billion, boosting its presence in its crucial North American market.
The deal between ABB, which provides high-tech equipment for the transport, utility and infrastructure industries, and GE is expected to close in the first half of next year.
In a joint statement, the companies say the electrification services unit was not a "core business" for GE.
The Swiss company expects the transaction to add to its bottom line within the first year.
ABB says it will retain the right to use GE's brand over the long-term, and expects synergies of about $200 million per year after five years.
The deal will require approval from national regulators.
The stock market response to Chancellor Angela Merkel's victory in Germany's election was fairly muted Monday even as the euro currency faltered.
KEEPING SCORE: In Europe, Germany's DAX was up 0.2 percent to 12,622 while France's CAC 40 slipped 0.2 percent to 5,269.
Britain's FTSE 100 lost 0.2 percent to 7,294.
U.S. stocks were poised for a flat opening with both Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures poised to open just a tad lower.
GERMAN POLITICS: Chancellor Angela Merkel won a fourth term but the big change was the nationalist, anti-refugee Alternative for Germany party surging into parliament with about 13 percent of the vote.
Merkel's party and its allies lost some seats as they turned in one of their weakest postwar results.
The results sent the euro lower  it's down 0.6 percent at $1.1872  and underscored the tricky challenge Merkel has in forming a coalition with new partners to lead Europe's biggest economy.
ANALYST TAKE: "While the euro has seen some early weakness given the unexpected surge in support for the anti-immigration AfD party, it is likely that any weakness will be fleeting as Merkel take on her fourth term," said Joshua Mahoney, Market Analyst at IG.
WEEK AHEAD: Politics also dominates the week's events, with investors on edge ahead of a widely expected announcement by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe later Monday to call a snap general election for Oct. 22.
Investors are also looking ahead to Chinese manufacturing data and Japanese retail sales, employment and other economic data at the end of the week, for insights on Asia's two biggest economies.
ASIAN SCORECARD: Japan's Nikkei 225 index rose 0.5 percent to close at 20,397.58 as the yen's renewed strength made the country's stocks more attractive to foreign investors.
But South Korea's Kospi lost 0.4 percent to 2,380.40, Hong Kong's Hang Seng shed 1.4 percent to 27,500.34 and the Shanghai Composite in mainland China fell 0.3 percent to 3,341.55.
Australia's S&P/ASX 200 edged up less than 0.1 percent to 5,683.70.
ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 56 cents to $51.22 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange while Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 72 cents to $56.58 a barrel in London.
A growing number of everyday entrepreneurs are taking their hobbies and turning them into an extra source of income in a practice that has become known as the side hustle.
What I am talking about is creating an income by generating a project without quitting your day job," Chris Guillebeau, author of "Side Hustle: From Idea to Income in 27 Days" told ABC News.
Guillebeau adds that the side hustle is different from taking on a typical second job in that the idea is to turn your passions into a source of income.
The new trend, partly fueled by the internet, is also bringing in big bucks for some.
"My side hustle is running hiking tours in the city of San Francisco," Alexandra Kennin told ABC News.
"I'm earning about $50,000 a year just from the side hustle."
Alicia Ostarello and Angie Sommer said that their side hustle is to write wedding vows and speeches for others through their business "Vow Muse."
When not writing vows, Ostarello works as a copywriter for a tech firm and Sommer as a structural engineer.
The pair said they each earn about gross $15,000 a year from their side hustles.
ABC News

Tech giant Airbnb, known for its room-rental services, is also helping promote side hustles, after recently adding an "experiences" option in 40 different cities where people can sign up to sell walking tours, catered meals, painting classes or anything else you may have to offer.
Kennin said she does her side hustle in part to stay balanced, as her day job as a marketing manager keeps her mostly indoors and tied to her desk.
"I had sat at a desk for 10, 12 years in corporate environments and I realized I had moved all the way to San Francisco from Philadelphia and I didn't know the city that well," Kennin said.
Sommer told ABC News that the key to succeeding at a side hustle is that you have to be passionate about the extra work.
"You have to like it," Sommer said.
"That's the hard part.
You're tired, you have other things going and you still have to, like, have the energy and have the desire to do something else."
Guillbeau recommends taking it slowly at first, "I am telling people to look at what they have, the skills they have, invest a small amount of time and let's see how that goes."
Kenning, however, said she just encourages people to get started however they can.
"My advice for people who want to start a side hustle is just to get out there and do it," she told ABC News.
Image copyright Stefan Rousseau Image caption London Mayor Sadiq Khan chairs Transport for London

London Mayor Sadiq Khan has asked the city's transport regulator to be available to meet Uber's boss after the firm apologised.
Uber chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi said he was sorry for the "mistakes we've made" after the taxi-hailing firm lost its London licence.
He said in an open letter that Uber would appeal against the city's decision, but accepts it "must change".
On Friday, Transport for London (TfL) denied Uber a new licence to operate.
Mr Khan said: "I welcome the apology from Dara Khosrowshahi, the Uber CEO.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London.
"Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him."
TfL cited concerns over public safety and security in its decision not to renew Uber's London licence.
However, Uber says it has followed the regulator's rules and works closely with the Metropolitan Police.
Mr Khosrowshahi, who took over at Uber less than a month ago, wrote on Monday: "While Uber has revolutionised the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way.
"On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologise for the mistakes we've made."
In a letter addressed to Londoners, the new Uber boss said the firm "won't be perfect, but we will listen to you".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dara Khosrowshahi took over as Uber boss last month after Travis Kalanick resigned

Earlier, the Mayor of London said Uber had put "unfair pressure" on TfL, with an "army" of PR experts and lawyers.
Mr Khan, who is also chairman of TfL, told the BBC: "What you can't do is have a situation where unfair pressure is brought on a quasi-judicial body, where there are officials working incredibly hard.
"I appreciate Uber has an army of PR experts, I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers - they've also made aggressive threats about taking us to court."
Uber-TfL talks

When asked if he would meet Uber personally, the mayor said it would be "improper for politicians to interfere with a quasi-judicial matter".
The mayor's office said Mr Khan would not be directly involved in discussions or meetings with Uber if they took place.
While Mr Khan chairs the TfL board, according to the organisation he was not involved in the process of deciding whether to issue Uber with a licence.
That is handled by TfL's taxi and private hire department.
Uber is keen to hold talks with officials from that department "as soon as possible", Fred Jones, a senior executive with Uber in the UK, told the Today Programme.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Over 750,000 people have signed an online petition to keep Uber operating

Mr Jones said that Uber was "not clear" about the issues raised by TfL when it denied the company a licence.
One of the points raised by TfL was Uber's "approach to how Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks are obtained" for its drivers.
That part of the process was not even handled by Uber, said Mr Jones.
Instead, the drivers organised their own DBS check and took that paperwork to TfL.
TfL then reviews that application before giving the driver a licence allowing them to drive for Uber.
TfL would not elaborate further on its issue with the way in which Uber organises DBS checks, because that would be likely to come up when Uber appealed against the decision.
It would only repeat that it was Uber's "approach" to DBS checks that was the problem.
More than 750,000 people have signed an online petition in a bid to keep Uber operating in London after its licence expires on 30 September.
Lenders are underestimating the hit they would take from consumers defaulting on debt in a downturn, according to the Bank of England.
The Bank's Financial Policy Committee (FPC) said there were "pockets of risk" in the current level of lending on loans, overdrafts and credit cards.
It estimated that in a "severe downturn", UK banks could incur losses of 30bn.
That is the equivalent of 20% of UK consumer credit loans.
The conclusions were aired in a statement published on Monday following the FPC's meeting on Wednesday.
The Bank has consistently expressed the need for vigilance over growth in the consumer credit market during "benign" economic conditions.
This was repeated, although the FPC said it was relevant for the banks' resilience in an economic downturn, rather than a threat to the economy as a whole.
"This is not a material risk to economic growth, as consumer credit represents only 11% of overall household debt," the statement said.
Earlier this summer, another of the Bank's arms - the Prudential Regulation Authority - ordered banks to address specific concerns about their treatment of consumer credit.
The Bank had also told lenders to beef up their finances against bad loans.
Credit card cap

Consumer credit, which also includes car finance, rose by 9.8% in the year to July, but has been at double-digit levels in recent times.
This has prompted fears from debt charities that families are relying on debt at a time of low wage growth, potentially storing up financial trouble for later.
"With levels of outstanding borrowing approaching levels not seen since the economic crisis and households are increasingly financially vulnerable, debt is an issue that needs to become a priority for policymakers now," said Mike O'Connor, chief executive of the StepChange debt charity.
"The way in which financial products are designed, especially credit cards, with low minimum repayments and high credit limits, can allow people to rapidly build up substantial debt levels and become trapped in spirals of unsustainable borrowing."
Image copyright Getty Images

At its party conference, Labour pledged that it would introduce a law to limit the interest charged on credit card debt.
The City regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, has said that more than three million people are in persistent debt, which it defines as having paid more in interest and charges than they have repaid of their borrowing over an 18-month period.
Labour said its "total cost cap" would help "tackle the persistent debt spiral", claiming growing consumer debt was becoming a "threat to our economy".
UK Finance, which represents the financial and banking industry, said: "The last thing the industry wants is to see those who are most vulnerable being pushed towards the hands of unscrupulous and unregulated lenders."
The Conservatives said action was already being taken.
Image copyright Getty Images

Aldi has reported record sales in the UK and Ireland for last year but its profits have fallen sharply amid a fierce price war among supermarkets.
The German discounter said sales rose 13.5% to 8.7bn in 2016, but operating profit dropped 17%.
The chain blamed the fall on its "continued investment in prices and infrastructure".
Aldi boss Matthew Barnes told the BBC it had invested "a huge amount" to keep its prices the lowest in the sector.
"We view that position of having the lowest price in the market as the contract we have with our customers, and whatever happens and whatever challenges arise we maintain that price gap," he added.
Aldi, which currently has 726 stores in the UK, said it planned to open a further 70 this year and would invest a further 459m.
The German chain currently has a 6.9% share of the market, according to the latest industry figures from Kantar Worldpanel.
This figure makes it the fifth-biggest supermarket in the UK after Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons.
"We have seen discounters' growth slow down over the last four years and we expect that slowdown in growth to continue," said Tom Wharram, analyst at Bernstein.
He said Aldi had been hit by rival Tesco's introduction of a budget range of own-label "farm" brands last year.
Aldi's "Project Fresh" initiative - aimed at creating more store space for fresh food and wider aisles - had also weighed on profit, he said.
"These are features we would more traditionally associate with a supermarket than a discounter and suggests they are expanding growth by moving away from a pure discounter model," he added.
Image copyright Simon Hadley Image caption Aldi boss Matthew Barnes said it will continue its rapid expansion

Aldi said that its future investment plans were unaffected by the UK's decision to leave the EU.
It plans to continue its rapid expansion and has said it will have 1,000 stores in the UK by 2022.
"The fact that more and more customers walk through our doors every day of the week gives us the confidence to carry on investing," said Mr Barnes.
While the majority of consumers in the UK still shop at the big four supermarket chains - Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons - Aldi and its low cost rival Lidl have had a huge influence on the sector.
Their presence has sparked a prolonged supermarket price war and changed consumers' attitudes towards no-frills shopping, eroding snobbery towards discount retailers.
Yet Aldi continues to sell a fraction of the products its bigger supermarket rivals stock.
Aldi has around 1,700 products, compared with the 20,000 to 30,000 items you find in a typical big supermarket.
The vast majority (94%) of these are private label.
Not being beholden to the big brands enables Aldi to buy products more cheaply and pass on that saving to customers.
Analysis: Emma Simpson, BBC business correspondent

The most striking number in these Aldi results is the extra 1bn in sales it has added in the space of a year.
This business is still pinching customers from rivals.
Critics say Aldi's growth is predominantly space driven - in other words because it's still relatively small it's got lots of capacity to grow, something the big established players don't have.
But when it opens a new supermarket, the shoppers come.
They like the prices.
That's one big reason why profits have taken another knock, as Aldi can't afford to be beaten by its big competitors on price.
It's also pouring money into new stores and infrastructure, to keep up with the demand.
No sign of a consumer slowdown here.
Men are being quoted more than women for vehicle insurance and the gap is widening, a price comparison site has claimed.
The differential was wider than four years ago, despite European rules that prevent gender being considered as a factor when setting premiums.
Men were now quoted 27% more than women for the cheapest deals, according to Comparethemarket.
In January 2013, the month after the rules came in, the gap was 20%.
Insurers used to consider gender owing, for example, to the difference between the sexes in life expectancy and the likelihood of road accidents.
At the end of 2012, following a court ruling, the rules were changed so insurers were banned from taking the gender of their customers into account when setting their insurance premiums.
Other factors can be considered which, according to Malcolm Tarling, of the Association of British Insurers (ABI), can affect average quotes for men and women.
"Factors including type of car, number of miles driven, driving record and claims experience will all impact on the cost of cover.
Men and women are likely to drive different types of vehicle, do different mileage, and these variations, not gender pricing, will reflect in premiums," he said.
"Also, across the board, average motor insurance premiums continue to rise - up 11% over last year - due to increasing costs, including higher Insurance Premium Tax and rising vehicle repair bills."
Graeme Trudgill, executive director of the British Insurance Brokers' Association, said that numerous factors ranging from the number of claims to a customer's credit score could affect premiums.
John Miles, of Comparethemarket, also pointed out the higher likelihood of men driving commercial vehicles than women, and that such vehicles posed a higher risk.
The comparison website said that, when comparing the average of the five cheapest deals between June and August 2017, the average car insurance policy for a man was 821 compared with 649 for a woman - a gap of nearly 27%.
In January 2013, the average policy for a male driver cost 592 compared with 494 for women - a difference of almost 20%, it said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Have people stopped sending postcards?
When was the last time you sent a postcard?
If the pronouncement of UK publisher J Salmon is anything to go by it's likely to have been a long time ago.
The family-owned firm, which has been publishing postcards and calendars since 1880, will close this December.
The reason?
It says instead of penning a card, people are putting photos up on Facebook or Instagram or using WhatsApp to show friends and family at home just how much fun they're having.
Postcards offer a glimpse into the past

Sending a postcard from somewhere you've never been

Brothers Charles and Harry Salmon, the fifth generation of the family to run the firm, said the popularity of social media had had a huge impact on the business.
People are also tending to take shorter holidays, meaning they are likely to have arrived home long before their postcards, the brothers - joint managing directors of the firm - said.
As a result the business was no longer viable, they said.
"Increasingly challenging trading conditions and changes to the nature and size of the market for its publications have resulted in uncertainty over the viability of its trade," the brothers wrote in a letter to suppliers and newsagents.
As a result they were announcing "a proposal to withdraw from publishing".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Social media has replaced cheap postcards, says travel historian Jordan Girardin

The number of postcards sold each year is reported to have seen a dramatic slump to about five million from 20 million just 25 years ago.
Jordan Girardin, a travel historian and lecturer, said when postcards were first invented in the late 19th century "there was a need for a more visual experience, a more visible promotion of travel".
"The cheap postcard that we use just to send a message has been replaced by social media I'm afraid," he said.
J Salmon, which originally started out as a stationer's shop and general printing business, has always printed its products in Sevenoaks in Kent.
But the firm said that as well as the drop in the number of postcards sent, "we have also had to consider that there are no more members of the family who wish to join the business".
Do you still send postcards?
What was the last one you either sent or received?
Send us your stories and pictures.
Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.
You can also contact us in the following ways:
Image copyright Getty Images

Corporate finance giant Deloitte suffered a cyber-attack that compromised confidential data, including the private emails of some of its clients, the company has confirmed.
Its system had been accessed via an email platform and "very few" clients had been affected, Deloitte said.
The Guardian reported the attack had been discovered in March but could have happened months earlier.
Deloitte said it had contacted those whose data had been accessed.
It did not confirm exactly how many people had been affected or how much information had been compromised.
Deloitte carries out auditing, consultancy, tax and financial advice services for clients worldwide.
For the year ending on 31 May, it reported revenues of of 3.38bn ($4.6bn).
Email addresses

Prof Alan Woodward, cyber-security expert at Surrey University, told the BBC that private email addresses alone were valuable data for hackers.
"Many people expect their email address to be in the public domain," he said.
"But what most people have done when dealing with confidential matters is they have a second address - and it looks like it is that one that may have been let out here.
"Is it immediately going to be mean people's data will be breached?
Not really - but the secondary, more confidential email addresses mean phishing can become much more sophisticated."
Phishing is an attempt by criminals to get valuable information, such as banking login details, by pretending to be emailing from an official source.
It is more likely to succeed if it is sent to an address that regularly receives correspondence from the real organisation.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is phishing?
Deloitte said it had reviewed the email platform accessed and had determined there had been "no disruption" to the work of its clients.
However, Tony Pepper, chief executive of data security company Egress, said that compromised email servers could be full of sensitive information.
"This is why multi-factor access control such as two-factor authentication is important, especially for administrators," he said.
"It makes it much harder to gain illicit access in the first place, and provides a warning if someone is trying to log in without your knowledge."
Two-factor authentication involves providing extra information before logging in - for example, an access code sent by text message.
Mr Pepper added that individual emails should also be encrypted.
In a statement, Deloitte said it had informed government authorities and regulators of the breach.
"Deloitte remains deeply committed to ensuring that its cyber-security defences are best in class, to investing heavily in protecting confidential information and to continually reviewing and enhancing cyber-security," it said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption John McDonnell: "It's what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing contracts back in-house."
A future Labour government would bring "wasteful" PFI contracts back in the public sector, shadow chancellor John McDonnell has said.
He told Labour's conference the contracts were set to cost the taxpayer 200bn over coming decades and private companies were making "huge profits".
He said Labour, which has previously promised to strike no new deals, would bring PFI contracts "back in-house".
Labour sources later said this meant they would "review" all PFI contracts.
This means it is not clear whether all existing PFI contracts would be taken back - although shadow chief secretary to the Treasury Peter Dowd told the BBC's Daily Politics he expected the "bulk" to "come back in".
The PFI model of funding public services such as new schools and hospitals was pioneered by the Conservatives in the 1990s and has continued under successive governments.
But Mr McDonnell told activists in Brighton that it was draining the public sector of resources and its time was at an end.
"The scandal of the Private Finance Initiative has resulted in huge long-term costs for taxpayers while providing enormous profits for some companies," he said.
"Over the next few decades, nearly 200 billion is scheduled to be paid out of public sector budgets in PFI deals.
In the NHS alone, 831 million in pre-tax profits have been made over the past six years.
"Never again will this waste of taxpayer money be used to subsidise the profits of shareholders, often based in offshore tax havens."
He added: "We have already pledged there will be no new PFI deals signed by us in government.
But we will go further.
It is what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing PFI contracts back in-house".
The BBC's assistant political editor Norman Smith said such a move would "end the 25-year consensus" on using the private sector to fund major projects but to do so would require a "massive" compensation bill and it was not clear where the money would come from.
What is PFI and how prevalent is it?
Image copyright PA Image caption PFI-funded projects range from hospitals and waste facilities to army barracks

PFI is a way of financing investment in public infrastructure using private capital.
Private firms stump up the cost of building facilities - such as a hospital or school - and, in return, the state makes payments over a period of time - often about 25 years - for their use and management.
The model has been attractive to governments of all political persuasions as it limits upfront capital expenditure and reduces risk while future payment obligations do not count towards the national debt.
However, its value for money has long been questioned.
As of March 2016 there were 716 PFI projects, 686 of which were still operational.
The others had either been cancelled or had reached the end of the contract period.
The SNP government stopped new PFI contracts when it came to power in Scotland, replacing them with NPDs (non-profit distributing projects).
One leading economist, John Appleby, from the Nuffield Trust, told the BBC that the NHS alone was repaying private firms about 2bn a year for PFI schemes and the cost of interest payments for completed projects was likely to total 56bn by 2048.
But he added: "The trouble with these kind of announcements is the fine print of the details.
Taking them back into public ownership does not come free.
The money will have to come from somewhere."
But Dave Prentis, from Unison, welcomed the move - saying that although there would be a cost to buying out the contracts it would still be "better value" for the taxpayer than letting them continue for the next 20 years.
Mr McDonnell said Labour had proved doubters wrong by making gains in June's snap election and its goal was to get into power, "rescue" the UK from austerity and "set the political agenda for a generation".
"We have proved we are an effective campaigning party," he said.
"We now have to prove we will be an effective governing party."
He promised to bring "ownership and control of the utilities and key services into the hands of people who use and work in them - rail, water, energy, Royal Mail - we're taking them back".
'Misplaced nostalgia'

Carolyn Fairbairn, director general of the employers organisation the CBI, said Mr McDonnell's plans on nationalisation and PFI were "the wrong plan at the wrong time".
"Forced nationalisation of large parts of British industry will send investors running for the hills, and puts misplaced nostalgia ahead of progressive vision," she said.
And the Conservatives said Labour's promises were "unaffordable" and would not improve public services.
In his speech, Mr McDonnell also promised legislation limiting the amount of interest that can be charged on credit card debts, which he said would ensure no-one would pay more than they borrowed in the first place.
Labour said the proposals would work in a similar way to measures on payday loans, which came into force in 2015, and help people trapped in a "persistent debt spiral".
UK Finance, which represents the financial and banking industry, said it was committed to responsible lending and "the last thing the industry wants is to see those who are most vulnerable being pushed towards the hands of unscrupulous and unregulated lenders".
Image copyright Getty Images

Female managers in the UK earn close to 12,000 less on average than their male counterparts, new research has found.
The gender pay gap for the UK's 3.3 million managers now stands at 26.8%, according to analysis by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) and XpertHR.
The figure is considerably higher than the average of 18.1% for all workers, or 9.4% for full-time staff.
The CMI report was based on a study of more than 118,000 employees in 423 organisations.
It is based on new reporting requirements and includes salaries and bonuses, as well as benefits such as car allowances and commissions.
The gap last year, under the old rules, stood at at 23.1%.
The gender pay gap is even higher in the Midlands, where male managers earn an average of 42,745 - almost a third more than the 30,038 figure for their female equivalents.
It is also above the national average North and North East of England, where male managers earn an average of 28.8% more than women, while it is lowest in Scotland at 21.5%.
CMI chief executive Ann Francke said: "Too many businesses are like 'glass pyramids' with women holding the majority of lower-paid junior roles and far fewer reaching the top.
"We now see those extra perks of senior management roles are creating a gender pay gap wider than previously understood."
She said the figures underlined the need for the government's new gender pay gap reporting regulations.
They require UK companies with more than 250 employees to publish their gender pay gaps within the next year, starting with a snapshot at at 5 April.
Just 77 of the 7,850 employers covered by the new rules have yet done so, the CMI said.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Lib Dem deputy leader Jo Swinson says companies should be fined for failing to report their gender pay gaps

Its research also found that women are far more likely to occupy junior management roles than men (66% compared with 34%), while men hold almost three quarters of senior positions.
At director level positions, the gap widens even further to just over 34,000, with men earning an average of 175,673 and women just 141,529.
Jo Swinson, Liberal Democrat deputy leader and former equalities minister, called on the government to impose "meaningful sanctions" for non-compliance.
"The government must commit to bring in penalty fines and naming and shaming for firms who flout the rules.
Transparency is an important step, but the focus needs to be on action to close the gender pay gap," she said.
Image caption Changes to women's retirement age sparked widespread protests

Labour would allow hundreds of thousands of women born in the 1950s to retire at 64 on a reduced state pension, rather than wait until 66.
Government changes to the retirement age have been "chaotic", shadow work and pensions secretary Debbie Abrahams will tell Labour's conference later.
Many women who expected to retire at 60 must now work several years longer before receiving a state pension.
Ms Abrahams will say her plan would mean pension security for thousands.
Her change would benefit women born between 1954 and 1960.
"This will ensure that those who have suffered the consequences of this government's chaotic mismanagement of the state pension age have the security they need," she will tell the party's conference in Brighton.
"We will continue to work with these women to get justice."
Many women were caught by surprise when the timetable for moving to a later retirement age was accelerated in 2011.
The Waspi - Women Against State Pension Inequality - campaign is pushing for a transitional "bridging pension" to help women whose retirement plans have been thrown into disarray.
Labour has already promised to extend pension credit to the women affected.
In its manifesto for the June general election, the party said it was "exploring options for further transitional protections to ensure that all these women have security and dignity in older age".
Precise financial details were not immediately available, but Ms Abrahams will say the scheme would be "cost-neutral in the long term".
Ms Abrahams will also call for a pause in the roll-out of universal credit, to allay fears that claimants will be plunged into poverty as it is extended across the country over the next 12 months.
She argues that there is evidence of "deepening poverty" as more welfare claimants are transferred to universal credit, which replaces a range of older benefits.
She will cite reports that one in four claims are not paid within six weeks, leading to increased debt and mounting rent arrears.
Britain will need to boost its generation of electricity by about a quarter, Scottish Power has estimated.
The energy firm said electric cars and a shift to electric heating could send demand for power soaring.
Its chief executive also said there would have to be a major investment in the wiring necessary to handle rapid charging of car batteries.
Keith Anderson was speaking as the firm reached the milestone of 2,000 megawatts of wind power capacity.
That equates to about an eighth of the British total.
The figure includes Whitelee wind farm, on Eaglesham Moor, south of Glasgow, which has more than 200 turbines.
Believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm, it is capable of generating enough power for all of Glasgow's homes.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Whitelee is believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm

In the past 18 months, the Spanish-owned company has been installing nearly a quarter of the British total, but the pipeline of work is coming to an end.
Attention is turning to offshore wind.
But Mr Anderson told BBC Scotland there would have to be a renewed surge in the building of onshore wind turbines if consumer demand was to be met.
He warned that past experience with technology change had shown consumers could make the move faster than governments or companies expect.
Once the price of electric cars falls to that of petrol or diesel, which it is thought will happen between 2022 and 2025, there could be a rapid shift in buying patterns and electricity usage.
Earlier this month, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced a target of shifting from petrol and diesel-fuelled cars to battery power by 2032, while the UK government intends to make that shift by 2040.
'Worst position'

Mr Anderson said: "The worst position for this country to be in and the worst position for customers is that we get huge enthusiasm, people rushing out to buy electric cars because the price has come down, and then we can't allow people to plug them in because we haven't invested in the infrastructure.
"So one of the things we're looking at now is how we plan what has to happen to the distribution system."
The estimate of a 20%-30% increase in demand for electricity comes after years of gradually declining power use, much of that due to growing energy efficiency and the closure of older, energy-intensive industries.
Image copyright Getty Images

At the same time, old power stations - including Scottish Power's coal-burning plants at Longannet in Fife and Cockenzie in East Lothian - have been closed down.
The added challenge of cars is the change in technology from an eight-hour overnight charge to a rapid charge of 15 to 20 minutes.
If several car owners on a residential street plug those in at the same time, the system could not cope.
Mr Anderson said: "The system that takes the wires into the house, down the street, to local businesses - how do we make sure it can cope with that level of demand?
It'll take a long time to plan and deliver."
'Let's keep going'

Heating is the next frontier in the energy revolution, which has barely begun.
In place of gas and oil-fired boilers in each home, electric central heating can be powered by renewable generation.
What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success Keith Anderson, Scottish Power chief executive

However, it is likely to require not only removal of a boiler, but the replacement of radiators and hot water heating pipes throughout a home.
Mr Anderson said: "What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success.
"We have been able to develop these projects faster and faster, and to deliver them more efficiently, at much lower cost.
"Keep going, because that will bring costs down and make us more efficient for the future.
"If you stop now, the technology development stops, the innovation stops: the new jobs, the new roles, they all stop.
You stop that for two or three years, and trying to restart it becomes more difficult and more expensive."
Most of the recent onshore wind developments have been in Scotland, focused on the south west.
The UK government has allowed much less onshore wind developing, in response to anti-turbine campaigners.
It has also left onshore wind out of the auctions which offer generators a minimum price for their energy.
These auctions have helped drive down the cost of renewable power, with offshore wind nearly halving in price.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Labour leader told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise

Jeremy Corbyn has promised to listen to Labour members' calls to keep the UK in the EU single market - but warned it could hamper the government's ability to protect jobs and invest in industry.
The Labour leader said EU restrictions on state aid and pressure to privatise sectors like rail could cause problems.
He also predicted "a lot" of people would continue to come from the EU to work in the UK after Brexit.
Mr Corbyn was speaking on day one of the Labour conference in Brighton.
Boosted by Labour's better-than-forecast general election result in June, he told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show he wanted 10 years in office to implement Labour's agenda, saying at least two electoral terms would be needed to address challenges on housebuilding and inequality.
More than 40 senior party figures signed an open letter to the Observer urging Mr Corbyn to commit to remaining in the European single market and customs union after Brexit.
But delegates in Brighton have rejected demands from a number of constituencies for a vote on single market membership during the conference.
BBC political correspondent Iain Watson said that, in practice, it means there will be no vote on one of the most contentious issues in the party.
Labour has already said it would keep the UK in both agreements during a transitional period.
Theresa May has suggested a two-year timeframe for a transition period, but Mr Corbyn said Labour's version would last "as long as necessary".
It is "impossible" to say at this stage how long it would be, he argued.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Pro-EU protesters marched in Brighton as the Labour conference got under way

Asked about his plans beyond this period, Mr Corbyn said the "important priority" was seeking tariff-free trade access to the EU's markets, and that it was necessary to "look very carefully" at the terms of any trade deal to avoid restrictions on state aid, citing the UK's steel industry as an example.
"We need to be quite careful about the powers that we need as national governments," he said.
Mr Corbyn wants to return a number of key industries, including the railways, to public ownership, but says EU competition laws present significant obstacles to that.
One of the signatories to the letter, former minister Ben Bradshaw, told BBC News remaining in the market was "the only place we can sensibly be if we want to save the economy, end austerity and pursue the sort of vision of Britain that Jeremy Corbyn says he wants".
The customs union is the EU's tariff-free trading area, which imposes the same taxes on imports from certain countries outside the union.
The single market also includes the free movement of goods, services, capital and people.
Speaking at the Labour conference, Stephen Kinsella, a lawyer specialising in EU law, said he was "puzzled and slightly troubled" by Mr Corbyn's comments about state aid.
"I think what we see in the UK is too often government refers to EU law as an excuse, as a reason for not investing.
But it could do so, and it could do so within the law," said Mr Kinsella, who is a Labour Party member.
'Clean break'

The letter urging long-term commitment to the single market and customs union, co-ordinated by the Open Britain campaign, was signed by both Blairite and left-wing MPs, along with some prominent trade union leaders.
It said: "The supposed benefits of a clean break with the EU are a fantasy.
"The economic impact of leaving the single market would hit the most vulnerable in our society hardest."
Image copyright PA

Mr Corbyn is also facing calls to maintain the free movement of EU workers after Brexit from some Labour members, despite this being ruled out in Labour's general election manifesto.
"Manifestos evolve and change," MP Clive Lewis, one of those pushing for the matter to be debated at conference, told the Sunday Politics.
But fellow Labour MP Caroline Flint said she did not think maintaining the current arrangements "would be acceptable to British people".
Asked about free movement, Mr Corbyn said he understood "the importance of workers moving from one place to the other", but some employers had "grotesquely exploited" the system to pay EU workers very low wages.
"That has to stop.
But we have to recognise that in the future we're going to need people to work in Europe, and people from Europe are going to need to work here.
There's going to be a lot of movement."
McCluskey letter

In his Marr interview, Mr Corbyn also promised an end to the public sector pay cap.
He would not commit to the 5% increase called for by some, but promised workers a rise in line with inflation - currently 2.9% - in addition to recognition of the "sacrifice" they had made in recent years.
The Labour leader side-stepped questions about whether he would support illegal strike action by public sector workers against the cap, as backed by his ally, Unite leader Len McCluskey.
A new law requires a 50% turnout for successful strike ballots, but Unite is calling for co-ordinated action across sectors regardless of the threshold reached.
Repeatedly pressed on whether he would back unions defying the law, Mr Corbyn said: "I will be with those workers demanding a decent pay rise."
But speaking on Sky News, Labour's deputy leader Tom Watson said the party would not back unions in such circumstances.
"I have actually received a letter from Len McCluskey this week where he says he accepts Labour MPs aren't going to support calls for illegal strike action," he said.
Mr McCluskey confirmed that was the case, saying he did not expect support from the party's leadership or any of its MPs.
"I know that they are opposed to the current law and they will do all that they can inside Parliament to change this law," he told ITV's Peston on Sunday.
Image copyright Getty Images

Airlines will start receiving the first batch of jet fuel through the main pipeline to Auckland Airport since it was damaged earlier this month.
Two million litres will be transferred on Monday evening local time, ending a 10-day shortage.
Most flights have returned to normal after a week of disruptions due to the burst pipe.
Fuel supplies had been rationed but daily allocations will be lifted from 50% to 80% from midnight.
About 140 flights were cancelled at New Zealand's largest airport and the plans of thousands of travellers disrupted last week after the pipeline was ruptured by a digger on a rural property.
Several petrol stations in Auckland were also hit by fuel shortages because of the burst pipe.
The disruptions have eased following repairs to the pipe, and only four flights were cancelled on Monday.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Petrol supplies at some Auckland service stations were hit by the fuel shortage

Fuel industry spokesperson Andrew McNaught, who is also the manager of Mobil Oil New Zealand, told the BBC another batch of 4.8m litres of jet fuel is expected to be delivered on Wednesday.
But supplies flowing through to the airport will be reduced for some time.
Pipeline operator Refining NZ said the pipe will run at 80% capacity until the end of the year to allow further tests to be carried out.
Still, a trade group representing 30 airlines flying in and out of Auckland Airport said carriers will be able to make up any shortfalls.
"It doesn't necessarily translate into a fuel shortage for the airlines because they have other means of supplementing their ground fuel such as road transportation," Justin Tighe-Umbers, executive director of the Board of Airline Representatives New Zealand told the BBC.
Image copyright Reuters

The UK's credit rating has been cut over concerns about the UK's public finances and fears Brexit could damage the country's economic growth.
Moody's, one of the major ratings agencies, downgraded the UK to an Aa2 rating from Aa1.
It said leaving the European Union was creating economic uncertainty at a time when the UK's debt reduction plans were already off course.
Downing Street said the firm's Brexit assessments were "outdated".
The other major agencies, Fitch and S&P, changed their ratings in 2016, with S&P cutting it two notches from AAA to AA, and Fitch lowering it from AA+ to AA.
Moody's said the government had "yielded to pressure and raised spending in several areas" including health and social care.
It says revenues were unlikely to compensate for the higher spending.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Alastair Wilson, head of sovereign ratings at Moody's, gave two reasons for cutting the credit rating, but there was some good news

The agency said because the government had not secured a majority in the snap election it "further obscures the future direction of economic policy".
It also said Brexit would dominate legislative priorities, so there could be limited capacity to address "substantial" challenges.
It added "any free trade agreement will likely take years to negotiate, prolonging the current uncertainty for business".
Moody's has also changed the UK's long-term issuer and debt ratings to "stable" from "negative".
Moody's stripped Britain of its top-notch AAA rating in 2013.
The government said the latest downgrade followed a meeting on 19 September, and did not consider the prime minister's speech on Friday, in which she outlined her vision for Brexit.
"The prime minister has just set out an ambitious vision for the UK's future relationship with the EU, making clear that both sides will benefit from a new and unique partnership," it said.
"The foundations on which we build this partnership are strong."
It said it had a robust economic record and had made substantial progress in reducing the deficit.
"We are not complacent about the challenges ahead, but we are optimistic about our bright future."
Consequences for borrowing

But Labour's shadow chief secretary to the Treasury, Peter Dowd, called the downgrade a "hammer blow" to the economic credibility of the Conservatives and Chancellor Philip Hammond.
He pointed out that it was the second time the credit rating had shifted downwards under their government.
Credit rating agencies, in essence, rate a country on the strength of its economy - scoring governments or large companies on how likely they are to pay back their debt.
A rating downgrade can affect how much it costs governments to borrow money in the international financial markets.
In theory, a high credit rating means a lower interest rate, and vice versa.
Nearly half the couples eligible to claim marriage tax allowance are still failing to do so, according to HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
The tax allowance - worth 230 a year - can be claimed by married couples or those in a civil partnership if they meet certain conditions.
However, since it was introduced in 2015, only 2.2 million couples have claimed it, from 4.4 million eligible.
The government said it had now simplified the application process.
Last year, HMRC reported that only a quarter of eligible couples were claiming.
The latest figures were obtained as the result of a Freedom of Information request to HMRC by insurance company Royal London.
Steve Webb, the director of policy at Royal London, said the take-up was "shockingly low".
"When family finances are so tight, I would encourage every married couple to check whether they might be eligible, including for the last two years, as they could qualify for a useful lump sum as well as a reduction in their ongoing tax bill," he said.
How Marriage Allowance works

Partners must either be married, or in a civil partnership.
One partner needs to be earning at least 11,500 a year, and paying tax at the basic rate of 20%.
If he or she is earning over 45,000 (43,000 in Scotland) they are not eligible.
The other partner must be earning less than 11,500 in 2017-18, meaning they pay no tax.
If the above conditions are satisfied, the partner not paying tax can transfer 10% of his or her tax allowance to a partner, so saving 230 in this tax year.
Back-claims can be made for previous years

HMRC has organised several advertising campaigns to persuade people to apply for Marriage Allowance, and is known to be frustrated by the lack of take-up.
"Applications have increased year on year, and the application process is easy, and families can apply at a time which is convenient for them," a spokesperson said.
Steve Webb said the complexity of claiming might be one reason why so many people have not applied.
"I suspect people don't know who's eligible, or how to go about claiming it," he said.
A government spokesperson said: "2.2 million couples across the UK are keeping more of the money they earn thanks to the Marriage Allowance.
"Applications have increased year on year and we have simplified the application process to make it easier for families to apply at a time which is convenient for them."
Video

The holiday ritual of sending a postcard home from a trip is dying, a closing UK postcard publisher says.
We ask people whether they agree.
'If we soften up, our readers will go'

Known as the Private Eye of the tech world The Register loves to satirise industry giants - and it's paying off.
Video

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise.
He did not say whether he would join them on the picket line.
Video

A family-run hardware shop has been celebrating 150 years in business.
Goldings in Bedford High Street, first opened its doors in 1867 and has survived the launch of DIY superstores and the rise of internet shopping.
Its former owner, 71-year-old Victor Warner, who has been working there since 1961, has been sharing his secrets to business success.
Video

As the global population grows and more of us are eating meat and fish, there are concerns that the world's resources can't keep up.
Currently, many farmed animals and fish are fed fishmeal, which is made of wild-caught fish.
These could be threatened if demand for fishmeal intensifies.
Jason Drew is an entrepreneur and environmentalist.
He has found a way to turn food waste into a maggot-based animal feed, which could offer a sustainable alternative.
His company has just won the Global Champion Award from The Food Chain on BBC World Service.
Video

A major Vauxhall distribution centre is marking 50 years since its opening.
Vauxhall Parts, in Toddington Road, Luton, was one of the largest facilities in the country when it opened in 1967.
BBC News takes a look at the site, then and now.
Video

With global population set to top 10 billion by 2050, the UN says agricultural output needs to rise by 70%.
And Africa will be key as it is home to two-thirds of the world's uncultivated arable land.
The BBC's Taurai Maduna has been to South Africa's Western Cape to see how drones and data analytics are set to change the game.
Video

The space race of the Cold War pitted the world's two superpowers against one another to explore what lies beyond Earth.
Now anyone with enough money and enterprise can get there.
But this new race isn't between countries - it's between companies.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Philippa Goodrich; Reporter: Tim Bowler
Image copyright Levi Strauss

Chip Bergh has the air of man at ease with the world.
But things could have turned out very different, given what he calls his "dysfunctional" childhood.
The 60-year-old chief executive of Levi Strauss, dressed in regulation blue jeans and denim shirt, readily admits to be being "blessed and lucky".
Six years into his successful turnaround of the once struggling US clothing firm, he says the job still gives him a "wow" feeling.
Mr Bergh and his family also love their San Francisco lifestyle, where the vegan boss pursues a passion for marathons and triathlons.
So, professionally and personally, things are going well for the former Procter & Gamble (P&G) executive.
But growing up in the suburbs of New York City there were times when he felt neither blessed nor lucky.
Mr Bergh's father was an advertising salesman working 14-hour days.
He was also an alcoholic.
Image copyright Devaki Knowles

There could be "lots of screaming and yelling" at home, Mr Bergh recalls.
"Mum and dad were always getting in fights."
One day his mother threatened to throw out his dad.
"That was a wake up call," says Mr Bergh.
His father then finally went to Alcoholics Anonymous, cleaned himself up and never touched another drop.
"I'm proud that my dad recovered," says Mr Bergh.
"He rebuilt his life."
Mr Bergh's childhood wasn't unhappy.
"I had a lot of friends, played a lot of sport, and went to a great school," he says.
But as the eldest of three children he says he shouldered much of the domestic discord, and grew up fast.
It left its mark and is in part behind his drive to succeed, he thinks.
It also left a determination not to repeat some of his father's mistakes.
"I'm pretty level-headed," says Mr Bergh.
"There's not a lot that really upsets me.
I'm not a yeller and screamer, at home or work.
I'm pretty relaxed."
And he doesn't drink.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption Levi Strauss emigrated to the US from Germany in 1853 when he was 18

So, how does Mr Bergh sum up his management style?
"Very open, honest, transparent.
What you see is what you get."
He insists he's "really down to earth", adding: "I put my pants on the same way everybody else does - one leg at a time."
Just don't confuse this regular-guy image with a lack of steel, as Mr Bergh's overhaul of Levi's has been radical, some might say brutal.
The company was created in 1873 when San Francisco-based wholesale merchant Levi Strauss and a business partner patented a way to strengthen denim trousers using copper rivets.
The rest as they say is history.
Through slick advertising and campaigning on social and political issues (such as donating millions to HIV/Aids charities), Levi's punched above its weight for decades.
Stories were common in the 1960s and 1970s of young Westerners packing Levi's jeans in their luggage to help barter their way through holidays behind the Iron Curtain.
If ever a brand deserved the label "iconic", Levi's was it.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The Levi 501 jeans are arguably the company's single most important product

But by the time Mr Bergh took over in 2011, the company he calls the original Silicon Valley start-up "had lost its way".
Annual sales peaked in 1997 at $7.1bn (5.3bn).
"We were bigger than Nike then," says Mr Bergh.
"Nike aspired to be like Levi's."
But Levi's lost its knack of combining heritage with changing trends, and by the early 2000s sales had fallen to $4bn.
As competition increased rapidly from the likes of Walmart and Gap, Levi's had also been borrowing heavily, chiefly to buy out scores of Strauss family descendants, and consolidate ownership.
Mr Bergh says the result was that the firm found it had to "cut costs, cut marketing, to save cash".
Levi's board ultimately decided it needed a fresh pair of hands, and so turned to Mr Bergh, who had the brand expertise and international experience it wanted.
After 28 years at P&G, most latterly working on the Old Spice deodorant and razors accounts, Mr Bergh saw a chance to fulfil an ambition to become a chief executive.
"It was too good an opportunity to pass," he says.
"It was an opportunity to make a difference, and leave a legacy."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chip Bergh is not afraid to "double denim"

All too aware that Levi's was struggling, Mr Bergh sent the firm's then top 60 managers six questions about the pros and cons of the business - and started interviewing each of them.
"But by about the 15th interview it was pretty clear what needed to be done," he says.
"There was no strategy, there was no alignment across the organisation... People were frustrated."
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world:

Mr Bergh invested in facilities, broadened the clothing range (especially womenswear), and expanded in relatively untapped markets such as Russia, China and India.
The ecommerce operation, previously outsourced and treated almost as an after-thought, was brought in-house, modernised and expanded.
Mr Bergh also changed the top team at the business.
Within 18 months of his appointment, nine of the 11-member executive team had left.
Of the current 150 senior managers, two-thirds have been with the company for three years or less.
He says: "We needed to change not just the business but the culture, and the best way to change the culture is to change the leadership."
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The original US patent for riveted jeans, from 1873

Mr Bergh admits the clear out was dramatic, sometimes traumatic, but says: "You always have to do the harder right than the easier wrong."
Did he learn such decisiveness in the army, which he joined for two years after school?
Making quick decisions was certainly part of the skill-set, he says.
But the army also taught him about leadership.
"It's wrong that the army is all about deference and saluting seniors," he says.
"You have to earn respect, build trust, be willing to make decisions, coach people and train people - all those skills are transferable to the corporate world."
The army's downside was that promotion moved slowly, and Mr Bergh wanted to "move ahead quickly".
A recruitment firm found him a job at P&G.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Chip Bergh on letting staff go with dignity

Levi's turnaround seems to be succeeding, with 2017 expected to see the fifth consecutive year of profits growth.
Retail analyst Marshal Cohen, of market research group NPD, says that yet again Levi's has been able to "reinvent" itself to a new generation.
However, Mr Bergh says the job is far from finished.
"We have made really good progress.
It's been harder and taken longer than I expected.
"I'm not satisfied with where we are.
We still have a lot more work to do."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Leo Baekeland invented Bakelite, the world's first first fully synthetic plastic

"Unless I am very much mistaken, this invention will prove important in the future."
Leo Baekeland wrote those words in his journal on 11 July, 1907.
He was in a good mood.
Aged 43, he'd done well.
Born in Belgium, his dad was a cobbler.
He'd had no education, and didn't understand why young Leo wanted one.
He apprenticed the boy into the trade, aged just 13.
But his mum had other ideas.
With her encouragement, Leo went to night school, and won a scholarship to the University of Ghent.
By the age of 20, he had a doctorate in chemistry.
He married his tutor's daughter and moved to New York, where he made so much money from photographic printing paper that he need never work again.
The Baekelands bought a house in Yonkers, overlooking the Hudson River, where Leo built a home laboratory to indulge his love of tinkering with chemicals.
In July 1907, he was experimenting with formaldehyde and phenol.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Baekeland's invention made him famous enough to be featured on the cover of Time magazine

These experiments would lead to his second fortune.
He became so famous that Time magazine put his face on the cover without needing to mention his name, just the words, "It will not burn.
It will not melt."
What Leo Baekeland invented that July was the first fully synthetic plastic.
He called it Bakelite.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
And he was right about its future importance.
Plastics would soon be everywhere.
When Susan Freinkel wrote her book Plastic: A Toxic Love Story, she spent a day noting down everything she touched that was plastic: the light switch, the toilet seat, the toothbrush, the toothpaste tube.
She also noted everything that wasn't - the toilet paper, the wooden floor, the porcelain tap.
Unlimited potential

By the day's end, she'd listed 102 items that weren't made of plastic, and 196 that were.
We make so much plastic, it takes about 8% of oil production - half for raw material, half for energy.
The Bakelite Corporation didn't hold back in its advertising blurb: humans, it said, had transcended the old taxonomy of animal, mineral and vegetable.
Now we had a "fourth kingdom, whose boundaries are unlimited".
That sounds hyperbolic, but it was true.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Celluloid, which had been developed in the late 19th century, was gradually replaced by Bakelite and other more modern compounds

Scientists previously had thought about improving or mimicking natural substances.
Earlier plastics, like celluloid, were based on plants, and Baekeland himself had been seeking an alternative to shellac, a resin secreted by beetles that was used for electrical insulation.
Yet he quickly realised that Bakelite could become far more versatile than that.
Artificial explosion

The Bakelite Corporation christened it "The Material of a Thousand Uses", and, again, that wasn't far wrong.
It went into telephones, radios, guns, coffee pots, billiard balls and jewellery.
It was used in the first atomic bomb.
Image copyright Alamy

Bakelite's success shifted mindsets: what other artificial materials might be possible, with properties you couldn't necessarily find in nature?
In the 1920s and 1930s, plastics poured out of labs around the world.
There was polystyrene, often used for packaging, nylon, popularised by stockings, and polyethylene, the stuff of plastic bags.
As World War Two stretched natural resources, production of plastics ramped up to fill the gap.
And when the war ended, exciting new products like Tupperware hit the consumer market.
Image copyright Alamy

But they weren't exciting for long: the image of plastic gradually changed.
Shifting connotations

In 1967, the film The Graduate famously started with the central character, Benjamin Braddock, receiving unsolicited career advice from a self-satisfied older neighbour.
"Just one word," the neighbour promises, steering Benjamin towards a quiet corner, as if about to reveal the secret to life itself.
"Plastics!"
The line became much-quoted, because it crystallised the changing connotations of the word.
For the older neighbour's generation, "plastic" still meant opportunity and modernity.
For the likes of young Benjamin, it stood for all that was phoney, superficial, ersatz.
Still: it was great advice.
Half a century on, despite its image problem, plastic production has grown about twenty-fold.
It'll double again in the next 20 years.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption None of the commonly used plastics is biodegradable, and many are not recycled

That's also despite growing evidence of environmental problems.
Some of the chemicals in plastics are thought to affect how animals develop and reproduce.
When plastics end up in landfill, those chemicals can eventually seep into groundwater; when they find their way into oceans, some creatures eat them.
More from Tim Harford:

How fertiliser helped feed the world

The hidden strengths of unloved concrete

How the invention of paper changed the world

Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars

But there's another side to the ledger - plastic has benefits that aren't just economic, but environmental too.
Vehicles made with plastic parts are lighter, and so use less fuel.
Plastic packaging keeps food fresh for longer, and so reduces waste.
If bottles weren't made of plastic, they'd be made of glass.
Which would you rather gets dropped in your children's playground?
Rubbish recycling rates

Eventually, we'll have to get better at recycling plastic, if only because oil won't last forever.
Some plastics can't be recycled - like Bakelite.
Many more could be, but aren't.
In fact only about a seventh of plastic packaging is recycled - far less than for paper or steel.
That rate is lower still for other plastic products.
What should be the 51st Thing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Tim Harford has discussed 50 things which he argues have made the modern economy.
Help choose the 51st thing by voting for one of these listener suggestions:

The credit card

Glass

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Irrigation

The pencil

The spreadsheet

You can vote on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website.
Voting closes at 12:00 GMT Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st Thing will be announced in a special podcast on 28 October 2017.
Improving that will take effort from everyone.
You may have seen little triangles on plastic, with numbers from one to seven.
They're called Resin Identification Codes, and they're one initiative of the industry's trade association.
They help with recycling, but the system's far from perfect.
If the industry could do more, then so could many governments: recycling rates differ hugely around the world.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Taiwan has been widely praised for achieving a recycling rate of around 55%

One success story is Taipei, Taiwan.
It changed its culture of waste by making it easy for citizens to recycle, and fining them if they don't.
How about technological solutions?
Revolutionary?
Fans of science fiction will enjoy one recent invention, the ProtoCycler.
Feed it your plastic waste, and it gives you filament for your 3D printer.
It is as close as we can get today to Star Trek's replicator.
Image copyright Redetec Image caption The ProtoCycler recycles waste plastic into 3D printer filament

In its day, Bakelite must have felt as revolutionary as that Star Trek replicator still feels to us.
Here was a simple, cheap synthetic product that was tough enough to replace ceramic tableware or metal letter openers, yet beautiful enough to be used as jewellery, and could even replace precious ivory.
It was a miracle material, even though - like all plastics today - we now take it for granted.
But manufacturers today haven't given up on the idea that you can make something precious and practical from something cheap and worthless.
The latest techniques "upcycle" plastic trash, mixing it with agricultural waste and nanoparticles to create new materials, with new properties.
Leo Baekeland would have approved.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images

Over the past year, we've been exploring 50 key things that have contributed to the development of the modern economy, including inventions such as the diesel engine, the battery, the shipping container, Google, antibiotics and the Billy bookcase.
But what did we miss?
What should be the 51st thing that made the modern economy?
We've received hundreds of suggestions, which we've whittled down to a shortlist of six.
You can vote for your favourite, and the winner will feature in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
The credit card

The first option of our six traces its history to 1960, in Minnesota in the US.
Dorothea Parry was ironing when her husband, Forrest, came home from work at the computer giant IBM.
How was his day?
Well, he had a problem.
IBM had worked out how to encode information on magnetic strips.
They wanted to fix the strips to plastic cards.
But he couldn't work out how.
Dorothea could.
She ironed them on.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Behavioural economists say we spend differently on plastic compared with cash

The addition of the magnetic stripe was a huge boost for credit cards, which were just a few years old and struggling for acceptance.
Merchants shown a Diners Club or American Express card had to phone the bank.
IBM's magnetic strip paved the way for a far less cumbersome approach.
The new credit cards were pushed aggressively.
And people soon found that having a "flexible friend" could make us drop our financial guard: behavioural economists tell us that spending on plastic is psychologically much easier than spending cash.
The price of convenience has been ballooning household debt.
But it's hard to imagine the modern economy without them.
Glass

Our second suggestion also requires heat to manufacture, but a household iron won't do the job.
You need temperatures of 1,700C to make glass.
Who first did that is lost to history, but they probably lived in Egypt, Syria or Mesopotamia, about 5,500 years ago.
Did they look at sand and have an unlikely brainwave: "I wonder what would happen if we melted it?"
Or did they discover glass by accident, perhaps while smelting bronze?
Who knows?
But it's safe to bet that the early glassmakers could never have predicted how it would shape the economy.
And if you choose glass as the 51st thing, my challenge will be choosing how to tell its story.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Glass touchscreen technology has driven the development of smartphones and tablets

Perhaps you're reading this on a touchscreen device, accessing the internet via fibre-optic cables.
Is that the story of glass?
Or I could focus, so to speak, on the lens - how the telescope and microscope changed our knowledge of the world.
Spectacles, windows, or fibreglass could each fill an episode of their own.
GPS (global positioning system)

One of the real challenges when choosing my list of 50 was that so many inventions overlap, one bright idea later enabling another.
The story of clocks, for example, concluded by observing that GPS wouldn't work without extremely accurate timekeeping.
But many of you felt that GPS deserves a story of its own, and that's our third possibility.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption GPS technology has revolutionised transportation

If you've got a smartphone, it probably has a GPS receiver.
There are 31 satellites flying around the Earth right now, constantly transmitting their position and the time.
If your phone can pick up signals from at least four of them, it can do some clever maths to work out where it is, and plot its position for you on a map.
Like many of our 50 things, GPS has military origins: the US Department of Defense developed it to win the Cold War.
Now, in turn, GPS is enabling bright ideas that will make the economy of the future - new business models that connect buyers and sellers, and new technologies such as self-driving vehicles, robots and drones.
Irrigation

The fourth item on our shortlist begins with an old story about a flood.
It's not the Judaeo-Christian tale of Noah's Ark, but the Chinese story of Emperor Yu, the founder of China's first dynasty 4,000 years ago.
Noah floated on the waters, but Emperor Yu tamed them, recruiting an army of labourers - along with a dragon and a giant turtle - to assist in setting up irrigation and drainage.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The traditional irrigation system used in Bali's Jatiluwih rice fields has Unesco world heritage status

Great Yu changed China, and irrigation continues to shape our economy, from California, where arguments rage over the most valuable use of scarce water, to Bali, where the intricacy of the water-management system has astonished visiting experts.
The only woman to receive a Nobel Memorial Prize in economics, Lin Ostrom, spent much of her life studying irrigation systems.
Ostrom was fascinated by how humans cooperate to manage common resources.
There are few more important questions than that - and few better case studies than how we decide who gets how much water, as it trickles - often crossing borders - from the hills down to the sea.
The pencil

Paper was one of our 50 things.
Should we add the pencil to the list?
It does have a special place in the history of economic thought.
In 1958, the libertarian economist Leonard Reed published an essay called I, Pencil, in which an ordinary pencil explained the miracle of its existence.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The humble pencil can demonstrate the sophistication of the modern globalised economy

The pencil boasted cedar from Oregon which had been milled in California, graphite from Sri Lanka, a brass ferule, a rubber made from Italian pumice and Indonesian rape-seed oil, and more besides.
Leonard Reed's point was that in a modern economy, behind even the humblest of objects was a tale of international supply chains, complex manufacturing, capital investment and science.
No one person can make a pencil from scratch, yet the miracle of market forces makes pencils available for pennies.
The pencil is a small enough player on the global scale - but a perfect way to understand the sophistication of the modern economy.
The spreadsheet

Time for one more idea, plucked from a list of hundreds.
But where did we store that list?
On a spreadsheet, of course.
Or perhaps I should say, 'On a digital spreadsheet' - because pencil-and-paper spreadsheets used to be ubiquitous.
The accountants of the 1970s would fill out row upon row of cost and revenue assumptions.
A single change might require hours - or even days - with a calculator, a pencil and a rubber.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Spreadsheets transformed accountancy and made extremely sophisticated analysis possible

The first electronic spreadsheet, VisiCalc, came in 1979.
It was the brainchild of Dan Bricklin - a computer-savvy student at Harvard Business School.
He fantasised about creating a spreadsheet that would recalculate itself.
His software revolutionised finance.
Wall Street and the City of London started trading financial products that could hardly be said to exist - let alone be comprehended - without a spreadsheet.
It reshaped accountancy, destroying the jobs of clerks who had pored over paper spreadsheets.
But it created new jobs for analysts, exploring one scenario after another.
We increasingly understand the world around us through numbers, and the digital spreadsheet deserves much of the credit for that.
How to vote

You can vote for one of the six things listed above on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website, where you can also see the full terms and conditions.
Voting closes at 12:00 GMT on Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st thing will be announced in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
You can listen to all the episodes of 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy on the programme website, or download them as podcasts.
The round 1 coin will soon lose its status as legal tender.
In practice, shops can refuse to accept these coins from 16 October.
They have been used alongside the new 12-sided 1 coin since March - a period called co-circulation.
Now, there is not long left to spend, bank, exchange or donate old pounds coins but, first, you have to find them.
The Treasury and Royal Mint estimate that around 500 million round pounds are still out there somewhere.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A brief history of decimal coins

Rounding them up

Those old, round 1 coins might be lurking somewhere around the house.
Chris Bird, senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Sussex, says one way to find them is to visualise a situation when you had a handful of loose change.
"We can use our memory to imagine situations when we would use them and where we would leave them," he says.
"That is what the memory is for.
We use our memory to make decisions in the now and in the future."
He says that a fairly recent discovery reveals that we use the same part of our brain to remember the past as we do to imagine ourselves in a certain situation.
So the same mechanism in the brain's memory system allows us not only to travel back, but also to consider the present or the future.
The other way to find those old coins, according to Mr Bird, is simply to check all of the places that you know are where you commonly keep change.
So here is a handy list of 10 places to look:

1.
A wallet or purse

Sometimes the most obvious is the last place you look.
Shops can give the round 1 coins as change until 16 October, so they could be popped into a wallet or purse in a rush.
The Royal Mint has been encouraging shops to bag the round pounds separately so, when they are banked, they are taken out of circulation.
Down the back of the sofa

Image copyright Getty Images

The most clichd answer to the question of where to find loose change.
Honestly, when was the last time you found coins down there?
But when was the last time you looked?
It is probably worth checking in the next few days, along with armchairs, and beds.
Even if you do not find any money, you may come across the remote control for the DVD player.
Supermarket bag for life

You have finished your Friday night big shop and you are about to carry your groceries to the bus or car, but first you lock up the supermarket trolley and your 1 coin pops out of the mechanism.
Into the bag for life it goes.
Perhaps it is still there?
If the bag really is for life, then it might be sitting in the back of the cupboard under the stairs.
Most supermarket trolleys have now been altered to accept the new 12-sided 1 coin, but there was a delay at Tesco when the new coin was launched in March.
Big night out handbag

Image copyright Getty Images

It is only used on special occasions, so it might be at the back of the wardrobe or hanging on a peg behind a few coats.
The chances are that there is still a bit of cash in there, maybe some change from the bar or the taxi home.
If you go out a lot, you will have found the cash already.
If you have young children, then the last big night was probably months ago.
Winter coat pocket

While you are still at the back of the wardrobe, why not check the pockets of your winter coats.
It is unlikely that they have been worn since the new 12-sided 1 coin entered circulation on 28 March, and they might not be worn again before 16 October.
The old 1 coins cannot be spent in the shops after that date, but they can continue to be deposited into an account at most High Street banks and the Post Office for the foreseeable future.
The top drawer

Image copyright Getty Images

Any top drawer around the house seems a natural place to throw some loose change - even if it has socks in it.
It might also be the chance to declutter.
Is the only reason that the top drawer is always overflowing while the bottom is fine simply because we are too lazy to bend down?
Children's piggy banks

Children's financial habits are formed by the age of seven, according to the government-backed Money Advice Service.
So if your children are super savers, then there could be quite a few 1 coins in their piggy banks.
Junior savings accounts can generally be opened with as little as 1, to keep that savings habit going.
It may be a chance for the youngsters to spend the fruits of their savings labours before there is a scene in the toy shop when the cashier refuses an old, lovingly saved 1 coin.
It is worth remembering too that tooth fairies should no longer use old, round 1 coins from 16 October.
A charity pot

Image copyright HM Treasury

Many homes will have a charity pot of some kind, ranging from those big glass bottles to a cardboard shoe box.
The UK Treasury and the Royal Mint have joined forces with the BBC's Children in Need appeal to ask anyone who finds some old 1 coins to donate them to the charity.
"We are encouraging everyone who can, to promise their round pounds to Pudsey," says Andrew Jones, exchequer secretary to the Treasury.
Car glove compartment

There are probably many more coins in vehicle glove compartments than gloves.
A recent survey by the AA motoring organisation suggested drivers have been avoiding parking spots that require payment by phone as cash remained a more popular way to pay.
Many drivers keep coins in the glove compartment for parking fares, and in that little well by the gear stick that is designed to hold cups.
Gym kit bag

Image copyright Getty Images

Attendance at the gym or sports centre may have waned a little since the subscription was bought with good intentions in the new year.
The gym bag may actually have been unopened throughout the summer.
In which case, the 1 coins for the locker may be old round ones, rather than new 12-sided ones.
Dig them out, pop them in the bank, and save them ready for January's subscription renewal, when the good intentions start all over again.
The new 1 coin: Vital statistics

Image copyright PA

Thickness: 2.8mm - thinner than old coin

Weight: 8.75g - lighter than old coin

Diameter: 23.4mm - larger than old coin

Number to enter circulation: 1.5 billion - about 23 per person.
Old 1 coins will be melted down to make new ones

Outer ring: gold-coloured, made from nickel-brass

Inner ring: silver-coloured, made from nickel-plated alloy
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption My Little Pony with attitude: US designer Jeremy Scott at Moschino's fashion show in Milan

The fashion industry is experiencing a revolution, with mermaids, unicorns, sparkles and vintage toys now all the rage in High Street fashion shops.
Products once considered to be "too childish" or alternative for women to wear are now increasingly popular.
Moschino has just launched its My Little Pony collection for Spring/Summer 2018 at Milan Fashion Week.
But the trend has led to renewed debate among consumers about whether wearing such fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
A new social phenomenon is arising on Instagram, whereby young women have become the key influencers for their friendship circles and communities.
Social trends

Users now regularly post photos of their outfits on Instagram, together with a full run-down of what they are wearing and where they got it from.
If someone has a unique and unusual item, others covet it.
Image copyright Jessica Ayton Image caption Quirky cute alternative fashion items can now be found on the High Street

To ensure that more people see the outfit shot posts, users include hashtags for different styles and tag the small businesses they purchased the item from.
This helps other consumers find the product, as well as providing free publicity for independent brands.
Over time, these trends grow on social networks, often without ever receiving mainstream media coverage.
Relatable fashion

Now, some of these fashion trends are making their way into the mainstream - whether it's seashell bags, pink heart chokers, sparkly rubber phone cases, pastel jackets, comfortable boat-like shoes called "creepers", fluffy neon fur tops or colourful see-through backpacks.
"People just want something they can relate to," says Rosanna Mackney, the creative director of Dreamy Bows, a UK retailer of Japanese fashion.
"If you see a model in a magazine, you know they've had styling and a makeup artist to do it for them, but if you see someone's Instagram account, you know that they achieved that look by themselves, so you know it's a lot more realistic that you can achieve the look yourself."
Image copyright Ruth Brain Image caption Clothing themed around vintage 1980s toys like My Little Pony, Care Bears and Polly Pocket are also now all the rage

Merchandise depicting vintage toys like My Little Pony and Polly Pocket have also seen a revival amongst fashionistas on Instagram.
Apart from Moschino, American independent makeup brand Lime Crime recently launched a line of eyeshadow palettes inspired by 1990s Polly Pocket playsets.
Lime Crime founder Doe Deere says that her beauty brand wants customers to be unapologetically expressive: "Our customers create the trends - they inspire us daily.
"Women have been told a lot of things [about what they should wear], but thankfully the fashion and beauty industries are populated with innovators and change-makers who don't give much thought to the rules."
'Be adult'

Yet many think that childlike items should be best left in childhood.
"You may like bright and vibrant colours.
That is perfectly fine.
But you are not a little girl.
You are an adult woman, and there is pride in being an adult women," Racked.com's Jennifer Wright implores in a critique of the 2017 summer fashion trends.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Are the symbols and fashions you choose to wear really a sign of how mature you are?
"Please don't latch onto the fantasy world of mermaids and unicorns and whatever other bits of girlish nostalgia is being marketed to you.
"None of those things are real.
Now, more than ever, we need to be present in the real world that's unfolding.
The world needs adult women, desperately."
Financial crisis

Ruth Brain, 27, an alternative fashion YouTube vlogger from Edinburgh known online as "Princess Peachie", has been collecting vintage toys since 2005.
Ms Brain who has 59,000 YouTube subscribers and 12,000 Instagram followers says that while her hobby was judged as being "weird" 12 years ago, nowadays young women feel more comfortable expressing themselves openly.
"Those of us who grew up through the late 1980s to early 2000s are all kind of withdrawing to that carefree, happier feeling," she says.
"Which for us was before the point we finished high school and got tossed into a financial crisis."
"But also we're all kind of realising that 'growing up' isn't really related to aesthetic.
Image copyright Dreamy Bows Image caption The latest trends are heavily influenced by the Harajuku street styles from Japan and other underground movements

"It's related to your intelligence, wisdom and emotional maturity - so if you're wearing My Little Ponies on your sweatshirt or Care Bears on your socks, none of that really matters in the grand scheme of things, as long as it makes you smile," says Ms Brain.
Fashion rebels

Rosanna Mackney also disagrees that wearing colourful, cute fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
"It's a rebellion against what society and high fashion thinks women should dress like," she says.
"Mature, understated elegance, muted colours - lots of people don't want to conform to this, and sometimes we just want to wear cute and colourful things that express all sides of our personalities."
But perhaps times are changing, and the so-called "rules" governing a woman's perceived maturity are being turned on their head.
"Fashion today is becoming more young and fun - it's kind of like they're branching out for the 'weird kid'," says Jessica Ayton, 27, an alternative fashion blogger from West Yorkshire with 5,000 followers on Instagram.
"The cutesy fashion, we're allowed to embrace it now."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption If a hacker managed to switch off a life-support machine, the results could be fatal

Imagine a hacker remotely turning off a life support machine in a hospital, or shutting down a power station.
These are the nightmare scenarios we face because many organisations haven't a clue how many unsecured devices are connected to their networks, cyber-security experts warn.
It was an ordinary day at a busy hospital - doctors, nurses and surgeons rushed about attending to the health of their patients.
For Hussein Syed, chief information security officer for the largest health provider in New Jersey, it was the health of his IT network that was keeping him busy.
And today, he was in for a surprise.
He knew he presided over a complex web of connected medical devices, computers, and software applications spread across RWJBarnabas Health's 13 hospitals.
This included about 30,000 computers, 300 apps, a data centre, as well as all the mobile phones hooking up to the hospitals' wi-fi networks.
Company mergers had only added to the complexity of these sprawling IT systems.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hussein Syed discovered that there were around 70,000 devices connected to his network

But when he used a specialist IoT cyber-security program to carry out a full audit, he discovered that there were in fact 70,000 internet-enabled devices accessing the health firm's network - far more than he'd expected.
"We found a lot of things we were not aware of," Mr Syed tells the BBC, "systems that weren't registered with IT and which didn't meet our security standards."
These included security cameras and seemingly innocuous gadgets such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) - units that provide back-up battery power in the event of a power cut.
"These unidentified devices could definitely have been access points for hackers who could have then found high-value assets on our network," says Mr Syed.
Hack in to a UPS and you could potentially switch off life-critical machines, he explains.
Or hackers could steal patient data, encrypt it, then demand a ransom for its safe return.
On the black market "health data is worth 50 times more than credit card data", says Mr Syed.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hospitals like this RWJBarnabas Health one in New Jersey are also complex IT networks

The audit "helped us protect our network," he adds, preferring not to dwell on what might have been.
Mike DeCesare, chief executive of ForeScout, the software provider Mr Syed brought in, says: "Businesses typically underestimate by 30% to 40% how many devices are linked to their network.
It's often a shock when they find out.
"With the proliferation of IoT [internet of things] devices the attack surface for hackers has increased massively.
"Traditional antivirus software was designed on the assumption that there were just a few operating systems.
Now, because of IoT, there are thousands."
ForeScout's software monitors a company's network and indentifies every device trying to access it, "not just from its IP [internet protocol] address, but from 50 other attributes and fingerprints", says Mr DeCesare.
The reason for these other layers of security is that it is "relatively easy" for hackers to mask the identity of a particular device - known as MAC [media access control] spoofing.
So ForeScout's software takes a behavioural approach to monitoring.
Image copyright ForeScout Image caption ForeScout boss Mike DeCesare says his company can spot rogue devices on the network

"We look at the traffic from all those different devices and analyse whether they are behaving like they should," he says.
"Is that printer behaving like a printer?
So why is it trying to access other devices on the network and break in to the system?
"If we spot aberrant behaviour we can disconnect the device from the network automatically."
Services from network monitoring firms - ForeScout, Solar Winds, IBM, SecureWorks, Gigamon and others - are becoming increasingly necessary in a world where everything - from lamp-posts to lawn sensors - is becoming internet-enabled.
According to Verizon's latest State of the Market: Internet of Things report there are now 8.4 billion connected devices - a 31% increase on 2016 - and $2tn (1.5tn) will have been spent on the technologies by the end of 2017.
But as Verizon points out, lack of industry-wide standards for IoT devices is giving businesses major security concerns.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is the internet of things?
Stories of cyber-attacks mounted on the back of insecure devices such as video cameras have highlighted the issue.
"IoT security is one of the biggest challenges we're facing right now," says Darren Thomson, chief technology officer and vice president, technology services at cyber-security firm Symantec.
The difficulty is that IoT devices are generally simple, cheap and low-powered, without the capability of running the antivirus programs operated by traditional computers.
"The challenge with critical infrastructure is that it wasn't built with security in mind," says Tom Reilly, chief executive of Cloudera, the IoT and data analytics platform.
"Smart cities are a great playing field for hackers - changing traffic lights, turning elevators on and off - there are many security exposures.
"We need to get ahead of them."
This necessitates a different approach to security, a growing number of experts believe.
In April, telecoms giant Verizon launched what it calls its IoT "security credentialing" service, whereby only trusted, verified devices are allowed to access a company's network.
Meanwhile, Cloudera has formed a strategic partnership with chip maker Intel.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

"Intel makes the chips that are being used in many IoT sensors," explains Mr Reilly, "and all that data being created needs to land in a database like ours residing in a data centre.
"We authenticate all the devices - we're creating an end-to-end platform for the IoT world."
Rival GE Digital, a subsidiary of the global engineering giant GE, has also developed its own IoT and data analytics platform called Predix which it is outsourcing to big clients such as British Airways and oil giant Exxon.
IoT sensors are fitted to big machines, from gas turbines to aero engines, and these transmit "petabytes of data in real time that helps us work out how to optimise their maintenance", says Bill Ruh, GE Digital chief executive.
"We get all that data back via virtual private networks mostly in a highly secure encrypted fashion."
But if you don't have the resources to commit to an entire IoT ecosystem operated by a major tech company, behavioural network monitoring may be your next best bet.
Just bear in mind that your organisation's defences are only as strong as the weakest part.
Beware the invisible network.
Image copyright Jorge Sarmento Image caption Cork is harvested from a type of oak tree, with Portugal the world's largest producer

If you are a regular wine drinker it is almost certain that you have opened a corked bottle or two in your time.
As a result of a tainted cork, the wine smells and tastes unpleasant - all musky and mouldy.
After the initial disappointment, you then have the worry of trying to get your money back from the wine shop or supermarket.
Or you may face an awkward conversation with a supercilious wine waiter, whose boss might not take kindly to reimbursing you, especially if it was an expensive bottle and the taint isn't too prominent.
Figures for how many cork-sealed wine bottles are affected by cork taint are hotly disputed, but a 2007 study put it as high as one in 10.
With reputations on the line, and money lost on wine tipped down sinks, it is not surprising that winemakers around the world are continuing to ditch corks for metal screw-cap openings on their bottles.
So much so that cork went from sealing 95% of wine bottles globally in the 1990s, to just 62% in 2009.
This is bad news for Portugal's cork producers, who supply more than half the world market from forests of cork oak trees in the south of the country.
However, the industry is fighting back.
Image copyright APcor Image caption Natural corks are "punched" out of strips of cork

But first, what exactly is cork taint?
It is caused by a chemical compound known as TCA.
In very simple terms, TCA is created by tiny airborne fungi that have attached themselves to the cork.
It isn't harmful, but it can make your wine taste bad, or alternatively strip it of flavour.
Carlos de Jesus, director of marketing at Portugal's largest cork producer, Amorim, admits that about 13 years ago things looked bleak for the future of natural corks in some countries.
"Of course everything has its upsides and downsides, but there was a moment there around 2003-04 where the image of cork not having a future was taking place in some markets, mainly in Australia and New Zealand," he says.
Image copyright Philipe Laurent Image caption The trees grow the cork back over a nine-year period

Fast-forward to today, and Mr de Jesus says that Amorim is leading efforts to prevent any TCA infected corks getting into the system.
It does this using a process it calls "NDTech", whereby it uses hi-tech sensor machines to weed out any bad corks.
Mr de Jesus adds: "We can do that analysis not in minutes... but in seconds.
We can now give an individual guarantee, cork by cork."
And despite the big move to screw-caps, particularly still in Australia and New Zealand, Amorim now produces 4.4 billion corks per year, out of a total 12 billion industry-wide.
This compares with 4.7 billion screw-caps per annum, and 1.8 billion bottles with plastic stoppers.
Despite the hard work of Amorim and other members of the Portuguese cork industry to tackle TCA, Australian wine boss Mitchell Taylor says he doesn't expect he will ever go back to corks.
Image copyright APcor Image caption A total 12 billion natural corks are made each year

Mr Taylor is managing director of Taylors Wines (known as Wakefield Wines in the UK), based in South Australia's Clare Valley.
In 2004 it was the first major Australian winery to decide to seal all its wines under screw-cap.
"We were finding we had TCA and random oxidation problems with up to 10-15% of our wines, and we were able to eliminate that overnight," he says.
"The world has moved forward, I compare going back to cork as the horse and cart, it's a great form of transport, but really we've moved on in modern technology."
Yet while Mr Taylor is adamantly against natural corks, it remains the case that the vast majority of top European and American wines are still sealed with them.
In addition to being a case of tradition, and a continuing perception that the wine will be of better quality, natural corks have a proven record over the centuries of helping fine wines to mature by letting in tiny amounts of oxygen, something screw-caps cannot properly replicate.
Grgich Hills Estate in California's Napa Valley is one winemaker that is mainly sticking with natural corks, which it uses on 70% of its wines.
It typically pays about 70-93 cents (52-69p) per high-quality Portuguese cork.
Image copyright Taylors Image caption Australian wine firm Taylors was the first in that country to switch completely to using screw-caps

Ivo Jeramaz, Grgich's vice president of grape growing and production, says: "These days our research points to three to five corks per 1,000 being affected by TCA, not three to five per 100, so it's far less than it used to be."
He adds that "top notch expensive wines" need natural corks, "just as you wouldn't drink it from a paper cup".
More stories from the BBC's Business Brain series looking at interesting business topics from around the world:

Are changeable heels the end to women's sore feet?
Do the colours you wear at work matter?
Turning the dead into vinyl records

How Sicilian oranges are being made into clothes

Grgich doesn't use any screw-caps at all, and instead for the other 30% of its bottles it is experimenting with a new cork called "Diam".
Developed by a French firm of the same name, Diam corks are made by milling cork into granules which are treated with carbon dioxide to remove any TCA, before being pressed and glued into a cork shape.
Diam corks are now growing quickly in popularity, particularly among French winemakers aiming at the middle market.
Image copyright Diam Image caption Diam corks are made from treated cork granules, which are then pressed into shape

Mark Pardoe, a master of wine at UK merchant Berry Bros & Rudd, says that natural cork is still the "preferred closure for wines that require cellarage".
He adds: "Its elasticity and ability to allow a very gentle oxidation when a wine is correctly stored makes it a still-unsurpassed closure for long-term wines.
"Progress in cork processing methods mean that some cork producers are now able to give guarantees, and traceability, to insure the drinker against increasingly infrequent "corked" bottles.
"And, as such, cork is still the premium wine closure, although every premium winery experiments with other closures."
The Portuguese cork industry is also keen to stress its environmental credentials, particularly the fact that trees are not cut down to harvest the cork.
Instead the cork is stripped from beneath the bark, and then grows back over a nine-year period.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Screw-caps can remove the threat of TCA, but some question whether they work for wines that need to be cellared for many years

Michael Colangelo, vice president of New York-based PR firm Colangelo & Partners, which is promoting Portuguese cork in the US, says: "Many people still don't understand the sustainability of cork, in that it's like shearing a sheep - you don't kill the sheep to get the wool."
Ramiro Baptista, manager of cork firm Portugalia, adds that the global wine industry is large enough for all forms of closure to have a bright future.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint founder David Nathaniel says the chain has been welcomed in Italy

In Italy coffee is synonymous with espresso, downed quickly and without ceremony.
But a new breed of American-style coffee shops is drawing in younger Italians.
"We like it here because we can study and be connected online.
We both prefer American-style coffee than Italian and we love the different style of cakes," say Aurora, 13, and Linda, aged 14.
It's just before lunchtime and we're sitting inside 12oz Coffee Joint - a self-styled American coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
'Un caffe'

Italy is viewed by many as the world capital of coffee - wherever you turn you see a bar serving espresso, cappuccino or caffe macchiato as well as the traditional brioche.
In these places, if you asked for a latte you would be served a glass of milk.
Ordering an espresso is also unnecessary; "un caffe" is all you need to say.
Coffee and espresso are synonymous in Italy.
But in here the drink options are far more exotic, with americano, iced cinnamon lattes or caramel macchiatos all on offer.
It's not just the drinks.
The counter is piled high with a vast array of doughnuts, muffins, brownies and bagels.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint has a coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
One customer, Alberto, who is 32, says it's these kinds of differences that have drawn him in.
"I enjoy coming here because it's stylish and has a young fresh feel to it compared to Italian coffee shops."
It's young Italians like these who are starting to shake up the traditional Italian coffee culture in Italy.
12oz Coffee Joint opened its first store in 2015 and there are now six in Milan and one opening soon in Verona.
The chain wants to expand to major cities such as Rome and Venice.
But what made Italian founder David Nathaniel want to sell American coffee in his home country?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption The chain also serves US-style cakes

"I have two children who are teenagers - whenever they went abroad they always wanted to have photos posted on social media with big cups of coffee with whipped cream," he says.
"Then one day I saw a typical woman from Milan with her Louis Vuitton handbag with a big cup of coffee and she became my muse.
"If she was walking the streets of Milan with a big cup of coffee then the time had come."
Despite the non-traditional concept, he says the coffee shop was broadly welcomed when it opened.
"We had no anger or opposition but it was funny to see the faces of people who would come in and not understand the concept.
"Their reactions to drinking coffee in big paper cups was quite amusing - a lot of professionals in the market actually felt there was a need for such a chain."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Young Italian coffee drinkers are keen to experiment

Jonny Forsyth, global drinks analyst at market research firm Mintel, says traditional coffee shops have failed to keep up with changing tastes.
"Italian coffee shop culture is so traditional that it has determinedly ignored modern consumer trends.
"It is also very rare to find flavoured coffee, although some outlets in the north serve coffee with Nutella or hazelnut paste," he says.
Changing trends

Yet Mintel's research has found that Italians, particularly younger ones, are keen to experiment beyond the traditional espresso.
Its research showed a majority (64%) of 16-24 year-old Italian coffee drinkers like trying different flavours of coffee (e.g.
vanilla, hazelnut) at home compared to 42% of those aged 55 and above.
Mintel also found that over three-quarters of 16-24-year-olds who drink coffee in a typical week like the taste of milky coffee compared to 60% of regular Italian coffee drinkers aged 45 and above.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Arnold Coffee, founded by Alfio Bardolla (right), opened in 2009

It's not just 12oz Coffee Joint which has emerged to take advantage of these changing tastes.
US-style chain Arnold Coffee opened its first shop in 2009, also in Milan.
It now has nine coffee shops with more set to open in Florence and Rome.
Italian founder Alfio Bardolla says the fact that their shop allows customers to stay longer and linger over a coffee is one of their big attractions.
"The Italian bar is based on a 'drink up and leave' mentality and if you're there for more than 10 minutes they get annoyed.
"We thought that if McDonald's had succeeded [in Italy], then so would American coffee."
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption At Arnold Coffee customers stay longer than in traditional bars

Mr Bardolla baulks at the idea that selling US-style coffee means the quality suffers, arguing the fact it is often diluted means they have to use better quality coffee.
"People do not come to us to drink an espresso but an espresso with our coffee is even better than the traditional bars.
Our price is higher but the quality is higher."
One self-confessed coffee addict and Arnold customer, 22-year-old Alessia, is convinced.
"It's lighter than Italian coffee and I love that you can carry it around with you in the big paper cups," she says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Starbucks says it is opening in Italy with "humility and respect"

Coffee giant Starbucks is betting on more US coffee fans like Alessia when it opens its first store in the country next year, a high-end, high-concept roastery in Milan two minutes from the Duomo and the historic Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II.
The American coffee chain has promised to enter the birthplace of the espresso "with humility and respect".
But what do traditional Italian coffee owners think about the shift in culture?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Caffe Rigoletto owner Vito Fortunato says they make US requests "the Italian way"

Vito Fortunato, owner of Caffe Rigoletto in Salsomaggiore Terme, in the province of Parma, says he believes American-style coffees, particularly the flavoured ones "are really bad for you".
Even when they get "American requests" he says they make it "the Italian way".
"In Italy for someone who wants to have a different style coffee we put a small drop of flavoured syrup or brandy or a drop of fresh whipped cream or a small scoop of ice cream but this is very traditionally Italian."
But he says the biggest loss from the growing numbers of young Italians choosing American-style coffee shops over their local neighbourhood espresso bars is nothing to do with flavour, but with culture.
"The customer sees the bar as a place to open up, to confide and have a chat and a point of human contact between two people.
"I see that this is slowly disappearing, but it is very important for our lives."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Do students want to have debates?
Or stop other people from speaking?
Free speech - too much of it or too little of it - has become one of the thorniest and most emotive subjects for universities.
At what point do strongly held views become extremism or hate speech?
There have been violent flashpoints, particularly in US universities, about what can be said about race, gender and sexuality.
And when does the ultra-liberal assertion of "safe spaces" and limits on language become intolerant and controlling?
Or are these just first-world problems, missing the point about what freedom is really about?
So as new academic terms begin, where are the significant battlegrounds?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'It gets lonely': Being conservative on a liberal campus

1) In Hong Kong, students are under pressure to stop putting up posters and flying banners promoting independence from China.
University campuses are being told that this is not an issue of freedom of speech, but an attack on the principle of Hong Kong's "one country, two systems" relationship with China.
The posters are put up by students on "democracy walls", but authorities say this is an "abuse" of freedom.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Security for a campus speech at Berkeley cost the university $600,000

2) The dollar price of free speech: The University of California, Berkeley, was a cradle of the "free speech movement" in the United States in the 1960s, when students were protesting against the Vietnam war.
It's still on the front line of debates about free speech.
Right-wing commentator Ben Shapiro spoke at Berkeley this month, drawing angry protests from opponents.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Torches have been banned at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville

The university authorities said the security operation around the event cost them $600,000 (440,000).
Another right-wing free speech event, also likely to provoke another protest, is planned for the autumn.
3) Looking west or east?
: The Central European University in Budapest in Hungary has been at the centre of an international struggle, which the university says could see it being shut down.
The university, originally funded by the liberal philanthropist George Soros, says it is being targeted by an unsympathetic, nationalist government.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Protesters in Budapest want to protect the threatened Central European University

Hungary's government says the university needs to comply with new higher education regulations - and negotiations in the United States have been trying to break the deadlock.
4) Illiberal liberals?
: Republican lawmakers in the US state of Ohio are trying to put campus free speech into legislation - challenging what they see as excessive political correctness.
They warn that a "mentality is creeping into our culture that views disagreeable speech as inherently hateful, or even violent".
They want to stop universities setting up designated "free speech zones" on campus, where controversial opinions can be aired, arguing that the whole university should be open to free speech.
5) Torch ban: After the confrontations between torch-carrying white supremacists and protesters at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, the universities have clarified that carrying such "open flames" will not be permitted by the campus police.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption US campuses have seen conflicts over what views should be allowed to be expressed

It shows the power of the symbol in arguments over free speech, with the burning torches evoking images of the Ku Klux Klan and far-right rallies.
There are other measures toughening up security, but university authorities say that carrying "open flame devices" will be prohibited.
6) Turkey trial: The trial of a university lecturer accused of terror-related charges began last week in Turkey.
Nuriye Gulmen, and a primary school teacher also facing charges, have been on a hunger strike protest and were not present at the court in Ankara, with supporters warning of their ill-health.
They lost their jobs in a crackdown that followed the failed coup attempt against Turkey's president last year.
Their case has become a symbol of the 150,000 people claiming to have been sacked or suspended since the coup attempt.
7) Carving out an argument: US universities have been caught in a series of symbolic battles over statues, the names of buildings and what constitutes campus freedom.
Much of this has been about representations of race and identity.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Hong Kong students are being told to take down posters and banners calling for independence

Yale has decided that it needs to remove a 1920s carving from one of its buildings which "depicts a Puritan settler holding a musket pointed toward the head of a Native American".
The university says leaving it in place could create the "unintended effect" of endorsing an image which shows a "scene of warfare and colonial violence toward local Native American inhabitants".
The push for gender neutrality has also seen the university switch away from the traditional term "freshman" for new students to using "first year".
8) Chelsea Manning, imprisoned after giving government information to Wikileaks, was named as a visiting fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard Kennedy School last week.
But two days later the university rescinded the appointment describing it as a "mistake".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Harvard reversed its decision to offer a post to Chelsea Manning

Harvard said in appointing her they wanted to hear from people who "significantly influenced events in the world even if they do not share our values".
This raised the recurrent issue about being free to hear opposing views.
But after ex-acting CIA director Michael Morell resigned from his post at the university over the decision, Harvard reversed her appointment.
9) "My job is not to make you feel comfortable."
The University of Oxford vice chancellor, Louise Richardson, warned fellow university leaders that they had a responsibility to protect free speech on campus.
She told them that students needed to confront views with which they disagreed, even if it meant addressing attitudes that made them "uncomfortable" or they found offensive.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Should universities focus on protecting free speech or preventing provocation?
But she then became embroiled in a row over whether the example she used showed a lack of opposition to homophobia, with calls for an apology and clarifications that she had been "completely misconstrued".
10) North Korea: What are their worries about free movement?
A private, English-language university in the country, the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, has been struggling with getting overseas staff through the US travel ban, but opened as planned this term.
Meanwhile Kim Il-sung University, working on a technology project forecasting exchange rates, has only "success" to report.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyota blazed a trail in hybrid car design with its Prius

Are electric cars really about to take over from the old-fashioned internal combustion engine?
Judging by some of the headlines we've seen recently, you could be forgiven for thinking petrol and diesel engines were about to be consigned to the scrap heap.
Yet the reality is rather different.
There is no question that the car industry is undergoing a radical change.
At this year's Frankfurt Motor Show - currently under way in the German city - the buzzword throughout the cavernous exhibition halls has been "electrification".
The day before the show, for example, Volkswagen said it would build electrified versions of every model in its range - including those sold under the Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche brands - by 2030.
The same evening, Mercedes' parent company Daimler said it would have electrified versions of its own models by 2022.
Image copyright EPA Image caption It's not just new cars, countries will need to invest in new infrastructures for fuelling electric vehicles

Other companies, including Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover and Honda have made similar pledges.
These are undoubtedly ambitious plans - but it is important to recognise their limitations.
They are not saying they will get rid of diesel or petrol cars completely.
They are simply promising to make electrified versions of them available.
It is also important to recognise what "electrified" actually means.
It can, of course, refer to fully electric battery powered vehicles.
But it can also be used to describe hybrids - and hybrids come in many forms.
A plug-in hybrid, for example, has a large battery capacity and is often capable of running entirely on electric power at least part of the time, though it will have a petrol engine as well.
One type of plug-in hybrid, often referred to as a range-extended EV, is essentially an electric car with a small petrol engine that acts as an on-board generator."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mercedes unveils its F1-derived hybrid hypercar

A strong or full hybrid, like the Toyota Prius, uses a relatively powerful electric motor alongside a conventional engine, but you don't need to plug it in for a recharge.
A mild hybrid, meanwhile, is effectively a conventional car, equipped with a small electric motor that allows the engine to shut down temporarily when the car is stopped at traffic lights, for example.
It can also be used to improve acceleration and power auxiliary systems.
To fulfil their commitments, carmakers could simply offer a range of mild hybrids.
They are cheaper to produce than full hybrids, yet they can offer significant benefits in terms of performance and fuel consumption.
More and more cars are already being built in this way.
Although their pledges may sound a bit more dramatic than they really are, it is true that carmakers are investing a great deal of money in new electric models.
Volkswagen, for example, says that by 2025, one in four of its cars could be battery powered.
BMW says it will be offering 12 pure-electric models by the same date.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "A hydrogen society needs to be created," says Toyota's Johan van Zyl

So what is driving the move towards electric vehicles?
There are several factors at play.
The launch of the Tesla Model S in 2012 proved that electric cars could perform as well as their petrol equivalents and have a decent battery range, albeit at a high price.
Since then the cost of lithium-ion batteries has fallen significantly, while battery management technology has improved, making that kind of performance more affordable.
Secondly, anti-pollution legislation is being tightened in key markets.
Here in Europe, for example, there will be new limits in force for emissions of carbon dioxide from 2021.
Those limits are much stricter than the current ones, and they are based on the average level of pollution produced by a manufacturer's entire fleet.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe

So by producing zero-emissions cars, manufacturers will find it much easier to meet the targets.
The same logic applies to building more hybrids.
Both of these factors were already affecting the major manufacturers' long term thinking, when in September 2015, another factor came into play.
The diesel emissions scandal cast an unwelcome spotlight on the industry - exposing not just sharp practice, but the fact that diesel cars in particular routinely produced far more harmful pollution than official figures would suggest.
The result was a backlash from politicians and consumers - while Volkswagen, the architect of the scandal, tried to restore its reputation by becoming a leader in electric car technology.
As the VW Group chief executive Matthias Mueller told me in Frankfurt: "We've got the message of course.
Consumers want clean vehicles.
People want clean air, and we want to make our contribution."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption VW is still having to deal with the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal

Electrification was on the cards long before the VW scandal erupted.
But the events of two years ago may well have helped to accelerate the process.
Now, it seems that carmakers are making a virtue out of a necessity, trying to gain some useful PR mileage from a process that was, in reality, more or less inevitable.
So, too, are politicians.
Talk of banning petrol and diesel cars may sound dramatic, draconian even.
But here in the UK, for example, the proposed ban doesn't cover hybrids.
Industry experts say that by 2040 - the date when the ban is due to take effect - it is highly unlikely there will be any non-hybrid cars left on the market anyway.
Then there is the question of infrastructure.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

There are currently about 7,300 charging points for electric cars in the UK, and the number is increasing at a rate of about 10 per day, according to ZapMap.
Globally, the figure is around two million, according to the International Energy Agency.
Clearly, if millions of petrol and diesel cars are to be replaced by electric versions, then we will need a huge investment in charging infrastructure, or they won't be going anywhere.
They will also need batteries - a lot of batteries.
And the power to charge them has to be generated somewhere.
That will take time and money.
Meanwhile, hybrid cars offer a convenient and effective stop-gap.
As BMW's chief executive Harald Krueger puts it, petrol and diesel cars "are not dead yet".
"You will see a transition time, with investments in combustion engines - petrol engines, diesel engines, very efficient engines," he says.
"But long term, we will see sustainable mobility with e-mobility."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Audi's Aicon autonomous electric concept - but will such concepts really become reality soon?
VW Group's Matthias Mueller agrees.
"There will be a coexistence between internal combustion engines and electric drive systems for a certain period.
I can't tell you how long that will be," he says.
"And that's because we do have to get the right infrastructure in place... we have to create the battery capacity.
"We're talking about enormous capacity here, and it has yet to be created."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China is experiencing a growing problem of financial fraud

Li Wenxing was starting a new life.
In May, the young university graduate left his home in rural China on the offer of work with a software company in the city of Tianjin.
But the job was a scam and Mr Li was swept into the web of a gang running a pyramid scheme.
Two months later he was dead.
The tragedy, which is being investigated, sparked national outrage and has illuminated the growing problem of financial fraud and its devastating impact on communities in China.
"It's almost an epidemic, especially in rural areas," says Violet Ho, senior managing director at Kroll.
Pyramid schemes

Pyramid schemes are flourishing in parts of the country where education levels are low.
The schemes prey on the vulnerable, typically young people and the elderly, with the promise of employment or lucrative returns for direct sales of products like cosmetics or health supplements.
Victims are assured of great fortune if they recruit more investors into the operation.
"They give the illusion to naive people that they can get rich quickly without risk," says Ms Ho, who investigates financial systems and advises on China.
Peer-to-peer lending and virtual currencies have fuelled the spread of other investing scams, luring victims with little financial knowledge.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Parts of rural China have been particularly hard hit by financial scams

Pyramid - and Ponzi - schemes rely on attracting a constant stream of new investors, and some of the funds raised are paid to earlier backers.
Ms Ho says the Chinese swindles are distinct from frauds typically seen in Western societies due to the lack of sophistication of the investors involved.
Victims have sunk everything they have - borrowing money and even selling their houses - on the promise of even bigger returns.
Chinese social media site Weibo is awash with talk of pyramid schemes.
"I've lost count of the people who've been trapped", said one user.
Social problem

It's a social problem the government is fighting to contain.
Victor Shih, associate professor in political economy and China expert at the University of California San Diego, says a combination of factors have spurred the spread of these scams.
"The rapid proliferation of pyramid schemes is caused by high growth in living costs, especially housing costs, which enticed many to look for higher returns - and previously light regulation at the local level," Prof Shih says.
Under pressure to grow their economies, local governments had in the past endorsed some dubious investment schemes - without properly understanding them - on the belief they would deliver strong returns and spur growth.
"Pyramid schemes were [one popular idea] which they thought could keep driving economic growth," says Prof Ning Zhu, deputy dean of the National Institute of Financial Research at Tsinghua University.
"I don't think this is happening any more," he adds.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Low levels of financial literacy in China has helped fuel the spread of pyramid schemes

Government crackdown

Authorities are paying more attention.
The government acknowledges the number of big pyramid scheme cases has shot up, and that organisers are using various channels to lure and cheat unsuspecting Chinese out of their money and assets.
"Pyramid schemes directly harm the market's economic order and social harmony and stability," Beijing said in a recent statement.
China is carrying out three months of co-ordinated action to investigate and clean-up the practice of pyramid selling.
As part of the crackdown, more than 100 arrests were made in southern China last month, targeting individuals over their suspected links to a 360m yuan (42.3m) pyramid scheme.
Authorities had at least one major bust last year - breaking up a 50bn yuan online finance scam which was suspected of defrauding 900,000 investors.
And while there may be more reaction from the government - the number of pyramid schemes investigated in 2016 jumped 19% on the previous year - the tactics of the con artists at work in China appear to be getting more insidious.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The government says pyramid schemes harm Chinese society

Sinister tactics

Days before Li Wenxing died, the young man reportedly told his family "No matter who calls for money, don't give it to them."
Soon after arriving in Tianjin Mr Li became distant, hard to reach by phone and began asking friends for loans, according to Reuters.
Mr Li was found to have drowned in a small pond outside of Tianjin, the report said.
Police said he had been involved in a pyramid scam and investigations are continuing.
Kroll's Violet Ho says the methods like the extortion believed to have been used by the group in Mr Li's case are common.
She says scams in China have become more sinister as organisers illegally detain people and use intimidation tactics on victims, bringing the problem to a "different level".
Image copyright Getty Images

As many as 400,000 passengers across the EU could have flights with Ryanair cancelled between now and the end of October.
The airline said on Saturday it would cancel 40-50 flights every day for the next six weeks, after it "messed up" the planning of pilot holidays.
All of Ryanair's flights are short or medium-haul, and the vast majority are to destinations within the EU, meaning that passengers are entitled to some very specific rules on compensation.
On its website the airline says: "We understand that flight cancellations may cause distress, and we will accommodate your option of choice wherever possible, while complying with EU Regulation 261/2004."
What are my options if my flight is cancelled?
You can apply for a refund.
Even if it is only the outbound portion of the flight that is cancelled, you can still get a refund for the return leg, assuming you do not want to use it.
Or you can chose an alternative flight - perhaps on an earlier or later date.
In most cases Ryanair will offer you another flight with them.
However, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) says that if an alternative airline is flying there "significantly sooner", then you have the right to be booked onto a different airline.
Ryanair is offering alternative flights/refunds via this page.
However, chief executive Michael O'Leary has said that Ryanair would not book passengers onto flights with rival carriers.
"We will not pay for flights on other airlines, no.
It is not part of the EU261 entitlement," he said, referring to European passenger rights legislation covering cancelled flights.
Image copyright Getty Images

Can I claim compensation for the inconvenience?
You can claim compensation - but it is based strictly on the time of your actual arrival compared to when you originally expected to arrive.
It also depends when Ryanair told you about the cancellation.
If it gave you more than 14 days' notice, it does not have to pay any compensation at all.
However, so far all passengers have been given less than a week's warning.
If Ryanair books you onto a flight with another airline, you are still entitled to compensation.
What if I have received less than 14 days' notice?
If your re-booked flight arrives more than four hours later than the flight you were originally booked on, you can claim 250 euros - around 220.
For flights over 1,500km, known as medium-haul, that goes up to 400 euros - around 350.
However, if the new flight re-routes you via another destination, and you end up with a longer flight as a result - you can still claim compensation, but at a lower rate.
If you are flying on a short-haul flight, and the re-routed flight is at least two hours late, you can claim 125 euros - around 110.
If a medium-haul re-routed flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 200 euros - around 176 - depending on the time of take-off.
What if I have received less than seven days' notice?
If you receive less than a week's notice of the cancellation, the criteria for compensation are tighter.
In this case, your short-haul flight only needs to arrive more than two hours after your original scheduled arrival time for you to claim 250 euros.
If flying more than 1,500km, and the flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 400 euros.
If a new short-haul flight is re-routed, taking off more than one hour before your original flight, but arriving two hours after it, you can claim 125 euros.
A re-routed medium-haul flight needs to arrive at least three hours late for compensation to be paid.
In such a case passengers would get 200 euros.
Image copyright Getty Images

Should I get a refund and arrange my own alternative flight?
You are free to do this, but you will then lose out on any right to compensation.
If you cancel the flight completely, remember that you may not even get a refund.
I don't know whether my flight has been cancelled: What should I do?
So far Ryanair has only published the details of a few of the flights that have been cancelled.
However, it has promised the details of all the cancelled flights will be on its website over the next 24 hours.
This will leave a lot of people not knowing whether their trip will go ahead.
But if you decide to cancel or change your flight without knowing whether it will be cancelled officially, you have no special rights under the European Regulations.
The CAA advises passengers to go through the airline for that reason.
Am I entitled to additional help?
If you find yourself stranded at the airport, you might also be entitled to an extra payment to cover short-term costs.
For example, if you have had to wait an extra day to take the new flight you should be given accommodation, food, drink and access to communications - such as the cost of a couple of telephone calls.
Image copyright Habito Image caption Daniel's career has been eventful

Daniel Hegarty, the founder of mortgage broker app Habito, does not have the physique of a tech geek.
The 35-year-old's arms are muscled and densely covered in tattoos, a legacy from his time, perhaps, as a successful guitarist.
Even by the standards of tech entrepreneurs, Daniel's background is unconventional.
Leaving school in London before he was 16, he says: "I guess I was a bit of a rebel.
I wanted to do what I wanted to do.
"I just took days off, and when the local guitar shop offered me extra days' work, I decided I'd cut down on my school days."
Then he got suspended.
But despite departing secondary education without any qualifications, it was not the disaster it would have been for most.
A talented guitarist, his punk group, Serum, got signed by the same record label as Boy George, and went on the road earning the princely sum of 100 a week per band member.
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption Daniel spent a decade as a professional musician and songwriter

Before he was 20-years-old, Daniel was living in Los Angeles.
But he gave up on becoming famous in his own right to instead write for, and play, with headline acts such as Robbie Williams, S Club 7, Pink and the Sugababes.
After some 10 years of this, he'd had enough: "It's a strange job.
To make money you have to make a certain amount of bad music.
"And I came to the conclusion I was tired of staring at the back of teenage pop stars."
So he moved back to the UK in 2007 with nothing to do, before a music industry contact came to the rescue.
"A friend of mine was an opera singer who had a pop hit as Tina B," he says.
"I called Tina and asked if she knew anyone who could give someone without any qualifications a job.
"She said she knew a couple of crazy tech guys who needed people."
A meeting over a cup of coffee got him in.
The crazy tech guys turned out to be nucleus of the subsequently much-criticised payday loan lender Wonga.
"There were just a handful of us," says Daniel.
"Between us, we did whatever needed doing."
At Wonga he discovered that he did, in fact, have another string to his bow other than music.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Daniel Hegarty: "I didn't chose Wonga, Wonga chose me"

"It quite quickly emerged I was a massive geek," he says.
"I'd spend my evenings reading text books on pure maths, and doing online courses from Stanford University [in California].
"Within a couple of months I was running a lot of the tech stuff."
But after a warm welcome from borrowers, Wonga's name became increasingly toxic.
In 2014 it wrote off 220m of debts for 330,000 struggling customers after discussions with regulators, and put in place new checks as to whether people could afford the loans they were taking out.
Was Daniel embarrassed to say he'd worked at Wonga?
"I didn't choose Wonga, Wonga chose me."
But, as one of its designers, could he be accused of failing to assess the risks properly?
"My job was fundamentally building the website - how to get someone to show up and share their info, and how to get the money lent when it was wanted, and collected when it was due."
He left as Wonga mushroomed to an international business with 1,000 employees, and he was, again, spending too much time on the road.
Once more at a loose end, Daniel did what rock musicians are often thought to do: "I sat in my pants on my sofa."
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption The idea for Habito came from Daniel's attempt to buy his first home

The spark of the idea for online mortgage brokerage Habito came from his attempt to buy his first home.
Daniel nearly lost out on the property after a series of mistakes by his mortgage broker.
He says they put down his wife's name, twice, alongside his own name.
This held up the process for 10 days, and when the form was corrected the third, extra name that was removed was not the duplicated wife, but his own.
Now it appeared his wife had sparked a clone who was also part of the loan.
The seller was on the brink of pulling out.
Daniel says: "I thought deeply about what I could do for a couple of months, and this is the best I came up with.
But I knew nothing about mortgages."
So he started studying the industry.
He spoke to mortgage brokers, lenders, and regulators in order to understand how it all worked, and he set about building Habito.
One criticism of the Habito app is that it removes the human touch.
Daniel says that at Habito there is a point at which you can speak to a real human being, but critics still say such an online-based system is less likely to find the perfect type of product for the borrower.
Jonathan Harris, director of independent mortgage broker Anderson Harris, says: "There are so many additional criteria that are required nowadays in a mortgage market search.
For example, the type of employment/self-employment, how income is made up, the type of contract, the type of property.
"While we welcome anything that speeds up the often torturously slow mortgage application process, face-to-face advice or over the phone will have a place for a while yet - although mortgage lenders and brokers need to improve their technological offerings."
Image copyright Habito Image caption Habito has now lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, says Daniel

As it stands, the world of mortgage broking is highly fragmented.
The UK's biggest player, London and Country, has only 6% of the domestic market to itself, so there is plenty of scope for challengers.
Daniel says there is simply "no visible limit to Habito's growth".
The company has been going for 16 months, he says, and every month it has grown 20%, so "every week is our busiest ever".
He says the London-based company has so far lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, and employees have grown from eight to 45.
Daniel adds that running a proper business, initially seemed as unreal as being a rock star.
"At first I felt like I was dreaming, going round telling people I was the 'made up' CEO of a 'made-up' business."
But he says he can still be awkward.
"I will do what I want to do".
Daniel has also been able to return an early favour.
Remember the former opera-pop star?
She's now working for him as his corporate lawyer.
"There are quite a few second lifers in my business," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images

In Shanghai, an Uber driver logs into an online forum.
He is not looking for a passenger.
He is looking for someone to pretend to be a passenger.
He finds a willing taker.
He pretends to collect the customer and drop her at the airport.
In fact, they never meet.
Then he goes online and sends her the agreed fee: about $1.60 (1.20).
Or perhaps the driver goes a step further, making up the other person as well as the journey.
He goes to the online marketplace Taobao, and buys a hacked smartphone.
That lets him create multiple fake identities.
He uses one to arrange a ride with himself.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Uber invites customers to rate drivers, and drivers to rate customers

Why?
Because someone's willing to pay him to give people lifts in his car.
Rational economic incentives

Investors in Uber and their rivals have run up billions of dollars of losses - in China, and elsewhere - paying people to share car journeys.
Naturally, they're trying to stamp out the imaginary journeys, but they're convinced subsidising genuine rides is a smart idea.
This all seems bizarre, perverse, even.
But everyone involved is rationally pursuing economic incentives.
To see what's going on, we have to understand a phenomenon that's spawned many buzzwords: "crowd-based capitalism", "collaborative consumption", "the sharing economy", "the trust economy".
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Suppose I'm about to drive myself from downtown Shanghai to the airport.
I occupy only one seat in my car.
Now suppose you live a block away, and you also need to catch a flight.
Why don't I give you a lift?
You could pay me a modest sum, less than you'd pay for some other mode of transport.
You're better off.
I'm better off.
There are two big reasons why this might not happen.
The first, and most obvious, is if neither of us knows the other exists.
'Coincidental wants'

Until recently, the only way you could advertise your desire for a lift would be to stand at a junction, holding up a sign saying "airport".
It's not very practical - especially since the plane won't wait.
This function of matching people who have coincidental wants is among the most powerful ways the internet is reshaping the economy.
Traditional markets work perfectly well for some goods and services, but they're less useful when the goods and services are urgent or obscure.
Consider the plight of Mark Fraser.
It was 1995.
Mark Fraser gave lots of presentations, and he really wanted a laser pointer - they were new, and cool, but also forbiddingly expensive.
Image copyright EBAY Image caption For the first time, eBay connected people who wanted stuff with those who wanted to sell it

Fraser, however, was an electronics geek.
He was confident that if he could get his hands on a broken laser pointer, he could fix it.
But where on earth would he find a broken laser pointer?
The answer, now, is obvious - try Taobao, or eBay, or some other online marketplace.
Back then, eBay had only just started.
Its very first sale: Mark Fraser bought a broken laser pointer.
Mark Fraser was taking a bit of a risk.
He didn't know the seller.
He simply had to trust that they wouldn't simply pocket his $14.83 (11.20) then disappear.
For other transactions, the stakes are higher.
That's the second reason I might not give you a lift to Shanghai airport.
I've no idea who you are.
Perhaps you're planning to attack me and steal my car?
You might doubt my motives, too - perhaps I'm a serial killer.
Enablers of trust

After all, hitch-hiking was a popular pursuit a few decades ago, but fell out of fashion after some well-publicised murders.
Trust is an essential component of markets - so essential that we often don't even notice it, like a fish doesn't notice water.
In developed economies, enablers of trust are everywhere: brands, money-back guarantees, and of course repeat transactions with a seller who can be easily located.
But the new sharing economy lacks those enablers.
Why should we get into a stranger's car - or buy a stranger's laser pointer?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption AirBnB emphasises the personal connection between hosts and guests

In 1997, eBay introduced a feature that helped solve the problem: Seller Feedback.
According to Jim Griffith, eBay's first customer service representative, "no-one had ever seen anything like [it]".
The idea of both parties rating each other after a transaction has become ubiquitous.
You buy something online - you rate the seller, the seller rates you.
You use a lift-sharing service, like Uber - you rate the driver, the driver rates you.
You stay in an AirBnB - you rate the host, the host rates you.
A few positive reviews set our mind at ease about a stranger.
Jim Griffith says he's "not so sure [eBay] would have grown without [seller feedback]".
Spare capacity

Online matching platforms would still exist, of course - eBay already did - but perhaps they'd be more like hitch-hiking today: a niche pursuit for the unusually adventurous, not a mainstream activity that's transforming whole sectors of the economy.
Platforms like Uber and AirBnB, eBay and TaskRabbit create real value.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption TaskRabbit connects customers with so-called "Taskers" to help with a variety of odd jobs

But there are losers.
For all the touchy-feeliness of the buzzwords - "collaborative", "sharing", "trust" - these models aren't just heart-warming stories of neighbours coming together to borrow each other's power drills.
They can easily lead to cut-throat capitalism.
More from Tim Harford:

How the smartphone became so smart

Just Google it: The student project that changed the world

Money via mobile: The M-Pesa revolution

The surprising ways video games have shaped the economy

Established hotels and taxi companies are aghast at competition from AirBnB and Uber.
Is that just an incumbent trying to suppress competition?
Or are they right when they complain that the new platforms are ignoring important regulations?
Risk of discrimination?
Many countries have rules to protect workers, like guaranteed hours or working conditions or a minimum wage.
And many people on platforms like Uber aren't just monetising spare capacity.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A banner reading "No tourist flats" hangs from a balcony to protest against holiday rental apartments for tourists in Barcelona

They're trying to make a living, without the protections of a formal job - perhaps because a company liked Uber competed them out of a job.
Some regulations protect customers, too - for example, from discrimination.
Hotels can't legally refuse you a room if you're, say, a same-sex couple.
But hosts on AirBnb can choose to turn down guests after seeing not just your feedback but your photos.
AirBnb builds trust by emphasising the personal connection, and that means showing people prominent pictures of who they're dealing with.
That also invites people to act on their personal prejudices, consciously or otherwise.
People from ethnic minorities have been shown to suffer as a result.
What should be the 51st Thing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Tim Harford has discussed 50 things which he argues have made the modern economy.
Help choose the 51st thing by voting for one of these listener suggestions:

The credit card

Glass

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Irrigation

The pencil

The spreadsheet

You can vote on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website.
Voting closes at 1200 GMT Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st Thing will be announced in a special podcast on 28 October 2017.
How online matching platforms should be regulated is a dilemma causing lawmakers around the world to scratch their heads.
It matters because it's potentially huge business, especially in emerging markets where there isn't yet a culture of owning things like cars.
And it's a business with network effects: the more people use a platform, the more attractive it becomes.
That's why Uber and its rivals - Didi Chuxing in China, Grab in southeast Asia, Ola in India - have invested massively in subsidising rides and giving credits to new customers: they wanted to get big first.
And, naturally, some drivers have been tempted to defraud them.
Remember how they did it?
By using an online forum to find a willing fake customer, or an online marketplace to buy a hacked smartphone.
Matching people with the particular things they want really is useful.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lehman Brothers: Failed bank or malt whisky?
It's the bottle where everybody knows its name, and that is both its biggest asset and its biggest problem.
Lehman Brothers is no longer just the bank that defined the global financial crisis of a decade ago, it's now also a range of whiskies.
A London entrepreneur decided that the whole world should be able to taste one of the most profound company collapses in modern times.
On 15 September nine years ago 25,000 people lost their jobs when the bank went bankrupt.
James Green says he was inspired to keep the bank's name alive by the significance of those events.
"After living through the economic disaster of 2008, it really resounded with me.
I personally related to it, there were people in my neighbourhood, my family that were personally affected by the crash," he says.
He says his three different whiskies, one of which is named Ashes of Disaster, have been specially crafted to capture the flavour of the once mighty bank's fall from grace.
Image caption James Green says the whiskies aim to capture the flavour of Lehman Brothers' fall from grace

Getting the right to make them hasn't been a straightforward process.
Barclays Bank fought Mr Green's efforts to register a trademark for the whisky at New York State's Division of Corporations.
It unsuccessfully argued that it controls the Lehman Brothers name as part of the deal it struck to buy many of the bank's assets just after it went into meltdown and that the public would be confused into thinking the whisky was connected to the bank.
Barclays declined to comment on the dispute.
Using the Lehman's name to sell whisky is a clever idea according to Rob Malcolm.
The former head of marketing for the world's biggest whisky seller, Diageo, says he thinks "there will be an initial surge of appeal for its cleverness and its fun" but he says "after that's exhausted I'd be very surprised if there's much of a sustaining business there", although he does expect it to make a profit.
Dr Malcolm says that it will have greatest appeal amongst those working in the finance industry who can relate to the Lehman's story.
He adds that whisky aficionados are "disproportionately people who are economically successful", such as bankers.
Image copyright Lehman's Hardware Store Image caption Galen Lehman's eponymous family hardware store was founded in 1955

But for some firms, sharing a name with the collapsed Wall Street firm, has been more of a burden than a benefit.
Since 1955 Galen Lehman's eponymous family hardware store in the US state of Ohio has been selling everything from butter churns to oil lamps and handmade soap.
One of the company's wood stoves even featured in the film Back to the Future III.
But 20 years ago they nearly got burnt by Lehman Brothers, the bank.
It tried to stop the hardware store's efforts to become one of the first online retailers, when they registered the website lehmans.com.
Mr Lehman recalls that one of their lawyers called and said: "you can't use that name, that's us", to which he replied: "that's ironic it's me too".
Mr Lehman also remembers a similar call in the 1980s.
Despite the problems, some 40% of his business is now done online and over the ensuing years Mr Lehman says name confusion has probably helped send additional customers his way.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Lehman Brothers collapsed nine years ago on 15 September 2008

However it has also been a source of irritation and unwanted information, mainly thanks to the bank's own staff who sometimes confused the two companies domain names.
The bank's was www.lehman.com, while the shop's is www.lehmans.com.
"We started getting all these emails between employees of Lehman brothers in New York and in London", says Mr Lehman.
The messages gave him a front row seat into some of the worst excesses of the financial crisis.
Mr Lehman warned the bank and they eventually found a way to stop his inbox being inundated by emails that had "information about financial transactions, bank account numbers, all kinds of clearly confidential information".
However, Mr Lehman says it gave him a unique insight into the "play hard, work hard" culture of the bank.
"It seemed like as soon as people were outside of work they'd head straight to the corner pub.
And in one of the emails I remember in particular, one employee of Lehman Brothers was boasting to another employee of Lehman Brothers how he threw some bloke through a pub window the night before".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Actively choosing to copy another firm's name is "audacious", says Anthony Shore

Of course, that kind of staff behaviour can be damaging to a company's reputation, something which goes hand in hand with a firm's name according to Anthony Shore.
Mr Shore runs Operative Words and is one of the world's most sought after people when it comes to naming new businesses and products, something which he can charge tens of thousands of dollars for.
While unintentional name coincidences are difficult to avoid, actively choosing to copy another firm's name is "audacious", says Mr Shore.
"It's hard to replicate the decades and decades of equity that are accrued when a company has been in business" for as long as the bank had, he says.
"The name becomes the crystallisation of everything that there is about the company, their reputation, their products their services for good or for ill," adds Mr Shore.
James Green acknowledges his whiskey plays on "the bad faith" people now have in the demised bank's name.
"We are playing on the Lehman brothers destruction," he says.
On both sides of the Atlantic there are many more court cases still to be heard over the failings of Lehman Brothers bank.
Even without the whiskey it's a name whose reputation is still being tested.
Image copyright Sulky Doll Image caption Fashion stylist Donna McCulloch says Instagram "is your shop front"

Instagram, the Facebook-owned photo app, has become a lucrative shop window for many small entrepreneurs.
So what are the secrets of its success?
When Facebook bought the photo app Instagram in 2012 for a cool $1bn (760m), eyebrows were raised at the value the tech giant had placed on this 18-month-old start-up.
Fast forward to 2017, and while Instagram may still be Facebook's little sister, it has built a sizeable community of 700 million users - dwarfing both Twitter and Snapchat.
With improved photo filters and the addition of Instagram Stories, a feature that lets users upload short videos that disappear after 24 hours, the platform has become a big hit with freelancers and small organisations looking to reach new audiences.
So how can you use it to make money?
"Instagram is your shop front," says Donna McCulloch, a fashion stylist who works under the name Sulky Doll.
"People don't ask for business cards any more - they ask for your 'handle' [Instagram nickname].
It's instant - you both get your phones out, and you're connected."
Image copyright Cat Meffan Image caption Yoga enthusiast Cat Meffan was "shocked and excited" by Instagram's marketing power

For yoga instructor Cat Meffan, the glamorous images she posts of herself in impressive yoga positions in picturesque locations around the world are intended to inspire and motivate her 77,000 followers.
But they also help her to build her business.
"I sold out my first yoga retreat in five days and all I did was put up one Instagram post," she says.
"I was extremely shocked and excited.
That's the power of Instagram."
Cat says she'll spend up to an hour crafting the captions alongside her photos - sometimes more than she'll spend on taking the photo itself.
"Sometimes I'll go out and do a photoshoot with my partner.
But usually it's me with a self-timer or holding the phone."
Like Donna, Cat finds adding hashtags to her photos a useful way of reaching a new audience.
A search for #yoga, for example, will bring up her images, along with those of others, while Donna's #OOTD (Outfit of The Day) are by far her most popular.
"It's a nice way of finding like-minded people," says Cat.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Singer Selena Gomez has 126 million followers on Instagram

Both women also use the Stories feature to post videos which, they say, show them as they really are - an antidote to the artificial gloss that many Instagrammers are notorious for adding to their images.
"Stories allow people to get more of a handle on you as a person and a brand," says Donna.
"Stories are like peeking behind the net curtains.
The biggest compliment is when people say you come across the same in real life as you do on your feed [Instagram page]."
Both Cat and Donna have built their Instagram pages tightly around a very specific theme - yoga/wellness and fashion, respectively.
That's important if you want to grow the number of people who follow you says Danny Coy, a photographer with 173,000 followers who now also works as an Instagram consultant.
For 300 a month his firm Vibrance says it can "typically" grow an account by 2,000 followers every four weeks.
Techniques for attracting followers include posting regularly and having a bank of interesting images to hand.
"You don't have to post every day, but engagement peaks - after 24 hours it's done," he says.
"It's important to stick to your niche."
Image copyright Danny Coy Image caption Photographer Danny Coy thinks Instagrammers should stay focused on what they do best

That's Instagram's advice, too.
"If you tell a different story every time you come to Instagram people will struggle to understand what you're trying to communicate," says Jen Ronan, the firm's head of small business for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
"Make sure you're thoughtful about what you want your customers to know and ensure that you're consistently reinforcing this over time."
Many of Danny's clients are companies, he says, who want to boost their numbers in order to look "legitimate" on the platform.
"From time to time it'll be an up-and-coming photographer who feels they can't get the numbers they deserve," he says.
"Everyone has to start somewhere."
Instagrammers with a significant number of followers may be approached by brands seeking "influencers" or "ambassadors" to represent them - for a fee.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

Incorporating brand products and imagery into photos and videos can be a lucrative sideline, although you have to make clear which content is sponsored under Instagram rules.
Donna McCulloch doesn't do it: "I think I would lose my integrity," she says, although she does admit to wearing clothes she's been given.
"But it's because I wanted it," she maintains.
And Cat Meffan says she spends a lot of time "saying no" to brands she doesn't think are right for her - but she does accept some.
"There's no set fee in the Instagram world," she says.
"You have a discussion [with the brand] and you have what you think you're worth."
Danny Coy says: "Eighteen months ago I could easily be turning over 2,000-3,000 a month in terms of influencer content."
But he says the market is tailing off because brands have wised up.
If an Instagrammer tags a brand in a post independently, the brand can use the image without payment.
"Most will ask first," he says.
"But once you've tagged them and put it on Instagram they don't have to ask your permission."
Image copyright Mariann Hardey Image caption Mariann Hardey thinks the Instagram community doesn't mind branded content if it's entertaining

But isn't it a bit of a turn-off being marketed to by people whose content you admire?
And do viewers sometimes not realise they are looking at paid-for content?
Mariann Hardey, assistant professor of marketing at Durham University, thinks the Instagram community isn't that gullible.
"It's easy to get het up that influencers are taking over and people don't understand they are seeing paid content, but the main users of Instagram are extremely savvy at being able to filter content that is branded or sponsored," she says.
What's most important is "whether the post is fun" and the pictures are "pretty", she adds.
So, the consensus seems to be that if the sponsored Instagrammer is well-liked and engaging, and the content is entertaining, Generation Instagram doesn't mind.
Image copyright Tanya Heath Paris Image caption Tanya Heath Paris shoes come with changeable heels

"Give a girl the right shoes and she can conquer the world," film star Marilyn Monroe once said.
But what constitutes "right" for women nowadays?
While high heels can make the wearer feel more confident, they aren't comfortable for long-term wearing.
This means that many women carry around a spare pair of flats with them.
But what if one pair of shoes could do both jobs?
Two small shoemaking firms, one in France and one in Germany, think they have the solution - women's shoes that come with interchangeable heels.
In her office in Ottawa, Canada, Olga Streltchenko is not just known as a top financial risk manager.
The 46-year-old also has a reputation for her shoes with removable heels.
"I am not very tall, so I like to be on high heels at work to enhance my presence," Mrs Streltchenko says.
"But I like to switch to lower, more comfortable heels to go home.
And if I plan on going out after work, I take a pair of metallic heels with me, which are more playful."
The shoes, by Tanya Heath Paris, allow women to change their style from professional to casual, fancy to comfortable, high to low, simply by switching their heels.
Image copyright Tanya Heath Image caption Tanya Heath, pictured, came up with the idea after moving to Paris

Designer Tanya Heath came up with the idea for her shoes after moving to Paris in 1996.
The Canadian, who spent years working for firms in the telecoms and energy sectors, was tired of having to change her shoes every time she arrived or left the office.
"I would arrive in ballerina pumps and change into heels, and my French colleagues ridiculed me," she says.
"They called me 'la New Yorkaise', because of the perception that New Yorkers wore trainers with suits while walking to work."
In 2009, with no experience in the fashion industry, Ms Heath finally began to develop the idea - all while juggling her responsibilities as a mother-of-three.
The biggest challenge was to make shoes that were comfortable and stylish, she says.
Since the 1980s, several firms had developed footwear with removable heels but none had been successful.
"Some of the other attempts out there were either awful-looking or worse, and they didn't really work, with the heels falling off," Mrs Heath says.
Image copyright Mime et moi Image caption Mime et moi's shoes come with a variety of heels

Backed by a team of designers and engineers, she came up with a "pick and choose concept".
First women buy the shoes, sandals, pumps or boots, then they buy the heels of their choice.
Prices range from 290 euros (260) for a pair of pumps, to 700 euros for a pair of leather boots.
Customers can choose between 400 different heels, which cost between 25 and 100 euros each.
Ms Heath says her first few years in business were tough, with no sales and little outside investment.
But the firm has since shipped to 72 countries and opened boutiques in France, Portugal and Canada.
"We get girls coming into the stores who are clearly still in school, and we have women shopping for shoes to wear to their daughter's wedding," Mrs Heath says.
The healthy sales at Tanya Heath Paris comes as the issue of whether women should wear high heels to work continues to spark controversy.
In April of this year, the Canadian province of British Columbia banned companies from being able to force women to wear high heels, while that same month the UK government rejected a petition calling for a similar ban in Britain.
Image copyright Press Association Image caption Women in British Columbia can no longer be forced to wear high heels to work

Hannah Rochell, founder of fashion blog EnBrogue.com, which promotes flat shoes, says: "While some women love to wear high heels, many would much rather opt for the comfort of flats, particularly when they're working in a business environment."
She adds that employers who enforce heels-only dress codes not only denigrate women, but are also "completely out of touch".
For firms that make shoes with removable heels, their products merely offer women choice.
Take Mime et moi, which was founded by four men from Munich, Germany.
After a night out together, they noticed that their partners had all gone home barefoot because their feet were sore from wearing high heels.
One of the men, a student of mechanical engineering and construction, then set about finding a solution.
"We immediately thought it was something that was absolutely missing," says Tim Haas, 31, one of the firm's co-founders.
Image copyright Mime et moi Image caption Mime et moi

"We wanted to create a shoe for women that looked amazing, sexy and feminine, but which had a comfort function."
They set up Mime et moi in 2013, and sold their first shoe three years later.
The firm's removable heels range from 3cm tall to 11cm, and cost between 175 and 205 euros.
More stories from the BBC's Business Brain series looking at quirky or unusual business topics from around the world:

Do the colours you wear at work matter?
Turning the dead into vinyl records

How Sicilian oranges are being made into clothes

Elvis still earning a fortune 40 years after his death

While some firms are focusing on removable heels, Californian Dolly Singh claims she has instead used engineering prowess to invent comfortable high heel shoes.
In 2013 she gave up her job as head of talent acquisition at SpaceX, the rocket company led by tech billionaire Elon Musk, to pursue a personal project - creating shoes that don't make your feet sore.
Ms Singh put together a team of experts from fashion, architecture, medicine and engineering, including specialists who worked for SpaceX and Nasa, the US space agency.
Image copyright Thesis Couture Image caption Dolly Singh gave up a job at SpaceX to create her shoes

She then launched her own business, Thesis Couture, and began selling the shoes that they had created.
"I ripped apart a pair of high heels to find out what was causing my feet to hurt so much," says Ms Singh.
"Inside each heel was a metal shank, which had no give, and was clearly not foot friendly."
The problem, she says, is that high heels are badly engineered.
Image copyright Thesis Couture Image caption Ms Singh says her soles "more intuitively" map the shape of the foot

"The way heels are currently designed causes 80% of one's body weight to be on the balls of the feet and also causes the toes to curve slightly inward.
"What we did was shift that back to 60% by re-engineering the structure and designing our own shank, which is made of a strong-but-flexible polymer."
Thesis Couture sells its footwear online and now ships to most countries.
Mrs Singh managed to raise more than $1.5m (1.1m) in investment, in 2015 and anticipates sales of $1m in 2017.
An Israeli company called Colu has launched a local digital currency in Liverpool, which aims to revitalise the local economy by cutting out the banks.
Will it achieve more than paper local currencies have?
To find out, Dougal Shaw followed the money trail.
Large chains like Starbucks, Costa or McDonald's, need not apply.
This new digital currency, known both as Colu and Local Pound Liverpool, is only open to locally owned and run businesses.
The idea is to encourage people to support the local economy.
Local currencies are common around the world - there are more than 10 in the UK.
The idea behind them is that if you spend your money with a locally based company instead of a big chain, more of that money will continue to circulate locally.
It won't be sucked out of your community into a company's foreign headquarters, or be paid out to shareholders.
But these currencies rarely attract enough users to have a real economic impact.
Could Colu be different?
As well as being purely digital - running on a smartphone app - it is operated by a well-funded tech company that specialises in cryptocurrencies.
In many other cases, local currencies are run by a small resource-starved team of enthusiasts and volunteers.
I went to see who is actually using this new currency, from a man buying his weekly sausages to the assistant mayor of Liverpool.
The customer

Foodie Ian Rasmussen is one of 17,000 Liverpudlians who have signed up to use Colu.
I meet him at a deli called Delifonseca, where he is buying some sausages.
"I believe in local businesses, so I like to promote what they are doing through my consumption.
One makes ethical decisions every day in the shops and I choose to buy locally because they tend to be more particular about where they get their food from.
They tend to be better employers and re-invest in the community."
The app is easy to use, he says, which is one of the things that makes it appealing.
But local currencies appeal to Ian for another reason.
"Since the financial crash of 2008, businesses have completely fallen out of love with the banking system and realised how ruinous it can be.
It's nice if local businesses can get round the inconvenience of banks that don't understand them."
When Ian pays for his sausages at the till, the transaction is made purely through the app, with no bank involved.
Ian has to buy his Colu pounds with normal UK pounds from his bank account.
They are worth exactly the same.
At the moment, a complimentary 5 is offered to new joiners and 10% is added every time money is paid in.
This is funded by Colu, in a bid to get more people like Ian to join.
Colu has a lot of venture capital behind it and investors are keen to see it grab market share, like Uber or Deliveroo.
The business owner

Candice Fonseca runs the deli where Ian purchased his sausages.
It is one of more than 100 businesses accepting the local digital currency.
"Liverpool has a very strong sense of identity and in this globalised time people are more conscious of their localities," she says.
"We have customers who don't carry wallets, it's inevitable that currency will become phone-based.
"It's also cheaper for us.
Customers can't really get their head around how much we pay for banking.
Even to put cash into the bank as a business, we have to pay.
The idea [with Colu] is to keep the money flowing locally.
We'd like to give staff the option of taking Colu as part of their wages eventually."
Normally businesses pay a charge every time a customer uses a debit card (about 0.5-1%) or credit card (about 1-2%).
A transaction in Colu incurs zero charge for the business.
However, whenever anyone converts Colu back to normal UK pounds - cashing out, as it is known - they pay 1.5% commission.
This is how Colu makes its money.
"If you pay another business [in Colu], then you don't pay anything, it's the cheapest way of taking money in that case.
We're not cashing anything out.
So we pay suppliers like Sugar & Lime, who we get our hire equipment from for outside catering, in Colu.
We spend thousands with them."
The supplier

More than a quarter of a million local pounds have circulated so far in Liverpool.
But somebody needs to cash out at some stage and take the hit of 1.5%.
One of them is Anthony O'Leary, who runs the catering equipment firm Sugar & Lime, which supplies Candice's deli.
His warehouse contains supplies from around the world, which can't be bought with local currency.
"We cash out our local currency because we're the end of the line.
There's nobody for us to spend the local pound with at present.
"But there is scope for products that we buy to be manufactured more locally, in which case we could continue the chain," he says.
Although Anthony would prefer to be paid in cash, he says it's not a clear-cut decision.
"I've still got banking charges one way or another.
Cash is expensive, credit card fees, it's all at a cost."
Colu also brings him new customers, he says, so in that sense it's a good investment.
Anthony can also see another way for him to pass on the Colu currency and avoid the 1.5% charge - he could pay business rates in the local currency.
This is what happens in Brixton and Bristol.
But first the council has to agree to it.
The councillor

Gary Millar is assistant mayor of Liverpool and a technology enthusiast.
He is a user of the app and a fan of local digital currencies in general.
"A council like Liverpool could use this to ensure money stays local.
We know when people spend money locally with an independent, 65p in the pound stays local.
If they spend it with a big global organisation, it will be about 30p instead," he says.
"I think it's wonderful if a small business can pay its business rates using a digital currency - I'd love that to happen."
He says this would only be a logical extension of what is happening at the moment, and hints that discussions are taking place about the possibility of allowing business rates, planning fees and even parking fine to be paid in the new currency.
Millar says he could also imagine the council paying people with it, as long as this was done on an opt-in basis.
The council pays some benefits on behalf of the government and of course it pays wages to its workforce - these could in theory be paid in Colu.
Millar is at pains to make clear that if such a payment system were adopted, Colu would have to take part in an open selection process.
The economist

Duncan McCann is an economist with New Economics Foundation who researches local digital currencies.
He thinks local digital currencies like Colu are a good idea, but he has some serious reservations.
"Local currencies seek to stop money escaping, the 'leaky bucket' argument we call it.
They try to keep it circulating in your own community to do more good.
"Most local currency designs maximise the potential for the money to stick.
There is some irony that this model that Colu is offering at its core extracts money to the mother company, which in this case is Colu [in Israel]."
Most other local currencies in the UK and Europe are run on a not-for-profit basis, he says.
The incentives Colu offers to new joiners can only last so long, he suggests.
"The big danger is that if no profit is being made, or worse they start making a loss, that they will just cancel the app and all the hard work is lost in an instant.
"Then it becomes very hard to start another local currency because there is so much bad feeling."
Transaction complete

Colu has been up and running in Liverpool since December.
It also runs similar currencies in Tel Aviv and Haifa, both under two years old.
It is free of the financial overheads that come with a paper currency and its deep pockets allow it to provide incentives to users, at least for now, and to employ someone to recruit new businesses into the scheme.
Its backers think it can mount a challenge to global capitalism and multinational corporations.
Its fate depends on how many people vote with their digital wallets.
Watch the video and radio reports by Dougal Shaw on Liverpool's local digital currency for BBC World Hacks
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The spice saffron is known as "red gold"

The spice saffron, as well as being famously expensive, is packed with antioxidants.
It is said to help combat depression and lower blood pressure, to soften your skin and hair and is essential in a broad range of dishes from Swedish buns to paella.
So what's stopping it becoming as fashionable as turmeric and cinnamon?
Is it just its high price?
In my palm I have five tiny strands, like pieces of slightly fraying dark red sewing thread, which smell rather like a fruity tobacco.
Four of them I'm placing into a cup and dousing with warm water; they're destined for the cooking pot.
The fifth I place on my tongue.
I'm told this taste test is essential to check that what I'm using is proper saffron.
After all, if you've spent more than 5 for a gram of anything, you want to be sure it's the real thing.
And after a few seconds I'm gratified that, despite having languished at the back of my spice cupboard for quite some time, the tiny threads are still capable of imparting the heady floral aroma, the honey notes, and the slight astringency I've been promised.
And the strands in the water are leaching an orangey hue, as they should.
Saffron is central to national cuisines from Morocco to the Himalayas, essential to dishes from risotto Milanese to Kashmiri curry.
As well as being a sought-after culinary ingredient the versatile spice is also increasingly being added to medications and cosmetics.
Image copyright Rumi Spice

What is saffron used for?
Cleopatra used it to infuse her bathwater.
Alexander the Great bathed his battle wounds with it and drank saffron tea.
In the 14th Century it was used to combat bubonic plague

It is a key ingredient in dishes from Spanish paella, to Persian rice dishes and Indian curries

It is added to products from coffee to salt, skin creams to shampoos.
Saffron has been used in traditional medicine to treat menstrual problems, depression, asthma and sexual dysfunction

It has been trialled in research for conditions from memory loss to cancer, but the evidence so far is inconclusive

And yet the reputation of the spice, dubbed "red gold", still does not glister quite as brightly as perhaps it should.
Keith Alaniz, an American soldier-turned-entrepreneur, thinks he understands why.
After serving in Afghanistan, he and two other veterans decided to establish a social enterprise based on a crop that could offer locals better returns than illegal opium poppy cultivation.
Image copyright Rumi Spice Image caption Rumi Spice co-founder Keith Alaniz with Afghan crocus farmers

Their company, Rumi Spice, buys saffron crocuses from local growers and employs 380 Afghan women to do the painstaking work of separating the tiny rust-red stigmas in the centre of the crocus from its petals, stamens and the rest of the flower head, prior to being dried and packed for export.
It's those long laborious hours of work that makes saffron so expensive.
Rumi Spice sells its saffron - higher grade than the one from my kitchen cupboard - for $18 (14) per gram.
Mr Alaniz says saffron's high price tag is the reason it has so much promise in war torn Afghanistan.
But it is also in many ways the root of its biggest problem: it makes it extremely tempting for counterfeiters.
"A lot of the reason saffron hasn't taken off is because of the adulteration that you've seen."
He says they're battling against the disappointment some shoppers have felt in the past.
They've spent money on an extravagant product, only to find it didn't have much flavour because it was substandard or even fake saffron.
"What we've seen with chefs and foodies is, once they see what high quality saffron tastes like, they're blown away by the flavour and aroma," says Mr Alaniz.
Image copyright Rumi Spice Image caption The tiny rust-red stigmas need to be painstakingly separated from the petals, stamens and the rest of the flower head

Their saffron is now doing well with specialist buyers and high end restaurants.
And they hope to rebuild its reputation amongst ordinary consumers in the same way.
But the plan will only work if the product consistently delivers on its promise; and despite recent efforts to introduce more rigorous standards, stories continue to circulate of horse hairs, corn silks, and shredded paper, all masquerading as saffron.
Earlier this year there were reports of the synthetic food colourings tartrazine and sunset yellow being used in counterfeit powdered saffron.
Sally Francis, botanist and saffron grower, says only a few weeks ago she saw safflower, a common substitute from the unrelated thistle family, being sold as saffron in a street market in the Netherlands.
And she's met plenty of tourists returning from exotic holidays with what they thought was bargain saffron, only to find out it was bogus.
Even legitimate saffron can vary enormously depending on how it's produced, she says.
"You can have a huge range in saffron quality, with no indication on the packaging as to what you are buying," says Ms Francis.
Often it's simply that careless harvesting has meant some of the flavourless parts of the crocus have found their way into the final mix.
It's still saffron but rather than "packing a punch" like the purest spice, what you're basically getting is "expensive yellow food colouring," she says.
"The difference between a grade I and a grade III that's huge.
You're talking Trabant and Lamborghini," she says.
How to check if saffron is genuine

Check it has strands which are frayed at one end

Look for a deep red hue that colours water orangey-yellow when submerged

Smell it and put it on your tongue - fake saffron has very little aroma or flavour

Real saffron will smell slightly fruity and floral

It should taste sweet and bitter at the same time

Ms Francis produces saffron on a small scale in Norfolk.
The UK is a tiny player in the global saffron market, despite a saffron tradition going back several centuries.
But it is one of many countries from New Zealand to Germany, Greece to India, where producers are recognising the potential for high-grade saffron, with transparent country of origin and quality labelling, to reassure consumers that it is worth the high price tag.
In Iran which supplies around 90% of the world's saffron, there are signs that traceability and certification are becoming priorities.
"We are trying to show the quality of Iranian saffron to other people in the world," says Mehrdad Rowhani, chief executive of a family-owned wholesaler from Mashhad, the city at the heart of Iran's saffron growing region.
After years hampered by American sanctions, which meant a lot of Iranian saffron ended up exported in bulk to be repackaged and sold as "produce of Spain" or sold via backdoor bartering deals, Iranian producers are again able to sell directly to western customers.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Under sanctions Iran struggled to make the most of its saffron potential

This could have more impact than anything else on the standard of saffron available to ordinary shoppers, as Iran's producers embrace the opportunity to emphasise the authenticity, origin and quality of their product.
Mr Rowhani says his firm's exports have already more than doubled since sanctions were lifted.
"We started exporting to the United States and we have good - and big - customers from there," he says.
Now he's focusing on improving every step of the production process from planting, harvesting and drying, to selling in smaller, better designed packaging.
"When they see Persian saffron is of high quality, they want to buy more," he adds.
Image caption Florence Cheptoo began to learn to read when her grandchild brought home a library book

What's it like to read your first words at the age of 60?
What difference does it make after a lifetime of getting by without reading?
If you think about how much written information we consume every hour - going through emails at work or flicking through messages on mobiles phone - it's hard to imagine being without these ways of communicating.
But Florence Cheptoo, who lives in an isolated rural village near Chesongoch, in Kenya, has turned her first page as a 60-year-old.
Her path to reading began when her granddaughter brought home books from primary school.
The school had been given a small lending library of books, through the Book Aid International charity that distributes books donated by UK publishers.
But many of the parents and grandparents of the schoolchildren were themselves unable to read, and teachers began literacy lessons for adults.
Florence, forwarding her answers to the BBC through a local librarian, said she now felt "part of those who are in the modern world".
Image caption Adult literacy classes began after the library was opened

When she had been younger, there had been no support for her to become literate, she said.
Her parents had wanted her to marry and to get a dowry and stay tending livestock - and there had never been a chance to learn.
"My parents did not value the need for education," she said.
It meant that she couldn't sign her name or read any legal documents or check if she was being cheated over payments.
Now, Florence has begun reading and lists the practical differences it has made in her life.
She can read the information on medicine she is prescribed, she can look at newspapers and find out about the outside world and take charge of her own personal records.
Image caption Florence says that learning to read has brought more control over her life, as well as pleasure

There are things she said she particularly enjoyed: reading storybooks for the first time, getting letters from her family and being able to read the Bible for herself.
The world of maps has been opened up.
"I like knowing where other parts of the country are located," she said.
And she has been getting books on agriculture "so that I can learn how to farm".
When her grandchildren get school reports, she can see how they are progressing.
It had given her a new confidence, she said, letting her feel more knowledgeable and able to have an opinion alongside people, either literate or illiterate.
"I am able to identify what is good and bad in society."
Florence wasn't the oldest member of this adult literacy class.
There was also a man in his 80s.
His eyesight wasn't very good and he didn't really think he would become much of a reader - but he told the teachers that he wanted to be seen regularly at the class to send a message to the rest of the village that this was important.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
The Book Aid International charity distributes a million free books a year, new from publishers, with further grants to buy books locally and to train librarians and teaching staff.
Most of the books go to projects in Africa, where they are shared in libraries.
Image caption The village is in a remote part of Kenya

Emma Taylor, from Book Aid International, has visited the scheme in Kenya where Florence is learning and says there is a great demand for learning there - which the library helps to serve.
"It's an incredibly powerful experience," she said, seeing people reading for the first time.
"It opens the door to so many different things that we take so much for granted."
Setting up libraries in deprived communities had a particular value, she said.
In the slums of Nairobi, she said, libraries had become a place of safety for young people, where they could feel protected, and then could begin exploring the books around them and opening up their minds to ideas.
"There's something really special about a library.
It's not just putting books in a room," she said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Northern Rock was a key sponsor for Newcastle United

In the summer of 2007, Newcastle had much to look forward to.
The Toon - Newcastle United - had a new owner, the billionaire retail tycoon Mike Ashley, and much was expected under the management of Sam Allardyce.
The performance of the team's shirt sponsor, Northern Rock, was a source of pride; after decades of hard times following the end of shipbuilding and mining, the North East had a new economic champion, one that was giving the financial services giants of the South a real run for their money.
The former building society had demutualised and scaled the heights of the FTSE 100, the elite club of Britain's biggest quoted companies, and in the process had become the fourth biggest bank in the UK by share of lending.
The chairman, Matt Ridley, summed it up in the annual report, lauding "another excellent year" and said "our strategy of using growth, cost efficiency and credit quality to reward both shareholders and customers continues to run well."
Toxic fuel

A few months later, Northern Rock's empire was in ruins.
The fuel it had used to grow so quickly turned out to be toxic.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Northern Rock had borrowed heavily on the international money markets

Rather than using customer deposits as the source of funds to lend out to homeowners, it borrowed in the international money markets.
When the sub-prime crisis hit America, those markets took fright, and stopped lending to anything that looked like it might be over-exposed to the housing market.
Northern Rock was an obvious first casualty.
The BBC broke the news that it needed Bank of England support 10 years ago tomorrow, and the day after there were queues outside branches, the first run on a British bank in 150 years.
After limping on for a few more months, Northern Rock was nationalised in February 2008.
Regional shock

Councillor Nick Forbes, leader of Newcastle City Council, remembers walking out of the civic offices to nearby Northumberland Street where Northern Rock had its main city centre branch.
"There was a queue outside going right down the street.
That really was the first sign that something was wrong.
No-one really saw it coming."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Customers queued for hours to take out their savings

Northern Rock's demise - it was split into "bad" and "good" sets of assets and operations, with Virgin Money buying the latter - was a shock to the region's economy, as was the banking crisis that followed.
"We were early into recession and late out," said Mr Forbes.
"It's only now really that we have recaptured that lost ground."
About 2,500 jobs were lost.
There was another heavy blow, little understood outside the North East - the loss of the Northern Rock Foundation, a charitable trust which received 5% of the bank's profits each year.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Many who lost their savings want the government to change its mind on compensation

It had given 235m to good causes before the bank was nationalised and broken up.
Mr Forbes is now pressing the Treasury to give back some of the profits it expects to make from its intervention on Northern Rock to make up for the loss of the foundation.
Northern Rock shareholders are also making a claim on the potential profits, which independent experts think could eventually reach about 8bn.
An association of small shareholders, many of whom lost their life savings when the bank was nationalised, has asked the chancellor to think again on compensation, which has been denied before.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Any surplus from Northern Rock's privatisation should go to taxpayers, says the Treasury

Jon Wood, a fund manager who was a big Northern Rock shareholder and has been severely critical of the Bank of England's action, is also thought be to considering fresh legal action.
The Treasury has said that any surplus from the Northern Rock nationalisation should compensate taxpayers for the amounts risked in the rescue.
Lessons learned

A decade on, important strands of "the run on the Rock" story are only now being uncovered.
In an interview with the BBC Gary Hoffman, who was parachuted in as chief executive after privatisation, said he found an organisation with an unquestioning - and unhappy - culture.
"The management had completely lost touch with the coal face, and did not know what was happening.
There was an attitude that you did not question what was going on, which was a tragedy because there were extremely good people at the bank."
Hoffman reveals that the Treasury had considered all options for the future of the bank when he was in charge - not just a sale to a banking rival, but also a refloating of the bank as an independent business, and its complete run-down and closure.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The collapse was the first sign in Britain of the coming global financial crisis

Other senior banking sources have told the BBC that the last option - closure - was the favourite right up until Christmas Eve 2008, when the bank's leadership was able to convince the Treasury it could be sold as a going concern.
Mr Hoffman says that the UK's banking sector is now safer than in the run-up to the crisis, with greater capital reserves at the big institutions.
Others disagree, however, saying the increases have been largely illusory.
Kevin Dowd, professor of finance and economics at the University of Durham, says changes in bank regulations have not greatly improved banks' resilience.
"The Bank of England looks at the book value of bank assets - the value that they themselves put on their assets.
But if you look at the stock market, investors don't believe it because most of our big banks have stock market values less than their book values."
Image caption Senobar Johnsen says it's "visibly noticeable" that Swedes prefer cards to cash these days

Sweden is the most cashless society on the planet, with barely 1% of the value of all payments made using coins or notes last year.
So how did the Nordic nation get so far ahead of the rest of us?
Warm cinnamon buns are stacked next to mounds of freshly-baked sourdough bread at a neighbourhood coffee shop in Kungsholmen, just west of Stockholm city centre.
Amongst the other typically Scandinavian touches - minimalist white tiles and exposed filament light bulbs - is another increasingly common sight in the Swedish capital: a "We don't accept cash" sign.
"We wanted to minimise the risk of robberies and it's quicker with the customers when they pay by card," says Victoria Nilsson, who manages two of the bakery chain's 16 stores across the city.
"It's been mainly positive reactions.
We love to use our cards here in Stockholm."
Across the country, cash is now used in less than 20% of transactions in stores - half the number five years ago, according to the Riksbank, Sweden's central bank.
Coins and banknotes have been banned on buses for several years after unions raised concerns over drivers' safety.
Even tourist attractions have started to gamble on taking plastic-only payments, including Stockholm's Pop House Hotel and The Abba Museum.
Image caption Bjorn Ulvaeus (left) back in his Abba heyday.
Now he's a keen supporter of a cashless Sweden.
The iconic band's Bjorn Ulvaeus is, in fact, one of the nation's most vocal supporters of Sweden's cash-free trend, after his son lost cash in an apartment burglary.
Smaller retailers are jumping on the bandwagon, too, making use of home-grown technologies such as iZettle, the Swedish start-up behind Europe's first mobile credit card reader.
Such portable technologies have enabled market traders - and even homeless people promoting charity magazines - to take card payments easily.
"I took my kids to the funfair and there was a guy selling balloons and he had a card machine with him," remarks Senobar Johnsen, one of the Swedish customers back at the bakery.
Currently living in Portsmouth in southern England, she's visiting Sweden for the first time in a year and says it's "visibly noticeable" that people are paying more with cards.
"It's not like the UK where there's often a minimum spend when you go to a kiosk or you're in the middle of nowhere.
I think it's great".
Swish, a smartphone payment system, is another popular Swedish innovation used by more than half the country's 10 million strong population.
Image caption Signs like this are becoming increasingly common in Sweden

Backed by the major banks, it allows customers to send money securely to anyone else with the app, just by using their mobile number.
A staple at flea markets and school fetes, it's also a popular way to transfer money instantly between friends: Swedes can no longer get away with delaying their share of a restaurant bill using the excuse that they're short on cash.
"In general, consumers are very interested in new technologies, so we're quite early to adopt [them]," explains Niklas Arvidsson, a professor at Stockholm's Royal Institute of Technology.
This is partly down to infrastructure (Sweden is among the most connected countries in the EU); a relatively small population that is an ideal test-bed for innovations; and the country's historically low corruption levels, he argues.
"Swedes tend to trust banks, we trust institutions... people are not afraid of the sort-of 'Big Brother' issues or fraud connected to electronic payment."
Somewhat paradoxically, Sweden's decision to update its coins and banknotes, a move announced by the Riksbank in 2010 and fully implemented this year, actually boosted cashless transactions, explains Prof Arvidsson.
"You would have thought that a new kind of cash would have created an interest, but the reaction seems to have been the opposite," he says.
"Some retailers thought it's easier not to accept these new forms of cash because there's learning to be done, maybe investment in cash registration machines and so-on."
There has also been a "ripple effect", he says, with more shops signing up to the cashless idea as it becomes increasingly socially acceptable.
Image caption Former Interpol president Bjorn Eriksson is worried about a cashless future

Riksbank figures reveal that the average value of Swedish krona in circulation fell from around 106 billion (10bn) in 2009 to 65 billion (6bn) in 2016.
Barely 1% of the value of all payments were made using coins or notes last year, compared to around 7% across the EU and in the US.
Prof Arvidsson predicts that the use of cash will most likely be reduced to "a very marginal payment form" by 2020.
Retailers seem to agree.
A survey - not yet published - of almost 800 small retailers carried out by his research team found that two thirds of respondents said they anticipated phasing out cash payments completely by 2030.
But the trend is not to everyone's liking, as Bjorn Eriksson, formerly national police commissioner and president of Interpol, explains from the suburb of Alvik.
Here, his local coffee shop still accepts old-fashioned money, but several of the banks no longer offer cash deposits or over-the-counter withdrawals.
"I like cards.
I'm just angry because about a million people can't cope with cards: the elderly, former convicts, tourists, immigrants.
The banks don't care because [these groups] are not profitable," he argues.
The 71-year-old is the face of a national movement called Kontantupproret (Cash Rebellion), which is also concerned about identity theft, rising consumer debt and cyber-attacks.
"This system could easily be disturbed or manipulated.
Why invade us when it's so easy?
Just cut off the payment system and we're completely helpless," says Mr Eriksson.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

His arguments haven't escaped the notice of politicians in Sweden, where debates about security are increasingly making their way onto the agenda in the wake of a government agency data leak that almost brought down the ruling coalition in July.
Meanwhile, the backdrop of an increasingly divided electorate suggests that rural and elderly voters could prove crucial in the Nordic country's next general election, scheduled for September 2018.
Back at Stockholm's Royal Institute of Technology, Prof Arvidsson points out that while most Swedes have embraced the nation's cash-free innovations, two thirds don't want to get rid of notes and coins completely.
"There's a very strong emotional connection to cash among Swedes, even though they do not use it," he says.
Sweden may leading the global trend towards a cashless future, but its tech-savvy population also appears to be guided by another, more traditional Swedish trait: caution.
Image copyright Getty Images

Almost 750 years ago, a young Venetian merchant named Marco Polo wrote a remarkable book chronicling his travels in China.
The Book of the Marvels of the World was full of strange foreign customs that Marco claimed to have seen.
But there was one that was so extraordinary, Marco Polo could barely contain himself: "Tell it how I might," he wrote, "you never would be satisfied that I was keeping within truth and reason."
What had excited Marco so much?
He was one of the first Europeans to witness an invention that remains at the foundation of the modern economy: paper money.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Of course, the paper itself isn't the point.
Modern paper money isn't made of paper - it's made of cotton fibres or plastic.
And the Chinese money that so fascinated Marco Polo wasn't quite paper either.
It was made from a black sheet derived from the bark of mulberry trees, signed by multiple officials and, with a seal smothered in bright red vermilion, authenticated by the Chinese emperor Kublai Khan himself.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kublai Khan announced that officially stamped mulberry bark was money - and lo, it was

The chapter of Marco Polo's book was titled, somewhat breathlessly: "How the great Khan Causes the Bark of Trees, Made into Something Like Paper, to Pass for Money All over His Country".
The point is, that whatever these notes were made of, their value didn't come from the preciousness of the substance, as with a gold or silver coin.
Instead, the value was created purely by the authority of the government.
'Genius' system

Paper money is sometimes called fiat money - the Latin word "fiat" means "let it be done".
The Great Khan announces that officially stamped mulberry bark is money - and lo, let it be done.
Money it is.
The genius of this system amazed Marco Polo, who explained that the paper money circulated as though it were gold or silver itself.
Where was all the gold that wasn't circulating?
Well, the emperor kept a tight hold of that.
The Mulberry money itself wasn't new when Marco Polo heard about it.
It had emerged nearly three centuries earlier, around the year 1000 in Sichuan, China.
Sichuan was a frontier province, bordered by foreign and sometimes hostile states.
China's rulers didn't want valuable gold and silver currency to leak into foreign lands, and so they imposed a bizarre rule.
Sichuan had to use coins made of iron.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption These Chinese coins dating back to the Song Dynasty (960-1279) were found in 2005

Iron coins aren't terribly practical.
If you traded in a handful of silver coins - 50g worth - you'd be given your own body weight in iron coins.
Even something simple like salt was worth more, gram for gram, than iron - so if you went to the market for groceries, your sackful of coins on the way there would weigh more than the bag of goods that you brought back.
Sichuan merchants had a problem, as William Goetzmann explains in his book Money Changes Everything.
It was illegal to use gold and silver coins, and impractical to use iron coins.
It's no surprise that they began to experiment with an alternative.
That alternative was called "jiaozi", or "exchange bills".
Instead of carrying around a wagonload of iron coins, a well-known and trusted merchant would write an IOU, and promise to pay his bill later when it was more convenient for everyone.
That was a simple enough idea.
But then there was a twist, a kind of economic magic.
These "jiaozi", or IOUs, started to trade freely.
More from Tim Harford:

The warrior monks who invented banking

What makes gambling wrong but insurance right?
How the invention of paper changed the world

What tally sticks tell us about how money works

Suppose I supply some goods to the eminently reputable Mr Zhang, and he gives me an IOU.
When I go to your shop later, rather than paying you with iron coins - who does that?
- I could write you an IOU.
Primitive paper money

But it might be simpler - and indeed you might prefer it - if instead I give you Mr Zhang's IOU.
After all, we both know he's good for the money.
Now you, and I, and Mr Zhang, have together created a kind of primitive paper money - it's a promise to repay that has a marketable value of its own - and can be passed around from person to person without being redeemed.
This is very good news for Mr Zhang, because as long as people keep finding it convenient simply to pass on his IOU as a way of paying for things, Mr Zhang never actually has to stump up the iron coins.
Effectively, he enjoys an interest-free loan for as long as his IOU continues to circulate.
Better still, it's a loan that he may never be asked to repay.
Image copyright British Library Board Or.12380/2286/22 Image caption A fragment of one of the earliest surviving banknotes, which was printed in the early 1260s

No wonder the Chinese authorities started to think these benefits ought to accrue to them, rather than to the likes of Mr Zhang.
At first they regulated the issuance of jiaozi, but then outlawed private jiaozi and took over the whole business themselves.
Modern step

The official jiaozi currency was a huge hit, circulating across regions and even internationally.
In fact, the jiaozi even traded at a premium, because they were so much easier to carry around than metal coins.
Initially, the government-issued jiaozi could be redeemed for coins on demand, exactly as the private jiaozi had been.
This was logical: it treated the paper notes as a placeholder for something of real value.
But the government soon moved stealthily to a fiat system, maintaining the principle but abandoning the practice of redeeming jiaozi for metal.
Bring an old jiaozi in to the government treasury to be redeemed, and you would receive a crisp new jiaozi.
That was a very modern step.
The money we use today all over the world is created by central banks and it's backed by nothing in particular except the promises to replace old notes with fresh ones.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The oldest known British bank note, issued by the Bank of England in 1699

We've moved from a situation where Mr Zhang's IOU circulates without ever being redeemed, to the mind-bending situation where the government's IOUs circulate despite never being redeemed.
Temptation

For governments, fiat money represents a temptation: a government with bills to pay can simply print more money.
And when more money chases the same amount of goods and services, prices tend to go up.
The temptation quickly proved too great to resist.
The Song dynasty issued too many jiaozi.
Counterfeiting was also a problem.
Within a few decades of its invention in the early 11th century, jiaozi was devalued and discredited, trading at just 10% of its face value.
Other countries have since suffered much worse.
Weimar Germany and Zimbabwe are famous examples of economies collapsing into chaos as excessive money-printing rendered prices meaningless.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Zimbabwe has seen extraordinarily high inflation

The abysmal world record for hyperinflation is held by Hungary in 1946, where prices trebled during the course of every day.
Walk into a Budapest cafe back then, and it was better to pay for your coffee when you arrived, not when you left.
The gold standard

These rare but terrifying episodes have convinced some economic radicals that fiat money can never be stable.
They yearn for a return to the days of the gold standard, when paper money could always be redeemed for a little piece of the precious metal held inside Fort Knox.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Gold has been used as currency for thousands of years

But mainstream economists generally now believe that pegging the money supply to gold is a terrible idea.
Most regard low and predictable inflation as no problem at all - perhaps even a useful lubricant to economic activity.
And while we may not always be able to trust central bankers to print just the right amount of new money, it probably makes more sense than trusting miners to dig up just the right amount of new gold.
The ability to fire up the printing presses is especially useful in crisis situations.
After the 2007 financial crisis, the US Federal Reserve pumped trillions of dollars into the economy, without creating inflation.
In fact, the printing presses were metaphorical: those trillions were simply created by key-strokes on computers in the global banking system.
As a wide-eyed Marco Polo might have put it: "The great Central Bank Causes the Digits on a Computer Screen, Made into Something Like Spreadsheets, to Pass for Money".
Technology has changed, but what passes for money continues to astonish.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
IT WAS 2012I was number 37, says Ashwini, referring to the badge that was pinned on her shirt pocket.
Her task was to go onto the stage and introduce herself to around 70 eligible bachelors and their parents.
Families then conferred and, provided caste and religious background proved no obstacle, would approach the events moderator asking to meet number 37.
At midday girls would wait for prospects to swing by, again with parents on either side.
A brief exchange might establish the potential brides cooking skills or her intention to work after marriage.
If the two sides hit it off, they would exchange copies of their horoscopes.
Nearly 50 men lined up to meet Ashwini that day, speed-dating style.
No one made the cut.
She later married a colleague.
Such gatherings form an important part of the wedding industry, worth around $50bn a year, in a country where arranged marriages continue to be the norm.
India has 440m millennialsroughly, the generation born between 1980 and 1996and a further 390m youngsters have been born since 2000, so there are plenty of anguished parents for marriage facilitators to pitch to.
KPMG, a consultancy, estimates that out of 107m single men and women, 63m are active seekers.
For now, only a tenth surf the internet to find a spouse.
But the number who do is about to explode, argue executives in the marriage-portal business (India has 2,600 such sites).
After Facebook [took off], people are more open about their lives than ever before, which has had a great knock-on effect, says Gourav Rakshit of Shaadi.com, one of Indias oldest matrimonial sites.
Take Matrimony.com, the countrys biggest online matchmaker, which raised $78m in its initial public offering on September 13th.
Its shares began trading this week.
It runs 300-odd websites in 15 languages, catering to different castes and religions.
It has sites for divorcees, the disabled, the affluent (Elite Matrimony) and for those with unfavourable astrological charts, which make it difficult to find a match.
All online firms run a freemium model: upload your profile at no charge and let an algorithm match horoscope details with potential partners filtered by age, caste, education, income and sometimes (alas) complexion.
Or you can pay for features like instant chat or a colourful border around your profile to ensure the algorithm returns you as a top search result.
Such a long list of options means that finding a match on the web can be time-consuming and tedious.
Its like looking for a needle in a haystack, says one suitor.
Predictably, many also complain that online profiles often do not reflect reality.
Outright fakes remain a scourge.
This month a man was arrested in Delhi for extorting over 5m rupees ($77,700) from 15 women by luring them on matrimonial websites.
And no amount of artificial intelligence can yet identify what will make two youngsters click.
Spouseup, a south Indian startup, is undaunted.
It trawls social media to determine a candidates personality and recommends matches by calculating a compatibility score.
Nine-tenths of its 50,000 users are non-resident Indians who usually fly to India for a month or so, scout for partners, settle on one, get hitched and fly back together.
For these time-starved travellers, the machine-led scouring provides an insight that would come from five coffee dates, says Karthik Iyer, the firms founder.
Banihal, which is based in Silicon Valley, relies on a long psychometric questionnaire of around 100 questions to match like-minded partners.
Real-world complements to online efforts can help secure a match.
Some services, such as IITIIMShaadi.com, aimed at people graduating from prestigious universities, also act as conventional wedding-brokers, by meeting prospects on their clients behalf.
The job is no different from that of a headhunter, says Taksh Gupta, its founder.
He charges anywhere between 50,000 and 200,000 rupees for the service.
His most recent catch, after a search lasting over two years, was a husband for a 45-year-old woman from a prestigious university who would settle for no less than an Ivy League groom.
Matrimony.com, too, has over 400 relationship managers and 140 physical outlets.
The opportunity is huge, enthuses Murugavel Janakiraman, boss of Matrimony.com.
Around four-fifths of new customers now come via smartphones, lured by instant alerts about new potential matches and services that match up people in the same town.
But the spread of smartphones also brings competition.
Casual-dating apps are spreading fast.
Tinder, on which decisions about eligibility rarely benefit from parental advice, now counts India as Asias largest, fastest-growing market.
A year earlier than expected, Norways sovereign-wealth fund, the worlds largest, surpassed $1trn in assets on September 19th.
It had gained over $100bn in the past year, thanks in large measure to the global stockmarket boom in 2017: around two-thirds of its assets are held as equities (over 1% of shares globally).
It helps that Norwegians continue to earn fat revenues from pumping North Sea oil and gas, which go to the fund to be invested abroad.
The fund is so big it is becoming a tool for 5m-odd Norwegians to shape values abroad.
It is an increasingly activist shareholder, speaking out on executive pay, ethical behaviour, companies use of water, child labour and more.
Both its size and influence are likely to keep on growing.
THREE-QUARTERS of Americans admit that they search the web, send e-mails and check their social-media accounts in the bathroom.
That is not the only connection between tech and plumbing.
The water and sewage industry offers clues to the vexed question of how to regulate the Silicon Valley platform firms, such as Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook.
The implications are mildly terrifying for the companies, so any tech tycoons reading this column might want to secure a spare pair of trousers.
In America and in Europe a consensus is emerging that big tech firms must be tamed.
Their dominance of services such as search and social media gives them huge economic and political clout.
The $3trn total market value of Americas five biggest tech firms (Apple and Microsoft are the other two) suggests that investors believe they are among the most powerful firms in history, up there with the East India Company and Standard Oil.
Trustbusters in need of instant gratification want to break up the companies, but this might make their services less useful (imagine having ten social-media accounts), and network effects might mean that one of the tiddlers would grow dominant again.
Others want tech firms to license their patents for nothing, as AT&T was required to do in 1956.
This might create startups tomorrow, but will not stop firms exploiting monopolies today.
An alternative is to regulate these companies like utilitiesmonopolies with high market shares that provide an essential service from which it is expensive for consumers to switch.
Here, the water industry is relevant, particularly the concept of a regulated asset base (RAB).
It emerged in the 1990s when Britain was privatising its water firms, borrowing elements from American regulation.
It is an acronym that few in Silicon Valley are aware of.
But from these obscure origins RAB frameworks are now common in Europe and Latin America, used to regulate at least $400bn-worth of power, airport, water and telecoms assets.
The idea is that the monopolists profits should not exceed the level that a competitive market would allow.
That means estimating the cost to an imaginary new entrant of replicating the incumbents assets (this is the RAB) and calculating the profits the newcomer would make if its returns matched its cost of capital.
The actual monopolys earnings should not exceed this amount.
Safeguards are added to ensure the utility is run efficiently, keeping costs low.
Regulators review the framework every few years.
How might utility-style regulation work for Silicon Valley firms?
Consider a thought experiment with Facebook.
Its 1.3bn users pay nothing, but give it their data and control over the adverts they see.
Facebook then sells advertisers targeted access to its users, pulling in $27bn last year.
Imagine that the service were unbundled, giving users control.
All would own their data and could choose whether to sell them to advertisers.
They would also have to pay Facebook a fee to compensate it for the cost of creating and operating the network.
The big question is how much compensationprofitsFacebook and other firms would deserve if they were treated as utilities.
It is possible to get a rough idea.
Assume a cost of capital of 12%a high figure to reflect the risk inherent in tech firms models.
Estimating their RABs is harder.
They have some physical assets such as data centres, but unlike utilities their main resources are not pylons, pipes and property, but software and ideas that they create or acquire by buying rivals.
Only some of these intangibles appear on their balance-sheets; the vast sums spent on research and development (R&D) do not.
But you can reconfigure their balance-sheets as if all their R&D in the past had been recognised as an asset with a 20-year life.
Alphabet and Facebook would have a combined RAB of $160bn.
If their returns were capped at 12%, operating profits would fall by 65% and 81% respectively.
If their services were unbundled, users would benefit.
Using figures from 2016, the average Facebook user would pay $15 a year to the firm for its return on its RAB, but they would pocket $23 from selling advertisers their data and the right to be advertised to.
A Google user would pay $37 a year to Google, but collect $45 from advertisers.
Those are fairly small sums, but richer users with particularly valuable data could make much more.
Bog standard

Regulating tech like water would cause an outcry among investors and in Silicon Valley.
Yet some of the objections do not stack up.
Essential investment would still happena guaranteed 12% return is a handsome reward.
The firms could invest in new technologies that would remain outside the regulated utility.
It would be possible to work out which assets sit abroad and exclude them from the RAB, or to reach arrangements with foreign regulators.
This approach would have shortcomings, though.
Tech moves at the speed of light compared with conventional utilities.
It was only five years ago that investors worried that Facebook would struggle with the shift to mobile phones.
Regulators would be clumsy at coping with rapid change.
And a RAB methodology would not resolve the incendiary issue of whether tech platforms should be responsible for what they publish.
Despite such problems, tech bosses should view regulation as utilities as a long-term risk.
They have two defences.
First, to bundle their services so tightly that it is impossible for outsiders to isolate the products that are monopolies and work out their profits and assets.
Amazon is a master here.
It is unclear how much it makes or has invested in e-commerce (where it is dominant), videos (where it is a challenger), or food (where it is a new entrant).
The second defence is to lobby Washington.
The lesson from Americas veteran oligopolistsairline, telecoms and health-care companiesis that you can manipulate and dance around the regulatory system to ensure high profits.
For tech firms, financial obfuscation and cronyism are the most effective ways to ensure their monopoly profits do not go down the drain.
IN RECENT days China set the record for the worlds fastest long-distance bullet train, which hurtled between Beijing and Shanghai at 350kph (217mph).
This was a triumph of industrial policy as much as of engineering.
Chinas first high-speed trains started rolling only a decade ago; today the country has 20,000km of high-speed track, more than the rest of the world combined.
China could not have built this without a strong government.
The state provided funds for research, land for tracks, aid for loss-making railways, subsidies for equipment-makers and, most controversially, incentives for foreign companies to share commercial secrets.
High-speed rail is a prime example of the Chinese governments prowess at identifying priority industries and deploying money and policy tools to nurture them.
It inspires awe of what it can accomplish and fear that other countries stand little chance against such a formidable competitor.
Yet there have also been big industrial-policy misses, notably the failure to develop strong car manufacturers and semiconductor-makers.
China is rolling out a new generation of industrial policies, directed at a range of advanced sectors, raising worries that it will dominate everything from robotics to artificial intelligence.
That result is far from preordained.
Industrial policy is a touchy topic.
In continental Europe and, especially, Asia, many have faith in the governments ability to steer companies into industries they might otherwise shun.
In America and Britain, faith tends to be supplanted by deep doubts.
Governments, after all, have a lousy record in picking winners in fast-evolving markets.
Yet most countries try to support some industries, usually through a mixture of infrastructure, tax breaks and research funding.
What differs is the stress they lay on such measures.
China is unique in the breadth and heft of its industrial policy.
For years the government concentrated on modernising what it classified as nine traditional industries such as shipbuilding, steelmaking and petrochemical production.
In 2010 seven new strategic industries, from alternative energy to biotechnology, also became targets.
And two years ago it announced its Made in China 2025 scheme, specifying ten sectors, including aerospace, new materials and agricultural equipment, which are now at the heart of its planning.
The various plans overlap; cars, for example, have appeared in every iteration.
The result is a wide-ranging approach in which the government tries to shape outcomes in important parts of the economy, new and old.
The Made in China plan, its latest industrial-policy craze, is derived in part from Germanys Industry 4.0 model, which focuses on creating a helpful environment through training and policy support but leaves business decisions to companies.
Chinas version is much more hands-on.
By the start of this year, officials had established 1,013 state-guided funds, endowed with 5.3trn yuan ($807bn), much of it for Made in China industries.
In August the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology unveiled a manufacturing-subsidy programme, spread across as many as 62 separate initiatives.
Most contentiously, the government has laid out local-content targets for the various Made in China sectors (see chart).
One plan features hundreds of market-share targets, both at home and abroad.
Clearly, this is no mere domestic exercise, the EU Chamber of Commerce in China warned in a report this year.
The targets also illustrate one of the facets of Chinese industrial policy that has so angered foreign companies and governments: the disguising of state support.
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) strictly limits local-content rules.
But Chinas market-share targets are primarily contained in semi-official documents, such as a blueprint published by the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
So the government can claim that these are simply industry reports, not official targets.
But in the Chinese system the line between government-backed industry estimates and official guidelines is easily blurred.
Similarly, foreigners have long complained that China hides much of its illegal state aid.
Since 2011 America has formally requested information about more than 400 unreported Chinese subsidies.
China learned how to game the system, says Tim Stratford, a former American trade official responsible for dealings with China.
The WTO is not designed to deal effectively with a huge economy that has, as the core of its development strategy, industrial policies across a wide range of sectors.
Frustrations at the WTOs inadequacy in restraining China have led the American government to look at other mechanisms (see article ).
Foreign competitors see China as a well-oiled machine and worry that they will lose business not just in China but around the world.
Export powerhouses such as South Korea and Germany feel most exposed (see chart).
But in fact the Chinese governments record in promoting specific industries is patchy.
Since the 1970s it has tried to develop semiconductors.
But of the $145bn-worth of microchips China consumed in 2015, only a tenth were truly domestic; foreign technology remains superior.
The car industry, too, has disappointed.
To manufacture in China, foreign firms must take local partners.
The government hoped this would lead to knowledge transfers.
Instead, local firms, insulated from head-on foreign competition, have milked the joint ventures for profits and innovated little.
Moreover, in their zeal, local governments can go overboard.
Some worry that Made in China sectors will end up facing gluts, like old industries where China is now cutting overcapacity, such as steel and coal.
The Mercator Institute of China Studies, a Berlin-based research group, counted that, by late 2016, nearly 40 local governments had opened or planned robotics parks.
The central government estimates that China will need nearly 150bn yuan-worth of robots over the next few years.
According to the Mercator tally, local targets add up to roughly five times as much.
Yet when four factorsforeign technology, domestic abilities, market demand and government moneycome together, Chinese industrial policy can be ruthlessly effective.
The boom in high-speed rail began in 2004 when the government offered lucrative contracts to foreign engineering companies such as Germanys Siemens and Japans Kawasaki so long as they shared their know-how.
Some resisted at first, but eventually the lure of Chinas vast market won them over, especially when they saw competitors getting a slice of it.
With their prodigious engineering skills, born from years of trying to develop high-speed rail themselves, Chinese companies soon absorbed the technology.
After a decade of laying tracks on an unprecedented scale, they have improved on it.
That success cannot be replicated in all ten of the Made in China sectors, not least because foreign companies are more guarded about sharing their secrets.
But it would be rash to bet against Chinas succeeding in at least a few of them.
ASK young American parents about Toys R Us and they are likely to be able to sing a jingle from their childhood: I dont wanna grow up, cause maybe if I did, I couldnt be a Toys R Us kid.
For children of the 1980s, Toys R Us was a mecca at the strip mall, an awe-inspiring array of dolls, trucks, board games, bikes, art supplies and much more.
Many of them noticed when on September 18th, the chain filed for bankruptcy.
Dave Brandon, the companys chief executive, emphasised that shops would carry on operating as usual and claimed that Toys R Us was at the start of a new, brighter era.
These are the right steps to ensure that the iconic Toys R Us and Babies R Us brands live on for many generations, he declared.
A Chapter 11 bankruptcy, many analysts agree, is a sensible way to deal with the chains $5bn of long-term debt.
So Toys R Us is not dead.
But its future is hardly certain.
The companys tale in many ways typifies the ailments of American bricks-and-mortar retailing.
Its woes began in the 1990s, as big-box stores grew both in number and in size.
Walmarts vast selection meant parents could buy a toy in the same place where they picked up milk.
Then came e-commerce.
Toys are particularly suitable for online shopping.
Unlike a dress, they do not need to be tried on for size, and unlike a peach they do not need to be felt for ripeness.
Those of prime toy-buying age, parents with young children, are busy.
Women aged 25-44 spend almost as much time shopping as they do eating and drinking.
Given the choice of buying a train set online or in a store, particularly when a toy shop can transform even the calmest child into an insatiable lunatic, many parents opt to buy online.
Amazon makes that extraordinarily convenient.
The result is that many former Toys R Us kids have no interest in being Toys R Us parents.
Cowen, a financial-services firm, expects 41% of toys and games in America to be purchased online this year, about twice the proportion sourced from the internet in 2009.
Toys R Us also suffers from other common ills.
The first is a heavy burden of debt.
Three private-equity firms bought Toys R Us in 2005 in a leveraged buyout, adding substantially to its borrowings; it pays around $400m a year in interest costs, even as it tries to compete with Amazon.
It also has $400m in secured and unsecured debt maturing next year.
Many expected a bankruptcy, but the filing, just ahead of the vital holiday selling season, underlines how squeezed the firm has become.
Two other retailersPayless ShoeSource, a 61-year-old discount shoe-seller from Kansas, and Gymboree, which began selling childrens clothing in 1986are among those that declared bankruptcy this year after being backed by private-equity firms that left them similarly weighed down.
Second, Toys R Us has not helped itself.
Like many department-store chains, its inventory has been painfully slow to adapt to changing trends.
Sales of fidget spinners, a toy that has become ubiquitous in the past year, for instance, got twirling online first.
Nor is it clear whether its strategy of trying to lure families to its shops with live events, such as music classes for children, will work.
Like so many other retailers, Toys R Us is striving to build its business online.
That has been bumpy work.
In 2000, back when Amazon was still trying to move beyond selling books, Toys R Us joined with the e-commerce giant to manage online toy sales.
Four years later it sued Amazon, arguing that the e-tailer had broken the terms of their agreement.
In 2006 a judge agreed, but 11 years on that victory gives scant solace.
IN THEORY, overnight air travel should be wonderfully convenient.
Instead of booking a hotel for the night and losing a day, travellers simply sleep while they fly.
In reality, sleeping on a plane is hard, and at an airport tougher still.
The chairs in terminals, nobodys idea of comfort to begin with, tend to have armrests that make splaying out unfeasible.
Even in business-class lounges, travellers contort themselves into impossible shapes to pretend that workspace desks are actually beds.
But soon there may be less need for such acrobatics.
Sleep pods are coming to more and more airports.
Last month, Washington Dulles International put out a call for proposals for a company to provide a quiet and comfortable place within the airport to sleep, relax, or work while waiting to board a flight.
Mexico Citys airport has just added sleep pods with a space-age design for $30 a night.
YotelAir, which offers pods in Amsterdam, London and Paris, is a touch more expensive at $42 for four hours.
Dearer still is Minute Suites, which has operations in three American airports with a fourth coming later this year.
Its prices start at $32 an hour.
NapCity, which is yet to sign its first lease, will charge $45 for the first hour and a slightly lower rate after that.
The concept is not new.
Japan opened its first capsule hotels in the late 1970s.
But today sleep pods seem to be on the verge of conquering Western airports.
And they have taken on a distinctly Western style, leaving behind the Asian modeloften little more than a mattress and the minimum requisite space for a human body.
Some have televisions and charging stations and sell items such as toothbrushes.
That is great news for flyers.
But the bigger question for the future of sleep pods is whether they make sense for airports.
One concern may be revenue.
Airports generally take a cut of the money that retailers in the terminal make.
That is by no means pocket change.
The founder of one capsule hotel company told Bloomberg that a single seat in a restaurant can generate $20,000 a year.
It is unclear whether sleeping pods, even the most-compact of which take up the space of a couple of restaurant seats, will generate returns that big.
And so airports may think twice before giving up room to them.
Airports also may be wary of creating new competition for nearby hotels.
They enjoy a good relationship with these hotels, which offer lodging for airline crews and stranded passengers, and send shuttles to and from the airports.
Hoteliers would surely balk if airports cosied up to their cheaper and more-convenient rivals.
But travellers are willing to do a lot for a good nights sleep.
Take, for example, the new bus service that runs from Los Angeles to San Francisco, which Gulliver recently reported on .
It goes out of its way to take longer so that passengers can get eight hours of rest.
Whether airports will be equally willing to let its customers get some shut-eye remains to be seen.
FINANCIERS with PhDs like to remind each other to read your Kindleberger".
The rare academic who could speak fluently to bureaucrats and normal people, Charles Kindleberger designed the Marshall Plan and wrote vast economic histories worthy of Tolstoy.
Read your Kindleberger is just a coded way of saying dont forget this has all happened before.
So to anyone invested in, mining or building applications for distributed ledger money such as bitcoin or ethereum: read your Kindleberger.
Start with A Financial History of Western Europe , in which Kindleberger documents how many times merchants in different centuries figured out clever ways of doing the exact same thing.
They made transactions easier, and in the process created new deposits and bills that increased the supply of money.
In most cases, the Brgermeister or the king left these innovations in place, but decided to control the supply of money and credit themselves.
It is good for the king to be in charge of his own creditors.
But also, it has always been tempting for private finance to create too much money.
There is no evidence that money born on a distributed ledger will be clean of this sin.
Distributed ledgers, which borrow private computers from around the world to update the same list of accounts, address one ancient challenge of finance: how to make sure a transaction between two people located far apart is credible to both.
Other innovations have done the same.
In 1773 banks in England went in on a clearinghouse in London, for example, an improvement on the system of managing separate ledgers with each bank.
The banks themselves took in gold coincumbersome to carry and verifythen created new money by offering more in loans than the gold they had on deposit.
In 1776 Adam Smith described coins as an earth-bound highway, where bank money offered a waggon-way through the air.
(Quote from Kindleberger.
Read your Kindleberger.)
Your blogger challenges any bitcoin operator to praise his own disruptions more loftily.
Over the next century the currency school, which wanted to lock down growth in money, argued with the banking school, which wanted ever more waggons in the air.
We cant look back now and say either side definitively won, because this argument cannot ever possibly be won.
Creditors and business owners want the supply of money to grow slowly.
Debtors and employees want it to grow faster.
We might sooner tease out the true nature of the Holy Spirit.
Bankers talk about governance, ways to ensure private banks and central bankers make sound decisionsso they create just enough money make commerce easier, but not so much that the system collapses through inflation or panics.
The developers behind distributed ledgers, however, often talk as if governance is something they are beyond.
They are not.
Computer code is just a set of rules.
Code is governance.
And it can change.
Take bitcoin: if a supermajority of the computers running the bitcoin distributed ledger run an upgrade, the upgrade becomes the new code.
But behind each computer is a human, making decisions.
Distributed-ledger developers talk about a consensus-driven model, where you improve the system by bringing everyone on board.
So do central bankers.
And different humans have different interests.
In bitcoin, the people who own the computers verifying transactionsthe minerswant code that increases fees for miners.
People who use bitcoin want code that keeps those fees low.
These two sides could not agree, and so in August the bitcoin distributed ledger forkeda smaller group of developers created a copy with slightly different rules, called bitcoin cash.
Everyone who owned one unit of bitcoin also suddenly owned one unit of bitcoin cash.
Out of a governance dispute, new money.
In mid-September bitcoin traded at about $3900, while bitcoin cash fetched only $500.
Cointelegraph, a site for people who trade distributed-ledger currencies, also offers quotes and analysis on currencies called ethereum, ripple and litecoin.
You could argue that markets are already deciding which new currencies provide sound money.
And in doing so you would join the banking school of 19th-century England, or the people who loosened financial regulation in the late 1990s in America.
Your blogger does not believe this argument is wrong, necessarily.
But it is not new, and it has failed spectacularly in the past.
Distributed ledgers are useful technology, just like banks.
As they become a larger part of finance, the temptation to abuse them will be just as great.
History instructs that no governance is perfect, and humans are reliably awful.
This week Quartz , an online magazine, published an interview with Vitalik Buterin, the 23-year-old founder of ethereum.
The currency survived a crisis of credibility after a bug was discovered in 2016, leaving him up all night communicating with ethereums users and gathering consensus for actionmuch like the worlds central bankers a decade ago.
He seems thoughtful on the trade-offs of governance, but unaware that anyone has considered them before:

In the case of ethereum, if somehow 80% of ethereums users just ended up being cryptocurrency speculators, would we then have a social responsibility to start optimizing for that constituency, because that would end up being our constituency?
Thats an interesting philosophical question.
It is.
Read your Kindleberger.
MI GENTE lures listeners with a mesmerising hook, a thumping beat and lyrics about breaking down barriers.
A collaboration between J Balvin, a Colombian reggaeton star (pictured), and Willy William, a French producer, the latest product of this summers Latin craze is crooned almost entirely in Spanish.
(The title means My People; reggaeton borrows from hip hop, reggae and rap.)
The song topped the charts on Spotify, a streaming service, for weeks.
To be a crossover artist, you used to have to sing in English, said John Reilly, Mr Balvins publicist.
Now six of YouTubes top ten music videos are predominantly in Spanish.
In August the Billboard Hot 100, which tracks streams, sales and radio plays, sported seven Latin hits.
Just five graced the chart in all of 2016.
Latin music is helping the music industry to arrest years of decline.
Its growth is far outpacing that of other genres.
Last year Latin America yielded just $598m out of total global recorded-music revenue of $16bn, but sales increased by 12%, against 5.9% worldwide.
Streaming revenue in the region (including subscription services such as Spotify and Apple Music, as well as YouTube and other websites) leapt by 57%.
The Latin audience is a lean-back audience, explains Rocio Guerrero, Spotifys head of global cultures.
For radio-loving Latin Americans, who were less likely to own CD players and iPods than music fans elsewhere, streaming was a natural fit.
Now Latin fans are listening to hour upon hour of music.
Mexico and Brazil are among Spotifys top four markets by volume of streams.
Jess Lpez, chief executive of Universal Music Latin America, has said the streaming platform has democratised music consumption.
Fans have access to any music, anywhere.
Spotifys curators are also makers of fortune, promoting Latin hits and rising stars by featuring them in playlists like Baila Reggaeton (Dance Reggaeton), the apps third most popular.
A spot in Baila Reggaeton guarantees tens of millions of streams from the lists nearly 6m followers, which can propel a song into Spotifys global charts.
Danny Ocean, a Venezuelan unknown with a honey-smooth voice, released Me Rehso by himself on YouTubeand saw it soar when Spotify added it to Baila Reggaeton.
As streaming services have tracked and monetised, labels have noted Latin musics climb up the charts.
The Spanish version of Despacito, by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee, a Puerto Rican duo, was already ubiquitous in Latin America when Justin Bieber heard it in a club in Bogot.
Mr Bieber asked if he could jump on the track.
The hybrid version released in April became the most-streamed song yet, with nearly 5bn audio and video plays.
Record labels are eager to tap a fan base that includes Latin Americans, Latinos in America (one of the countrys fastest-growing ethnic groups) and millions of teenagers worldwide drawn to reggaeton by Despacito and Mi Gente.
Latin music captures 8% of streams in America, which translates into advertising revenues and performance sales for music labels.
It still accounts for just 2% of songs and albums sold.
Would labels rather have a million streams or a million albums sold?
Its a no-brainer, says David Bakula of Nielsen Entertainment, a research firm.
Universal Music Group, the worlds biggest music company, which co-manages Mr Balvin and Mr Fonsi, first invested in digital teams in Latin America a decade ago.
That seems to be paying off.
Scorpio Music, the French indie label behind Mi Gente, last celebrated a Billboard hit in 1984.
It hopes Latin music will be a ticket back to renown.
We have to prove were relevant and that Mi Gente wasnt a lucky strike, said Chiara Belolo, its head of international development.
Mr Balvin has the same task.
He is working on a remix of his hit track with a huge mainstream artist.
He owes much of his success to streaming, he says, but Im the type of artist who doesnt like to talk about money.
Even so, he is now the kind who makes it.
IF SAUDI ARAMCO is a state within a state in Saudi Arabia, then the blandly named Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling (OSPAS) is its deep state.
To enter it, you pass tight security at Aramcos suburban-style headquarters in Dhahran, in the east of the kingdom.
The transition is eye-opening.
Suddenly, English is the common tongue even among Saudi Aramcons, as its workers are known.
Female employees, their faces uncovered, lead meetings of male colleagues.
The crisp banter is common to engineers everywhere.
A toilet break is called a pressure-relief exercise.
Deep within, OSPAS is even further removed from the kingdom outside.
The few executives with clearance to enter call it the nerve centre of the worlds largest oil company.
Using 100,000 sensors and data points on wells, pipelines, plants and terminals, it directs every drop of oil and cubic foot of gas that comes out of the kingdom (10% of the worlds oil supply), monitors it on giant screens as it heads to ports and power stations, and tracks oil tankers as they load.
Well managers in the desert outback wait daily for OSPAS to tell them what to do.
Its not just pretty graphics, an executive says, purring appreciatively over the 70-metre web of data flashing on the wall.
Because Aramco has all its upstream oil-and-gas operations in one country, it says it can justify investing big sumsand a lot of computer capacityon such technology, because it helps cut costs.
ExxonMobil operates in 40-plus countries.
It just cant do that, the executive adds, before apologising lest he appear to bad-mouth a client and partner, one of Aramcos American founding former shareholders.
Such comparisons will become more pertinent as Aramco opens itself up for an initial public offering (IPO).
Until recently it was just as cloistered from outside scrutiny as the kingdom itself, giving it more of a mystique than a good reputation.
This week it invited The Economist for a visit.
It only partially lifted its veil; its finances remain off-limits to everyone except the government, its only shareholder.
Affable executives dodge almost every attempt to wheedle out useful ways of comparing the firm with its listed peers (it has no peers, they dissemble).
But despite the hermeticism, Aramco has a good tale to tell.
Even as its rivals have retrenched owing to low prices, it has stuck to long-term plans, investing heavily in technology, training and the future of oil.
Its long-term approach may help explain one mystery.
For decades, Saudi Arabias declared oil reserves have confounded the industry; since 1989 they have remained suspiciously constant at around 260bn barrelsa dozen times those of Aramcos nearest listed rival (see chart).
As if to rub it in, Aramco says the kingdom has a whopping 400bn further barrels of resources that could one day become reserves.
These reserves are under audit ahead of the IPO, and executives are loth to discuss the process.
However, they argue that whereas other companies have to go far to find new reserves, Aramco can keep them constant simply by better stewardship of its existing fields.
Amin Nasser, the chief executive, says the companys recovery ratesthe share of oil recouped from what is available in a fieldaverage about 50%, but rise as high as 70%, compared with a global average of about 33%.
It does this by maintaining the pressure of its wells over the long term through gas re-injection and other means.
Raising recovery rates on average to 70% would add 80bn barrels to reserves, an executive says.
That is four times ExxonMobils latest total.
Unlike big listed companies, which scrapped growth plans when the price of oil slumped in 2014-16, Aramco has also been able to keep on investing because of its low costs, Mr Nasser says.
Increasing natural-gas output is now the main focus, but it has also raised oil production in some areas.
This is visible at the vast Shaybah field in Saudi Arabias blisteringly hot Empty Quarter, where Aramco last year upped oil output by 250,000 barrels a day (b/d) to 1m b/d, inaugurated a facility to process natural-gas liquids (pictured on previous page) and laid 650km of new pipelines across a mountain range of red sand dunes.
(Aramco also set out to repopulate the surrounding desert with oryx, gazelle and ostrich hunted almost to extinction.
They are now reproducing, although the first ostrich eggs to fertilise sadly cooked in the heat.)
Its second focus is technology.
Whereas some of its peers admit that they squandered the chance to invest in big data during the oil boom before 2014, Aramco has no such regrets.
Last year it inaugurated its home-grown TeraPowers technology, which uses 1trn pixel-like computational cells to simulate the flow of hydrocarbons through 500m years of geological time, enabling it to model oilfields in granular detail.
From Dhahran it can remotely direct drilling of horizontal wells in Shaybah, steering a drill-bit through miles of rock to within a few feet of its target.
(Royal Dutch Shell recently boasted of using similar remote-drilling technology in Argentina.)
To train young employees in understanding the subsurface, Aramco has a 3D virtual-reality cave in Dhahran, which shows the filigree of wells 1,500 metres below the surface of Shaybah, as if from a submarine.
Third, as Saudi Arabias most attractive employer, Aramco has less difficulty than its Western peers in attracting millennial recruits (born between around 1980 and 1996) who are turning away from the oil and gas industry.
It has kept up spending on international scholarships during the slump.
It plans to raise the share of women in the workforce from 25% to 40%.
Its chief engineer and head of human resources are both female.
Saudi labour laws still apply, however: female Aramcons may not stay overnight at an oilfield.
Aramcons pride themselves on a Westernised culture handed down from their American forefathers before nationalisation in 1980.
This makes them confident they can handle the listing.
From the way [Aramco] was built, from the beginning I would say it was ready for an IPO, Mr Nasser says.
The main change, he adds, will be issuing quarterly results.
But that underplays the challenges ahead.
For one thing, Aramco is not master of its destiny.
The future of the IPO, such as the decision on where and when to list, is in the hands of the government shareholder, represented by Muhammad bin Salman, the crown prince.
Domestic political tension and external frictions with Qatar risk delaying the IPO until 2019and further muddying the waters.
The potential valuation is also contentious.
MBS, as the crown prince is known, has said he believes Aramco is worth $2trn, though many analysts think that is over-ambitious.
To improve its chances, the kingdom is leaning toward a listing on the New York Stock Exchange rather than in London, because America has deeper pools of capital.
However, that would expose Aramco to legal risks it would prefer to avoid.
In order to bring in Chinese investors, the kingdom is also considering issuing some shares in Hong Kong.
However strong Aramco may be upstream, its lower-margin refining and petrochemicals divisions will drag down the valuation.
Aramco has some intriguing plans to mitigate this, hoping in the next few years to build a plant with new technology to turn crude oil directly into petrochemicalsin essence, leap-frogging refineries.
But this is untested.
In sum, the IPO is more for the kingdoms benefit than Aramcos.
It could have drawbacksexposing the firm to investors with short time horizons or to activists hostile to fossil fuels.
But the Aramcons appear determined to make the most of it.
Executives argue that oils future is bright, even if electric cars and cleaner fuels emerge.
Low costs mean there is no danger Saudi oil will become a sunset industry, says Mohammed al-Qahtani, head of its upstream division.
A listing will make Aramco the envy of the rest of the world.
RYANAIR, an Irish airline, is known for three things: low fares, the brash way in which Michael OLeary, its chief executive, advertises them, and its record for sticking to its flight schedules.
The last of these is key to its appeal: many businessmen chose Ryanair more for its punctuality than its cheapness.
And so the announcement on September 15th that it is cancelling over 2,000 flights between now and the end of Octoberaround 2% of its capacity over the periodis more serious than it may at first seem.
Ryanairs share price fell by more than 5% in the aftermath.
The problems began in early September when Ryanairs on-time record plunged, owing to a pilot shortage.
To restore punctuality, it cancelled many flights at short notice; passengers were marooned around Europe.
Up to 400,000 people booked on the 2,000 scrapped flights risk missing business trips and holidays.
Mr OLeary says the problems were caused by a change in the way the airline calculates pilots leave.
The holiday year used to run from April to March, but under pressure from the Irish Aviation Authority Ryanair is adopting the calendar year, as new EU rules require.
Ryanair obliged its pilots to take their annual leave between April and December this year.
So many are taking their holiday after the summer rush that not enough are available to maintain a full schedule.
Other airlines say Ryanairs woes are also due to pilots leaving for better pay and conditions.
Norwegian, a rival low-cost carrier with outsized ambitions, claims to have recruited over 140 Ryanair pilots this year (out of around 4,200 at the Irish carrier).
Mr OLeary denies that the airline has a shortage.
But evidence abounds that Ryanairs crewing problems will substantially lift costs per passenger kilometre.
Compensation and lost fares for the cancelled flights will cost 25m ($30m).
Ryanair will also need to spend an extra 30m on hiring pilots.
The combined cost is a small fraction of Ryanairs profits of 1.3bn in the year to March.
More serious was a less-noticed European Court of Justice ruling on September 14th which decreed that low-cost airlines employment disputes with crew must go to local labour courts in all the countries where airlines have bases (Irish labour law is broadly more flexible).
Analysts say the firms costs may rise by around 5% as a result.
Lately Mr OLeary has been warning of the possible consequences of a British exit from the European Common Aviation Area with no new aviation deal.
EU carriers may serve any airport within the bloc, but after Brexit flights between Britain and the remainder of the EU might have to cease.
Headlines about stranded passengers could damage British politicians, he claims.
This week he used Ryanairs debacle to return to the theme.
Imagine the problems this week times one thousand, he said.
That is what a no-deal Brexit will look like.
WE WONT do business with a company that is busy trying to sue us.
So said an uncharacteristically stern Justin Trudeau, Canadas prime minister, alongside his British counterpart, Theresa May, in Ottawa on September 18th.
The two had teamed up to take on Boeing.
The giant American aeroplane-maker is pressing Donald Trumps administration to impose duties on commercial jets made by Canadas Bombardier.
Boeing says its smaller rival is using Canadian government subsidies to sell aircraft to Delta, an American carrier, at below cost price.
Few in either country question that Bombardier has had vital financial support from the Canadian and British governments since 2005 for its small jetliner, the C-Series.
As the planes development costs soared, to $5.4bn, Bombardier struggled to find buyers for it; financial trouble followed.
An estimated C$4bn ($3.4bn) in state support, including C$2.8bn in 2015, stopped a nosedive.
It was not until 2016 that the aircrafts future seemed assured, when Delta ordered 75 units.
Boeing then accused Bombardier of dumping the jets into America at absurdly low prices and asked the Commerce Department to impose countervailing duties.
A preliminary ruling is due on September 25th.
Aircraft-makers are no strangers to subsidy disputes.
Brazil, home to Embraer, which makes a rival to the C-Series, has complained to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) about Bombardier.
But Boeing is a particularly active litigant, not only against Bombardier but against Airbus, which it says got billions of dollars of cheap loans from the EU.
Naturally, Boeing itself got billions of dollars of help (in the form of military contracts) to get off the ground back in the 1950s and 1960s.
Nor does it have a plane that competes with the C-Series.
Boeing says it wants a level playing field, but it is not even on the field, spits Fred Cromer, president of Bombardier Aerospace.
That may be problematic, as industries usually need to show material injury to gain protection from anti-subsidy duties.
Boeing has not made planes the size of the C-Series since 2006, notes Ed Bastian, Deltas chief executive, and has no plans to do so.
Instead Boeing offered to lease us second-hand planes built in Brazil, he says.
And when Boeing accused Bombardier of selling its planes to Delta for less than they cost to build, it appeared to forget that it did the same with over 300 of its 787 jets.
Furthermore, its estimate of the cost of the C-Series was inflated by looking at only one year early in the production life cycle.
Even so, at the Commerce Department Boeing may be pushing on an open door.
Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, has imposed countervailing duties on imports ranging from steel plate from South Korea to tool chests from China, and has angered Canada by placing a levy of up to 24% on its softwood lumber.
Boeing has reasons to guard against Bombardier.
First, it fears encirclement by state-subsidised aircraft makersnot only Airbus and Bombardier, but ambitious state-supported Chinese and Russian producers.
Second, Bombardier might grow into another Airbus, a rival Boeing did not take seriously until it was too late.
Bombardier could stretch its fuel-efficient C-Series planes to challenge Boeings smallest airliner, a big earner for the American firm but based on an old design.
Strangling the baby in the pram may prove rather convenient, says an adviser close to Boeing.
In the meantime, Mr Trudeau and Mrs May are both lobbying Mr Trump on Bombardiers behalf, and Canada is likely to appeal in the courts and at the WTO.
If Boeing gets its way, about 3,500 jobs will be threatened in Quebec, where Canadian politicians are wary of stirring up separatist sentiment, and a further 4,500 in Northern Ireland, where Bombardier is the largest private-sector employer.
Mrs Mays Conservative government is propped up by the ten MPs from the provinces Democratic Unionist Party; Bombardier lies in east Belfast, the partys heartland.
Canada has also threatened to cancel a likely $5bn order of military jets from Boeing if the American company prevails against Bombardier; Britain could follow its lead.
Several airlines, fearing less competition among planemakers, are unhappy with Boeings behaviour and privately threaten to shun its jets if it continues to bully its smaller rival.
This may be the trade case that ends up costing Boeing much more than it has to gain.
Target said on Monday it would increase its minimum hourly wage this year by a dollar to $11, vowing to raise this by the end of 2020 to $15 an hour  the so-called living wage labor advocates across the United States are campaigning for.
The Minneapolis-based retailer, which plans to start hiking minimum pay across its stores to $11 an hour in October, provided assurances that the move would not hurt its previously announced full-year and quarterly earnings forecasts.
Amid increasing competition for workers in a strengthening labor market, the Fight for Fifteen movement  a union-led push for a $15 minimum wage  has been gaining traction in cities across the country.
Targets decision comes less than three months after the Minneapolis City Council approved a measure requiring large companies to pay workers least at $15 an hour by 2022, following decisions by other liberal-leaning US cities to raise the minimum wage.
The retailer, which employs more than more than 323,000 people, said the $11 hourly wage would also apply to the more than 100,000 workers Target is hiring for the holiday season.
Chief Executive Brian Cornell told reporters on a call that Mondays decision would leave Target better prepared for the upcoming holidays, helping the retailer to attract new employees and retain existing workers in an increasingly complex retail environment.
Target, which does not typically make wage increases public in this manner, previously raised minimum pay by a dollar in both 2015 and 2016, pressured by labor groups and a competitive job market driven by minimum wage increases at Wal-Mart.
Wal-Mart, the largest retailer and private sector employer in the United States, last raised its minimum wage for store workers in 2016 to $10 per hour.
Target, which has been investing heavily this year to drive traffic and compete with online rivals, said it still expects third-quarter adjusted earnings of between 75 and 95 cents a share and full-year adjusted earnings of $4.34-$4.54 a share.
Last month, the company reported its first increase in comparable sales in five quarters, raising expectations that its turnaround plans under Cornell were taking hold.
Ubers new boss apologized to Londoners for the taxi apps mistakes and pledged to make changes as the Silicon Valley firm tries to overturn a decision to strip it of its license in one of its major markets.
The British capitals transport regulator on Friday deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service and decided not to renew its license to operate, which will end this week, citing the firms approach to reporting serious criminal offenses and background checks on drivers.
Its 40,000 drivers, one-third of the citys total number of private-hire vehicles, will continue to take passengers until an appeals process is exhausted, which is likely to take several months.
London police complained this year that Uber, which is backed by Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, was either not disclosing, or taking too long to report, serious crimes including sexual assaults and that this put the public at risk.
Its  true that weve got things wrong along the way.
On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes weve made, CEO Dara Khosrowshahi wrote in an open letter to Londoners.
We will appeal the decision on behalf of millions of Londoners, but we do so with the knowledge that we must also change, he said.
The loss of the San Francisco-based startups license in one of the worlds wealthiest capitals comes after a tumultuous few months that led to former CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick being forced out.
Khosrowshahi, who is less than a month into his new job, did not specify which mistakes Uber had made in London.
The citys transport regulator, Transport for London (TfL), declined to comment Monday.
Army of lawyers

London Mayor Sadiq Khan, a Labour politician who has criticized the firm in the past, backed TfLs decision and attacked the Silicon Valley apps response.
I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers, theyve also made aggressive threats about taking us to court and the rest of it, he told BBC radio.
You cant have it both ways: on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner for all sorts of things but on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said, adding that companies which played by the rules were welcome in London.
The firm has until Oct. 14 to formally appeal TfLs decision and the case is likely to be filed at Westminster Magistrates Court in London.
Uber, which began operating in London in 2012, has faced regulatory and legal setbacks around the world and has been forced to quit several countries including Denmark and Hungary.
However, it has also managed to overturn bans and other crackdowns.
Earlier this year, Italy briefly blocked Uber from operating, citing unfair competition, but lifted the prohibition a week later, while in Taiwan, it resumed its services in April after talks with the islands authorities, ending a two-month suspension.
A petition calling on London to overturn its decision not to renew Ubers license had gathered more than 750,000 signatures by noon Monday.
This ban shows the world that London is far from being open and is closed to innovative companies, who bring choice to consumers and work opportunities to those who need them, the petition says.
Walt Disney has threatened to pull its programming from the fourth largest US cable distributor, Altice USA, if the two parties cannot reach a deal before the end of the month, the cable company said on Sunday.
New York-based Altice, which is owned by a European conglomerate and is better known as Optimum, said Disney had asked it for hundreds of millions of dollars in new fees to be able to continue carrying ESPN and ABC, even as ratings suffer.
The two parties have been working on a new contract to replace the one that expires at the end of the month, and Walt Disney has warned customers that its channels will go dark on Oct. 1 if a new deal is not worked out, according to media reports.
We are always working hard to negotiate carriage agreements that reflect the best interest of all our customers.
We want to carry ESPN and its sister networks, including ABC and Disney, at a reasonable rate and have already offered an increase in retransmission fees and sports programming costs, Altice said in a statement emailed to Reuters on Sunday.
The majority of Altices customers live in New Jersey, New York, Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania.
The company has said it had an obligation to warn customers about the loss of programming and disagreed with Altices characterization of the fee increase, according to media reports.
Our contract with Altice is due to expire soon, so we have a responsibility to make our viewers aware of the potential loss of our programming, a Disney spokeswoman said in a statement.
We remain fully committed to reaching a deal and are hopeful we can do so.
Disputes between cable companies and media groups over the cost of carrying channels are common, but the dispute marks the first time a cable company has pushed back at increased fees for ESPN, the most popular sports network.
The typical customer pays $160 or more each month for service to Altice, she said.
Altice charges its customers $34, which is more than 15 times the amount Disney is seeking for the markets most watched station, WABC, she added.
Altice said the request for exorbitant fee increases came even as viewership had been declining and that Disney now wanted to force customers who do not receive ESPN to pay for it anyway.
High fees are to blame for rising cable bills, Altice said, adding that ESPN was already the most expensive basic cable channel in history.
ESPN carries live sports, such as Monday Night Football, and is believed to be less exposed to the cord-cutting culture that has left cable providers losing customers.
Maybe it really was the debt.
When Toys R Us filed for Chapter 11 reorganization this month, many gave equal weight for the chains woes to Amazon  saying the e-commerce giant stole away too many customers from the brick-and-mortar chain  and the bankrupt retailers debt load.
But a recent report on e-commerce showed only 16 percent of sales in the toys and hobby sector are made online  lower, perhaps, than many believed.
Which means it was mainly the debt that did in Toys R Us.
The percentage of toys purchased online is about a third as potent as online sales in the electronics sector, according to the report from Goldman Sachs for its private clients.
A copy of the report was reviewed by The Post.
The report, citing 2016 data from comScore, the Census Bureau, the US Labor Department and its own research, shows that books and magazines, with 32 percent of its sales coming online, was twice as affected by Amazon and other e-commerce sites than toys.
Roughly 15 percent of sales in the apparel and accessories sector came via the click and not the brick, while 11 percent of health and personal care sales came online, the report found  about the same as jewelry and watches.
Only 3 percent of grocery sales came from online, while furniture and home accounted for 7.3 percent, and sports and fitness, excluding apparel, notched 10.5 percent.
SEC boss Jay Clayton better wear his asbestos suit on Tuesday, when hes likely to come under fire while testifying before a Senate committee bent on knowing what the regulator is doing to prevent another embarrassing cyberattack.
The 2016 hack of the Securities and Exchange Commissions Edgar database, revealed Sept. 20, while unnerving for Washington and Wall Street, wasnt even the first time crooks broke into the regulators computer system.
My reaction when I heard the news [last week] was we got played again, a former SEC lawyer told The Post on Sunday.
The lawyer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the hack by an unknown cyber crook reminded him of the May 2015 incident when a fake UK firm, PTG Capital Partners, posted a press release on Edgar saying it was making an offer for Avon that was nearly triple its closing price.
The fake report sent Avon shares soaring 18 percent.
Whats more, in 2012, a fake firm managed to get a $13 offer for the Rocky Mountain Chocolate Co. posted on Edgar.
In the most recent hack, the SEC in 2016 discovered intruders inside Edgar, and the agency patched the bad software that let the crooks in.
The SEC alerted the public only last week, but in its report said the breach occurred in August when it believed thieves could have traded illegally on that information.
The SEC has viewed Edgar like a filing system at a library, and not taken these threats seriously enough, the former SEC lawyer said.
The testimony of the SEC newcomer, who came on board as chairman in May, also is especially important because President Trump has made cyber-security a top priority.
Edgar is the database where corporations file private data awaiting to be made public.
Getting hold of that information, even minutes before it goes public, could allow crooks to trade on it and pocket illegal profits.
The risks from cyber breaches continue to threaten consumers and our financial markets, Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), the ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee, which will grill Clayton on Tuesday, told The Hill on Friday.
We expect corporations that hold sensitive data to disclose information about breaches as soon as possible, and the SEC is no different.
Clayton, who was not on the job when the most recent hack occurred, has angered critics for what they see as foot-dragging.
Rep. Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) is very disappointed to have learned of the breach only on Wednesday.
The scope of a cyber-security incident is not always readily apparent, and transparency can help affected entities take measures to protect themselves and lead to improvements in risk management processes, Langevin told The Hill.
One cyber-security lawyer wondered whether the hackers who broke into the SECs Edgar database gained access to any other sensitive systems operated by the regulator.
If so, the breach could be even more extensive than the public already knows, lawyer Doug Henkin told The Hill.
When the SEC was asked to elaborate to the newspaper, a spokesman for the SEC refused to provide more information.
Last week, two news items hit my radar screen.
Tax reform moved to center stage in Washington, and Harvard Universitys not-for-profit endowment underperformed again.
These two headlines meld into one for me, since I dont understand how a college endowment  such as Harvards $37 billion larder  can be a tax-free entity.
Currently, the vast majority of private and public universities and colleges are tax-exempt, as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3), due to their educational purposes that Washington has long supported as fundamental to fostering the productive and civic capacities of citizens.
A great idea if ever there was one.
Allowing schools to reinvest their modest profits to grow, enabling them to hire new teachers, purchase new equipment and build new labs, all makes sense and is great for the civic capacities of citizens.
If only this were true without the largest loophole of them all.
Virtually every college and university has an endowment, and, wouldnt you know, most dont always tap those funds for their students benefit.
Today, there are 57 schools with assets exceeding $1 billion in their endowments, and the more than $500 billion in all endowments goes untaxed.
The top school endowments trailing Harvard are Yale, at $25.8 billion, and Princeton and Stanford, both at more than $22 billion.
In 1990, Harvards tuition, including room, board and personal expenses, was $23,700, and its endowment was about $4.6 billion.
Today, tuition runs about $72,000.
So if Harvard only made some $3 billion in returns last year, and its still charging $72,000 thousand per student, then it clearly is no longer fostering the productive and civic capacities of citizens.
None of the schools in the $1 billion-plus endowment club needs this tax loophole.
Congress could easily come to a bipartisan win by closing this disgraceful abuse of the tax code  and help a lot of American families pay for school along the way.
If you dont want to be pals with your coworkers, dont bother applying for a job at Mekanism.
The old adage about keeping your personal and work lives separate is outdated, says Jason Harris, president and CEO of the Financial District-based creative services agency.
In fact, you might not even get an interview at Mekanism unless you have a personal connection to someone who works there.
We only hire friends, friends of employees and friends of friends, says Harris, who is 46 and lives in Lower Manhattan.
He says that at a high-pressure, always-on company like his, people have to like each other and want to spend time together.
If you want to clock out at the end of the day and leave your work and your co-workers behind, you wont succeed here.
This is not the right place for you, he says.
But it is the perfect place for Melissa Hill, 35, who also lives in Lower Manhattan.
She shares meals with her colleagues, they hang out on weekends, go to the movies and have parties.
They not only celebrate the good times but also have each others backs.
When Hills romantic relationship of three years ended, everybody  even the CEO  knew about it, she says.
But instead of having to come into the office pretending not to be devastated, Hill says that Harris gave her a week off to make her peace with the breakup.
Thats part of the culture here, she says.
While not all wage earners are this closely bonded to each other, 62 percent of employees say that being buddies with co-workers outside the workplace is beneficial, according to a recent survey conducted by Accountemps.
Experts such as Rich Deosingh, a senior regional vice president at Robert Half International, agree.
He says that people who work with friends tend to be more comfortable and productive, often get their work done ahead of schedule, and are easier to retain.
Having a pal at the office might also be a key to your overall happiness, according to Annie McKee, author of How To Be Happy at Work (Harvard Business Review Press, out now).
Going to your job with blinders on, focused only on the task at hand, doesnt serve you, she says, adding that we spend too much time at work to leave an important part of who we are, and our happiness, outside the door.
McKee advocates for something called companionate love, which reaches beyond the watercooler and renders relationships where people are safe to be themselves, let others show themselves, and feel as if they belong.
Were tribal people; we need to know that we count and [that] we are cared for, she says.
Thats something that Nancy, a manager at a downtown investment bank, who asked that her last name be omitted for professional reasons, knows a bit about.
When the 33-year-old Brooklyn resident was going through fertility treatments two years ago, I was an emotional wreck who had to pee all of the time, she says.
If my team didnt know that this wasnt my normal, that I was trying to have a baby and that the behavior would pass, they might have quit in a group exodus or I might have been fired.
But when she finally got pregnant, We were all so relieved and so happy.
It was a communal celebration, she says.
And while sharing it all and bearing it all might have worked out well for the employees in these situations, Deosingh cautions against not having boundaries.
You need to set limits, he says.
There are no hard and fast rules, according to McKee.
Its a complicated dance.
You have to know your co-workers and your organizations culture, she says.
But one thing is certain, according to all.
Having friends in the workplace makes you happier.
And when you are happy, you tend be more productive and do better work.
Relationships come before happiness.
Happiness comes before success, says McKee.
Developing personal relationships with your co-workers can be tricky.
They tend to be made offline, and you have to be willing to make the effort and invest the time, says Dawn Fay, district president at Robert Half International.
While company powwows or team-building exercises wont do the trick, heres what will, and how to get started:

Get out of the office

Invite a co-worker out for coffee or lunch.
Go beyond the job and the superficial.
Look for shared interests, ask about what they like to do, like to read, about their hobbies, says McKee.
Cast a wide net

Dont limit yourself to teammates, people who are at the same professional level or co-workers of the same sex.
People are overly cautious.
Be brave, says McKee, noting that its fine to ask someone of the opposite sex to sit down with you one-on-one.
And if youre married or in a relationship, you dont need to bring your partner along, like Vice President Mike Pence does.
Put yourself out there

Look for opportunities to lend a helping hand, says Deosingh.
One simple way to get started is by offering to assist on someones charity drive.
Mind your boundaries

While honest, open and caring relationships are your aim, stay away from talking about paychecks, what you heard in meetings or otherwise disclosing information your office chums shouldnt know.
Says Fay: People need to hear the right things from the right people at the right time.
Leon Cooperman is still smarting from his battle with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
They are  I dont want to say a criminal enterprise  but they basically abuse their position and theyre very wrong-footed in what they do, Cooperman said Wednesday at a breakfast hosted by the New York Hedge Fund Roundtable.
In May, Cooperman and his hedge fund Omega Advisors entered into a settlement with the SEC in which he did not admit wrongdoing but was nevertheless forced to pay $4.9 million to settle charges that he used insider information to make trades in Atlas Pipeline Partners in 2010.
The settlement was better than the $10 million fine and five-year ban from the industry the SEC initially offered.
I told them to go F themselves, Cooperman said of the SECs initial offer, the Post reports.
Cooperman, who has long maintained his innocence, has signed onto Bill Gates and Warren Buffetts Giving Pledge and provides college scholarships to Essex County, NJ, students, said there were better things he could do with the money.
I tell the government, what you guys are costing me, I could send 2,500 kids to college.
They didnt give a damn, Cooperman said.
They use taxpayer money to fund their peccadillos, he said.
Dear John: On July 26, I spotted this situation at the Stamford, Conn., station of Metro-North.
I saw a cylinder on the track as I came down the western-most escalator for Track 3.
I was curious, because it looked like it wasnt a soda can.
I peered over the edge of the track and, lo and behold, there was a cell phone sticking out from underneath it.
I looked for someone in authority and found a conductor from the New Canaan train on the adjacent track.
I showed it to her and went to the farthest west point of the platform.
As I waited for the train, the conductor came back to look at the cylinder with another man.
They then went back to whatever they were doing.
My train came and I left.
Two weeks later, I went to New York and took the same escalator.
The cylinder was still there, although it had moved a few inches toward the center of the track.
It just wasnt on top of the phone anymore.
I took a picture and Im sending it to you.
I tried the if you see something, say somethingroutine.
That didnt work.
I hope you can get someone to pay attention.
Dear B.C.
: As you know, I called the MTA, which operates the Metro-North Railroad, and it was quick to act.
An explosives dog was sent onto the tracks, and the objects were cleared.
It was a blue thermos alongside a flip phone that was opened and, after all these weeks, still had a battery charge.
This is one of those situations where we were all hoping that it was a false alarm.
And it was.
See something, say something is a great motto.
But it also has to be followed by do something, which the people at the station clearly didnt do.
Im glad the MTA was more diligent.
Thanks for letting us know.
And, everyone, its important to report suspicious things.
The cops cant be everywhere.
And while its a pain to check out all false alarms, its better than having something bad happen.
Dear John: I read somewhere that Bill Clinton entered the room in which Hillary was hunkered down with her top strategists and said, The most important thing to remember to win the election is jobs, jobs, jobs.
They threw the old fool out!
The rest, as they say, is history.
Keep up the good work.
Dear B.S.
: I dont know if that really happened, but the theory behind it isnt BS, B.S.
All elections are about pocketbook issues.
The one exception might be when voters feel personally vulnerable and they think one candidate can protect them better than another.
So, advice to all future candidates: Ignore peoples financial concerns at your own peril.
There are hotels for gays, millennials, pets  even afternoon trysts so why not properties focused on the college campus crowd?
Thats the mission behind Graduate Hotels, a 3-year-old boutique brand that develops properties solely in college communities.
There are already Graduate hotels in places like in Berkeley, Calif., Madison, Wis., Ann Arbor, Mich., and Oxford, Miss.
But for Graduate founder Ben Weprin, those locations arent enough.
Since the inception of the Graduate brand, weve had our eyes on the Ivy League market, he explains to the Post.
And by 2019, Graduate will indeed matriculate with its new property near Yale University in New Haven, Conn.  its first in an Ivy League town.
Dear John: I live in Poland, and have for the past 10 years.
I remember when World Cup soccer was on TV in 2010.
I believe it was Paraguay vs. France.
Already a borefest.
The final score was an unexciting 0  0 tie.
And it was typical of the entire tournament.
Even the German network said the tournament was langweilig (boring!).
Dear J.N.
: Poland!
You made my day.
My column is read by someone in Poland!
Please show it to a friend so I can say my columns readership in Poland doubled.
Im writing this while watching the New York Giants opening-day loss to the Dallas Cowboys by a 19  3 score.
Boring!
And there were probably a dozen baseball games just today that were also boring.
The fact is, soccer in the US is becoming a bigger business.
There are now three professional teams in New York.
And millions are spent by parents on soccer fees and gear.
I have this revolutionary concept for soccer that will make it more fun.
If you know anyone who wants to fund a new extreme soccer league, send them my way.
Panama is open for business  but money launderers need not apply.
That was the message of Juan Carlos Varela, president of Panama, speaking with the Post on Thursday night at a party he hosted at the Four Seasons Hotel in New York, where he sipped on gourmet Panamanian coffee and feasted on his countrys rich cuisine.
Varela said he has been improving the regulatory climate since he assumed office three years ago.
Panama took a beating with the leaking in 2016 of 11.5 million legal documents from the law firm Mossack Fonseca, detailing potential money fraud.
Varela said it wasnt fair to characterize the documents as the Panama Papers, a term popularized by the media.
The controversial documents were held by the Panamanian law firm and purportedly revealed personal financial information of wealthy persons and public officials globally.
If you receive an email link from Equifax offering to help you survive its massive security breach, dont click on it.
It is likely a scam.
Thats the warning of Ray Mignone, a financial adviser in Little Neck, Queens.
Be wary of any emails you receive which suggest you click on this or that link.
It is safe to say that some fraudster will pretend to be from Equifax, said Mignone, who has frozen all of his credit accounts.
He said everyone should do the same.
An Equifax spokeswoman agreed that consumers should be careful of fake websites.
These scams, she said, designed to capture personal information [known as phishing], are designed to appear as if they are from Equifax and the emails may link to websites purporting to be operated by Equifax.
She added that Equifax only sends mail to consumers through addresses that end in @equifax.com, @trustedid.com and @e.equifax.com.
Mignone added that the security breach revealed in the summer, which affected about half of all Americans, was outrageous.
Those Equifax executives, Mignone said, should have to go to jail.
They failed in their security because they wouldnt spend the money to adequately protect people.
And they failed to spend enough money because they didnt want to hurt their profits.
Mignone is angry because the breach can affect many aspects of a persons life.
Its not only credit, it also can hurt you when you seek a mortgage or when a prospective employer reviews your records, Mignone said.
He believes that credit bureaus offering one year of free monitoring is inadequate.
Once the year is up, theyll want you to pay for more.
They should be offering you free monitoring for life, he contends.
The Equifax spokeswoman didnt respond to Mignones complaints.
Besides freezing your accounts, Mignone said, you should never link to someone claiming to represent a company.
When in doubt, he says, go to the companys website yourself.
Mignone also believes that consumers should Google Federal Trade Commission Equifax Data Breach.
Follow the instructions at the FTC site to discover if your information has been hacked, Mignone said.
You can also go to Equifaxsecurity2017.com for security protection.
Mignone had another recommendation: Examine your credit records, because bad things could be happening.
Every American has the opportunity to pull their credit report from all three reporting bureaus once per year, free of charge, he said.
Mignone also recommends AnnualCreditReport.com.
It is the only website that is approved for this process without hidden fees or charges that might be associated with pulling your credit.
Should one also call the three credit rating bureaus that store this vital information?
You can try.
But good luck, Mignone said.
Ive yet to talk to anyone who actually got through.
The phone numbers are:

Equifax: (800) 349-9960

Experian: (888) 397-3742

Transunion: (888) 909-8872.
Advisers say smart consumers should scan credit reports, looking for any suspicious activities.
These include:
Let me explain to Fed chief Janet Yellen what is going on in the US economy.
It appears she needs to know.
At her press conference on Wednesday, Yellen said of the inflation rate being suppressed, I will not say that the committee clearly understands what the causes are of that.
I am confounded by her committees lack of basic understanding of the velocity of money and its effects on the inflation rate.
Over the past 10 years, wages for Americas middle class have been flat.
Some studies suggest that when inflation is figured in, wages are at the same level as in 1995.
A large minority of the American workforce over the past eight years has lost decent-paying jobs that supported them having a house, a car and medical insurance.
Now they are forced to take multiple part-time jobs with no benefits just to make ends meet.
Another aspect under her purview is the lack of interest paid on savings deposits.
Banks have been giving pennies for each $100 put into a savings account, all the while putting their cash on the Feds balance sheet and collecting a handsome rate of return.
Another point of contention: Its a convenient narrative to say that Amazon is decimating the retail sector.
But lets face it, many Americans who used to shop at malls can no longer aspire to own a new set of clothes each season.
First of all, they no longer have a job that requires anything more than a pair of yoga pants and a shirt, or a pair of jeans and a team jersey.
These Americans have hard decisions each and every week on how to spend their meager wages.
They shop the rim of grocery stores  the outside ring where cheap protein lives  for milk, cheese and eggs.
This is how they survive, not thrive.
Everything I wrote suggests that money has no velocity now.
So if a dollar earned does not translate into many dollars spent as it moves through the system, because members in that system are either struggling with the present or fearful of the future, then you have disinflation.
The lack of inflation is no mystery to me.
All the policies over the past decade have curbed economic growth.
Just ask anyone you see shopping the rim.
Amid the tsunami of layoffs, cutbacks and resignations currently plaguing the magazine business, its an odd time for a magazine to relaunch  let alone entirely rebrand.
But Advertising Age  Crain Communications 87-year-old ad industry bible  is doing just that at the kickoff of Advertising Week on Monday.
Next week, Advertising Age officially becomes Ad Age, marking a comprehensive print, digital and brand-extensions overhaul that Editor Brian Braiker says will transform the publication from a mere trade to a bona fide cultural must-read.
Everything is being redone  a new look, logo, color and palate, says Braiker, who joined Ad Age in the spring from digital industry site Digiday.
We will still cover agencies and campaigns, but we are widening our reach.
Because today everything is a brand, everything touches the broader culture, he tells the Post.
While Ad Ages Web site will be completely redesigned to better reflect its culture-meets-marketing mashup, the print mag will see the most dramatic overhaul.
The first issue on Monday will have a series of covers, including controversy-plagued NBC anchor Megyn Kelly and a trio of Facebookers including Sheryl Sandberg.
Braiker says the new Ad Age will feature a more contemporary aesthetic and (most crucially) heavier cover stock  a costly investment at time when many mags are reducing frequency (see Teen Vogue) or going digital-only (Nylon).
But Braiker insists there is plenty of money to be made from print pubs  even those with limited focus and niche audiences like Ad Age.
Look out, youngster.
Grandma or Grandpa may be elbowing you out of the way for that job.
Indeed, the elderly labor participation rate is setting records, according to recent research.
More older Americans  those 65 and over  are working than at any time since the turn of the century, reports the Pew Research Center.
Todays older workers are spending more time on the job than their peers in previous years, the Pew study said.
This senior workforce growth has been taking place in a period when overall labor participation rates have been in decline.
During the past decade, the overall labor participation rate  those eligible for work who have a job or are seeking one  has declined from 65.8 percent in August 2007 to 62.9 percent last month, according to the Labor Departments Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The trend of more gray hairs seeking work or working is projected to continue.
The number is expected to increase fastest for the oldest segments of the population, people ages 65 to 74 and older  through 2024, according to Mitra Toossi, a BLS economist.
This will come, BLS officials added, at the same time that labor participation rates for other groups will rise by single digits or, in some cases, see a decline.
The recent trend of the elderly working reverses a long-term slide in senior worker participation rates.
In 1985, 10.8 percent of the 65-plus population was working full or part time or looking for work.
As of last month, after incremental gains virtually every year over the past three decades or so, the percentage stood at 19.2 percent, says Erik Kriss, an AARP spokesman.
Kriss added, Every indication is that percentage will pass 20 percent in the next few years.
A longtime entertainer, writer, actress and radio host is one of those who will probably help the trend push past the 20 percent level.
Ill work until I die.
I want to work to the last breath, says Manhattan resident Gilda Miros, who is about to turn 79.
The eclectic career of this celebrated Puerto Rican movie/theater actress and documentary producer goes on and on.
Miros is the author of 10 books, including Mis Mejores Entrevistas de Radio (My Best Radio Interviews).
Miros looks forward to plenty of work.
Its not over until its over.
And even then, it really isnt over.
She is also working on a Broadway play for next year, De La Montana de Venimos (We Come from the Mountain).
It is a play that explores Latin Americas musical heritage.
Miros is also part of the Performing Actors Legacy (PAL), which has research showing that most elderly performers have a very good quality of life because they experience gratification in performing their arts.
Why are there more senior dynamos like Gilda Miros?
BLS officials say the elderly today arent what they were a generation ago.
The elderly are generally healthier and have longer life expectancies than previous generations.
They are better educated, which increases their likelihood of staying in the labor force, says Elka Torpey, another BLS economist.
She adds that work in general has become more sedentary, allowing older workers to continue in the labor force.
Uber wants to know how it can get back in business in London.
Wed like to know what we can do .
to sit down and work together to get this right, Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in the city, told The Sunday Times of London.
Ubers operating license was stripped Friday after the newspaper revealed that the head of the Metropolitan Polices taxi unit had accused the ride-hailing service of failing to report serious crimes by drivers, including sex attacks, to avoid damaging [its] reputation.
Transport for London (TfL), the agency overseeing the citys transit, cited Ubers approach to reporting serious criminal offences as a key reason for declaring the company not fit and proper to hold a license.
Uber is Londons biggest taxi operator with 40,000 drivers.
TfL and other local officials warned Saturday that Uber had plans to flood the British capital with cars licensed by surrounding communities to get around the ban.
Uber declined to confirm or deny the claim.
Elvidges tone changed from Friday, when he promised immediate legal action and said London Mayor Sadiq Khan had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
see also British minister slams 'blanket ban' on Uber LONDON  A British government minister has criticized the London...

Elvidge also told the paper that the regulators had refused over several months to talk substantively about the licence renewal or to specify what, if any, reforms it wanted from the company before relicensing it.
Among Ubers possible concessions were giving its drivers employment benefits and imposing limits on drivers hours to address road-safety concerns, as it does in New York.
Nearly 600,000 people have signed an online petition sponsored by the company to Save Your Uber in London.
In an official response posted on the petition site, Khan backed the license removal.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Khan said.
They have let down their drivers and customers.
Cash-strapped Toys R Us, despite obtaining $3 billion in Chapter 11 financing, is still not getting all its shipments from nervous suppliers, The Post has learned.
Some lenders who finance and insure toy makers orders are refusing to ship containers of dolls, car sets, slime and other toys, because they are having trouble pricing the risk of doing business with the chain, sources said.
As a result, containers of Toys R Us goods are piling up at Asian ports as they wait to eventually be loaded on to ships to be delivered to some 18 US distribution centers and then the retailers 1,697 stores, the sources said.
The specialized lenders, called factors, are still weighing their risk and dont know how to price their loans, one toy industry insider said.
Without a factor signing off, no supplier will ship their goods.
If a resolution isnt reached soon, Toys R Us could be missing some inventory at the start of the holiday season next month, sources said.
The factors have the power right now, said one toy industry expert who did not want to be identified.
Toys R Us filed for Chapter 11 on Sept. 18 because in the days preceding the move toy makers had grown antsy with the embattled chain.
Some demanded cash payment before they would ship, Toys R Us Chief Executive David Brandon revealed in a court filing this week.
The $3 billion debtor-in-possession financing deal was supposed to cure those jitters.
To a large extent it has  but some more cautious lenders are holding back.
Its a huge decision whether these companies want to expose themselves to further risk, said bankruptcy lawyer Jeffrey Cohen, who said he has spoken with a dozen toy makers who are owed between $50,000 and $30 million for goods theyve already shipped to the bankrupt chain.
Deal or no deal, the toy makers may cancel up to 20 percent of their Toys R Us orders, according to Jeffries analyst Stephanie Wissink.
We are seeing some delays in the vendors releasing their shipments because of their concerns about Toys R Us ability to compete in the holiday season, Wissink told The Post.
CEO Brandon conceded as much this week.
The company has fallen behind some of its primary competitors on various fronts, he said in the court filing, including the general upkeep and the condition of our stores, our inability to provide expedited shipping options, and our lack of a subscription-based delivery service.
Procter & Gamble is disappointed that Nelson Peltz has a new ally in his bid to force his way onto the board of the consumer products giant.
P&G said proxy-advisory firm Glass Lewis, in backing the efforts of the activist investor, misunderstood how much progress it has been making.
We are disappointed that Glass Lewis failed to recognize the significant transformation that the P&G Board and management team are implementing for the benefit of all shareholders, P&G said in a statement, adding that it has the right team in place.
Citing P&Gs lagging performance relative to peers, Glass Lewis said late Thursday that P&G shareholders had adequate cause to vote Peltz onto the companys board during next months shareholder meeting.
Peltz, who heads Trian Partners, has long said that P&Gs team has become too insular.
As a result, P&G has lost market share to small, local brands that resonate more with younger shoppers.
P&Gs rivals are hip to trends, Peltz has said, noting Unilevers purchase of Dollar Shave Club last year and SE Johnsons purchase this week of Earth-friendly cleaning product makers Method and Ecover.
P&G has said Peltzs board presence would derail its progress.
A Manhattan man claims a top Facebook executive lied to him about a job position being closed  after he discovered the mans age.
Now hes suing the tech giant for age discrimination in a lawsuit that quotes CEO Mark Zuckerberg as saying young people are just smarter.
Stephen Cohen, 61, says top Facebook executives Carolyn Everson (vice president of global marketing) and Glenn Handler (director of sales and marketing staff) were all over him for a job as a communications associate after learning of his past as an executive at a major advertising firm and as a columnist for The New York Times.
But they turned cold after he sent his rsum  which showed hed graduated from Dartmouth College in 1978, according to the Manhattan federal court lawsuit.
I had fully expected, based on Mr. Handlers earlier communications, that I would at a minimum be granted an interview for the job, Cohen said in a court document tied to the lawsuit.
Instead I had been told that the position had suddenly closed.
The suit points the finger in part at Facebooks youthful CEO, Zuckerberg, 33, whom Cohen quotes as once having said: I want to stress the importance of being young and technical.
Young people are just smarter.
Why are most chess masters under 30?
A Facebook rep denied the charges.
Facebook is an equal opportunity employer, the spokesperson said.
We do not make hiring decisions based on age or any other protected characteristic.
We believe these claims are without merit and will mount a vigorous defense.
Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi admitted the firm "got things wrong" Monday in a plea to London after the ride-hailing app was stripped of its license to operate in Britain's capital city.
"While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way," Uber's CEO said in an open letter published in the U.K.'s Evening Standard newspaper Monday.
Khosrowshahi added: "On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes we've made."
His apology follows a decision by London transport authority Transport for London (TfL) to revoke the taxi start-up of its license to operate in the city last Friday.
The former Expedia CEO, who has served as Uber's CEO for almost a month, said Uber would "work with London to make things right."
TfL's shock decision not to renew Uber's private hire vehicle license dealt a huge blow to the start-up.
Uber said it would appeal the decision, and has reportedly hired a top British lawyer, Thomas de la Mare, to fight its case.
Relations between Iran and the U.S. grew more strained over the weekend after the Middle Eastern country successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 kilometers.
The Khorramshahr missile test took place Saturday; Iran state media said it could carry several warheads.
The weapon was first seen during a military parade Friday, during which Iran's President Hassan Rouhani promised to boost his country's missile arsenal.
"We will increase our military power as a deterrent.
We will strengthen our missile capabilities," Rouhani said Friday in a speech broadcast on state television, according to Reuters.
The country's determination to expand its missile capabilities will remain a main source of friction between Washington and Tehran, according to Torbjorn Soltvedt, principal MENA analyst at Verisk Maplecroft.
"As Iran's missile program is beyond the scope of the 2015 nuclear agreement, both sides have seized on the issue to assert their national interests while still operating within the confines of the deal," he told CNBC via email.
"For Rouhani, reasserting Iran's ballistic missile ambitions provides cover against hard-line critics that see the nuclear agreement as a capitulation to world powers."
Following the missile launch Saturday, the U.S. imposed new unilateral sanctions on Iran, saying the test violated a UN resolution, according to Reuters.
On Sunday, President Donald Trump signed a presidential order that kept travel restrictions on Iran, along with seven other countries.
The order blocks nearly all visas from Iran except for students and exchange visitors.
On Saturday, Trump criticized the missile test on social media.
Soltvedt said the missile tests allow Trump to expand sanctions against the country without violating the Iran nuclear deal.
"The net result is that Washington and Tehran are accusing each other of not living up to the spirit of the nuclear agreement," he said.
President Trump has previously criticized the agreement.
During his address to the UN last week, he said the U.S. could not abide by the agreement if it provides cover for a nuclear weapons program.
Soltvedt added that missile tests would strain relations with Iran's Middle East neighbors.
"There is no doubt that Iran is in the ascendancy in the geopolitical battle for influence in the Middle East.
Iran's ongoing efforts to boost its ballistic missile capabilities will only heighten the sense of insecurity among regional rivals," he said.
"While Iran's more assertive regional stance has put it on a collision course first and foremost with Saudi Arabia and the U.S., the pivotal role it plays in the Syrian conflict is also increasingly raising tensions with Israel."
Thousands of Target employees are about to get a raise.
The big-box retailer said Monday it will start raising its minimum wage next month from $10 an hour and will eventually reach $11 for all its U.S. stores.
The pay raise will outpace Wal-Mart's recent increase in its minimum wage.
The two retailers have been engaged in a quiet wage war for years.
Target raised its hourly minimum pay rate in April 2015 to $9, up from the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour at the time.
That move came in response to an announcement by Wal-Mart in February, where Wal-Mart promised to lift its base pay to $10 an hour by 2016.
While Wal-Mart has touted past pay increases, using earnings conference calls to circulate the news, Target has moved more stealthily, only saying earlier this year that it would be investing billions of dollars back into the company.
When asked on a call with media about Target's decision to make Monday's news considerably more public, CEO Brian Cornell said he wants to be "very definitive" and "very declarative" about Target's commitment to, and investment in, its employees.
"Target has always offered market-competitive wages to our team members," Cornell said in a statement.
"With this latest commitment, we'll be providing even more meaningful pay, as well as the tools, training, and support ... that set Target apart."
Target also reiterated its sales and earnings outlook for the third quarter and full year.
That means the increased salary expenses aren't expected to affect the retailer's bottom line, since Target baked the wage hike into its $7 billion investment plan.
"This is our continued focus of investing in the Target team," said Cornell.
Target said the wage increases will begin in October and will apply to the 100,000 temporary workers that the retailer plans to hire ahead of the holidays.
Only two states in the U.S.  Massachusetts and Washington  currently have a minimum wage of $11 per hour.
All others fall below that threshold, but many states already have plans in place to further hike pay in the coming years.
Target also committed to boosting its minimum wage to $15 per hour by 2020.
Target has declined to comment on how many of the roughly 323,000 employees at its more than 1,800 stores will be receiving the pay increases.
The company has emphasized that it wants to "recruit and retain strong team members."
Many retailers, such as Gap, Ikea, Costco and Whole Foods, have been offering competitive minimum wages despite congressional unwillingness to boost the federal minimum wage  a number that hasn't budged since 2009.
Democrats recently introduced a $15 minimum wage bill, backed by Sen. Bernie Sanders, following the Obama administration's second-term proposal to raise the level to $10.10 an hour, which got no traction in Congress.
President Donald Trump has flirted with the idea of raising the federal base pay to $10 an hour.
At a press conference in Florida last year, he told the crowd: "The minimum wage has to go up.
... At least $10, but it has to go up."
For now, states  and individual companies  are left to make their own decisions on whether to raise the bar.
Swiss power grid maker ABB will pay $2.6 billion for General Electric's Industrial Solutions business, it was announced Monday.
Chief executive Ulrich Spiesshofer told CNBC he is "very confident" that ABB can build the unit back to a strong position.
Spiesshofer said the unit, which has an EBITDA margin of only 6 percent, has strong roots and brand legacy, but the problem is it was a non-core business in GE's portfolio.
"You know what happens to non-core businesses.
They don't get enough oxygen and they don't prosper.
For us, this business is absolutely right in the sweet-spot," he told CNBC's Squawk Box.
"We are very confident that, jointly with the GE Industrial Solutions team, we will shape this business back to a strong position."
GE's Industrial Solutions business makes circuit breakers, switchgear, components for lighting control and power supply equipment, which overlaps with ABB's portfolio.
The unit had sales of $2.7 billion in 2016, but its operating earnings before interest, taxes and amortization are just 6 percent of sales, compared to ABB's 15 percent operating margin.
Spiesshofer said he had received many calls from customers to congratulate him on the acquisition and saying ABB is the right home for the business.
He also addressed how ABB will boost profit margins at the unit.
"We need to live up to that now and the way we will do it is harmonize the product and technology portfolio.
We have leading edge solutions on the digital side," he said.
"Secondly, we have an overlapping footprint and we will do some restructuring in this context, but we will do this in a responsible way like ABB always does it and we will try to find a home for the very good people at GE in the growing parts of our business."
ABB expects $200 million of annual cost benefits from the acquisition deal and anticipates $400 million of integration costs.
The Zurich-based company's stock price rose 0.42 percent on news of the deal.
Reuters contributed to this report.
British food delivery company Deliveroo has raised $385 million in private funding, it said on Sunday, as it prepares for expansion to help it compete with publicly traded rivals such as Delivery Hero and Just Eat.
The funding values the business at more than $2 billion and will allow Deliveroo to enter new markets, enlarge its technology team and expand its concept of delivery-only restaurants run out of centralized kitchens it operates, the company said.
The number of Deliveroo locations has risen by 60 percent over the past year and it now operates in more than 150 cities in 12 countries, a spokesman said.
He declined to comment on its next expansion moves.
Besides Britain, where it operates in 60 cities and towns, it also offers food delivery in eight European countries, Australia, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates.
It's closest rival is the Foodora unit of Germany's Delivery Hero.
The new investment in Deliveroo is led by funds associated with T. Rowe Price Associates and Fidelity Management & Research, the company said.
Existing investors DST Global, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel Partners are also making follow-on investments, increasing their positions in the company, Deliveroo said.
"There is a lot of room to rethink how we eat," said Martin Mignot, a partner at venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has invested in four previous Deliveroo funding rounds.
The company has raised $474.6 million since it's founding in 2012, according to venture funding data from Crunchbase.
Like taxi app Uber, which was stripped of its London operating license on Friday, Deliveroo has been criticized by unions that say it is exploiting staff by not offering basic protections.
Some of its delivery riders are pursuing legal action to push for workers' rights.
Deliveroo has previously said it would give its self-employed riders insurance and sick pay if the government changed the law so that it could offer some, rather than all, the entitlements enjoyed by full-time staff members.
Deliveroo increased revenue by more than 600 percent last year while operating losses mounted, albeit at a slower rate, parent company Roofoods said in a Sept. 20 regulatory filing.
Revenue grew to 128.56 million pounds ($173 million) but delivery costs and administrative expenses resulted in an operating loss of 141.05 million pounds, up 367 percent year on year, it said in a filing with UK Companies House.
Though the company trumpeted a $2 billion-plus valuation, that remains less than half those of its listed rivals.
Delivery Hero's market capitalization is 5.95 billion euros ($7.11 billion) while UK-based Just Eat's valuation is 4.66 billion pounds.
Unilever has agreed to buy cosmetics firm Carver Korea for 2.27 billion euros ($2.71 billion) from Goldman Sachs, Bain Capital and the company's founder as it expands its beauty and personal care business.
The Anglo-Dutch company announced the deal on Monday, saying Carver was the fastest-growing skincare business in South Korea, through sales of its A.H.C brand.
Unilever said the range includes "Eye Cream for Face", along with essences, toners, moisturizers, masks, and sun protection.
Bain and Goldman Sachs jointly bought a roughly 60 percent majority stake in Carver for around $500 million last year, a source familiar with the matter said on Monday.
Carver Korea, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs were not available for immediate comment.
Nashville police say a suspect in a church shooting apparently shot himself.
Metropolitan Nashville police spokesman Don Aaron said at a news conference that the gunman arrived in the parking lot as services were being let out Sunday at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ.
Aaron says the suspect fatally shot a woman who was walking to her vehicle.
Aaron says the gunman then entered the rear of the church and six people were shot.
Aaron says a churchgoer who confronted the gunman was pistol-whipped by the suspect, who then shot himself.
Aaron said the suspect, who was in his mid 20s and was from Rutherford County, was taken to a hospital.
Aaron didn't immediately release the suspect's name or condition.
Aaron says witnesses are still being interviewed.
There's a domestic dairy glut that's so bad it's led some American farmers to spill milk.
National milk production is increasing faster than the processing capacity.
Another challenge facing the industry is total per capita consumption of fluid milk has been steadily falling for some time because of competition from other beverages and because the share of the nation's total population who are children continues to decline.
"In Michigan and the Northeast, milk is being dumped," said Gene Paul, legislative coordinator of National Farmers Organization, an Iowa-based organization which markets livestock, grain and milk for its members.
"Milk is just being thrown away, because they just don't have the processing capacity."
Also contributing to the dairy glut is that average production levels are rising as more-productive cows allow big dairies to experience output growth.
Regardless, it comes as tough trade talk from President Donald Trump and threats to ditch NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement, is causing worries for American milk producers.
Mexico is a huge buyer of U.S. dairy products.
"Exports are a big component now of milk sales in this country," said Peter Fredericks, a dairy specialist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and administrator in the agency's Northeast milk marketing area.
The USDA recently raised its milk production forecast for 2017, indicating that "increases in milk per cow more than offset a slower rate of milk cow expansion."
"There are certain supply-and-demand imbalances going on," said USDA's Fredericks.
"We're not seeing rivers of milk being dumped.
We're not seeing farmers foreclosed on  that type of thing."
Overall, U.S. milk consumption on average is rising between 1 and 2 percent annually but production is going up around 3 percent.
"We're seeing the growth of these very large dairies that have good cows, they have good technology and they just keep producing more and more milk," said Paul.
"Production just continues to increase, and there's no brakes on it.
And cooperatives are almost encouraging production by paying volume premiums."
American dairy farmers every year are producing about 3 billion more pounds of milk than the year before, according to a report released this month by CoBank.
It found the available processing capacity, particularly in the Northeastern and upper Midwestern states, "has strained the ability of dairy cooperatives to fill the role of market balancers."
In the Southwestern states, though, there's less of a dairy glut and less pain being felt by the dairy producers.
"It is a regional problem but a serious problem,' said Ben Laine, senior dairy economist at CoBank in Denver.
"It has put pressure on pricing, especially in some areas like Michigan.
It's depressed prices in other areas whenever you're forced to dump milk because you're not able to process it."
Last year, Michigan ranked No.
5 nationally in terms of milk production, with an estimated 97 percent of the state's dairy farms family owned, according to the United Dairy Industry of Michigan, a trade group.
Surplus milk produced by the state is exported to meet demand in other states since Michigan produces more than enough milk to supply its own needs.
"We're 'nip and tuck' on processing capacity," said Ken Nobis, a dairyman in central Michigan and president of Michigan Milk Producers Association.
"Our state's production has grown very rapidly, and it's grown faster than global consumption has increased."
In some cases, skim milk is dumped because there is sometimes the capacity to take the butter fat out of it, which Nobis said is between 50 and 60 percent of the value of the milk product.
That said, he's still heard of "cases where everything was dumped."
Yet it's not all sour for the dairy industry.
Per capita consumption of dairy products in the U.S. as a whole has been increasing, helped by strong growth for butter and certain yogurt categories.
Whole milk also has been doing better in terms of sales growth than the overall fluid milk category.
Also, more cheese products are being sold today and not just for hamburgers or meals but for snacks too.
Orville Redenbacher's popcorn owner, Conagra Brands, is acquiring Angie's Artisan treats, maker of Angie's Boomchickapop popcorn, the company announced Friday.
"Adding the Angie's Boomchickapop brand to Conagra's portfolio is another important step in our ongoing plan to modernize our portfolio and accelerate growth," CEO Sean Connolly said in a statement.
The deal was first reported by CNBC.
Terms were not disclosed.
It is expected to close by the end of the year.
Conagra has been building up its snack businesses through acquisitions, including Frontera Foods in 2016 and Duke's meat snacks' parent company earlier this year.
For Angie's, the proposed acquisition will give the popcorn company resources to continue the growth it had under its private equity owner TPG Growth.
"We are confident that the Angie's Boomchickapop business will continue to expand its reach as a part of Conagra Brands," said Angie Bastian, namesake and founder of the company

Angie's began 16 years ago as Angie's Kettle Corn, which Angie and her husband Dan started in their Mankato, Minnesota, garage.
They later renamed the company to reflect its broadening product assortment, but kept the name "Angie's" to distinguish from the many popcorn brands named for men: Orville, Cracker Jack and Vic's.
McGrath North served as legal counsel to Conagra Brands.
Lindquist & Vennum was legal adviser to Angie's.
Houlihan Lokey and Kirkland & Ellis were financial and legal advisers, respectively, to TPG Growth.
Olo CEO Noah Glass: Providing restaurants new online business through Amazon 11:57 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 03:15

Amazon bought grocery chain Whole Foods, and now it wants to work with more restaurants as it moves further into the food industry.
The internet giant has partnered with Olo, a New York-based food delivery service, to list Olo's clients on the Amazon Restaurants food delivery section of Amazon.com.
GrubHub, a rival Chicago-based restaurant takeout service, saw its shares fall more than 6 percent on the news, before regaining some ground to a drop of nearly 2 percent.
"Amazon's obsession with providing great customer and restaurant experience supports the evolving expectations and behaviors of today's consumer," said Noah Glass, CEO of Olo, about the deal.
Amazon Restaurants has integrated into Rails, Olo's application programming interface, which allows for restaurants to list their menus on third-party marketplaces.
Through the integration, Olo's restaurant partners will be featured on Amazon Restaurants, enabling orders through the delivery provider to go directly through a point-of-sale system.
Some of Olo's clients include Chipotle, Denny's, Shake Shack and Wingstop.
The goal of this partnership is to simplify the process for restaurants once customers' orders come in, while also allowing for companies to limit the amount of orders that they take during peak hours, Olo said in a press release.
"This integration will enable Amazon Restaurants to onboard new restaurants with ease, as well as quickly add more new choices and delivery options for customers," added Gus Lopez, general manager of Amazon Restaurants.
"We are excited to leverage Olo's digital ordering technology and continue rapidly growing our network of restaurants to give Amazon Prime members more options for fast delivery from their favorite brands," Lopez said.
GrubHub shares have been on a tear this year, up more than 35 percent in 2017.
Last month, Yelp announced it was selling Eat24, its online food-ordering business, to GrubHub.
The brands Seamless and MenuPages are also owned by GrubHub.
The race is on to get food delivered from popular restaurants to customers, and more quickly than ever before.
Finish Line shares rebounded Friday after tumbling more than 11 percent at one point in early trading.
The athletic footwear market became "much more promotional" in July and August, which pressured the retailer's second-quarter sales and gross margins, CEO Sam Sato told analysts and investors Friday.
He said he expects Finish Line's sales and margin trends to remain difficult for the rest of the year, but said he's confident in the retailer's long-term strategies.
Finish Lines shares were up more than 4 percent midafternoon Friday.
More than 70 percent of customer traffic has shifted to mobile, so Finish Line will focus on improving its digital capabilities, Sato said.
Initiatives include making webpages load faster and allowing customers to return products directly from Finish Line's website.
Finish Line already offers an app, but Sato said it will be updated to include in-store beacon and geofencing technology, which will connect customers' digital and physical shopping experiences.
On the brick-and-mortar front, Finish Line has already started renovating stores to integrate technology.
The company remodeled 10 stores during the quarter, Sato said.
Going into the holiday season, that total will be around 90, said Chief Financial Officer Ed Wilhelm.
"While the retail environment remains challenging, particularly for athletic footwear, I am confident that the work we are doing to tightly control expenses and manage inventories, along with the initiative to drive traffic and conversion, will allow us to achieve our full-year guidance while also positioning the company for improved long-term results," Sato said.
Finish Line reported a comparable sales decline  concerning to analysts and investors  of 4.5 percent during the second quarter.
The retailer said it continues to expect same-store sales to fall between 3 to 5 percent for both the third and fourth quarters of 2017.
Quarterly net income came in at $2.8 million, or 7 cents per share, down from $22.1 million, or 53 cents a share, one year ago.
Revenue was $469.4 million, a drop of 3.3 percent from last year.
As of Thursday's market close, Finish Line shares have fallen more than 60 percent over the past 12 months.
Earlier this year, the retailer's stock plummeted after it trimmed its outlook for the full year amid disappointing sales volume.
Around that same time, the CEO of rival Dick's Sporting Goods said that his sector of retail was in "panic mode."
The remarks immediately sent shock waves across the broader sporting goods space.
Shares of other sporting goods stocks, including Under Armour, Nike, Foot Locker, Hibbett Sports and Big 5 Sporting Goods, have all taken hits over the past few weeks, as negative sentiment around the industry grows.
The threat of Amazon, which continues to make competitive price cuts and ink deals with certain athletic and apparel brands, remains on every company's mind.
We don't want a fat Europe, we want a fit Europe: FDP politician 2:54 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 03:15

Ahead of the German election this weekend, a politician told CNBC that the country wants a working Europe.
Otto Fricke, member of the federal executive board for Germany's Free Democratic Party laid out his party's vision for Europe in an interview with CNBC on Friday.
"We want a working Europe.
We don't want a fat Europe, we want a fit Europe that works," Fricke said, adding that at least in the next years it is important to have control.
He is concerned how Germany and Europe will prepare if and when things go bad in the future.
"Prepare means look at the future and look what's coming up."
To achieve a fit Europe, changes need to be made by individual countries and not at the EU level, Robin Bew, chief executive officer of The Economist Intelligence Unit told CNBC Friday.
"When we look around Europe and see where the fault lines are, most of the fault lines are around domestic policy  doing things to make your own country more competitive.
We think that's what would happen if you want to make Europe fit," Bew said.
Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:

T-Mobile  T-Mobile is close to agreeing to tentative terms on a deal to merge with its telecom peer, Sprint, Reuters reported on Friday.
Japan's SoftBank, which controls Sprint, would reportedly own between 40 to 50 percent of the combined company.
A deal is expected by the end of October, according to the sources who spoke to Reuters.
Apple  Apple's latest version of the iPhone, the iPhone 8, starts shipping on Friday.
While some product reviewers have said they love the device, others are telling shoppers to hold off for the iPhone X. Apple's iPhone 8, the cheapest phone announced at the company's event on Sept. 12, has a sticker price of $699, about $50 over the last generation of iPhones.
Facebook  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Thursday that the social media company will share information with Congress about suspected Russian-linked election ads.
Earlier this month, Facebook released results of an investigation into the 2016 U.S. election.
The investigation found about $100,000 in ad spending from June 2015 to May 2017, associated with roughly 3,000 ads believed to be from Russian profiles.
Zuckerberg has said he instructed his staff to provide those ads to Congress.
Conagra  Orville Redenbacher's popcorn owner Conagra Brands is nearing a deal to buy Angie's Artisan treats, the maker of Angie's Boomchickapop popcorn.
The potential deal comes as sales of big food companies have slowed, with their staples being replaced by fresher, healthier brands.
Hewlett Packard  Hewlett Packard Enterprise is planning to cut at least 5,000 workers, or about 10 percent of its staff, by the end of this year, according to reports.
Most recently and under CEO Meg Whitman, the company has been streamlined, shedding much of its Chinese business and consulting division.
Tesla  Tesla will discontinue its cheapest Model S, the rear-wheel-drive 75, on Sunday.
The carmaker first announced in July that it would discontinue the rear-wheel model.
Tesla is shifting to an all-wheel-drive lineup for the Model S, to simplify its product offering.
Boeing  The trade dispute between Boeing and its Canadian rival, Bombardier, is heating up, with Boeing standing its ground.
The two are battling over a potential defense sale worth about $5 billion.
More details are slated to be revealed next week, when the U.S. Commerce Department issues its initial ruling on Sept. 26.
Wal-Mart  The big-box retailer has partnered with smart-lock maker August to test the in-home delivery of packages and groceries, directly to customers' refrigerators.
Wal-Mart is currently running a pilot of the service in Silicon Valley with a small group of August Home customers.
The move comes as retail rivals Amazon and Target are both beefing up their own delivery options for grocery items.
Finish Line  Shares of the athletic shoe and apparel retailer fell in premarket hours Friday, after Finish Line said comparable sales tumbled 4.5 percent during the second quarter.
Finish Line's net income fell to $2.8 million, or 7 cents per share, from $22.1 million, or 53 cents a share, a year ago.
London stripped Uber on Friday of its license to operate from the end of September in a huge blow to the taxi app that will affect more than 40,000 drivers in one of the world's biggest cities.
"Uber's approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications," Transport for London (TfL) said.
The final day of Uber's license will be on Sep. 30.
Uber, which has the right to appeal the decision within 21 days.
It is unclear whether Uber will be able to operate in October whilst any appeal is being considered.
In London, Uber has faced criticism from unions, lawmakers and traditional black cab drivers over working conditions.
Uber, which accounts for a third of private hire vehicles on London's streets, said it would contest the decision.
Uber's London unit also launched a petition against the decision, saying that regulators were trying to "restrict consumer choice."
"We are sure Londoners will be as astounded as we are by this decision.
By trying to ban the app from the capital, the Mayor and Transport for London have caved in to a small number of people," Tom Elvidge, general manager of Uber in London, said in an emailed statement to customers in the U.K.



Globally, Uber has endured a tumultuous few months after a string of scandals involving allegations of sexism and bullying at the company, leading to investor pressure which forced out former CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick.
The app has been forced to quit several countries including Denmark and Hungary and faced regulatory battles in multiple U.S. states and countries around the world.
Iran's president has promised to increase the country's military power and missile capability, days after the country's government was condemned by U.S. President Donald Trump.
"We will increase our military power as a deterrent.
We will strengthen our missile capabilities," President Hassan Rouhani said on Friday in a speech broadcast on state television.
"We will not seek permission from anyone to defend our country," Rouhani said according to Reuters.
Rouhani made the speech to a parade of the country's armed forces in the city of Tehran.
The speech has been seen as defiance to President Trump, who criticized Iran's leadership in a speech to the United Nations earlier this week.
U.K. fintech start-up Starling Bank  which operates solely on a mobile app  said it plans to raise 40 million ($54 million) from investors to drive expansion into markets beyond the U.K.
The London-based challenger bank doesn't have a single physical branch, and claims to be the first digital challenger of its kind to offer customers current accounts.
Challenger banks are smaller retail lenders that are set up with the aim of disrupting big, established financial institutions.
"As Starling Bank continues to grow, and our customer base expands every day, this funding will help us consolidate our current share of the market and drive our growth both in the U.K. and internationally," Starling's Chief Executive Anne Boden announced Friday.
Starling was given banking passport rights in neighboring country Ireland in June, in a move seen to mark its first expansion to a European Union country.
Capital raised by the fundraising round will allow the fintech bank to continue its growth across Europe, Starling said.
Its plan to raise the cash follows the bank's initial fundraising round in January last year, which raised 48 million ($65 million), and was led by American trader Harald McPike.
An additional $54 million would bring the bank's total investments up to $119 million.
Starling has hired mergers and acquisitions advice firm Quayle Munro to oversee the investment round.
It aims to raise the cash in the first half of 2018.
Source: First Insight

First Insight surveyed 750 participants in the U.S. on their shopping habits, purchase behavior, discount expectations and influences that drive purchase decisions.
Looking at geographies, one finding from the firm's data was that the Northeast region of the U.S. has seen the greatest "behavioral shift" between where the young and the old look for deals.
In the Northeast, 25 percent more millennials than baby boomers are visiting multiple stores to find bargains.
Along the West Coast, millennials are looking in stores and online about equally before making a purchase, the firm said.
And the Midwest shows the strongest shift by an older generation of shoppers searching for deals and ringing up items online.
"Baby boomers are technologically aware, while millennials are tech natives," Petro told CNBC in an interview.
Both categories of shoppers are looking at deals online today, but First Insight has found that "how they execute" is surprisingly different.
"Millennials are going out [for] the treasure hunting experience in stores," Petro added.
"Baby boomers  growing up  have already experienced this.
... Basically, what this suggests is not to ignore the store environment because millennials are still seeking it out."
To be sure, millennials  or those individuals between the ages of 18 and 35  represent a large percentage of the U.S. population.
And Generation Z is growing right behind them.
Heading into the holidays  the final period of the year when a majority of retail sales are made  it's key that consumer-facing companies have a plan in place to leverage both their store and online assets.
And especially a plan that will reach younger demographics.
"The store is still alive and well," RetailMeNot CMO Marissa Tarleton told CNBC.
"The majority of consumers say they still want to go into the store, and retailers are still seeing a lot of activity in stores."
In its annual holiday survey of retailers' and consumers' sentiment around the season, RetailMeNot found that Americans plan to spend an average of $743 during the Black Friday to Cyber Monday weekend, up 47 percent from last year's average of $505.
Forty-five percent of Americans plan to start shopping before Nov. 1, according to RetailMeNot.
Tarleton's recommendation for retailers would be to capitalize on the brick-and-mortar store as a "benefit," by incorporating personalized experiences, and to ramp up mobile marketing efforts quickly.
JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon has laid into bitcoin and digital currencies once again, warning that governments will shut them down if they grow too large.
"Right now these crypto things are kind of a novelty.
People think they're kind of neat.
But the bigger they get, the more governments are going to close them down," Dimon said during an interview with CNBC-TV18 in New Delhi on Friday.
Dimon was concerned that with bitcoin, ethereum and various initial coin offerings (ICOs), there are now cryptocurrencies everywhere.
"It's creating something out of nothing that to me is worth nothing," he said.
"It will end badly."
Dimon warned that governments will eventually crack down on cryptocurrencies and will attempt to control it by threatening anyone who buys or sells bitcoin with imprisonment, which would force digital currencies into becoming a black market.
These are the latest comments from Dimon attacking bitcoin.
Earlier this month he called the cryptocurrency a "fraud.".
His comments, along with several prominent hedge fund investors, came before a sharp sell-off in bitcoin.
The price for one bitcoin fell from around $4,340 to as low as $2,981.05 in the days after his comments.
Bitcoin has since recovered to around $3,640.68, according to CoinDesk data.
Despite this volatility, bitcoin's value has risen 264 percent this year.
Dimon's comments came under criticism from several bitcoin investors and experts.
"Comments like Jamie's show a failure to grasp the significance of the blockchain and the power of brand in a fundamental sea of change," said Scott Nelson, chairman and CEO of blockchain firm Sweetbridge, in an email to CNBC last week.
Meanwhile, a company called Blockswater has filed a market abuse complaint in Sweden against Dimon and JPMorgan.
Blockswater claims Dimon deliberately spread false and misleading information, according to a report by City A.M. JPMorgan Chase declined to comment, the report said.
Lawmakers are formulating "meaningless" green vehicle regulations, according to Andy Palmer, CEO of British luxury car manufacturer Aston Martin.
He said authorities were committing a fundamental misstep by stipulating what technologies should be adopted, referring to Britain's July announcement that it would ban the sale of new petrol and diesel cars by 2040.
The regulation was aimed at reducing air pollution.
"Policy makers should not try to be engineers," Palmer quipped, adding that the announcement was "just spin" without any practical meaning.
"In my view as an engineer, it's better to prescribe the emission, and then let the engineers figure out what the right technology is," he said.
According to Palmer, the danger in the car ban lies in authorities' lack of knowledge about which engineering solutions best suit their objectives.
By refining existing technology, gasoline cars can almost double their fuel economy  a feat that is already a reality with Formula 1 speeders, which put 50 percent of the energy produced into moving the car, the CEO said.
That improvement, if applied to internal-combustion-engine passenger vehicles, would mean an almost 50 percent cut in carbon emissions for a given mileage.
In contrast, "if you take today's engine and you simply slap a hybrid on, you end up more or less in the same place," he said.
Orville Redenbacher's popcorn owner Conagra Brands is nearing a deal to buy Angie's Artisan treats, maker of Angie's Boomchickapop popcorn, sources familiar with the matter said on Thursday.
The potential deal comes as sales of big food companies have slowed, with their staples replaced by upstart  often healthier or fresher  brands.
The people cautioned the deal is not yet final and could still fall apart.
Conagra and Angie's did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Angie's private equity owner TPG Growth declined to comment.
For Chicago, Illinois-based Conagra, the acquisition would be another step in its efforts to bolster and modernize its portfolio of brands, which also includes Hebrew National franks and Reddi-wip whipped cream.
Conagra has been focused on growing and honing its branded business since shedding its private label segment for $2.7 billion in 2016.
It acquired Frontera Foods in 2016 and Duke's meat snacks' parent company earlier this year.
It also sold its Wesson oil business.
The potential deal comes in the wake of other Big Food acquisitions of smaller brands, including Hershey's purchase of Krave meat jerky in 2015 and Mondelez's acquisition of Enjoy Life Foods the same year.
Angie's began 16 years ago as Angie's Kettle Corn, which founders Angie Bastian and her husband Dan started in their Mankato, Minnesota, garage.
They later renamed the company to reflect its broadening product assortment, but kept the name "Angie's" to distinguish from the many popcorn brands named for men: Orville, Cracker Jack and Vic's.
The popcorn, which is packaged in brightly colored pastel bags, comes in flavors such as sweet and salty kettle corn and dill.
The company was acquired by private equity firm TPG Growth in 2014.
Snacks have been a pocket of growth for the food industry, as consumers increasingly prefer their food on-the-go.
Among snacks, salty bites such as popcorn and chips reign supreme.
Salty snacks generated $27 billion in sales across U.S. retail stores in the twelve months ended April 1, 2017, according to data service Nielsen.
That is more than the $21 billion spent on candy, $17 billion on cheese and $7 billion on cookies.
Still, popcorn brands have ebbed and flowed in popularity over the past several years.
Skinny Pop parent Amplify Snack Brands, which went public in 2015 amid a craze for its sunflower oil coated kernels, has seen its stock more than halve since its IPO.
General Mills, the U.S.-based maker of multi-colored kids' cereal Trix, said it will bring back the original, artificially-colored version after customers complained.
"Classic Trix," which is colored artificially, will sit on store shelves alongside the new, natural-flavor version, the company said.
General Mills introduced the natural-flavor version last year, replacing artificial colors and flavors with coloring made from radishes, purple carrots and turmeric.
But customers have complained, with one reportedly calling the new product "basically a salad," the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday.
Another said she liked the way the artificial colors and high-fructose corn syrup look and taste, the report said.
A General Mills spokesperson told CNBC that the new product will remain on the shelves as it "has its own fan base."
Tesla will discontinue its cheapest Model S, the rear-wheel-drive 75, on Sunday, Tesla has confirmed to CNBC.
Tesla first announced in July that it would discontinue the rear-wheel model.
The company is shifting to an all-wheel-drive lineup for the Model S to simplify its product offering.
The Model S rear-wheel version started at just over $70,000.
Prior to the release of the Model 3, this would have been considered Tesla's entry-level sedan.
Meanwhile, the initial batches of the Model 3 will boast rear-wheel drive.
CEO Elon Musk has said he expects to offer an all-wheel-drive version in the future.
Musk had said there was some customer confusion that the Model 3 was an improvement over the Model S, when in fact the Model 3 is simply a less expensive and entirely different car altogether.
Tesla has discontinued other battery options for its cars before.
Electreck reported in July the car would be discontinued, and Business Insider reported on the timeline earlier today.
CNBC's Robert Ferris contributed to this report.
Halloween spending should hit a record this year.
Total amount spent around the spooky season is forecast to reach a new high of $9.1 billion, with 179 million Americans planning to partake in Halloween festivities, up from 171 million in 2016, according to the National Retail Federation.
In 2016, total spending hit $8.4 billion, another record at the time.
Consumers are expected to spend an average of $86.1 each for Halloween, compared with last year's $82.93.
And shoppers plan to spend the most, or $3.4 billion, on costumes; $2.7 billion on candy; about $2.7 billion on decorations; and $410 million on Halloween-related greeting cards, NRF said.
In search of Halloween-related goods, 47 percent of shoppers told NRF they will visit discount stores, while 38 percent said they will go to a specialty shop.
Twenty-five percent of shoppers surveyed said they will visit supermarkets, 24 percent plan to go to department stores, and 22 percent are looking online for deals.
"Halloween continues to be a highly anticipated holiday for Americans, who will spend a record amount this year with increases across all purchasing categories," said Pam Goodfellow, an analyst with Prosper Insights.
"Expect consumers to be on the lookout for early-bird promotions both online and in-store as they hunt for the best items to complete their costumes and embellish their homes," she added.
NRF, in a partnership with Prosper Insights, surveyed 7,013 consumers about their Halloween shopping plans.
The survey also found that a record number of adults, or 48 percent, plan to dress in a costume this year.
Witches, Batman characters and animals were some of the most popular choices.
The top costume for children is expected to be a superhero, and for pets, a pumpkin or a hot dog.
Record spending expected around Halloween and ahead of the holidays could bode well this year for retailers, which are hoping to bounce back from a slow start.
Looking to grab a share of shoppers' dollars, Amazon has already rolled out its own Halloween Shop on its website.
Amazon is bringing 2,000 jobs in advertising, fashion to New York City 12:50 PM ET Thu, 21 Sept 2017 | 00:46

Amazon is growing in New York City.
The internet giant announced Thursday that it plans to bring more than 2,000 jobs to the city over the next three years, promising to create roughly 6,000 jobs across New York state by 2019.
Next year, Amazon will open a new office in Manhattan, which will be located aside the giant Hudson Yards development project.
The company said this is all part of its "ongoing job creation efforts."
Amazon will take 360,000 square feet of space at Brookfield's 5 Manhattan West.
In March, organic grocer Whole Foods Market  which is now owned by Amazon  announced it would anchor the ground-level retail space of 5 Manhattan West.
Brookfield also recently worked on the location for Amazon's new European headquarters in the U.K., at Principal Place.
Once in New York City, Amazon plans to house its advertising team there, which focuses on marketing, product, design and engineering.
Full-time positions are also up for grabs to work for Amazon Web Services and Amazon Fashion, the company said.
"We're excited to expand our presence in New York  we have always found great talent here," added Paul Kotas, Amazon's senior vice president of worldwide advertising.
Meantime, Amazon is in the midst of scouting a location for its second headquarters  a search that the company announced earlier this month.
A spokesperson for New York City mayor's office had told CNBC: "New York City has the most innovative and diverse tech sector in the nation.
... We are very interested in the possibility of Amazon locating a headquarters in the five boroughs, and believe the city's competitive advantages position it well."
On Thursday, a source familiar with Amazon's plans said that the 2,000 jobs coming to New York were decided upon prior to Amazon's HQ2 announcement, and shouldn't be seen as any kind of endorsement for New York City in that search.
Amazon is also planning to open a fulfillment center in Staten Island.
It currently houses a Fashion photo studio in Brooklyn, along with two Amazon Books locations in New York City.
CNBC's Deirdre Bosa contributed to this report.
Prime Minister Theresa May will say on Friday Britain is willing to pay 20 billion euros ($24 billion) to the European Union during a post-Brexit transition period, but only if it has access to the bloc's single market, the BBC's political editor reported.
May, who is weakened after losing her party's majority in a June election, is due to make a speech in Italy setting out her vision for future ties with the Earlier on Thursday she briefed her top ministers on the speech.
"UK willing to pay 20 billion euros during transition period but only if we have access to single market and some form of customs union," Laura Kuenssberg said on Twitter, citing a government source.
She added that this would not cover long term liabilities, so the eventual total bill for leaving the bloc could be far higher.
Attorneys general from across the country have begun to file lawsuits that blame the opioid crisis on large drug manufacturers.
Missouri AG Josh Hawley argued that his state's epidemic is the "direct result of a carefully crafted campaign of deception carried out by [the pharmaceutical companies]."
Ohio AG Mike DeWine accused the industry of "unleashing a health-care crisis" and "fueling Ohio's opioid epidemic."
Oklahoma AG Mike Hunter said that drug "companies are culpable for the tragic, heartbreaking number of Oklahomans who have become addicted or who have died as a result of the opioid epidemic in our state."
As a doctor who is board-certified in addiction medicine and spent eight years treating the casualties of the opioid epidemic, I know firsthand that the causes of the crisis are much more complicated than Hawley, Dewine, Hunter, and their fellow attorneys general would have you believe.
Mere corporate deceit didn't precipitate the epidemic.
It was, rather, the result of a perfect storm of other factors: lax health-industry accreditation standards, the treatment of pain as a "fifth vital sign," the practices of insurance companies, and the transformation of our health-care system into what is essentially an assembly line.
THE JOINT COMMISSION

The Joint Commission is an independent board that accredits and certifies nearly 21,000 health-care organizations.
When the commission says "Jump!"
hospital administrators ask, "How high?"
In 2001, the commission published its Pain Management Standards, which required providers to ask every patient about his pain.
The consensus at the time was that doctors were doing too little to treat patient pain.
Since that time, opioid prescriptions have surged, helping to create the current crisis.
More from National Review:

Eric Schneiderman needs to recuse himself from Trump investigations

Another chance on health care

A Donald Trump speech, a Barack Obama foreign policy

Unfortunately, the Joint Commission has refused to acknowledge any responsibility for encouraging doctors to prescribe more opiates.
The Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP), an education and advocacy organization, requested that the Joint Commission change its pain standards.
PROP argued that the "Pain Management Standards foster dangerous pain control practices, the endpoint of which is often the inappropriate provision of opioids with disastrous adverse consequences for individuals, families and communities."
The commission instead disavowed any link between its Pain Management Standards and opioid overprescribing.
UP NEXT See which countries clicked on ISIS propaganda the most



This is unfortunate, because just as the Pain Management Standards have contributed to the opioid crisis, new commission policies could become part of the solution.
Instead of requiring providers to treat their patients' pain more aggressively, they could require the aggressive provision of alternatives to pain pills, and hospitals would be forced to comply.
THE FIFTH VITAL SIGN

In 1996, the American Pain Society designated pain as the fifth "vital sign" that doctors should use to detect or monitor medical problems.
Doctors don't test or measure anything without intent to treat, and so making patient pain the fifth vital sign obligated them to address it.
Pain control thus effectively became a measure of patient satisfaction, which is sometimes tied to a physician's compensation.
Yet aggressively treating pain does not invariably result in good medical care.
The other four vital signs  blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature  can be measured in reproducible numbers.
Pain cannot, which means that doctors have only their patients' often-unreliable perceptions to go on when determining its severity and how to treat it.
Yet aggressively treating pain does not invariably result in good medical care.
The other four vital signs  blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature  can be measured in reproducible numbers.
Pain cannot, which means that doctors have only their patients' often-unreliable perceptions to go on when determining its severity and how to treat it.
In recent years, the American Medical Association and others have started to recommend dropping pain as the fifth vital sign.
That would be a helpful first step, but I'm afraid much of the damage is already done.
Categorizing pain as the fifth vital sign conditioned patients to expect that providers would "normalize" it in the same way that they normalize the other four vital signs.
They have, in other words, come to expect an opioid prescription.
State licensing boards already require doctors to obtain a certain number of hours of continuing education each year.
If medical licensing boards started mandating pain-management courses as part of those hours, doctors could better serve their patients by recommending non-opioid treatment options for pain.
State licensing boards already require doctors to obtain a certain number of hours of continuing education each year.
If medical licensing boards started mandating pain-management courses as part of those hours, doctors could better serve their patients by recommending non-opioid treatment options for pain.
INSURANCE COMPANIES

While pain specialists advocate using alternative treatments (steroid injections, spinal blocks, or physical therapy) to address chronic pain, primary-care doctors have been treating the problem with opioids.
Insurance companies pay for primary-care office visits and for the patient's pain-pill prescription, but they may not cover specialist visits or alternative treatments.
Faced with an out-of-pocket charge they can't afford, patients may have to chose between living in pain or taking the opioids their doctor offers.
Understandably, many patients choose the latter, exposing them to a plethora of side effects and the risk of addiction.
Assigning social workers to direct patients to addiction-medicine providers in their area, improving reimbursement for primary-care providers treating addictions, and including coverage for alternative treatments would all improve patient care and decrease costs.
THE BUSINESS OF MEDICINE

As larger medical centers gobbled up private practices, doctors lost control of their autonomy as well as their appointment books.
Today, employed doctors are paid based on the number of patients they see in a day and the medical conditions they see those patients for.
Stanford addiction specialist Anna Lembke, the author of Drug Dealer, MD, describes this process as "the Toyotazation of medicine."
A patient's time spent with their doctor has become as much about meeting production quotas as about patient care.
The incorporation of the electronic medical record has become a significant factor in this production process.
Studies have shown that physicians now spend 37 percent of each patient's appointment time just documenting the visit.
I once saw a patient in the E.R.
who came to be treated for hiccups.
It took 137 clicks of my computer mouse before I'd satisfied that patient's encounter-documentation requirements.
Medicare should consider reducing such unreasonable and burdensome requirements.
Doctors need more face-to-face time with their patients.
OTHER CONTRIBUTING FACTORS

There's plenty of blame to go around when it comes to America's opioid epidemic.
More than 30 percent of Americans have some form of chronic or acute pain, and the incidence of chronic pain in older adults has been estimated at 40 percent.
In the absence of an accepted consensus around how to best manage pain, opioids became the go-to treatment.
The genetic and environmental factors that place certain populations at greater risk for prescription-drug dependency  combined with the fact that half of the 20 million adults in the U.S. who experience a substance-abuse disorder have co-occurring mental illness  have made the resulting spike in opioid addiction that much harder to address.
Big Pharma may certainly have contributed to the crisis, too.
But it is a calculated overreach to suggest that the industry's "campaign of deception" is solely to blame.
We all bear collective responsibility for the problem, and we will all need to bear collective responsibility for solving it.
Once you've sailed into a storm, you need all hands on deck to get through it.
Commentary by Glenn W. Simon D.O., is a primary-care provider at the Kansas City Veterans Administration and a fellow of the American Board of Addiction Medicine.
For more insight from CNBC contributors, follow @CNBCopinion on Twitter.
2017 National Review.
Used with permission.
Sigmar Gabriel came to talk about social justice, but the crowd in Halle, one of the most economically hard hit towns in eastern Germany, angrily confronted the country's foreign minister about 20 women who had allegedly been raped by immigrants.
Caught off guard, Mr. Gabriel tried valiantly to defend immigrants, saying "in Germany a rapist is brought to justice and if necessary imprisoned, no matter whether he is a foreigner or a German."
But the mood of the crowd was angry, despite the country's record low unemployment, just like many voters in France, Britain and the United States.
In a nutshell, the incident illustrated why Germany's Social Democratic party is sinking in the polls five days before federal elections for a new parliament.
Once the powerful party of the working class, the center-left SPD finds itself, much like the Democratic party in the United States last year, struggling to find a constituency in the midst of a populist revolt.
Mr. Gabriel, at least, has shown a knack for fighting back.
Like America's Democrats, who chose Hillary Clinton as their candidate because they thought she would be more electable than a socialist like Bernie Sanders, many in the SPD now wonder if they made the wrong choice in anointing Martin Schulz as their chancellor candidate over Mr. Gabriel.
More from Handelsblatt Global:

Enough Military, More Aid

Gaining Strength on Germany's Hard Right

Why the Social Democrats Have a Proud Past and Uncertain Future

The far right and anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany has gained popularity at the SPD's expense and, if current opinon polls are to be believed, is on track to become Germany's third largest party.
The fact is, as Josef Joffe, editor of the weekly Die Zeit pointed out, like the rest of Europe, the industrial workers who once formed the base for the SPD are no more than 20 percent of the population.
The SPD's current standing in the polls is about the same  22 percent.
"No socialist party has managed to harness a winning coalition among the new rising classes in the service and knowledge sectors," Mr. Joffe wrote in a recent editorial.
"And they have no idea how to deal with the populist revolt."
Ford designers are using 3-D goggles in order to virtually imagine an entire car in the middle of the factory floor.
The U.S. automotive giant announced Thursday it hopes by expanding testing of the Microsoft HoloLens headset, it can help improve global collaboration and speed up product development cycles.
Ford claimed the goggles could help to radically improve the firm's efficiency as designers in different offices around the world would all be able to work on the same virtual car at the same time.
The mixed reality wireless headset gives designers the option to see digital designs and parts as if they were superimposed on to a physical automobile.
Ford said this function could allow designers to explore different shapes, sizes and textures of vehicle attributes in seconds and minutes  rather than weeks and months.
Ryanair's decision to cancel around 2,000 flights due to staffing issues was the right operational decision but the issue was badly handled, the airline's chief executive admitted at its annual general meeting on Thursday.
Since Saturday, the airline was forced to cancel thousands of flights between September 16 and the end of October as many of its pilots were taking annual leave, meaning there were not sufficient staff members to be on standby in case of unforeseen issues, according to CEO Michael O'Leary.
To alleviate the problem, pilots have been offered a bonus of 12,000 euros ($14,282) to work an 10 additional days, according to Reuters.
Ryanair has also recruited 125 pilots in the past two weeks.
"There won't be more cancellations because of the rostering issues," O'Leary told the meeting, according to Reuters.
However, there are reports that some of the pilots have rejected the bonus.
This indicates that there are no quick fixes to solve this issue, warned Chris McCullough, CEO and co-founder at Rotageek.
"Employees can be a company's biggest asset in a crisis  but only if a good work culture has been fostered way before things go wrong.
This problem isn't unique to Ryanair, and the airline industry needs to work together to tackle it.
That starts with better scheduling and a change in how management work with staff," he told CNBC via email.
"The right solution won't just help management, it will also benefit employees.
Smart scheduling can help employees have real input into their own schedules, with the ability to mark their preferences and availability."
A major problem for bitcoin is its extreme volatility, which is a cause of concern for many investors.
A lack of liquidity may be to blame for the cryptocurrency's volatile nature, an expert tells CNBC.
"The high volatility I think is due to the low liquidity we have on exchanges today," Cedric Jeanson, CEO of BitSpread, told CNBC's Street Signs on Thursday.
Bitcoin has attracted a lot of criticism in recent weeks from big names including JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon and Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio.
A common criticism is that bitcoin is too volatile to be an effective store of wealth, unlike gold.
The digital currency is currently trading at $3,883.76 per bitcoin.
Year to date its value has risen by 289 percent, according to data on CoinDesk, but bitcoin also fell from a record high of around $4,991 at the start of September to as low as $2,989 by the middle of the month.
That's a loss of 40 percent over less than two weeks.
Jeanson suggests that having more market makers, such as his company, can help to improve this liquidity problem.
"The important thing is to add market makers on these exchanges and have the appropriate rules, (such as) anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer, around those exchanges," he said.
For Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., a city of 160,000 about a half-hour drive from Dallas, the courtship includes offering to build his city around Amazon.
Our citys only about 60 percent built out, so weve got a lot of available land where we can build to suit, Mr. Cheney said.
We play to win.
Were innovators.
Were forward thinkers, and were serious.
Photo

City applications are not due until Oct. 19, but Mr. Cheney has already sent a video letter to Amazon.
The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Mayoral letters to Amazon are actually becoming a YouTube subgenre.
Mark D. Boughton, the mayor of Danbury, Conn., posted a video on Sept. 14 calling himself a proud Amazon customer and asking Alexa, the Amazon virtual assistant, where Amazon should build its second headquarters.
Danbury, a female voice responds.
It seems Alexa might be suffering a software glitch, because when Muriel Bowser, the mayor of Washington, posted a video on Sept. 15 asking, Alexa, where is the most interesting company in the world going to locate?
there was a different response.
Obviously, Washington, D.C., said Alexa.
In Canada, the selling point is, well, Canada.
Amazon has something like 9,000 engineering jobs they cant fill.
Our immigration policy is much more liberal, said Mr. Watson, Ottawas mayor.
Thats where we have an advantage.
Another city offering access to Canadian immigration as part of its deal is, surprisingly, Detroit.
Working with nearby Windsor, Canada, which is an eight-minute drive away, Detroit is portraying itself as the best of both worlds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres, you know, the immigration issue  we avoid that, said Dan Gilbert, a local business leader in Detroit who was asked by the citys mayor, Mike Duggan, to lead the effort to land Amazon.
Youve got Canada and the U.S. And people will come from all over.
Mr. Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans, has also built an Amazon war room, where more than 40 people are trying to analyze what the online retailer likes and doesnt like.
They are also trying to read Mr. Bezos psyche.
Hes got hundreds of hours of videos on YouTube you can watch, Mr. Gilbert said.
Mr. Gilbert is the largest private property owner in downtown Detroit, and he said he would move his tenants to temporary locations to make room for Amazon so the company does not have to wait for new offices to be built.
Photo

Competitions for factories or stadiums are typically more private, but this one is playing out in the court of public opinion, said Lauren Hitt, who is managing the public side of the campaign for Philadelphia.
The competition started that Thursday morning when he announced it, Ms. Hitt said of Mr. Bezos.
The next weeks are basically going to be a sustained campaign.
Philadelphias effort includes students from the Wharton School writing variations on the very same pitch: why Amazon should come to Philadelphia.
This was the schools idea, said Ms. Hitt.
Dozens of start-ups have also been asked to submit testimonials about the citys innovation economy and advice on how to approach Amazon.
And Philadelphia, which sent a delegation to Seattle last week, is sending a larger delegation this week to get into the Jeff Bezos mind-set and ethos, Ms. Hitt said.
The city would also consider overhauling its tax system for Amazon.
Having Amazon would mean global things for our tax system, Ms. Hitt said.
We do have business taxes, but thats something that could be looked at in the scope of Amazon coming here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

G. T. Bynum, the mayor of Tulsa, which set up its own Amazon war room in his office, echoed Philadelphias sentiment on taxes.
He said he doesnt worry at all about tax incentives going too far.
These are 50,000 jobs with the most innovative company in the world.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Whatever it takes, he said.
Tax policy experts are more skeptical of Amazons bidding process and how much cities stand to benefit.
Why are they doing this whole dog and pony show?
Amazon wants something for nothing, said Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan think tank.
They would like a package of tax incentives for something they were going to do anyway.
Art Rolnick, an economist at the University of Minnesota, called Amazons bidding process  and the broader practice of cities competing for stadiums and factories  blackmail.
If you look at it from a national perspective, its zero returns.
Minnesota might win one, Wisconsin wins the next one.
The company wins each time, Mr. Rolnick said.
Its corporate welfare.
But Mr. Gardner acknowledged that many cities really have no other course than to try and win Amazon.
If you ask any mayor, theyll say their first job is to bring good jobs to the city, he said.
And Amazon is promising to bring a lot of jobs.
Joe Snell, a business leader with an economic development group in Tucson, was behind the recent shipment to Mr. Bezos of the local saguaro cactus, which he said was symbolic of the regions people.
Its a hearty plant.
It can grow up to 40 feet.
And thats Tucson, Mr. Snell said.
Were a community thats growing.
Were adaptive.
And were durable.
Amazon said it could not accept gifts but thanked Tucson on Twitter.
The company then returned the plant to the city.
That was a good outcome for the cactus, which would suffer in the Seattle rain.
Still, Mr. Snell had achieved his goal.
We wanted to cut through the noise, and they definitely noticed it, he said.
And when they choose Tucson, they can come out and experience a million saguaros.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London, Mr. Khan said in a statement.
Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him, he added, using the abbreviation for the transit agency.
Mr. Khan had said on BBC Radio earlier that Uber was not playing by the rules and had made aggressive threats to take Londons transport authorities to court.
You cant have it both ways  on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner and threatening all sorts of things, on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said.
Fred Jones, a senior executive for Uber in Britain, told BBC radio that Uber was eager to meet with London travel authorities and that the company was not clear about the issues the transit agency had raised.
In its decision on Friday, the agency cited problems with the companys approach to background checks and to reporting criminal offenses.
Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for not following the rules, Mr. Khan said in a statement on Friday.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Mr. Khan added.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision was divisive, winning praise from unions and the drivers of Londons iconic black cabs, who view Uber as a threat to their business.
A petition started by Uber, which criticizes the move, has received the support of more than 750,000 people.
In it, the company accused Transport for London of wanting to restrict consumer choice and making a decision that would affect the lives of hard-working drivers.
Uber will face more scrutiny of its working model in Britain on Wednesday, when a court will hear its appeal against a case it lost in October, when a judge ruled that Uber drivers should be classified as employees and should be treated as such.
Uber says its drivers prefer to be self-employed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If upheld, the judgment would drastically change the dynamics of the so-called gig economy in Britain, forcing companies like Uber to provide workers with the payment, protections and benefits to which full employees are entitle, rather than treating them as contractors.
In this case as well, the content started with the president.
As Seth Meyers, the host of NBCs Late Night, told Vox recently, The White House has the best writers room in comedy.
Where football is any given Sunday, late-night comedy is every single weeknight.
And with its harder charge into anti-Trump political humor, it has sailed into what the former New York Times writer Bill Carter called absolutely uncharted territory.
I checked in with Mr. Carter not only because we are old colleagues but also because he is the nations foremost student of late-night entertainment.
He literally wrote the book on it  that is, The Late Shift, the classic yarn about the war between David Letterman and Jay Leno to get Johnny Carsons job on the Tonight show.
(He followed it up with The War For Late Night, about the Conan OBrien debacle at NBC.)
Theres no example of any kind of sustained attack like this on a politician, Mr. Carter told me last week.
Theres a horde of writers writing jokes about Donald Trump every single night.
(And, he said, he wasnt even counting the weekly shows like Saturday Night Live, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.)
This has brought about an abundance of incisive political satire.
But it has also come with new complications that threaten to kill the fun, through blowback on the pro-Trump right and the rigid expectations of an anti-Trump audience that wants Resistance TV every night.
Mr. Colbert bumped up against the latter when he hosted the Emmys last week and decided to do a bit with the former Trump press secretary Sean Spicer.
His writing team from The Late Show knew it might not be well-received in some quarters and debated the idea ahead of time, people familiar with the deliberations told me (they spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to be seen as violating the sanctity of the writing room).
Photo

By normal comedic standards, the idea seemed pretty basic: Put Mr. Spicer behind a mock White House lectern and have him make a fake boast about the size of the Emmy audience  evoking the false claim he made about Mr. Trumps inaugural crowd.
The sketch fast became heckler bait.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Is it supposed to be comical that the former White House spokesman is now tacitly admitting that he lied to the American people?
a CNN White House correspondent, Kaitlan Collins, wrote in a tweet.
Entertainment Weekly quoted Julia Louis-Dreyfus as saying, Theres nothing funny about Sean Spicer and what his actions have been and what his behavior has been about.
Period.
The gag was woefully off-kilter with Mr. Colberts brand of principled, political comedy.
Much of his criticism revolved around Mr. Spicers role in forwarding the presidents anti-press, alternative facts strategy.
Now, he was being attacked for having abetted Spicers image overhaul, as The Timess Frank Bruni put it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Mr. Spicer was a burning ember for every comedic set of hands  or lips  he touched.
James Corden, the Late Late Show host who follows Mr. Colbert, felt compelled to apologize after a picture circulated of him giving Mr. Spicer a peck on the cheek at an Emmy party.
Understandably, some people have been disappointed by this photo, Mr. Corden told his audience.
In truth, Im disappointed by it as well.
Yet while Mr. Colbert and Mr. Corden were fielding criticism last week, Jimmy Kimmel was riding a wave of Resistance support, because of the way he eviscerated the latest Republican health care bill on his show.
It became a big news story in its own right because it was such an unusual situation: Republicans pushing the plan, including the president, were facing their strongest opposition from a late-night talk show host on ABC.
Mr. Kimmel has a personal connection to the debate  his son has a congenital heart condition that, Mr. Kimmel has said, would potentially go untreated under the recently proposed new health care laws if the boy did not have a wealthy father.
The response from the right was intense.
But where that might have led to a course correction in the past, as it so often had, Mr. Kimmel pressed on for three nights in a row.
Were at the point now where Mr. Fallon has been widely criticized for being too apolitical  and was eviscerated for playfully mussing Mr. Trumps hair.
He adjusted his show accordingly, a shift for Tonight, which is, after all, the original late-night talk show.
Leno was the guy who was most likely to be down the middle with his commentary, Mr. Carter said, referring to Jay Leno, Mr. Fallons predecessor, who led the late-night ratings through most of his 22-year tenure.
He was more or less following the tradition of his own predecessor, Johnny Carson, who made plenty of fun of Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.
But, as Mr. Carter put it, Carson was judicious about his criticism.
Mr. Lenos direct competitor, David Letterman, was known in his later years for skewering former President George W. Bush and his vice president, Dick Cheney, but for most of his tenure, he was not particularly political.
Dave would have said, Im just an idiot, I dont really know anything, said Mr. Carter, who now works as a media analyst for CNN.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And now, Mr. Carter said, Colbert and Seth Meyers, they are like the voice of the resistance.
One explanation, he said, is that late-night comedy has always played off the news, and these days, all of the news is about Mr. Trump.
Then there is the content of that news, and the reactions it so often causes.
In calling Mr. Trumps response to the white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., shameful during an opening monologue in August, Mr. Fallon said it was my responsibility to stand up against intolerance and extremism as a human being.
For his part, Mr. Colbert is being true to the left-leaning political comedy he practiced, in character, on his old show, The Colbert Report, on Comedy Central, where he and Jon Stewart initially set the new tone were seeing today.
Yet through the first half of the election campaign, in his new place on CBS, he did not embrace his politics.
As his show struggled, critics and late-night insiders debated whether CBS was restraining him or he was restraining himself.
His increasing turn toward Trump jokes as the campaign wore on gave Mr. Colbert and CBS what they needed: ratings, which are, after all, network televisions answer to liquid courage.
Mr. Trump doesnt seem likely to rob Mr. Colbert and his cohorts of material any time soon.
There is also the threat of Amazon, which has tried food delivery in a few markets.
The Seattle retail giants recent acquisition of Whole Foods provides hundreds of potential bases for drivers to pick up prepared food for delivery in major urban areas, where takeout orders are popular.
The number-one concern for all of these delivery companies is Amazon, said James Cakmak, an analyst at the equity research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Company who follows the food delivery space.
How could Amazon use its network to crush our business?
They have the logistical network and the balance sheet to be able to compete on the price side with all of these players.
Matt Maloney, the founder and chief executive of Grubhub, said his companys focus on food orders set it apart.
Uber has built a great company focused on black car service and human transportation, but succeeding in food delivery is a different game, Mr. Maloney said in a statement.
We are known for one thing only  takeout ordering  and we have engineered our entire product around this purpose.
Photo

Both Amazon and Postmates declined to comment on UberEats.
Uber first dabbled in food delivery in Los Angeles in 2014 under the name UberFresh, offering prepackaged lunches and dinners from restaurants.
Uber also tried other experiments, like UberEssentials, a way to deliver pantry and drugstore items quickly.
If you can hit a button and get a car in a few minutes, what else can you get in a few minutes?
Mr. Droege said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the situation wasnt ideal, with drivers usually carting food around in a safe storage container in their car trunks.
That led to issues with food quality, and customers were unhappy when their food arrived cold.
People also wanted a greater selection of restaurants, something that competitors like Postmates provided.
In December 2015, Mr. Droeges division introduced a separate app, UberEats, in Toronto, working with restaurants to provide freshly cooked meals that could be ordered with a few touches of a smartphone button.
The service took off, and over the next 18 months UberEats expanded its sales force to bring more restaurants on board and to open in new cities.
Photo

Uber executives said UberEats, which is now in more than 120 cities, had several advantages over rivals.
For one, Uber has a network of more than two million drivers who can also deliver food.
Cars used for UberEats also do not need to pass all of the inspection standards required to carry passengers, widening the potential delivery labor pool.
(Drivers need not own a car at all; UberBike is a popular delivery method for food orders.)
Uber has also spent the better part of a decade mapping cities and finding the most efficient routes, which the company said may help improve delivery times.
And since the problems with UberFresh, it has invested in better technology and added more drivers in participating cities.
The ideal UberEats delivery has the driver arrive at the restaurant just as the food has finished cooking, and has it delivered to the customer while still warm.
What Uber has are the last-mile logistics, and thats crucial, Mr. Cakmak said.
Uber has taken the partnership approach to speed up the growth of UberEats, echoing a strategy of companies like Postmates.
Uber struck a deal with McDonalds this year to offer delivery from thousands of its restaurants.
Lucy Brady, a McDonalds executive, said on an investor call in July that the initial results of the partnership were positive.
The service has stumbled at times, including this month when it faced complaints that an ad in India  telling husbands to use UberEats so their wives could take a day off from cooking  was sexist.
The company apologized for the ad.
Uber said it had invested in increasing its UberEats sales force, as well as hiring data scientists to analyze daily information on customer orders and preferences to help restaurants improve their service or promote their more popular menu items.
For Mr. Gordon, the owner of Footprints Cafe, Ubers investments have been a boon for business.
He said the delivery service had helped his restaurant reach new customers outside its loyal Caribbean community, without spending on advertising or promotion on Facebook or Groupon, as he did in the past.
Weve employed people who just work on Uber deliveries, and have a counter just for Uber driver pickup, Mr. Gordon said.
It has definitely been worth it.
Home mortgages represent a majority of Chinas new household loans by value, adding to a surge in real estate prices.
Car loans have been growing even faster in percentage terms.
And credit card debt is now rising in a country that is otherwise dependent on cash or online transactions.
There are signs that China is moving on the fringes to contain mortgage lending, in part to tame housing costs.
In the past week, banks in Beijing began raising mortgage interest rates.
In a lengthening list of Chinas largest cities, banks are under instructions to discourage the use of personal loans for real estate speculation.
Six large cities established new home sales restrictions in recent days to cool off prices.
Surging property prices have helped keep consumer spending high even as Chinas growth has slowed, giving its economy a lift.
But more debt may not spur more growth  and could pinch the household finances of some.
China will get less of a kick out of consumer debt in the coming 18 months than it did in the past 18 months, said Louis Kuijs, an economist with Oxford Economics, a British research firm.
Some economists also worry that consumer loans may be a backdoor way for bloated companies to maintain or even expand their capacity.
Chinas domestic automakers  many of which are state-owned and suffer from too many underused factories  have unleashed a blizzard of zero-interest car loans in the past two years, often through their own financing subsidiaries.
In that time, the majority of Chinese consumers began to pay for cars with credit instead of cash, according to J. D. Power and Associates, a global consulting firm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To be clear, most economists consider Chinas consumer credit splurge to be a good thing.
Chinese families are nowhere near the borrowing levels of spendthrift Americans, whose household debt is equal to more than three-quarters of the annual economic output of the United States.
In China, that measure is still less than half.
More Loans Than Growth Household debt is still lower in China compared to the size of the economy than in many countries, but home mortgages, car loans and credit card debt are also growing a lot faster than the Chinese economy now.
Household debt as a share of G.D.P.
100 % Britain U.S. 75 Japan Germany 50 China 25 0 11 12 13 14 15 16

Chinese leaders envision a time when their country, like the United States, derives a major chunk of its economic growth from people buying homes, cars and appliances.
To do that, Chinese households need better access to mortgages, credit cards and other ways to enhance their purchasing power.
Traditionally, Chinas state-controlled banking system focused on lending money to big state-owned companies.
Economists view household lending as an appealing alternative to having banks shovel more money into unprofitable, debt-ridden state firms that cannot be closed because they provide jobs to millions of workers.
So far, consumer lending has helped Chinese consumers weather the gradual slowdown in the countrys economic growth in recent years.
That is particularly true in places like Qiqihar, a city of five million in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang.
The local economy took a hit last year when a large steel mill closed a big blast furnace and overstaffed communal- and state-owned enterprises pushed out more than 40,000 workers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But even here, 500 miles north of Chinas border with North Korea, the local economy seems to be rebounding from a slump two years ago, when the national economy was looking shaky.
Walk out the front door of the recently completed high-speed rail station in Qiqihar and no fewer than 45 cranes are visible, erecting apartment towers and office buildings.
The citys economy grew at an annual rate of 6.4 percent in the first half of this year, up from 5.6 percent in the same period last year and nearly matching the national growth rate of 6.9 percent thus far this year.
Borrowing has been a big help, residents say.
Where apartments once sold for cash only, many people now offer down payments of between 20 percent and 30 percent and take out mortgages for the rest.
Certainly more people tend to borrow when purchasing apartments, said Fu Shiqiang, a real estate agent.
They may want to get a bigger apartment or do business.
Zhao Ying, another property agent, said he used a credit card at supermarkets and shopping malls and bought a $21,000 Toyota Vios sedan last year with a zero-interest loan.
He said he had bought his current apartment with cash but would do things differently next time.
I will definitely get a mortgage, Mr. Zhao said.
It is very convenient, and I could use the leftover money to do some business or investment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Li, the car saleswoman, and her husband built their wealth the traditional way.
They bought an inexpensive, two-bedroom apartment in 2003 when they married.
Her husband was given a small apartment by his employer.
They bought a third apartment as an investment.
Real estate prices have surged since then, and Ms. Li and her husband have cashed in.
They sold all three units and bought a spacious, three-bedroom apartment for themselves and spent $30,000 to remodel it.
They also bought a Volkswagen Tiguan and a Honda Accord.
Their mortgage helps support that lifestyle.
Ms. Li, who said nearly a third of her customers buy with credit, knows that they are not alone.
When I got my first car in 2006, almost no one in my local community had one, Ms. Li said.
Now the roads are packed, and its really hard to find a place to park.
But times change, and Mr. Palen is now taking a more antagonistic approach.
All Types Welcome is a condemnation of blood donation rules set by the Food and Drug Administration that prohibit most gay or bisexual men from giving; before donating, they have to forgo same-sex sexual encounters for at least a year, a contentious precaution resulting from concerns about H.I.V.
Its exclusion, and its ridiculous, and its discriminatory, Ms. Lepore said in an interview.
Mark Burg, the producer who has helped steer the Saw franchise, was even more blunt.
We want this policy changed, he said.
An F.D.A.
spokeswoman, Lyndsay Meyer, noted that the celibacy rule, enacted in 2015, replaced a more restrictive policy.
While acknowledging at the time that the change to a 12-month deferral was less than hoped for by some, the F.D.A.
considered this to be a first step, Ms. Meyer said, adding that studies are underway to help inform further changes to policy.
The Red Cross, the nations largest blood supplier, has also drawn fire for its approach to transgender donors.
Until recently, federal guidelines recommended that trans people be required to register at blood centers under the gender they were assigned at birth.
Photo

The Red Cross believes all potential blood donors should be treated with fairness, equality and respect, Jodi D. Sheedy, a Red Cross spokeswoman, said in an email.
She added, Accurate donor histories and medically supported donor deferral criteria are critical to blood supply safety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Palen is one of Hollywoods savviest marketers, and his latest campaign reflects several trends, including a focus on diversity.
In the past, Mr. Palen has cast young women (most often white) as nurse mascots for the Saw blood drives.
Now we have different races, genders, ages and sexual orientations, he said.
Joining Ms. Lepore and Mr. Ross as twisted nurses are people like Nyakim Gatwech, a Sudanese model; a YouTube and Instagram star named Mykie; and the sexagenarian event producer Susanne Bartsch.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
While inclusion remains far from Hollywoods strength, many consumer brands have started to loudly ring the representation bell.
Last year, for instance, CoverGirl named its first cover boy and made a beauty blogger, Nura Afia, its first hijab-wearing cosmetics ambassador.
It is also notable that Mr. Palen is tapping into rage culture.
Hollywood marketers are mostly allergic to controversy, but nothing lights a fire on social media like indignation, and a growing number of advertisers are trying to spark thought-provoking discussions.
The North Face, for instance, indirectly references President Trumps plans for a Mexico border wall with its new Walls Are Meant for Climbing brand campaign.
The topical approach can backfire.
Just ask Pepsi and Kendall Jenner.
Its easy to be provocative, Mr. Palen said.
Its less easy to be provocative in a way that inspires people to see your movie.
The Saw nurses were an early example of what Hollywood types now like to call world building.
There are no major nurse characters in the movies (some of which are also not particularly bloody).
Rather, Mr. Palens creations are meant to add a layer of immersion for fans.
The first Saw nurse was a Lionsgate executive; Mr. Palen took her photo in his backyard and posted the image online to promote the blood drive.
Maybe a few horror fan sites covered it, he said.
There was no such thing as going viral back then.
In a snapshot of how powerful the internet has come as a marketing tool, Lionsgate now has roughly 420 million followers on platforms like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
To gain additional reach for the All Types Welcome effort, Mr. Palen recruited the eight social media stars.
Everyones making content, everyones a creator, everyone has a microphone, he said.
So to have the nurse campaign play in that space and have personalities feel some ownership in the campaign felt like a great way to evolve.
And no more backyard shoots for Mr. Palen, who took over a cavernous stage for two days  complete with a D.J.
and an open bar  this time around.
As the Pharrell Williams song Marilyn Monroe played toward the end of the second day, Ms. Lepore teetered on a stack of metallic boxes in white spike heels.
Sexy, fetish nurse doll is how Mr. Palen had described her look.
Amazing, he murmured, standing on tiptoe to take her picture.
When Mr. Palen was done, the 16 people in the room clapped, and Ms. Lepore did a little curtsy.
Photo

LONDON  The Swiss engineering firm ABB Group said on Monday that it would buy General Electrics business that provides circuit breakers and other electrical equipment for industry for $2.6 billion, as the American giant looks for ways to shake up its operations.
The deal is the latest move by General Electric as it seeks to refocus on its roots.
The company had expanded into a sprawling conglomerate but its once-huge financial business threatened its survival after the 2008 economic crisis, and it has been selling off an array of units since.
has also come under pressure from the activist hedge fund Trian Fund Management, led by the billionaire investor Nelson Peltz, to reduce costs.
The companys new chief executive, John L. Flannery, has pledged to accelerate cost cutting.
Mr. Flannery replaced Jeffrey R. Immelt in the role last month.
Indeed, further sales could be in the offing  Mr. Flannery is conducting a review of each of G.E.s businesses, and is expected to present his plans in November.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

ABB, which is based in Zurich, can use the deal to broaden its electrification business globally, especially in North America.
The unit it is buying, GE Industrial Solutions, provides circuit breakers, transformers and power systems equipment for industrial operations like data centers and oil or gas installations.
Mr. Altizer is part of a backlash against the women in technology movement.
While many in the tech industry had previously dismissed the fringe mens rights arguments, some investors, executives and engineers are now listening.
Though studies and surveys show there is no denying the travails women face in the male-dominated industry, some said that the line for what counted as harassment had become too easy to cross and that the push for gender parity was too extreme a goal.
Few were willing to talk openly about their thinking, for fear of standing out in largely progressive Silicon Valley.
Even so, witch hunt is the new whispered meme.
Some in tech have started identifying as contrarians, to indicate subtly that they do not follow the diversity dogma.
And self-described mens rights activists in Silicon Valley said their numbers at meetings were rising.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Others are playing down the women-in-tech issue.
Onstage at a recent event, the venture capitalist Vinod Khosla said harassment in Silicon Valley was rarer than in most other businesses.
Many men now feel like theres a gun to the head to be better about gender issues, said Rebecca Lynn, a venture capitalist at Canvas Ventures, and while theres a high awareness right now, which is positive, at the same time theres a fear.
The backlash follows increasingly vulgar harassment revelations in Silicon Valley.
Several female engineers and entrepreneurs this year named the men they accused of harassing them, and suddenly techs boys club seemed anything but impervious.
Travis Kalanick, Ubers co-founder, resigned as chief executive after the ride-hailing service was embroiled in harassment accusations.
Dave McClure, head of the incubator 500 Startups, called himself a creep and stepped down.
This month, the chief executive of Social Finance, Mike Cagney, also quit amid a harassment scandal.
In the aftermath, many stood up for gender equality in tech.
Reid Hoffman, LinkedIns founder, asked investors to sign a decency pledge.
Many companies reiterated that they needed to improve work force diversity.
Photo

In just the last 48 hours, Ive spoken to a female tech executive who was grabbed by a male C.E.O.
at a large event and another female executive who was asked to interview at a venture fund because they feel like they need to hire a woman, said Dick Costolo, the former chief of Twitter, who now runs the fitness start-up Chorus.
We should worry about whether the women-in-tech movement has gone too far sometime after a couple of these arent regularly happening anymore.
But those who privately thought things had gone too far were given a voice by James Damore, 28, a soft-spoken Google engineer.
Mr. Damore, frustrated after another diversity training, wrote a memo that he posted to an internal Google message board.
In it, he argued that maybe women were not equally represented in tech because they were biologically less capable of engineering.
Google fired him last month.
After months of apologizing by Silicon Valley for bad behavior, here was a young man whom some in techs leadership could potentially get behind.
Paul Graham, who founded an influential start-up incubator, Y Combinator, posted two articles about how the science behind Mr. Damores memo was accurate.
Another start-up investor, John Durant, wrote that Charles Darwin himself would be fired from Google for his views on the sexes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And the investor Peter Thiels business partner, Eric Weinstein, tweeted, Dear @Google, Stop teaching my girl that her path to financial freedom lies not in coding but in complaining to HR.
Mr. Durant declined to comment.
Mr. Graham said in an email that there needed to be more distinction between fact and policy, and Mr. Weinstein said there was a sea of brilliant women and that more needed to be done to figure out how to more fully empower them.
But this strategy means that Equifax is entrenched in consumers financial lives whether they like it or not  or even know it.
Equifaxs approach amplified the consequences of the breach, reported this month, that exposed the personal information for up to 143 million people.
Ordinary people are not Equifaxs customers.
They are the companys product.
The Big Three credit bureaus, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, collect 4.5 billion pieces of data each month to feed into their credit reports.
From birth to death, the record grows.
Decades worth of addresses and identifying information, including drivers licenses and Social Security numbers.
Utility accounts like telephone and cable subscriptions.
Criminal records, medical debt, as well as rental and eviction histories.
Equifaxs records on any given individual, scattered throughout dozens of databases, typically stretch across hundreds or thousands of pages.
Equifax now faces a consumer backlash over its response to the hacking attack.
The anger has been intensified by the actions of three senior executives who sold shares worth $1.8 million in the days after the breach was discovered.
The stock, which had tripled in the last five years, is down 30 percent since the attack.
Equifax said the executives were unaware of the breach when they sold their stock.
Customers have been less vocal, given their dependency on the bureaus.
Financial firms readily hand over their data because they rely on the credit reports  and the scores they are used to generate  to size up potential customers.
The data, over which Equifax and the other bureaus have a stranglehold, is one of the best predictors of risk.
We dont really have a choice to opt out of the credit report system, said Pete Mills, senior vice president of residential policy at the Mortgage Bankers Association, which represents some of Equifaxs biggest clients, home loan providers.
We spend a lot of money trying to protect our customers, and then we give that data to others, like the credit bureaus.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Equifax said it was supporting customers who may have been affected by the data breach.
We value our customers and have been in close communication with them, said Wyatt Jefferies, a company spokesman.
Under Mr. Smith, Equifax has been creative in developing new markets and services.
The company expanded globally, often by acquiring local competitors; it now operates in 24 countries.
New analytic products have been a priority.
Equifax has a team of mathematicians who mine its data to develop algorithms predicting how consumers will behave.
Those insights are sold to companies like lenders.
At a financial conference last year, Mr. Smith described a new system that searched four billion public tweets for keywords like car and automotive lease.
It paired the tweets with a persons Equifax credit file.
In real time, the credit bureau could identify potential buyers and provide its customer, a company selling car leases, with everything it wanted to know about those people.
The corporate culture shifted under Mr. Smith and became more focused on increasing profit, said David Galas, who left Equifax in 2011 after 13 years.
It was run a little more like a sports team, said Mr. Galas, who served most recently as a vice president.
You immediately had to get out there and perform, and if you didnt perform, you were cut.
Equifaxs roots as a behind-the-scenes data collector stretch back to 1899, when it began as the Retail Credit Company.
Grocers and other retailers kept notes on their customers to determine who could be trusted to run tabs and pay them.
Two brothers in Atlanta went door to door to collect that information.
They compiled it into a publication called The Merchants Guide and sold annual subscriptions for $25.
The company and its competitors swept through the country, employing thousands of investigators to investigate peoples lives.
Their reports were widely available for sale to anyone except the individuals themselves.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the 1960s, the credit bureaus secrecy and unchecked power prompted alarm within Congress.
The hearings that followed exposed the more unsavory practices, like including unverified gossip about peoples marital indiscretions in their reports.
The bureaus amassed personal dossiers so detailed that J. Edgar Hoover was covetous.
The F.B.I.
is constantly in our files, an executive at a credit bureau testified.
Congress responded by passing the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which created some safeguards.
For the first time, people were allowed to review their own files and report errors.
Photo

But the strongest agencies just kept growing, often by acquiring rivals.
By the late 1990s, three big national players were left.
With little competition, the bureaus saw an opening for a new sales market: capitalizing on consumers curiosity and concern about their credit files.
In 2001, Equifax teamed up with Fair Isaac to let people buy their three-digit FICO credit scores.
Today, Equifax charges people $40 to see all three of their reports.
(Consumers are entitled to one free credit report from each of the bureaus annually.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The companys consumer business generates $400 million in annual sales, much of it through resellers.
Using Equifax data, LifeLock sells identity theft protection, a booming business since the breach.
Such sales, while strong, are eclipsed by the money Equifax makes from human resources products.
It entered the market in 2007 with the purchase of Talx, which verified employment for companies.
Mr. Smith viewed Talx as a beachhead into a lucrative new data field: payroll information.
When Equifax bought the company, Talx held 142 million employment records.
The unit now has 300 million.
Its been a nearly 10-year investment, but now its paying off for Equifax, said Brett Horn, an investment analyst at Morningstar.
They have something their rivals dont.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A few expansion efforts fizzled, especially in tightly regulated markets.
In 1995, Equifax teamed with AT&T to develop health care products, including electronic patient records.
The effort quietly died a year later, right around the time that Congress passed a strict medical privacy bill.
As the industry expanded, safety became a sales pitch.
We have been blessed in our rich history to never have a major breach, Mr. Smith said at a financial conference shortly after joining the company in 2005.
In one document, Equifax called itself the trusted stewards of data.
If youre not ahead of security risk, the pitch read, youre behind it.
After previous smaller breaches, the bureaus have been reluctant to offer consumers the strongest form of protection, credit freezes, free of charge.
Freezing a file prevents new credit lines from being opened, which locks out identity thieves.
After Experians servers were attacked two years ago, exposing personal details on 15 million T-Mobile customers, consumer advocates urged both companies to provide free credit freezes at all three bureaus.
Doing that would set a terrible precedent and haunt all future breaches, Experians senior vice president of government affairs and public policy said in a response intended for executives at his company and T-Mobile.
The reply was accidentally emailed to one of the advocates.
Giving in to the demand will not satiate their hatred for Experian, he added.
Instead, he suggested responding with a letter explaining why fraud alerts were good enough.
We could turn our response into a good P.R.
approach if done right, he wrote.
Experian said in a statement that the opinions in the email did not reflect the companys position.
The company said it had provided affected individuals with free credit monitoring and credit freezes at Experian at no charge.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Equifaxs own response to its breach has been marred by blunders.
An Equifax website was supposed to allow customers to determine if they had been affected; it didnt work correctly.
The companys Twitter account accidentally steered people toward a fake site.
And when millions of consumers went to freeze their Equifax credit files, some had to pay for the service.
After people protested, the company waived the fees.
From a business perspective, it will be paramount for Equifax to keep its customers  financial firms and other big companies  happy.
Six of Americas largest financial services companies  American Express, Bank of America, Capital One, Citibank, Discover and JPMorgan Chase  declined to comment on whether the breach would alter their relationships with Equifax.
Walmart, the nations largest private employer, and Kroger, the second biggest, said they were comfortable continuing to send Equifax their payroll data.
Still, some  mainly smaller organizations  are beginning to rethink their relationship with the company.
Summit Credit Union in Madison, Wis., filed a lawsuit against Equifax.
The firm is seeking compensation for the economic harm that it said it was likely to suffer from the breach.
This situation has caused us all to pause, said Sandi Papenfuhs, senior vice president of consumer lending at another firm, First Tech Federal Credit Union in Beaverton, Ore.
Anytime someone is not securing member data to the same degree that we do and we expect, we will take action on that relationship accordingly.
But her credit union will continue to send Equifax data.
Withholding information would only hurt consumers, she explained, because it would create an incomplete picture of their credit history.
I am unaware of a way to just stop, from any individual lender perspective, Ms. Papenfuhs said, and not cause consumer harm.
The shock was about to deepen.
The Ahsanis privately held company, Unaoil, a go-to agent for multinationals operating in the biggest oil patches on earth, would soon become the target of investigations on three continents.
The authorities in Britain, the United States and Australia are examining whether the family paid bribes in resource-rich countries, like Iraq and Libya, on behalf of a long list of companies.
Multinationals that vie for contracts in challenging markets have been quietly hiring middlemen for decades, seeking help to navigate countries where they dont know the folkways or politics.
It is one of the oil industrys most enduring but invisible roles.
Many of these middlemen stay on the right side of the law, offering advice and connections.
But others cross the line.
They grease the palms of officials and local managers, and they put a buffer between the payoff and the client, offering plausible deniability if the authorities catch on.
For Western corporations, such payments and other improprieties can run afoul of corruption laws and can lead to huge fines and, in some cases, prison terms.
In 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice collected more than $2 billion in fines from 26 companies that settled charges that they had violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Ahsanis have denied all charges, with vehemence and an armada of lawyers.
They say that they had an advisory division, but that work relied on cultivated relationships and hard-won knowledge, not graft.
They also oversaw a variety of joint ventures, they say, and at one point employed 1,400 laborers in countries like Iraq and Kazakhstan, working on a variety of engineering and construction projects.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the Ahsanis seek to clear their name, they face some thorny evidence  their own words.
The day after the raid in March 2016, a newspaper in Australia, The Age, published a multipart expos based largely on the contents of a Unaoil hard drive stuffed with emails, records and receipts.
The paper called Unaoil the company that bribed the world.
In these documents, the Ahsanis come across as cautious players in a treacherous game.
The family and employees communicate with code words and nicknames.
When an underling, strategizing about an Iraqi oil official, takes a blunt approach  The best medicine for a calm life is a dose of George Washington  he is rebuked.
The way you write your emails may give rise to questions, Saman Ahsani replied.
Photo

The hard drive itself, which was sent to The Age by an unidentified source, is shrouded in intrigue.
Lawyers for the Ahsanis say it was used in an extortion attempt in the months before the raid.
Send me $5 million, wrote a blackmailer who asked to be called Komrade, or all these documents will wind up on the internet.
But the provenance of the hard drive has not slowed the authorities.
Since its contents were published, the British authorities have begun a number of investigations into former Unaoil clients.
One of them is Petrofac, a British oil field services company, which suspended its chief operating officer in May after he and the chief executive were arrested, questioned and then released by the Serious Fraud Office.
Petrofac later released a statement that said it had taken a number of actions that signal the boards determination to cooperate fully with the S.F.O.
Experts say that in the short term, prosecutors hope that companies will sign settlements and that some executives will go to prison.
Longer term, said Andrew Spalding, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law and senior editor of a blog about foreign corrupt practices, their hope is that this case changes the cost-benefit analysis of any company that thinks it needs to engage in bribery to compete.
A Toxic Brand

A soft-spoken 43-year-old with courtly manners and an Oxford education, Saman Ahsani is the family diplomat.
When he, his brother and his father decided that they were tired of being portrayed in the media as high-end grifters, Mr. Ahsani was the emissary to The New York Times, in the first sit-down interview given by any of the principals since the raid.
His lawyers, quite sensibly, asked him to avoid legal issues.
But he was eager to describe the familys business history and the personal toll the case has taken.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our reputation has been shredded, he said, sitting on a Louis XVI-style sofa in his Monaco apartment with a striking view of the ocean.
Within 24 hours, we became pariahs.
A toxic brand, overnight.
The publication of Cyrus Ahsanis sometimes fratboyish musings, and the investigation, sent him into a deep depression that lasted for months, his brother said.
Their fathers trouble with heart palpitations has worsened, along with some memory loss.
Its been incredibly frustrating for him, Mr. Ahsani said.
Itd be tough for anyone, especially when you think this is all completely unjustified.
For much of a 90-minute interview, he described Unaoils work for an array of companies, including BP and Shell, handling jobs like on-site inspections and equipment maintenance.
To buttress his account, he handed over a color brochure with photographs and descriptions of projects, all of them in Iraq.
One project was installing new interface facilities in the West Qurna oil field on behalf of the Basrah Gas Company.
Photo

Were portrayed as this brass-plate money-laundering operation, Mr. Ahsani said.
With just a few phone calls, you can see this is a company that, year in, year out, is delivering projects for large companies.
A number of former clients declined to discuss Unaoil.
Neither BP nor Shell would comment, and emails to the Basrah Gas Company were not returned.
The batch of leaked documents, by contrast, is like an informant who wont shut up.
An excerpt of about 100 pages was provided to The Times by The Age.
Many transactions are detailed, including $400,000 given to an Iranian expatriate with connections to Azerbaijans oil minister, and 2.75 million euros given to a businessman tight with the Syrian regime.
Without context and a basic grasp of in-house terminology, some sentences read like nonsense.
When a Unaoil manager wants to boast to a potential American client about how much sway the company has with key players in Kazakhstan, he writes about the need to demonstrate that we own the Spaghetti House and have a lease on the Shashlik takeaway.
But the exchange is in the midst of discussion that is not about food.
Its about an Italian oil company (Spaghetti House) with strong links to Kazakh oil officials (Shashlik, a popular dish in Kazakhstan).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a recent email, Mr. Ahsani said he was unable to comment on the specifics of the internal documents because anything he says may hinder an eventual defense.
He added, There is a great deal we would like to say.
The Ahsanis have never said the cache of documents is not authentic.
What the documents show is that the Ahsanis operate in a realm that is both competitive and exasperating.
The politicians they deal with are high maintenance  cranky, greedy and unreliable.
The Ahsanis and colleagues describe doling out cash for flights, five-star hotels, clothing, even CDs and perfume.
An Iraqi heavy hitter gets two shopping sprees and English lessons for his son.
There are indignities, too.
When an oil executive with ties to Kazakhstans president was invited to the wedding of the Ahsanis other brother, Sassan, an assistant wrote to say a pop-star friend would attend instead.
His name is Yensepov, the assistant emailed in a document dated May 2006.
Can you book a single room for him in the same hotel, please?
Saman Ahsani forwarded the email to his brother and father, adding: Is he joking?
Changing Circumstances

The Ahsanis have resided for years in Monaco, a principality of 500 impeccably maintained acres of luxury shopping and manicured streets  like a Worlds Fair in which the theme is Money, or what youd expect if Rodeo Drive were a country.
Tourists cluster around the elegant Casino de Monte-Carlo and gawk at Lamborghinis and Bentleys in steady orbit on an adjacent street.
Roughly 40,000 people call this place home, lured by some combination of fine weather, price-on-request real estate and favorable tax treatment.
Photo

The social scene is tightly knit, and the Ahsanis were once prominent members of it.
Cyrus Ahsani was treasurer of the Monaco Ambassadors Club, an elite group of executives, diplomats and celebrities that claims Prince Albert II as honorary president.
The Ahsanis party-going days are behind them.
Bankers and accountants, once so eager to help, now shun the family.
Even small decisions must first be run by professionals.
Your life suddenly becomes: Are the lawyers going to approve this, are they going to approve that?
Saman Ahsani said.
Every day there are not one or two fires.
There are 15 fires.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The familys current circumstances  both its riches and its unwanted notoriety  are a world away from its origins.
Ata Ahsani grew up in a modest home in an ancient town in the south of Iran, the son of a carpet designer.
Scholarships sent him to universities in both England and the United States, but he returned to work for years at Western oil companies in Iran.
After the revolution in 1978, he moved to London and started all over in the chemical trade.
More than a decade later, he founded Unaoil in 1991.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Saman Ahsani said that over the years the company had spent millions building repair and service centers in Algeria, Azerbaijan and various countries in the Middle East, to fix or upgrade equipment like pumps and compressors.
The British authorities seem to believe that these enterprises were largely a cover.
The Serious Fraud Office stated in a court filing last year that it was unpersuaded that Unaoil conducts any lawful business.
That offends the Ahsanis.
To rebut the charge, they set up an interview with a former oil field manager, who agreed to talk on the phone if he was not named.
It was hard enough, this former senior vice president said, to find a new job.
His division had 230 people in Iraq, doing pump maintenance and site inspections, he said over the course of a half-hour discussion.
The story was detailed, and it ended with a grim description of laying off his entire crew soon after the raid of the Ahsanis homes.
But he acknowledged that he knew nothing about the advisory division of the company, where, the British authorities indicate, the bribery is alleged to have taken place.
Lindsey Mitchell, on the other hand, knew that division well.
He worked there in 2009.
A 30-year veteran of the oil industry, Mr. Mitchell was hired by Unaoil because, he said in a recent phone interview, the Ahsanis were impressed by his connections to the regime of Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya.
The Ahsanis are likable guys, said Mr. Mitchell, who moved with his wife to Monaco for the job.
Very welcoming.
Nine months after he started, Mr. Mitchell flew to Tripoli to secure a $45 million environmental cleanup contract.
When he later reported to the Ahsanis, via Skype, that a manager at Waha Oil Company, a subsidiary of Libyas state-owned oil business, had demanded a payoff, the family did not demur, Mr. Mitchell recalled.
Soon, he said, an Ahsani relative, who ran Unaoils office in Tripoli, handed him an envelope that contained at least $10,000.
Mr. Mitchell said he had delivered the envelope, then started to feel awful.
He had never bribed anyone in his life.
I took a hard look at what Id done, he said.
Ive got kids, and I thought if they knew what just happened, they would lose all respect.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The day after the envelope drop, Mr. Mitchell said, he emailed a resignation letter to the Ahsanis.
When he read the article in The Age, he contacted the lead reporter and had a request: Tell the authorities in the United States and Britain how to get in touch.
Photo

I knew my name was all over those documents, Mr. Mitchell said.
So I figured I wouldnt wait for them to come find me.
He has since debriefed the British authorities at a meeting in Vienna and the Federal Bureau of Investigation at a hotel near the airport in Calgary, Alberta.
Without asking for immunity, he described everything he knew.
Whether he is currently in legal jeopardy is unclear.
Asked about Mr. Mitchell, a lawyer for the Ahsanis, Roger Burlingame, said, We cannot comment at this stage, but we look forward to addressing Mr. Mitchells claims at the appropriate time.
Soul of a Spy Novelist

The identity of the person who leaked documents about Unaoil to The Age has not been made public.
But this much is obvious: Whoever it was has the soul of a spy novelist.
Before sending anything, the source asked the paper to demonstrate its commitment by placing an ad in a French magazine, Le Figaro, that included the words Monte Christo.
A reporter, Nick McKenzie, followed those instructions, posting a for-sale notice for a nonexistent home in Sydney, Australia.
The source, soon nicknamed Le Figaro, ultimately provided hundreds of thousands of documents.
In the hopes of maximizing publicity about the case, The Age shared the tranche with its media partner The Huffington Post, which published its own articles the same day as The Age.
Le Figaro also wanted the documents shared with law enforcement in Australia.
Mr. McKenzie said a heads-up had been given to officials about the date when The Age and The Huffington Post would publish, which helps explains the one-two timing of the raid and the exposs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Ahsanis knew that a public-relations nightmare could be imminent.
In December 2015, the family says, the company had been contacted by someone identified as Komrade, whom we will assume is male, for the sake of a pronoun.
Documents provided to The Times by a publicist for the Ahsanis show that Komrade claimed to have spent $50,000 for a Unaoil hard drive sold by a hacker.
For $5 million in Bitcoin, Komrade offered to destroy the lot.
If he wasnt paid in three days, everything would be sent to newspapers and WikiLeaks.
Some people very stupid, emotion get in the way, Komrade wrote, using what was either Russian-accented prose or an English speakers attempt to sound Russian.
Ignore my request and your family business comes to an end.
A cybersecurity firm, Guidepost Solutions, advised the Ahsanis to pay a fraction of the demanded ransom to keep talks going and perhaps reel Komrade in.
A tense, four-month negotiation ensued.
Saman Ahsani again served as diplomat, according to the documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist.
We are in the process of sending the initial payment, he wrote to Komrade in late December, on the verge of sending $50,000.
This is done as a sign of good faith and keeps to our word.
Komrade was ultimately sent an additional $100,000, which was far short of expectations.
The documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist show him growing more irritated and profane.
His final words arrived on March 25: Is time now for you feel some pain.
Four days later, the police in Monaco came knocking.
Are Le Figaro and Komrade the same person, an extortionist masquerading as a whistle-blower, or perhaps a whistle-blower who dabbles in extortion?
Lawyers for the Ahsanis think the answer is yes, and they have tried to turn the extortion plot into a media ethics matter, suggesting that The Age was relying on information used to commit blackmail.
Editors at The Age, which is owned by Fairfax Media, counter that the Ahsanis never mentioned blackmail when contacted with prepublication questions.
They add that Le Figaro did not ask for money, nor did anyone else reached by reporters after they started digging into the story.
These additional sources include former employees of Unaoil, according to Mr. McKenzie.
We have no evidence that our sources were involved in extortion attempts, and any alleged extortion bid has nothing to do with Fairfax Media, Alex Lavelle, editor of The Age, said in an email.
We maintain our stories on Unaoil are true, in the public interest and unimpeachable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For the Serious Fraud Office, the stakes in the Unaoil case are high.
It has struggled for respect in the realm of corporate prosecutions and has badly lagged behind the Department of Justice in foreign corruption actions.
A spokesman for the office noted an in email that the Bribery Act, the countrys answer to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, didnt go into effect until 2011.
We have secured successful outcomes in all cases brought under the law, said the spokesman, Adam Lilley.
For the Ahsanis, the stakes are far higher.
Monaco is a signatory to the European Convention on Extradition, which means the family is shadowed by the possibility that the local police may one day return, and this time hand the Ahsanis over to the British authorities, who could seek prison sentences.
The Ahsanis now have little choice but to wind down what is left of the company, confer with attorneys and wait.
Lawyers in the white-collar field say that if charges are ultimately filed against the family, a case will not be easy for the government to win.
Following the money in these investigations is time consuming and difficult, and internal emails alone are hardly proof of a crime.
Also, it would be hugely difficult to obtain witnesses in countries like Iraq.
But Saman Ahsani said some of his neighbors had already come up with a verdict of their own.
There are certain individuals, you can see written on their face, while you are talking, at best a presumption of guilt, he said.
At worst, a little bit of a smirk, like they are getting enjoyment out of the misery of others.
The Fed chairman also plays a leading role in financial regulation and will have to navigate calls by Republican leaders, including Mr. Trump, to roll back some of the rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.
Ms. Yellen was a principal architect of those more stringent regulations and has said the financial system is much stronger as a result.
Mr. Trump has criticized many of the banking rules, saying they are excessive and impeding economic growth.
The candidates to replace Ms. Yellen all share those concerns to varying degrees.
Given the high stakes, Mr. Trumps decision has become a source of intrigue in political and economic circles this year.
There is also a growing sense of urgency: Both Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke, were nominated in October, leaving ample time for the Senate to hold confirmation hearings.
Mr. Trump has said he does not plan to make a decision until later in the year, leaving little time for the Senate to act given the tight calendar.
Aides say he is not yet focused on the search.
Additional candidates could ultimately be considered.
The administration officials and the other person with knowledge of the search requested anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the job in question.
A White House spokeswoman had no immediate comment, and Mr. Cohn, Mr. Taylor and Mr. Warsh did not respond to requests for comment.
A Fed spokeswoman said Ms. Yellen and Mr. Powell declined to comment.
The next Fed chairman is likely to begin the four-year term in an atmosphere of relative tranquillity during one of the longest economic expansions in American history.
But the Fed is confronting a number of difficult issues.
One question is whether it can do more to increase economic growth.
Another is whether the Fed will be ready for the next economic downturn.
In addition to a Fed chairman, Mr. Trump also must fill four open seats on the seven-member board.
That means he can immediately appoint a majority of Fed governors, putting his stamp on the institution.
He has made just one choice so far, nominating Randal K. Quarles to be the Feds vice chairman for supervision.
That nomination is pending, though Mr. Quarles is expected to be confirmed.
Photo

Mr. Trump has deputized four officials to lead the selection process for the Feds next chairman, said one person familiar with the search: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin; two of Mr. Cohns aides on the National Economic Council, Jeremy Katz and Andrew Olmem; and John DeStefano, the White House personnel director.
Mr. Cohn, who initially participated in conversations about the potential nominees for Fed governor seats, has removed himself from the discussions about the central banks next chairman, given that he is a potential candidate for the job, said several people with knowledge of his involvement.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Cohn left the No.
2 position at Goldman Sachs to join Mr. Trumps administration as head of the National Economic Council.
He quickly developed an easy rapport with the president, who is said to value Mr. Cohns knowledge of markets and finance.
Mr. Cohn has played a major role in the administrations push for a tax-cut bill; he also has been a moderating voice in internal debates on issues like restricting free trade.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In a July interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Trump described Mr. Cohn and Ms. Yellen as candidates for the Fed job.
The next month, Mr. Cohn publicly criticized the presidents response to a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, creating tension.
But the two men have reestablished a comfort level, and Mr. Cohn remains a candidate.
Mr. Cohn is a strong advocate for easing financial regulation, which he argues is unnecessarily impeding economic activity.
But he has rarely spoken publicly about monetary policy; the other four candidates whose names are known all have significant experience with monetary policy.
Mr. Warsh, who served on the Feds board between 2006 and 2011, was a member of Mr. Trumps business advisory council and has informally advised him on a range of economic issues.
That may be a significant advantage, given the presidents demonstrated preference for people he knows and trusts.
Mr. Warsh is married to Jane Lauder, the daughter of Ronald Lauder, a friend and occasional adviser to the president.
Mr. Warsh is a lawyer by training and a banker by trade before entering public service in 2002 as a member of President George W. Bushs National Economic Council.
After leaving the Fed, he joined the Hoover Institution, a public-policy think tank run by Stanford, as a visiting fellow.
He has been a vocal critic of the Feds economic stimulus campaign under both Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Yellen, arguing it has been ineffective and may have dangerous side effects.
At a Hoover conference in May, he said the Fed needs to be aggressive and powerful in responding to financial crises, but remain more traditional when the market is not in crisis.
Mr. Taylor, a colleague of Mr. Warshs at Hoover, has offered a similar critique of Fed policy.
Mr. Taylor served in the Treasury Department during the Bush administration but he is best known as an academic economist.
He wrote a formulaic approach to monetary policy, known as the Taylor Rule, which suggests that the Fed should be raising rates more quickly.
He also has closely advised House Republicans on legislation that would require the Fed to adopt such a policy rule.
Mr. Powell, the only Republican on the Feds board, is regarded as a centrist voice on both monetary policy and regulatory issues.
In internal discussions and public remarks, he has sometimes pushed back against the most ardent supporters of the Feds postcrisis stimulus campaign.
Similarly, he has sometimes raised questions about changes in financial regulation.
But on both fronts he has consistently voted with the majority.
A Treasury Department official under President George H.W.
Bush, Mr. Powell then built a fortune as a partner at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, before he was nominated to the Fed by President Obama in 2012.
His experience at the Fed, and his connections both in the financial world and in the Republican Party, could make him an attractive candidate.
But his track record suggests he may be less likely than some of the other candidates to press for dramatic changes in monetary and regulatory policies.
As publishers grasp for new revenue streams, a try-anything approach has taken hold.
Time Inc. has a new streaming TV show, Paws & Claws, that features viral videos of animals.
Hearst started a magazine with the online rental service Airbnb.
Increasingly, the longtime core of the business  the print product  is an afterthought, overshadowed by investments in live events, podcasts, video, and partnerships with outside brands.
Photo

The changes represent one of the most fundamental shifts in decades for a business that long relied on a simple formula: glossy volumes thick with high-priced ads.
Sentimentality is probably the biggest enemy for the magazine business, David Carey, the president of Hearst Magazines, said in an interview.
You have to embrace the future.
At a time of belt-tightening, celebrity editors, with their big salaries and expensive tastes, are increasingly pass.
Budget-minded executives at publishers like Hearst and Cond Nast are looking more critically at requests for six-figure photo shoots and $5-a-word writers.
The timing doesnt really surprise me, said Tom Harty, president and chief operating officer at Meredith, which publishes Better Homes & Gardens and Family Circle.
Magazines, Mr. Harty said, often circulate upcoming budget numbers in September.
When you start thinking about the revenue stream for the following year, he said in an interview, it must lead to some cost discussion.
In some ways, the spate of departures was a coincidence.
Mr. Carter, 68, said he would have left earlier this year if not for the election of President Trump, whom he enjoys covering.
Mr. Wenner, 71, has been deferring to his son, Gus, 27, who this year was named president of Wenner Media.
Nancy Gibbs of Time had worked at the company for 32 years.
And Cindi Leive of Glamour and Robbie Myers of Elle both served for nearly two decades.
Photo

Quietly, optimists in the business say that it may be healthy for a younger generation of editors to take the reins.
Older editors are less accustomed to the rhythms and forms of web journalism; Jann Wenner, for instance, famously resisted posting Rolling Stone stories online.
Many of the industrys rising stars are finding ways to raise revenue and gain readers on the digital side.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If you want to do the same thing year in and year out, you shouldnt do these jobs, Mr. Carey said.
Kurt Andersen, a former editor of New York and, with Mr. Carter, a founder of Spy magazine, said that print magazines were still breathing, but that the recent upheaval was a sign that the denouement might not be far off.
The 1920s to the 2020s was kind of the century of the magazine, he said, noting that The New Yorker and Time were founded in the decade before the Great Depression.
Today, he added, the industry was in more of a dusk, a slow dusk, and were closer to sunset.
In his spacious aerie in Hearsts Midtown Manhattan tower, Mr. Carey displays trinkets of an earlier, more glamorous magazine age.
Behind his desk is a framed quote from Malcolm Forbes, the exuberant late chairman of Forbes magazine, and a yellowing memo about Tina Brown from Mr. Careys days as publisher of The New Yorker.
His 43rd floor office overlooks the Hudson River and Central Park.
Photo

But as the executive leading Hearsts magazine business into an uncertain future, Mr. Carey said that he was focused on identifying new ways to increase revenue and trim expenses.
We know that we have to constantly force ourselves to shake things up, said Mr. Carey, dressed meticulously in navy pinstripe.
All media companies are going through a period of change, and were not immune from that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hearst, like Cond Nast, is privately held, so the details of its financial performance are unclear.
But recent earnings reports from Hearsts publicly traded competitors provide a glimpse into the magazine industrys falling fortunes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Revenue at Time Inc. has declined every year since 2011; the company, which recently took itself off the market after speculation about a potential sale, is now aiming to cut $400 million in costs over the next 18 months.
Although the print business still accounts for roughly two-thirds of Time Inc.s $3 billion in annual revenue, the company is shifting resources to video and television.
Meredith, whose headquarters in Des Moines has test kitchens, craft studios and a wood shop, is doing comparatively better than its more glamorous rivals based in New York.
Its magazines, which focus largely on perennial topics like decorating and recipes, remain popular with the companys mostly female readers.
Still, Meredith reported a slight drop in revenue for its magazine business in its most recent fiscal year, which ended in June.
A flurry of recent sales also suggest that smaller publishers are having trouble surviving on their own.
Photo

Before Mr. Wenner put Rolling Stone up for sale, Wenner Media sold Us Weekly and Mens Journal to American Media Inc., the owner of The National Enquirer.
Johnson Publishing, which is based in Chicago, sold the magazines Ebony and Jet last summer to a private equity firm.
Rodale, whose titles include Bicycling, Runners World and Mens and Womens Health, recently said it, too, was for sale; a deal is expected to be announced in the coming weeks.
There have never been brand names like that that have been sold in such a concentrated period, said Reed Phillips, a managing partner at the investment bank Oaklins DeSilva & Phillips.
That alone indicates something is going on.
The financial outlook remains bleak.
Analysts and executives expect double-digit annual declines in print advertising to continue.
The ad buying firm Magna projects print magazine ad sales to fall 13 percent this year, with a similar rate of decline in 2018, according to a report released last week.
Mr. Phillips said it was only a matter of time until these trends were felt at the industrys highest levels.
In the past, magazines could support celebrity editors, but its becoming harder and harder with the revenue declines to do that, he said.
This is really not about making the numbers in 2017, but making the numbers in 2018.
One day after the fete for Mr. Carter at the Waverly Inn, Time Inc. rolled out a major initiative: PeopleTV.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A new iteration of a streaming video network that the company introduced last year, PeopleTV will feature pop culture programming in conjunction with Entertainment Weekly, another Time Inc. title.
Among the shows on offer: Paws & Claws, which, according to a news release, will feature all of the adorable, viral and buzzworthy animal stories of the week.
Photo

Pet videos are a favorite on social media, so it is easy to see why Time Inc. wants to jump on the fluffy bandwagon.
But that material is a far cry from the award-winning journalism that filled once-thick issues of Fortune, Sports Illustrated and Time, where Mr. Carter got his start in New York journalism.
These experiments are part of an industrywide race to find some way  any way  to make up for the hemorrhaging of revenue.
Hearst recently introduced The Pioneer Woman Magazine, a partnership with the Food Network host Ree Drummond that was initially sold only at Walmart.
Its new travel publication, Airbnbmag, is geared toward customers of the do-it-yourself online rental site, with distribution at newsstands, airports and supermarkets.
Meredith has started a magazine called The Magnolia Journal with the HGTV stars Chip and Joanna Gaines.
Even Cond Nast, the glitzy purveyor of luxury titles, has recognized the advantages of outside partnerships.
In recent weeks, the company debuted a quarterly print title for Goop, Gwyneth Paltrows lifestyle brand, with a cover featuring a topless Ms. Paltrow submerged in mud from France.
At Vanity Fair, Mr. Carter resisted efforts by Cond Nast executives to shift his design, photo, research and copy teams out of the magazines purview, a move required of nearly every other title as part of a companywide cost-cutting effort, according to two people who spoke anonymously to describe private discussions.
Mr. Carter was reluctant to make additional cuts that may be forced upon his magazine in the future, the people said.
Some veteran editors rue the trend toward corporate metrics in the industry.
Terry McDonell, a former top editor at Sports Illustrated and Rolling Stone, said that celebrity editors of the past embodied and defined the magazines they ran.
Now that is being replaced by people who believe that you can, in fact, engineer creativity and quality journalism, he said.
Mr. Andersen, who now writes books and hosts a public radio show, said that magazines might eventually gain a cult following akin to the interest around other obsolete media, like vinyl records.
Eventually, theyll become like sailboats, he said.
They dont need to exist anymore.
But people will still love them, and make them and buy them.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And whats noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebooks considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
Whats more, Mr. Zuckerbergs initial reaction to the question of Facebooks role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea, he said at a tech conference days after last years presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebooks history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebooks central tenet of transparency and openness: Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you, he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections, he said in his address on Thursday.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social networks future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the companys old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebooks mobile apps working perfectly became the companys top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
Mobile is everyones job, Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebooks mobile apps.
Soon, Facebooks mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebooks advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandbergs leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebooks main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebooks effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, theres a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the companys might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the worlds most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
As a result of these holes, investors trades on certain venues may be more vulnerable to hacking than on others.
And because of the interconnectedness of the technologies supporting the nations stock trading systems, hackers gaining access to one venue could easily disrupt entire swaths of the market.
The concerns center on an S.E.C.
rule written in 2014 that was intended to strengthen the technological underpinnings of the United States securities markets, making them safer for investors.
The rule, known as Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Reg SCI, came after a series of troubling market system failures.
One was the $440 million glitch in 2012 at Knight Capital, a big stock trading firm.
Other technical breakdowns occurred the next year on Nasdaq; on one occasion, all trading in that market was halted for three hours.
The S.E.C.
rule required exchanges and certain other trading venues to have comprehensive procedures ensuring the robustness and resiliency of their technological systems.
Bolstering cybersecurity measures was a component of the rule.
Stock exchanges like IEX, Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange had to comply with the new requirements and make their operations available for audits by the S.E.C.
These exchanges also had to tell the commission when problems arose, including system intrusions, a crucial mechanism for investor protection.
But many large trading venues did not have to comply with the rule.
Among them were firms that buy stock orders from retail brokerage firms, known as wholesalers or internalizers.
Certain alternative trading systems were also let off the hook, including some that are operated by large brokerage companies like Morgan Stanley.
Among the entities that dont have to adhere to the cybersecurity rule are firms that handle vast volumes of trades in the nations equity markets.
Citadel Securities, the broker-dealer unit of the powerhouse founded by Kenneth Griffin, is an example.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A division of the company  Citadel Execution Services  is whats known as a wholesale firm.
It buys investors orders from retail brokerage firms that dont have their own trading operations and executes the transactions against stocks it holds in inventory.
Some 200 brokerage firms, including Charles Schwab, Scottrade and E-Trade, sell their customers orders to Citadel.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These firms send Citadel almost three million equity orders a day totaling almost 1.7 billion shares, according to figures cited in an S.E.C.
enforcement action filed against the firm in January.
These orders accounted for about 35 percent of the average daily volume of retail stock trades in the United States, the S.E.C.
It seems odd, given the volume of trades handled by Citadel, that the S.E.C.
would not require the firm to follow its heightened cybersecurity rules.
So I asked the S.E.C.
about this decision.
A spokeswoman declined to comment.
I also asked Citadel about its internal protections against cyberattacks.
A spokesman declined to comment.
A spokesman for Morgan Stanley declined to comment about precautions the bank had taken against digital attacks on their alternative trading systems.
But since the company qualifies as a systemically important financial institution in regulators eyes, at least its operations are watched more closely.
Also disquieting about the rule: Nowhere does the agency publish the list of entities that comply with the systems integrity rule.
If this regulation was supposed to protect investors, as the S.E.C.
contended when it put it into effect, why arent investors allowed to know which trading venues have strong cybersystems in place and which may not?
This question may come up on Thursday, when Mr. Clayton, the S.E.C.
chairman, is scheduled to testify before the Senate banking committee.
One of the committees members, Mark R. Warner, a Virginia Democrat who is a co-founder of the bipartisan Senate Cybersecurity Caucus, recently expressed his concern over the lack of transparency in the rule.
Investors are unable to determine whether their orders are being routed to market centers which are being held to the requirement of having a strong, audited cybersecurity program, Mr. Warner wrote in a letter to Mr. Clayton on Aug. 1.
If compromised, these market centers could destabilize markets by not having the protections in place that the S.E.C.
has outlined in Reg SCI to strengthen the integrity of our markets.
The S.E.C.
was right to require market trading venues to tighten their security systems.
Investors rely heavily on these entities.
But exempting major firms may mean it did only half the job.
And surely investors have the right to know which firms are meeting the heightened standards.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Warner thinks so.
Efforts to strengthen our nations financial infrastructure, such as Reg SCI, are critical to financial stability and the security of our country, he said in a statement on Thursday.
Providing investors with information about which market centers are subject to Reg SCI and whether they are in compliance would encourage market center adoption of strong cybersecurity standards and help investors protect themselves from cyberrisks.
Calculating Fallout from the German Elections

Angela Merkel won her fourth term as chancellor.
But the electoral showing of a far-right party, Alternative for Germany, dimmed her victory  and knocked down the euros value this morning.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The result is expected to lead to a tougher line on fiscal discipline in the eurozone, pushing up yields on government bonds in places like Spain and Italy, according to The Financial Timess Michael Hunter.
But some expect the weakness of the euro to be short term, Reuters Saikat Chatterjee reports:

The impact is limited, as the German election results is more of a domestic political story for now rather than a regional European trend, and the euro will be more sensitive to any shift in direction from the European Central Bank policy, said Viraj Patel, an FX strategist at ING Bank in London.
What to Look Out For

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, is to give a monetary policy update at the European Parliament on Monday.
Uber Grapples With Being Banned From London

Uber said on Monday that it was unclear why Londons travel authorities had decided not to renew its license.
Reuters reports:

Sitting down with TfL (Transport for London) representatives as soon as possible would be the most helpful thing to really understand their concerns to work out what they are, Ubers U.K. Head of Cities Fred Jones told BBC radio.
Its just not clear for us what their concerns might be.
Ubers chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, took the moment to engage in some self-reflection, according to Recodes Johana Bhuiyan:

Irrespective of whether we did everything that is being said about us in London today (and to be clear, I dont think we did), it really matters what people think of us, especially in a global business like ours, where actions in one part of the world can have serious consequences in another.
Regulator Wants More Self-Reporting From Finance

In the Obama administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was one of the toughest financial regulators around.
Under President Trump, its adopting a new strategy.
The Timess David Enrich obtained a preview of a forthcoming speech by the commissions director of enforcement, James McDonald:

We also recognize that no matter how much corporate leaders may want to foster compliance within the company, when they detect misconduct their decision whether to voluntarily report it often comes down to their perception of whether theyll be treated fairly.
The Context

Heres how The Times described the regulators former chief Gary Gensler in 2014:

But even as Mr. Genslers aggressive streak thrust the once-backwater agency into the front lines of reform, it also maddened colleagues and complicated his legacy.
And now that his tenure is ending on Friday, the agency has reached an inflection point, prompting Wall Street to hope for a friendlier regulator.
More Blowback for Facebook

Is it time for Facebook to step up and be regulated?
Antonio Garca Martnez, a former employee, writes in Wired: The company needs to put its big boy pants and assume its place on the world stage.
Meanwhile, The Washington Post reports that Mark Zuckerberg received a high-level warning about political interference last year:

Huddled in a private room on the sidelines of a meeting of world leaders in Lima, Peru, two months before Trumps inauguration, Obama made a personal appeal to Zuckerberg to take the threat of fake news and political disinformation seriously.
Unless Facebook and the government did more to address the threat, Obama warned, it would only get worse in the next presidential race.
Related Reading

 Maureen Dowd wonders about automation after Sheryl Sandberg apologized for ad-buying tools that enabled advertisers to direct pitches of people who expressed interest in topics like why jews ruin the world.
Facebook dropped a proposal to reclassify its stock, a move that would have solidified Mr. Zuckerbergs control over the social network, in a victory for shareholders in a class-action lawsuit.
The Men in Tech Who Think Gender Equality Has Gone Too Far

James Altizer, an engineer at the chip maker Nvidia who leads a group called Bay Area Fathers Rights, to The Timess Nellie Bowles:

Its a witch hunt, he said in a phone interview, contending men are being fired by dangerous human resources departments.
Im sitting in a soundproof booth right now because Im afraid someone will hear me.
When youre discussing gender issues, its almost religious, the response.
Its almost zealotry.
Ms. Bowless piece stirred up a lot of debate on Twitter:
These difficulties make cacao ever less appealing to producers; yields and profits are low, and the average cacao farmer is aging.
The next generation seems to be abandoning the family business.
Yet demand for chocolate is rising, especially as gargantuan markets like China and India indulge a taste for what used to be a treat primarily for American and European consumers.
A chocolate shortage may be on the horizon.
That is where Dr. Phillips-Moras project comes in.
The genetic diversity of cacao, on full display in the International Cacao Collection at C.A.T.I.E., may avert a chocolate crisis.
A Hybrid Solution

In the early 1980s, Dr. Phillips-Mora worked to identify the most naturally tolerant and productive cacao trees, then painstakingly hybridized the candidates to create novel varieties.
Breeding hybrid cacao clones is a lengthy process, and experts worldwide have largely failed in this endeavor.
But in 2006, Dr. Phillips-Mora released his first batch of hybrid cacao varieties.
Photo

Photo

In terms of disease resistance and yield, the differences were astonishing.
Dr. Phillips-Moras six hybrids produce on average about three times more cacao than standard varieties; under ideal conditions, the most prolific hybrids can produce six times more cacao.
After an 11-year trial, a hybrid called C.A.T.I.E.-R6 experienced a 5 percent frosty pod rot infection rate, compared to 75 percent infection for a control variety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our goal is not just to produce cacao, Dr. Phillips-Mora said.
Its also to give the basic living conditions to the farmers.
Most cacao farmers are very poor, because the system is based on material that doesnt have good yielding capacity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Trees that buck this trend could make the family business look more enticing to the next generation of cacao growers.
The C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids are now growing in all Central American countries, as well as in Mexico and Brazil.
Agricultural yield and disease resistance may benefit farmers, but a cacao crop is worthless if it produces bland or foul-tasting chocolate.
Chocolate is the epitome of gastronomic hedonism.
But unlike nearly every other modern effort to increase crop yields, Dr. Phillips-Moras breeding program incorporates fine flavor as a prerequisite.
Cacao varieties that dont impress expert palettes are discarded, no matter how well they grow.
Photo

The result of this protocol is that unlike many other crops favored for agronomics  the Red Delicious apple, the Cavendish banana  C.A.T.I.E.s cacao actually tastes good.
Chocolate makers are beginning to roast and package Dr. Phillips-Moras varieties.
Dandelion Chocolate, based in San Francisco, recently released a bar made from a mix of all six C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids.
I think honestly its going to be one of our most popular bars, said Greg DAlesandre, who heads cacao sourcing at Dandelion.
It has this nice balance of chocolaty and caramel notes, but it keeps it very accessible.
Dr. Phillips-Moras hybrid cacao varieties do not offer a perfect solution to all the crops challenges.
They cannot all self-pollinate, and some of the beans are small; they havent been properly tested in Africa or Asia, and they are not yet resistant to all the pathogens that afflict cacao globally.
Field trials are nearing completion on a new batch of clones bred to address some of these issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, the current roster of C.A.T.I.E.
clones were bred in response to known cacao production threats; the future will present new demands.
Pathogens evolve.
Unstable political situations in the developing world can affect agriculture.
Climate change will alter landscapes in unpredictable ways.
The solution is not to replace all cacao with the six available C.A.T.I.E.
varieties, but to be able to continue to diversify the cacao materials growing worldwide.
Like the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, the International Cacao Collection is a contingency against future disasters of unknown character.
Whatever fungal mutation may arise, wherever drought may strike, however chocolate tastes may change  there will likely be cacao genes somewhere in the collection that can form the basis of new hybrids to meet future challenges.
Photo

Still, Dr. Phillips-Mora worries about the future.
Though he works with deep-pocketed companies like Mars, Nestl and Hershey, the funds he receives are generally earmarked for specific research projects rather than for the maintenance of the collection and program for the future.
He estimates that he receives less than 5 percent of the funds necessary for proper upkeep of the collection each year.
So although Dr. Phillips-Mora retired three years ago, he plans to keep working until the solvency of the collection is ensured.
I will be very happy when I leave this institution to know that the collection will be protected financially, he said.
Its a treasure for everybody, for all the cocoa lovers.
Photo

Heres what to expect in the week ahead:

ADVERTISING

Advertisers, in throes of change, meet for week of talks.
Marketers and advertising types will gather this week in New York  mostly in the Times Square area  for the annual industry event known as Advertising Week.
Panels and presentations like Can Brands Actually Tell a Story in 6 Seconds?
and Realizing The Full Potential of Audience Targeting will aim to provide insights to an industry grappling with significant changes in technology, culture and consumer habits.
Other hot topics of discussion: the recent criticism of the ad targeting practices of Google and Facebook, diversity within the advertising world and how well the industry knows Americans after a presidential election that caught most of its leaders by surprise.
Sapna Maheshwari

ECONOMY

Mario Draghi will discuss monetary policy.
Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will provide an update on monetary policy during an appearance at the European Parliament in Brussels on Monday.
But Mr. Draghi is unlikely to offer much new information on the question that is occupying financial markets: when the central bank will ease its stimulus to the eurozone economy.
Mr. Draghi appears periodically before the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee and answers questions from representatives, but usually does not use the venue to signal major policy changes.
Jack Ewing

Janet Yellen to speak about inflation.
Inflation, Uncertainty and Monetary Policy is not just the title of a speech that Janet L. Yellen, the Feds chairwoman, will deliver in Cleveland on Tuesday.
It is also a pretty good title for the dilemma that is confronting the Federal Reserve.
The Fed has undershot its target of 2 percent annual inflation for the last five years, and is likely to do so again this year.
In recent months, inflation has weakened further, and Fed officials dont really understand why (Ms. Yellen described it as a mystery last week).
At stake is whether the Fed should raise its benchmark interest rate in December, or wait for inflation to show signs of a rebound.
After Ms. Yellens speech, she will visit a community college job training program and participate in a discussion with students.
Ms. Yellen has previously visited job training programs in Chicago, Boston and Philadelphia, making the trip something of an annual tradition.
Binyamin Appelbaum

TRADE POLICY

A trade case could reshape the airplane industry.
The Department of Commerce is expected to issue an initial ruling Tuesday on imposing duties on the Canadian airplane maker Bombardier, after Boeing claimed that its Canadian rival had received government subsidies that allowed it to sell its products at unfairly low prices.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, whose constituents help to manufacture the Bombardier jet, have urged President Trump to intervene to stop the case, but have so far been unsuccessful.
If the United States rules in Boeings favor, it may impose duties making the Canadian aircraft substantially more expensive.
Ana Swanson

TECHNOLOGY

Google faces deadline to comply with an antitrust order.
Google must be in compliance with an order from European Union regulators to modify its business practices by Thursday.
The order was part of a decision in June by the European Commission that included a record fine of 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion).
Google faced a 90-day deadline to respond to the regulators demands or face penalties of up to 5 percent of the average daily global revenue of Alphabet, its parent company.
In recent weeks, Google submitted proposals to the commission aimed at ensuring that rival shopping services are treated the same way as its Google Shopping service, but the company has not publicly disclosed them.
James Kanter

ECONOMY

Bank of England marks two decades of independence.
The Bank of England will hold a conference on Thursday to mark 20 years since it was granted independence over monetary policy, giving the bank the ability to decide on interest rates without the government.
The central banks powers have since expanded to include the regulation of financial firms.
Speakers at the conference will discuss the application of central bank independence and whether the model works.
Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England for 10 years until 2013, has written that, independence is not an answer to all problems.
Amie Tsang
A similar philosophy is leading to a wide rollback of federal regulations on businesses under President Trump.
Under the commissions new approach, companies that come clean about misconduct, cooperate fully with the agency as it investigates and fix their internal problems potentially stand to save millions of dollars.
Penalties imposed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission range from a few hundred thousand dollars into the hundreds of millions of dollars, depending on the severity of the offense and the size of the offender.
Mr. McDonald said in the draft speech and in an interview that the agency expected to reduce penalties by roughly 75 percent for those that fully cooperate.
In rare instances, he said, cases would be dropped altogether.
Late Friday, Mr. McDonald told The Times that he and the commissions chairman, J. Christopher Giancarlo, had changed their minds and decided against setting a 75 percent target.
Instead, he said, they will reduce penalties by a substantial amount case by case.
The commission already rewards companies for self-reporting misconduct and for cooperating in investigations.
But industry executives and lawyers have complained for years that they feel they are being severely penalized even when they assist the government.
Aitan Goelman, who was the commissions enforcement director until February, said the agencys small budget meant it had no choice but to rely in part on the institutions it regulated to help flag misconduct and other problems.
The C.F.T.C.
is so chronically and acutely under-resourced that its even more necessary to encourage cooperation, said Mr. Goelman, now a partner at the law firm Zuckerman Spaeder in Washington.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McDonald joined the commission in April after serving as an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, where he prosecuted Bronx gangs and former State Assemblyman Sheldon Silver, among others.
He said in the interview that the new enforcement strategy was born out of his experience as a federal prosecutor.
Providing clear and strong incentives for self-reporting by wrongdoers  whether they are bank traders or gang members  is a powerful weapon in law enforcements arsenal, Mr. McDonald said.
Photo

We need to give the relatively low-level criminals an incentive to cooperate with us, he said.
He argued that the new focus on self-reporting wasnt a softening of the commissions law enforcement strategy.
I dont want anybody to think were going light on companies, he said.
The emphasis is shifting as the Trump administration rethinks how the government regulates the private sector.
Many of the changes are intended to ease the perceived burdens on corporations and other businesses  not a surprise considering that many of Mr. Trumps cabinet members and senior advisers hail from Wall Street or previously ran large companies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
When it comes to oversight of the financial industry, early indications point to a softening approach.
Monetary penalties imposed by the three main entities that police Wall Street  the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  were down sharply in the first half of 2017 compared with similar stretches in previous years.
That trend partly reflects the winding down of cases stemming from the financial crisis, but corporate defense lawyers and banking industry officials say they detect a more business-friendly environment in general.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, created by Congress in 1974 to oversee the frenzied trading of futures contracts, was considered a regulatory afterthought for decades.
With 706 full-time employees, including 178 in its enforcement division, it is far smaller than other law enforcement agencies.
In the Bill Clinton administration, the Treasury Department blocked the commissions efforts to more closely regulate complex financial instruments known as derivatives, whose popularity was exploding.
A decade later, the ubiquity of derivatives intensified the financial crisis because so many financial institutions were exposed to one another through the instruments.
Out of the ashes of the financial crisis, though, the commission took on a newly prominent role.
The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law placed sweeping new regulatory powers in the agencys hands.
And a push from the agencys chairman at the time, Gary Gensler, to go after bigger, splashier cases led the commission to a yearslong investigation into the manipulation of a widely used interest-rate benchmark known as Libor.
Some of the worlds largest banks spent years stiff-arming the agency before grudgingly agreeing to cooperate once it became clear that the regulator was making progress.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Libor investigation eventually turned up evidence of widespread misconduct.
More than a dozen international banks admitted wrongdoing and paid billions of dollars in penalties to the commission and other regulators in the United States and overseas.
Bank executives argued that the Libor case, and others that followed, were examples of regulatory overkill, and that the length of the investigations and the severity of the penalties were uncalled-for.
Wall Street came to view the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a major source of frustration.
Mr. Trump named Mr. Giancarlo, who previously spent years as an executive in the brokerage industry, as the commissions chairman.
Mr. Giancarlo, a free-market devotee who is respected on both sides of the political aisle, vowed to continue to make law enforcement cases a priority.
But he also noted that securing headline-grabbing cases should not be a goal unto itself.
Mr. McDonald echoed that sentiment.
We at the C.F.T.C.
are committed to working together with the companies and individuals we regulate  transparently and in partnership  to identify and prosecute wrongdoing that has occurred, and to stop future wrongdoing before it starts, he initially planned to say in Mondays speech.
But late Friday, Mr. McDonald said he had decided to delete references in his speech to that partnership with the industry, out of concern that such language would come across as overly conciliatory.
Mr. McDonald is also aiming to shorten the duration of investigations so that they will take months, not years.
The first settlements in the Libor investigation, which got underway in 2008, took place in 2012.
Representatives of the financial industry said the new tone was a welcome shift from an era when industry perceived the commission as being hellbent on extracting severe punishments.
Theyre not settling cases with Al Qaeda, said Stephen Obie, a former enforcement official with the agency who now represents financial institutions as a partner at the law firm Jones Day.
Under Mr. Giancarlo, he added, the commission has adopted a more deliberate approach.
Detailed plots involving prostitution, rape and masturbation are also forbidden.
So are displays of unhealthy marital values, which the guidelines catalog as affairs, one-night stands, partner swapping and, simply but vaguely, sexual liberation.
Despite the efforts of censors, the internet has long been the most freewheeling of Chinas mass media, a platform where authors and artists  as well as entertainment studios  could reach audiences largely free of the Propaganda Departments traditional controls on broadcasting, publishing, cinema and stage.
But the new restrictions  which expanded and updated a set of prohibitions issued five years ago  reflect an ambitious effort by President Xi Jinpings government to impose discipline and rein in the web.
They were issued by the China Netcasting Services Association, which includes as members more than 600 companies, including the official Xinhua News Agency, the social media giants Sina and Tencent, the dominant search engine Baidu and the news aggregator Jinri Toutiao.
Video

David Bandurski, an analyst and editor for the University of Hong Kongs China Media Project, said the associations rules created the illusion of industry consensus as the companys acquiesced to what party officials call self-discipline.
Many of these companies are private, so its important for the leadership to have a means of bringing them together and creating a means of applying pressure on the collective, he wrote in an email.
It is a tactic of co-option.
Writers, filmmakers, podcasters and others attributed the guidelines and other measures to a new prim and paternalistic ideology taking shape under Mr. Xi, who has called on party members to be paragons of morality in pursuit of what he calls the China Dream.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many also attributed the tightening of controls to official nervousness ahead of a major Communist Party congress scheduled for October.
The congress is expected to reshuffle the countrys leadership and consolidate President Xis already formidable power.
I feel like people say all the time that after the big congress, things will be O.K., said Fan Popo, a documentary filmmaker whose work has run afoul of online censorship because it explores the countrys conflicted views about homosexuality.
But then he noted how online censorship has also spiked ahead of important state holidays and following unexpected events like the death of the Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo.
Its still going on, he said, and its getting worse.
In June, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television announced a new rating system for online bookstores and publishers based on criteria that included upholding moral values.
The powerful Cyberspace Administration  the ultimate authority over what is online in China  also shut down dozens of blogs and social media accounts for covering celebrity news and gossip that month.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Regulators also ordered two popular video streaming sites, AcFun and Bilibili, to stop showing hundreds of foreign television programs, while other state agencies issued a new rule this month prohibiting video sites from streaming even domestically produced shows without a license.
That essentially subjects online programs  often considered edgier  to the same restrictions governing what is broadcast on television, which critics say is dominated by trifles and propaganda.
The directive also ordered online producers to submit plans for creating new dramas between now and 2021 that praise the party, the nation and heroes so as to set a good example.
Photo

The new industry regulations provoked outrage  online, of course.
The countrys leading scholar of sexuality, Li Yinhe, wrote in a scathing commentary on Sina Weibo, Chinas version of Twitter, that the new regulations violated two basic freedoms.
The first is a citizens constitutionally protected right to freedom of creativity; the second is the constitutionally protected right to sexual freedom of sexual minorities.
When Ms. Li called on people to work toward abolishing screening and censorship rules, her posts were deleted, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Much of the online discussion has focused on the new prohibitions of sexual content and the inclusion of homosexuality among a list of abnormal sexual relations that also included incest and sexual assault.
Critics said the regulation appeared to contradict the governments own position on homosexuality, which it decriminalized in 1997 and removed from an official list of mental disorders in 2001.
Chinas censorship agencies exercise overlapping jurisdiction over the internet and often employ policies that create confusion.
The result has been a layered system of control that begins with self-censorship by those who create online content, followed by policing by web platforms, which are often private enterprises, and finally, when necessary, intervention by government regulators or the police.
Some regulations are explicit  no depiction of killing endangered species or underage drinking, for example.
Others are imprecise.
One, for example, prohibits blurring the lines between truth and falsity, good and evil, beauty and ugliness.
Critics say the rules are meant to be so vague that the authorities can justify blocking anything, as circumstances dictate.
The tightening of content censorship is the general trend, but for content creators, they never know where exactly the lines lie, said Gao Ming, who until recently produced a satirical podcast on current affairs called Radio HiLight.
Like others, Mr. Gao acknowledged softening his commentaries to avoid trouble, trying to work around, or one step ahead of, the censors.
For profit or in pursuit of art, many performers and producers have learn to live with the partys limitations.
Ms. Song, the writer, works mostly in a literary genre known as danmei that has become hugely popular among young women.
Taking its inspiration from Japanese stories and manga, it typically involves homoerotic romances.
Songs work is often serialized, with readers paying for new chapters as they are posted on one of the biggest publishing sites, Jinjiang Literature City.
If I want to publish it, she said of her work, then I need to follow the rules.
Ms. Song, who lives in Wuhan, an enormous city in central China, said some of her chapters have been blocked because sensitive keywords appeared in high frequency.
Usually, she then edits enough of those words out to get her writing past the censors and to her readers.
Ms. Song said she was not particularly worried about the new regulations.
Authors cannot use their works to encourage or incite criminal acts, especially among younger readers, she said.
Literature, after all, has a guiding effect.
The Treasurys schedule of financing this week includes Mondays regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.03 percent.
The rate on the six-month issue was 1.19 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.97 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues, valued at $50 million or more, are scheduled for pricing this week:

MONDAY

Florida Board of Education Lottery, $290 million of revenue bonds.
Competitive.
Florida Department of Environmental Protection, $75 million of tax allocation bonds.
Competitive.
TUESDAY

Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, $514 million of revenue bonds.
Competitive.
Palm Beach County School Board, Fla., $149 million of certificates of participation.
Competitive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Washington, $435 million of general obligation unlimited tax bonds.
Competitive.
WEDNESDAY

Minnesota, $820 million of general obligation unlimited tax bonds.
Competitive.
Chris Aronson, Foxs president of domestic distribution, noted that The Secret Service had the benefit of Valentines Day falling on its opening Saturday, which undoubtedly boosted results.
It was also Presidents Day weekend, and so Im really happy that The Golden Circle  with no holiday boost  opened to a bigger number, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You also need to look at the global story, Mr. Aronson continued.
There is significant growth overseas.
Indeed, The Golden Circle vastly improved on the results for its franchise predecessor in countries like Britain, Australia and Russia.
In total, The Golden Circle collected $61 million at the foreign box office over the weekend.
At home, second place for the weekend went to It (Warner Bros.), which collected about $30 million, for an astounding three-week domestic total of $266.3 million.
This movie has turned into the definition of a zeitgeist hit, said Jeff Goldstein, Warners president of domestic distribution.
The worldwide total for It now stands at $478 million.
But Warner stumbled with The Lego Ninjago Movie, which arrived in third place with $21.2 million in ticket sales  sharply less than box office analysts had predicted going into the weekend.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It was a much younger audience than we were hoping for, Mr. Goldstein said, noting that 46 percent of the Ninjago audience was under 18.
The movie played in 4,047 domestic theaters and cost roughly $70 million to make, not including marketing.
The animated Ninjago, based on a ninja-themed line of toys, is part of a Lego-based cinematic universe that Warner has called a business pillar, with additional original installments and sequels exploring different genres planned for the next decade.
But the future of the Lego movie franchise is now a serious question.
The first Lego movie arrived to a whopping $69 million in ticket sales in 2014.
A Batman-themed follow-up had $53 million earlier this year.
And now comes Ninjago with $21.2 million.
The free-fall does not bode well for The Lego Movie 2, which is scheduled for release in 2019.
Many people in Hollywood say the reason for declining returns is obvious: Warner, in search of franchises, released too many Lego movies too quickly.
Ninjago may also have suffered from lackluster reviews, niche subject matter and a feeling among consumers that the property best lives on television; Cartoon Network has found success with the animated series Lego Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu.
Also of note over the weekend:

Battle of the Sexes (Fox Searchlight), set in the 1970s and starring Emma Stone and Steve Carell as tennis rivals, arrived in 21 theaters in seven cities and took in about $525,000, a solid result.
Results were also strong for Victoria and Abdul, which was released by Focus Features in four theaters and collected $152,000.
The film stars Judi Dench as Queen Victoria and Ali Fazal as a young Indian associate.
Stronger (Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions), the well-reviewed story of Jeff Bauman, who lost both his legs above the knee in the terrorist bombings of the Boston Marathon in 2013, arrived on 574 screens and collected $1.75 million.
Jake Gyllenhaal plays Mr. Bauman.
The debate over any visit proved irrelevant, however, when Mr. Trump weighed in on the subject with a tweet on Saturday.
The response from players was swift.
Several players in both leagues condemned the announcement, in a throwback of sorts to the days when political statements by star athletes like Muhammad Ali, Bill Russell, Tommie Smith and John Carlos were more common.
Potentially the boldest response to Mr. Trump came from the Warriors chief rival, LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers:

Mr. Curry was also supported by Chris Paul, the Houston Rockets point guard, who also happens to be the president of the N.B.A.s players association.
While Mr. Curry has yet to respond, his teammate, the outspoken Draymond Green, unsurprisingly weighed in.
As an organization, the Warriors were far more politically reserved than Mr. Green, saying in a statement, In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that well constructively use our trip to the nations capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No stranger to controversy involving Mr. Trump, Jemele Hill, the ESPN host, also supported Mr. Curry.
Ms. Hill was recently embroiled in a debate centered on her reference to the president as a white supremacist, and his offices call for her firing.
Mr. Trump has found just as swift a response from players and personalities connected to the N.F.L.
over his comments about players like Colin Kaepernick who have sat or knelt during the national anthem to protest the treatment of black people by the police.
At a rally in Alabama, Trump said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these N.F.L.
owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
Hes fired!
Hes fired!
Among the players to respond to Trumps statements was Chris Conley, a wide receiver for the Kansas City Chiefs.
In a series of strongly-worded tweets, Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, said he was fine with being fired for what he believes in and rejected the labels put on players by the president.
Richard Sherman, the outspoken Seattle Seahawks cornerback, said:

The topic seemed to elicit opinions from all over, with Sean Combs, the businessman and music mogul, asking N.F.L.
players to make a statement before tomorrows games.
And none other than Ed Asner, the 87-year-old actor, tackled the subject.
Amid all the chaos online, Ayesha Curry, the wife of Stephen, took the high road in the matter, refocusing the discussion on bigger events going on around the world.
These suddenly chic survival satchels, also known as go bags, are typically lightweight military-grade backpacks stocked with provisions for at least 72 hours.
Ready-made bug-out bags containing staples like water purification tablets, a 20-hour body warmer and a multifunction shovel are available on Amazon for under than $200.
Hard-core preppers, however, would never leave their survival up to a mouse click, which is why some sites suggest endless creative tweaks to the standard equipment.
Graywolf Survival recommends a chain-saw blade stashed in an Altoids tin to harvest firewood.
Survival Life touts feminine hygiene products, even for men, to soak up blood from wounds.
As long as the gear gets the job done, thats what matters, said Andrew Pontius, a marketing consultant and disaster preparedness instructor in Kansas City, Mo., who helps run a site called Bug Out Bag Academy.
Go for the Silver

Two years ago, Greece was forced to shutter banks and limit A.T.M.
withdrawals to 60 euros a day during a debt crisis that threatened to shatter Europes currency union.
In the United States, prominent authors like James Rickards, a hedge fund veteran, and David Stockman, once the budget director for the Reagan administration, insist that an even bigger crisis will soon tank Wall Street and torpedo the dollar.
No wonder so many preppers, some of them wearing pinstriped suits, consider gold and silver to be a crucial hedge against a crisis.
While Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies make news, many preppers are quietly packing their bug-out bags with rolls of pre-1965 American dimes, quarters or half-dollars, which are 90 percent silver and available from coin dealers and precious-metals websites (silver is currently about $17 an ounce).
My preferred form of precious metal post-financial collapse, that is, besides high-speed lead, wrote one prepper on SurvivalistBoards.com.
Unlike gold, which is hovering around $1,300 an ounce, these old silver coins come in small enough denominations to barter for a loaf of bread or a socket wrench in an economic Mad Max scenario.
Even so, some survivalists remain silver skeptics.
For $100, lets say you get five silver coins, said an urban preparedness expert who goes by the nom de guerre Selco.
Why not buy 100 cans of soup?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

3.
Alt-Currencies for the Apocalypse

Imagine a true economic apocalypse, one that makes the German hyperinflation of the 1920s, with its wheelbarrows of near-worthless paper currency, look like a hiccup.
To prepare for the worst worst-case scenario, some doomers prefer daily staples like tampons, vegetable seeds and cigarettes (that timeless prison medium of exchange) to silver or gold as an alt-currency.
Liquor, too  particularly in easy-to-swap airline bottles  would likely prove a hot commodity, since it not only deadens the pain of surviving in a post-apocalyptic wasteland, but, as a blogger named Survival Mom points out, also provides useful off-label functions as a disinfectant or an ingredient in herbal remedy tinctures.
Visions of a barter economy are not necessarily the stuff of doomer fever dreams, said Xavier Thomas, who runs the British site MoreThanJustSurviving.com with his wife, Elise.
If we look at examples of systematic social breakdowns, like Argentina in 2001, or the war in the Balkans, goods that people understood on an intrinsic level clearly carried the most value when trading  cans of food, gas, batteries, cheap Bic lighters, he said.
A good rule of thumb: If youd find it useful in an emergency, youll be able to find someone who will trade for it in an emergency.
Beyond Duck and Cover

When President Trump issued his threat to North Korea at the United Nations, many preppers had an almost Pavlovian response: to check their nuclear survival kit.
Ever since the backyard bomb shelter went the way of tail fins, survival in the face of mushroom clouds has seemed highly relative.
Some preppers place their faith in unproven home remedies, like bedsheets dusted with baby powder, which they hope will block X-rays, or generous helpings of turmeric mixed with black pepper, to inhibit tumor formation.
Others turn to basics, like Geiger counters, wallet-size RAD badges, potassium iodide tablets or a Seychelle radiological family water pitcher, which the manufacturer claims will filter out 99.99 percent of the major contaminants that can be found after a nuclear event.
Or people may just want to stock up on Snuggies, chocolate Easter bunnies, Hummel figurines or vintage Backstreet Boys paraphernalia, which will do about as much good in the event of a direct strike.
The Other Bug-Out Bag

In the event of apocalypse, bring condoms.
This may sound like a slogan from a fraternity party T-shirt, but survivalists absolutely adore condoms.
Featherweight, ultracompact and durable, condoms (nonlubricated, please) can be used as a makeshift canteen to store water, a fire starter or as elastic bands for an improvised slingshot to hunt small game, according to Creek Stewart, a survival instructor and television host.
When inflated, they can also be used as fishing bobbers or signaling devices for semaphore, according to SensiblePrepper.
Oh, and theyre also great for the obvious use, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

6.
Armed to the Teeth, but With What?
Photo

Should law and order on the streets break down after, say, a massive hurricane or nuclear-reactor meltdown, that condom slingshot might come in handy in New York, where possession of the most fundamental survivalist self-defense staple  the gun  is highly restricted by law.
(The same goes for brass knuckles, nunchucks, ninja stars, switchblade knives, wrist-brace slingshots and, that D.I.Y.
prepper favorite, a paint ball pistol loaded with ghost-chili-powder balls.)
So what is a defenseless, law-abiding survivalist to do?
Prepper bibles like 100 Deadly Skills, by Clint Emerson, a former Navy SEAL, are filled with improvised alternative weapons, like a collapsible umbrella lined with wrenches, which is not illegal to possess, a New York City Police Department spokesman said, but would be considered a weapon if you used it on someone.
Sure, you could master jiu-jitsu.
But if its really on, hand-to-hand self-defense will only take you so far, said Jason Charles, a firefighter and organizer of the New York City Preppers Network.
To balance legality with lethality in a bug-out bag, he said, you have to go simpler  hammers, hatchets, certain heavy tools.
That roll of old silver quarters might come in handy, too.
Paddling to Safety

Photo

Manhattanites face challenges unknown to their Western counterparts hunkering in remote desert bunkers.
Their home turf, after all, is not only a prime target, but an island.
In the event of a cataclysmic emergency, bridges and tunnels may be closed, or choked off by marauding mobs, forcing survivors to consider waterborne escape.
A lightweight, folding kayak like the Oru Beach LT is a savvy, albeit expensive option ($1,299), since it weighs 30 pounds (easy enough to tote to the Hudson River if Lyft is offline) and collapses to the size of a suitcase  perfect for those tiny Upper West Side closets.
Sure, kayak pros counsel against newbies attempting a Hudson crossing.
There are strong tidal currents, few places to safely launch or land, and an abundance of commercial and ferry transit traffic, said Randall Henriksen of the New York Kayak Company.
But if the choice is armed mobs or choppy waters, many New Yorkers may reach for a paddle.
Deliverance From Above

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, many cubicle dwellers have been haunted by fears of being stuck in a skyscraper when disaster strikes.
In fact, tragic images from the World Trade Center inspired a micro-industry of high-rise-escape options.
There are now escape chutes (basically, giant collapsible fabric tubes for shinnying down) and small parachutes.
Photo

The SOS Parachute (about $2,400) is compact enough to store in a cubicle, opens in about two seconds and is designed to work for the 11th floor and higher.
Granted, the parachute is exactly not 82nd Airborne-grade, and a 200-pound man might find the landing a little rough.
You may twist an ankle, said Nicolas Havett, a company executive.
But in a situation serious enough to warrant a parachute, thats a deal that many would take.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

9. Who Are You Calling Rocket Man?
Photo

They were a science-fiction fantasy in the Bond movie Thunderball, a space-age gag in Gilligans Island.
But a half-century later, jet packs actually exist.
A California company called JetPack Aviation unveiled a functioning turbojet version two years ago, capable of staying aloft for 10 minutes, traveling at speeds up to 100 miles per hour.
Current models are available only to the military, but David Mayman, the companys founder, said he plans to introduce a commercial version within 18 months.
Hard-core doomers need not drain their airplane-liquor-bottle stash to envision the potential: Imagine New York after, say, an electromagnetic pulse attack that wipes out the power grid (like the kind North Korea recently threatened).
The bridges and streets resemble a scene from the old John Carpenter movie Escape From New York, but the privileged few can soar across the Hudson to safety (or at least New Jersey).
From the time you push the button, you could be in the air in less than 30 seconds, Mr. Mayman said.
Sure, there is the cost  about $250,000, which the company is hoping to bring down to the price of a luxury car.
For now, just think of it as the survivalists Maybach.
No Place Like Dome

Photo

Sandy was not the first hurricane to devastate entire sections of New York.
In 1893, a hurricane blew through the city with such force that it wiped an entire island  Hog Island, a glittering resort near the Rockaways  off the map.
In the event of a megadisaster that leaves parts of the city uninhabitable, survivors might require cheap, stormproof shelter to start a new life.
In the best of times, prefabricated dome shelters receive high marks from environmentalists and penny pinchers alike because of their low cost and minimal environmental impact.
A company called Intershelter sells igloo-shape pleasure domes that call to mind Luke Skywalkers old pad on Tatooine, but cost only $12,000 for one big enough to include a kitchen; it can be thrown together in a few hours, to make an instant hunting or fishing lodge.
But in the worst of times, this dome, built to sustain hurricane strength winds or earthquakes, makes great relief housing for disaster victims and, in theory, would make great bug-out bunkers for urbanites looking to build a survivalist compound on the fly.
The dome houses are so rugged, according the companys founder, Don Kubley, you could buy one today and your grandkids will be playing in it.
One can only hope.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Should disaster not strike?
They make a great man cave or backyard cabana.
Pets or Meat

In the event of a breakdown of the food supply that leaves the shelves of Fairway bare and Le Coucou a ghost town on a Saturday night, you will still have to eat.
Often.
That is why many survivalists are placing their hopes of sustenance in rabbit, a high-protein, low-fat meat that is also being embraced as the new chicken by sustainable food types including Michael Pollan.
Raising meat rabbits is one of the most space-efficient means of growing livestock for meat, according to the site Survivalist 101.
By livestock standards, rabbits are relatively clean and quiet, too.
They can survive on table-scrap vegetables or even grass, and as a bonus, yield valuable fur for improvised winter clothing.
And boy do they breed.
A doe can produce up to 50 kits a year, yielding 250 pounds of meat, according to researchers at the Penn State Extension.
Beyond Medieval Times

To master archery and broadsword combat; to learn to manufacture fabric, bread, ceramic cookware and wood furniture by hand; to perfect the preindustrial arts of iron craft and tanning: Yes, there are worse things to carry into a post-apocalyptic world than a membership card to the Society for Creative Anachronism.
In normal times, this international historical-re-enactment organization seems like little more than a harmless bunch of Renaissance Faire types playing dress up on weekends and celebrating the arts, skills and costumes of pre-17th-century Europe.
But should Armageddon arrive  say, in the form of a limited nuclear exchange, global pandemic or cyber mega-attack  these hobbies could mean your survival.
In other words, chivalry may not be dead after all.
The Final Frontier

There is bugging out, and then there is really bugging out.
In a scorched-earth scenario where even a jet pack is not enough to escape harms way, preppers with deep pockets and a taste for Arthur C. Clarke might consider the ultimate escape: launching their DNA into space.
Celestis, a company specializing in memorial spaceflights (sending cremated remains into space), recently introduced genetic spaceflight.
For $12,500, for example, the cosmologically minded can send their DNA (a mouth swab or hair sample) into space on a true mission of exploration, aboard a spacecraft on a permanent celestial journey well beyond the moon.
Who knows  some ultra-intelligent alien being may discover it in the future, and use your genetic code to reanimate a race of humans on a distant planet.
Lets just hope those humans dont choose to blow themselves up.
Photo

A festering contract dispute between Disney and the nations fourth-largest cable distributor broke into public view on Friday night, with Disney warning ESPN and ABC viewers in New York Citys suburbs that those channels could go dark as soon as Oct. 1 if no deal is reached.
In response, the cable distributor, Altice USA, which has millions of customers on Long Island and in New Jersey and Connecticut, released a blistering statement accusing Disney of making outrageous pricing demands.
Stop the threats, the statement said.
Focus on negotiating an agreement that is fair.
Disney then fired back.
In a statement of its own, Disney took issue with Altices characterization of its pricing requests  particularly regarding ABC  and painted the cable distributor as greedy.
Photo

At issue is how much Altice pays for the right to distribute Disney-owned channels, which include ABC, ESPN, ESPN2, Freeform, Disney Channel and Disney XD.
The Walt Disney Company and Altice, which is owned by a European conglomerate, have been negotiating for months with little progress.
Disney is seeking price increases that amount to hundreds of millions of dollars, analysts say.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Spats of this sort are not unusual.
In 2010, Disney and Cablevision  since acquired by Altice  sparred in a similar manner; a new contract materialized only after Disney temporarily pulled ABC from Cablevision customers in the New York area.
During that dispute, Disney told viewers in commercials to email Cablevision and say, Lose my shows, lose my business!
Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the board had determined that withdrawing the reclassification was in the best interests of Facebook and its shareholders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision to drop the stock reclassification bucks a trend for technology chief executives who have structured their stock to gain outsize control over their company, often at the cost of common shareholder input.
Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who founded Google, and Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy of Snap are among those who hold a disproportionate share of voting power over their companies.
The impetus for the stock reclassification came after Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. Priscilla Chan, his wife, celebrated the birth of their first daughter, Maxima.
The couple used the occasion to found the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a limited liability company that acts as the main vehicle for the couple to give away their wealth over the coming years.
The idea was that it would allow me to keep voting control of Facebook so we can continue to build for the long term, but also allow Priscilla and me to fund the work were doing through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement posted on his personal Facebook page on Friday.
At the time, I felt that this reclassification was the best way to do both of these things, he said.
In fact, I thought it was the only way.
But I also knew it was going to be complicated and it wasnt a perfect solution.
Mr. Zuckerberg and a spokeswoman for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative said the stock reclassification was no longer necessary.
The chief executive noted that because of Facebooks strong stock performance, I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more.
He said he planned to sell 35 million to 75 million shares over the next 18 months to finance work in fields like education and science.
This path offers a way to do all of this, and Im looking forward to making more progress together, Mr. Zuckerberg said.
Text posted with the video on YouTube said, Russia is waging war on the U.S.  Morgan Freeman explains why we need to pay attention before its too late.
Mr. Freeman looks at the camera and intones: We have been attacked.
We are at war.
In the video, Mr. Freeman accuses Mr. Putin, the Russian president, of secretly using cyberwarfare around the world like the true K.G.B.
spy he is.
The Russians have used propaganda and false information to undermine world democracies and to sow distrust of their news media, their political processes and even their neighbors, Mr. Freeman continues, often pausing for dramatic effect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We need our president to speak directly to us and tell us the truth, he says.
Then, taking a seat behind a desk, Mr. Freeman outlines remarks that he says President Trump ought to make.
Mr. Freeman is no stranger to presidential politics  at least of the fictional kind.
In the 2013 movie Olympus Has Fallen, he played a speaker of the House who becomes the acting president after the president and vice president are taken hostage during an attack on the White House.
But Mr. Freemans dabbling in real-world politics provoked sharply worded criticisms from Russian officials and news outlets.
The BBC reported that the Rossiya 24 news channel had assembled psychiatrists who attributed his comments to a Messianic complex resulting from playing God in several films.
Vadim Zavodchenkov, a weatherman for the channel, said Mr. Freeman was ill because of overwork and marijuana use.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Putins press secretary, Dmitri S. Peskov, said the accusations in the video were groundless and of an exclusively emotional character, the BBC reported.
Representatives for Mr. Freeman did not respond to emails on Friday evening.
Rob Reiner, the actor and producer, announced the creation of the Committee to Investigate Russia this week on Twitter.
He described it as trying to help Americans recognize and understand the gravity of Russias continuing attacks on our democracy.
Congressional committees are investigating, among other things, the Russian governments involvement in the election through an extensive social media campaign, targeted online ads and other methods.
Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, is also investigating connections between Russia and Mr. Trump and his associates, including whether they conspired to influence the election.
On Twitter on Friday, Mr. Trump called the investigations a hoax and said the Fake News Media wielded the greatest influence by supporting the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton.
Photo

Law firms already elbowing one another for multinational clients will soon have a new competitor: The Big Four accounting firm PwC, formerly known as PricewaterhouseCoopers, plans to open a law firm in Washington, D.C., next week.
The law firm, ILC Legal, will advise clients on international matters such as corporate restructuring.
Its lawyers will act as special legal consultants, rather than fully licensed United States lawyers, allowing them to provide counsel on foreign law but not United States law.
ILC Legal, nonetheless, aims to vie with big law firms as a one-stop shop offering multinational companies access to other PwC services, including tax consulting and its network of 3,200 lawyers spread across 90 countries.
The firms in that network operate separately but follow the same standards and practices under the PwC brand name.
We wont be a traditional law firm, where legal services are offered in isolation, but one part of a broader offering, said Richard J. Edmundson, a British solicitor based in London who is PwCs leader of international business reorganizations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Edmundson will lead the new firm.
There will be five international lawyers and myself, from London, he said in a phone interview on Friday.
They are Spanish, Canadian, Polish and German attorneys who have been practicing at PwC network member firms outside of the U.S.
Jewelry, of course, has an intrinsic value.
Its made of gems like diamonds, emeralds, rubies and sapphires and set in metals like platinum, gold and silver that are valuable in their own right.
Many pieces also have sentimental value, having come from family members or been given on a special occasion.
But the pieces with the most investment potential have a level of craftsmanship in addition to scarcity that makes them stand out from the beautiful baubles that are produced year after year  and appreciate beyond the value of their metals and gems.
These are not the run-of-the-mill pieces that mall jeweler might sell.
In fact, people buying these pieces would be hard-pressed to see significant appreciation over time.
Photo

You can melt the metal and take out the stones, but when you talk about collectible jewelry, you want to make sure the provenance of the piece is provable, said Muffie Potter Aston, a New York socialite and former executive vice president of marketing and advertising for Van Cleef & Arpels.
She singled out a pink tourmaline ring designed by Paloma Picasso for Tiffany.
When she showed it to an appraiser, she said, He said you couldnt buy that pink tourmaline alone today for what you paid for the ring 10 years ago.
Alison Minton, a philanthropist in Manhattan, bought a limited edition Alhambra necklace by Van Cleef & Arpels in malachite 10 years ago.
The clover style of the necklace has become well known, but the company made only 100 of the necklaces and numbered each one.
Ms. Minton sold it recently for more than $12,000, which was double what she had paid for it.
It was a great investment, and I wore it, she said.
From her grandmother, who was part of the family that founded Bloomingdales, she inherited a rarer piece of jewelry  with a better story.
In 1964, her grandmother went to the Worlds Fair in Queens; when she came home, her apartment had been burglarized and her jewelry was gone.
Instead of trying to replace the stolen items, she bought a single piece: an 18-karat gold bracelet with rubies and sapphires from Tiffany.
It cost about $400 at the time.
When Ms. Minton took it to Tiffany for a repair in 2002, the jeweler valued it at $9,000.
I dont know what its worth today, she said.
I dont wear it often because its so special.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the annals of rare jewelry for sale sits Pope Paul VIs ring and cross.
After the pontiff addressed the United Nations General Assembly in 1965, he donated his diamond-encrusted papal ring and diamond and emerald cross to the U.N., so they could be sold to help the poor.
At one point, the stunt driver Evel Knievel owned them.
Bill Rau of M.S.
Rau Antiques said he had acquired the set through a couple in North Carolina.
It is priced at $1.9 million.
Photo

But although the set is one of a kind  and contains what Mr. Rau estimated to be $1.1 million of stones  he has been trying to sell it since 2014, showing that even unique jewelry can also be illiquid.
Like any object, from art to cars to jewelry, the fallback position if the investment fails is to consider the aesthetics of the piece.
And thats a benefit, because sometimes the jewelry turns out to be worth less than the value of its stones and metal because of that very same uniqueness.
It could be difficult to wear or it could be valuable but out of fashion.
David Webb, a jewelry maker active in the 1950s to early 1970s, designed a necklace with 682 karats of opals and used smaller emeralds and diamonds to separate the pearl-shaped stones.
The 36-inch necklace is for sale at $335,000.
For people approaching jewelry for investment purposes, strategy and advice count for a lot.
First, they have to think of the brand.
There are a half-dozen jewelry designers that are known worldwide for their quality.
That recognition makes reselling their jewelry easier.
Every time something from the 1920s, 1950s and 1970s from Van Cleef, Cartier, Boucheron comes up for auction, they always do significantly better than they did the first time around, Mr. Kadakia of Christies said.
Of course, not all brands make great pieces all of the time (and many lesser-known designers have produced fantastic pieces, like Mr. Webbs opal necklace, that stand out).
But for the big houses, time periods matter for investing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Of all the periods people want to collect, I always tell them Art Deco of the 1920s and 1930s, said Diane Lloyde Roth, owner of LArmoire, a store in New Canaan, Conn., that has been selling investment-quality jewelry for three decades.
It was probably the most beautiful period of all in jewelry production.
Photo

She recalled some of the pieces she sold to Anne Lichtblau, a philanthropist who died last year.
Mrs. Lichtblau bought a Van Cleef mystery set ruby bracelet for $140,000 in 2003; her estate sold it at auction last year for $348,500.
Mrs. Lichtblau also bought a 1920s emerald, ruby and diamond bracelet by Oscar Heyman & Brothers in 1998 for $90,000.
It sold for $223,500 at auction last year.
She always wanted Art Deco, Ms. Roth said.
She bought what she loved, but she spent real money on jewelry.
Scarcity is important.
Colored diamonds fit into this category because they are not as plentiful as white diamonds.
Ms. Minton said she bought a bracelet from Verdura that the jeweler had made as a prototype  and jokes that she keeps checking with the jeweler to make sure it hasnt made another one.
The location where a jeweler made a piece can also affect its value.
For instance, vintage Cartier pieces made in France are worth more than Cartier pieces made in New York, Ms. Roth said.
When it comes to Tiffany, which of the jewelers designers made the piece matters considerably.
Pieces made by Jean Schlumberger in the 1950s and 60s are more valuable than other Tiffany pieces from the same time because of his style but also his limited production.
And jewelry made by Louis Comfort Tiffany, son of the company founder Charles Tiffany, from the 1880s to 1910 commands a greater premium still.
He is known for his stained-glass lamps and precious objects, but Mr. Rau said he made about 100 pieces of jewelry as well.
Yet that scarcity and a lack of knowledge among buyers increases the need to be aware of fakes.
I go to the cities where people have worn Tiffany or Van Cleef through the years, and family members have sold them, said Allison Weiss Brady, a fund-raiser in New York.
One of the keys is buying it from someone you trust, she said.
But even then, she asks for documents proving the pieces history and also the basics on the gemstones.
Contemporary jewelry is a tougher market for buyers to predict investment potential.
The top houses are still producing exceptional pieces, but given the high cost of metals and stones, many of the pieces are lighter and less intricate than a generation ago.
When all of your raw materials go up, somethings got to give somewhere, Ms. Roth said.
There are exceptions, like the Parisian designer JAR, the initials of Joel Arthur Rosenthal.
When Ellen Barkin, the actress, sold jewelry given to her by her ex-husband, the billionaire Ronald O. Perelman, she had 17 pieces by JAR, who produces fewer than 100 pieces a year.
One pair of JAR earrings at last years auction fetched $1.8 million.
At sunup he moved to the backyard to photograph the volcanic explosion.
New Dawn, one of Mr. Turners phantasmagorical pictures, portrays lava in shades of yellow, orange and red, spraying in a fluid arc as if an unseen hand were directing it leftward over the volcano.
By underexposing his shots, he made the colors become more saturated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was like being in the center of a science fiction movie, he said on his website.
Donald Peter Turner was born in Albany on May 30, 1934.
His father, Donald, was the leader of a 23-piece touring band that was based for a while in Montreal.
His mother, the former Ruth Murray, was a homemaker.
Fascinated by photography from a young age, he was developing color pictures by age 14.
I love black and white photography, but somehow I got seduced by color, he told Photo District News in 2000.
I remember going to the art supply store as a kid and looking at watercolor paint boxes and thinking, These are beautiful.
After graduating from the Rochester Institute of Technology, where Mr. Uelsmann was among his classmates, Mr. Turner was drafted into the Army.
He served primarily at a combat photographic center in Astoria, Queens, where he ran the photo lab and experimented with a new type of color printing.
He was occasionally sent by the Army on assignments, like photographing rockets in Florida; he also found subjects to photograph in Manhattan on weekends.
After his discharge, he joined the Freelance Photographers Guild and went on a monthslong assignment for the Airstream trailer company, following a caravan of 43 vehicles traveling from South Africa to Egypt.
The sojourn whetted his appetite for more work in Africa and gave him a vivid portfolio that helped him secure assignments from Esquire, Look, Sports Illustrated and Holiday magazines, as well as from advertisers and Hollywood films  he was on set for Cleopatra (1963) and The Night of the Iguana (1964).
Photo

More than half of all American teenagers are getting vaccinated against human papillomavirus, and the rate is rising over time, according to a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sixty percent of adolescents received one or more doses of the HPV vaccine in 2016, an increase of 4 percentage points from 2015, researchers found.
About a decade ago, the figure was less than 30 percent.
Were really encouraged to see this finding, said Shannon Stokley, a co-author of the report and associate director for science at the Immunization Services Division of the C.D.C.
The vaccine protects against strains of HPV that can cause cancers of the cervix, penis, anus and back of the throat.
Close to half of all Americans are infected at any given time, and nearly 32,000 get cancer from the virus each year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

About 90 percent of those cases could be prevented with the vaccine, according to the C.D.C.
The agency used to recommend three doses, but new guidelines introduced last year amended that to two doses for adolescents younger than age 15.
He focused more on detailing, and explaining, shifting trends in American life: the generation gap of the 1960s, the rise of the womens movement in the 1970s, the neoconservatism of many young people in the 1980s, the emergence of a me first self-indulgence in the 1990s, and in recent years a widespread feeling that Americans have no voice in the decisions that affect their lives.
People feel they dont have that voice, that they are not consulted, theyre not listened to, their views dont really count, Mr. Yankelovich told Bill Moyers in a 2002 PBS interview.
But he offered a suggestion:

We find when we bring average Americans together that they listen to one another, that they can contribute and that they can build, develop a vision of what they want our society to be like.
And its really inspiring.
The author of a dozen books and many articles for newspapers, magazines and academic journals, Mr. Yankelovich lectured at Harvard, the New School in New York, the University of California at San Diego and other universities, and was on the boards of corporations and cultural organizations.
In the 1970s, he began The New York Times/Yankelovich poll and developed many survey techniques that The Times and CBS News later jointly used in their coverage of politics and public opinion polling.
In 1975, Mr. Yankelovich and Cyrus R. Vance, who was later President Carters secretary of state, founded Public Agenda, a nonprofit foundation that used opinion research and town-hall meetings to engage public officials, educators and citizens on questions of foreign and domestic policy.
Photo

While Mr. Yankelovich was not a doctrinaire liberal, he expressed dismay at what he saw as the decline of progressive traditions, and often called for greater social responsibility on the part of government and corporate America.
But he also sounded conservative themes in speeches and interviews, praising the work ethic, calling for welfare reforms and lamenting a loss of old-fashioned respect.
He was highly regarded by colleagues for his professional ethics, his imaginative and well-documented polling surveys and the quality of his statistical analyses.
But critics sometimes faulted him, saying he worked too fast on complex data, used too much social-scientific jargon in his writing and expressed a habitual optimism that bordered on Pollyanna-ism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some of his books were extended arguments, often exhortatory, for self-improvement or for conflict resolution; others were expressions of confidence in democracy or the virtue of ethics in business affairs.
The titles reflected his hopeful outlook: New Rules: Searching for Self-Fulfillment in a World Turned Upside Down (1981), Coming to Public Judgment: Making Democracy Work in a Complex World (1991), The Magic of Dialogue: Transforming Conflict Into Cooperation (1999), and Profit With Honor: The New Shape of Market Capitalism (2006).
In 2012, Mr. Yankelovich founded the Yankelovich Center for Social Science Research at the University of California at San Diego.
He later endowed the center with a multimillion-dollar bequest.
Daniel Yankelovich was born in Boston on Dec. 29, 1924, one of two children of Frederick Yankelovich and the former Sadie Mostow.
His mother died when he was a boy, and his father, a real estate salesman, became a house painter during the Great Depression.
He graduated from Boston Latin School and enrolled at Harvard, but left for Army service in World War II.
Returning to Harvard, he earned a bachelors degree in 1946 and a masters in 1950.
After two years in Paris studying at the Sorbonne, he returned without a doctorate and went to work for a market research firm in Connecticut.
He spent six years learning the ropes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Opinion polling was still unsophisticated at the time: Interviewees were not necessarily representative, poll questions contained hidden biases, the data was muddled.
Political polls often got it right, but research on consumer preferences and public policy was trickier.
Mr. Yankelovich had some new ideas.
In 1958 he founded Daniel Yankelovich Inc. in New York, which made his reputation.
One of his first projects was a poll of 300 carefully selected consumers in four regions about imported goods, an idea prompted by the opening in 1959 of the St. Lawrence Seaway, which made it possible to ship directly to the Midwest at lower costs.
He found wide interest in imports and cited an unprecedented opportunity for foreign producers to build up greater consumer acceptance for their goods in this country.
In 1959, Mr. Yankelovich married Hasmieg Kaboolian.
The couple had one daughter, Nicole, and were divorced.
In 1991, he married a researcher, Mary Komarnicki.
She was killed in 1995 in a car accident in San Diego in which Mr. Yankelovich was injured.
He later married Barbara Lee; they were separated at his death.
In recent years he lived with his companion, Dr. Laura Nathanson, at White Sands La Jolla, a retirement community.
Besides his daughter, Nicole, and Dr. Nathanson, his immediate survivors include a granddaughter and a sister, Libby Schenkman.
Photo

The survey on imported goods was widely publicized, and the Yankelovich agency was soon flourishing.
By 1963, he was measuring the effectiveness of television advertising.
Volunteers watched commercials; were given money to shop in a mock supermarket, either buying advertised products or keeping the money; and were then questioned about their choices.
This provided data on sales and on the rationale behind purchases.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He was among the first, in the 1960s, to refer to the postwar generation as baby boomers, and he tracked their lives  from hula-hoops, coonskin caps and Barbie dolls to their rise to success in educated two-earner families and beyond.
In their mature years, he found a nameless yearning for deeper meaning, which he called submerged idealism, lying just below the surface of the pragmatism and calculation.
Mr. Yankelovich developed the concept of segmenting test markets by lifestyle rather than by demographics alone.
He also expanded his analyses to include social and cultural trends and began publishing annual surveys that tracked such changes.
His studies of American youths became the basis for a 1969 CBS television news special, Generations Apart.
Later surveys focused on college students attitudes and drug use.
By 1970, Yankelovich had become one of the largest market-research companies in the country, with a client list that included CBS, The New York Times, Fortune magazine, AT&T, General Electric, I.B.M., General Motors, Procter & Gamble, RCA, Volkswagen of America and the United States government.
The company became Yankelovich, Skelly & White in 1974, in recognition of the contributions by the executive vice presidents Florence Skelly and Arthur White.
Saatchi & Saatchi, the advertising agency, later bought the company, but Mr. Yankelovich remained chairman until 1986, when he formed a new firm, Daniel Yankelovich Group.
Conducting research for President Clinton in the 1990s, Mr. Yankelovich helped him begin a reinventing government project that was intended to make government leaner and more relevant to citizens.
The approach stole a march on Republicans, who had painted the Democrats as the party of big government.
With I. M. Destler he edited a collection of essays, Beyond the Beltway: Engaging the Public in U.S. Foreign Policy (1994).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During George W. Bushs presidency, Mr. Yankelovich tracked a long decline in public confidence in Washingtons ability to achieve goals in Iraq and Afghanistan, hunt terrorists, protect American borders and safeguard jobs in a troubled economy.
In the administrations waning days, he found that 85 percent of Americans believed the nation was on the wrong track.
In a speech at the Drucker Institute in Claremont, Calif., in late 2008, Mr. Yankelovich enumerated overwhelming national problems  the financial meltdown, the soaring debt, lost standing in the world, runaway health and education costs  and, typically, offered his vision of a way out of the mess.
He called it The New Pragmatism, and insisted that it would soon spread across America.
Its going to occur, he said, certitude rising in his New England accent, through entrepreneurship and innovative thinking at all levels of society: individual, commercial, public, nonprofit, private, institutional, and all of these in interlocking, interacting ways.
The credit reporting industry exists to take bland numbers, run them through mysterious algorithms and then spit out report cards and scores.
These become final, generally unappealable judgments that dictate the interest rates that consumers pay on mortgages, car loans and anything else that requires borrowing.
Everyone from auto dealers to home loan officers sees the grades that Equifax and its counterparts distribute with the help of a company called FICO.
If youre not up to snuff, a stranger at a desk or counter may inform you to your face that your dream house is out of reach or that you wont have a car to drive to work.
Its going to dawn on people that we are defined by these descriptors, markers and measures, but we have no meaningful informational rights to them or over them, Sarah Bloom Raskin, who served as deputy Treasury secretary during the Obama administration, said in an email this week.
The credit reporting industry begins with a sort of entrapment, said Amanda Steinberg, chief executive of DailyWorth, a financial website geared toward women, when we discussed the breach this week.
If you want to do business with just about any financial services company, you must agree to allow it to report your payment history to the credit reporting agencies.
This is reasonable in theory: An accurate central repository of data ought to make getting credit easier and cheaper.
But there does not appear to be any way to step out of the system unless you can live a life completely free of the need for credit, mobile phones and many jobs (since employers often make a credit check a condition of employment).
And if the information in your credit report turns out to be wrong, good luck getting the bureaus to fix it, as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau revealed in a report this year.
The industrys cynical response to its own sloppiness has been to sell highly profitable monitoring services to people who fear errors and identity theft.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Want to get in touch with the credit-reporting agencies about your credit report or the fact that a thief may have a pile of your data?
Good luck.
Zeke Trautenberg, who lives in Los Angeles, spoke to two people answering Equifaxs phones after the breach.
They told him they had no databases of information about what had happened or even any internet access to look simple things up.
Photo

It was kind of like calling into a black box, he said, adding that he had been told: We cant contact anyone at headquarters.
We dont even have their phone number.
The frustration does not end there.
Equifax persisted for days in charging many people for the privilege of freezing their credit files.
Such a freeze is helpful because a new creditor cannot obtain a credit report on a person who has one and thus cannot loan money to a criminal impersonating that person.
Equifax eventually relented and said it would stop charging fees for freezes, even as its horror show of a website was still charging fees days after the announcement.
Richard Russell of the Bronx questioned whether Equifax might have an incentive to be casual about security so that it could turn around later and charge what amounted amounts to protection money.
Isnt that what this credit freeze is essentially?
he asked in an email to me this week.
In many parts of the world, this would be labeled extortion.
It was only when I searched my Equifax-related email for the words fear and scared that I fully understood just how defeated so many people felt about walking around with data leeches permanently attached to their wallets.
Diane Beeney, who lives in York, Neb., said in an interview that she couldnt even bring herself to put the last six digits of her Social Security number into Equifaxs website  which is what the company demanded right off the bat of people who wanted to determine whether their information had been compromised.
Im not very tech savvy, but Im very tech wary, she said.
There is just too much of this stuff out there that nobody has any control over.
For the moment, she has no idea what the status of her data is, because Equifax has not directly informed people who may have been affected by the breach.
It could send them letters, but it has chosen not to so far.
Many of those who have tried to protect themselves in the wake of the breach have been left feeling as though they are not in good hands.
Consider the revelation that the president of Equifaxs information solutions unit in the United States and its chief financial officer sold stock after the breach was discovered but before it was made public.
If they knew about the break-in, they violated insider trading laws.
The company says they did not know.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even if you take Equifax at its word, despite its complete lack of credibility at this point, you are still left to wonder this: In what sort of company would Mr. Information Systems and Mr. Money not be in the loop on a problem like this?
Thats also horrifying, said Cristi Page of San Diego.
Theyre either unethical or theyre incompetent.
Neither of those inspire much confidence.
Imagine that you, like Mr. Schill, were a recent retiree.
You dont want to go back to work if you can help it.
Along comes the Equifax breach.
Soon, you are reading totally frightening but utterly real tales of criminals taking over investment and Social Security accounts, and you wonder about your carefully laid plans.
I dont want to see this go up in smoke, he said.
So what now?
Mr. Smith, Equifaxs chief executive, could be forced out at some point, perhaps to slink off to a cushy role at an investment firm, where his new colleagues will pat him on the back and say: You know, it could have happened to any of us.
The big banks and other companies will continue to hand our data to Equifax, because why wouldnt they?
But maybe they will be worried enough about their own companies potential losses to fraud that they will develop stronger security and identity verification measures that dont depend on the very data that just got stolen.
And could a few of them please step up, abandon the cloak of anonymity and offer some critical words about any part of this debacle?
So far, the only thing Ive heard out of the banks is a note from Citigroup asking that we not use its credit card images in our Equifax reporting.
As for the credit reporting industry, various elected officials and regulators now have it in their sights.
Im all for the free credit freezes that some politicians hope to require, so by all means sign the Identity Theft Resource Centers online petition in support of this cause.
It would be better, though, if officials at the three agencies did not wait to make changes until after they have been forced to march before television cameras in Washington.
Why not act now and make it easy for us to freeze all three of our major credit files at once, for free, without having to sign away our legal rights or subject ourselves to the companies ceaseless spam?
Given that its our data that they have, its high time we gained more control over who uses it and when.
The decision was a rebuke to executives in the American solar industry who had argued against the legitimacy of the case.
The Solar Energy Industries Association has argued that the petition filed with the commission by the companies was deeply flawed and that bad management, not trade injustices, had brought on their problems.
The associations members are concerned that higher prices for imported solar equipment could slow the spread of solar energy in the country.
The decision is disappointing for nearly 9,000 U.S. solar companies and the 260,000 Americans they employ, said Abigail Ross Hopper, the solar energy associations chief executive.
She said the group would seek to prevent damaging trade relief.
The White House did not take a side after the vote but expressed support for solar equipment makers.
The president will examine the facts and make a determination that reflects the best interests of the United States, said Natalie Strom, a White House spokeswoman.
The U.S. solar manufacturing sector contributes to our energy security and economic prosperity.
The petition attracted an unusual level of attention and submissions of letters and data.
It resulted in a staff report of more than 500 pages, said Rhonda K. Schmidtlein, the commissions chairwoman.
The next phase is likely to be no different, trade and energy lawyers said, as various groups look to influence the commissions recommended remedy, which will go to Mr. Trumps desk.
There will be a public hearing on Oct. 3.
Several analysts predicted that tariffs would revive the manufacturing of solar modules, or panels, in the United States, encouraging producers to open or expand American factories, as some large Chinese panel makers are already looking to do.
But others said problems in the market were the result of low prices stemming from a global glut rather than a lack of capacity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At least one American company stands to benefit from tariffs on imports: First Solar, which manufactures overseas and uses a different technology that is not covered by the trade action.
Although companies like Sunrun, which focuses on installing panels on residential rooftops, said they could withstand higher prices, developers of large-scale projects said they were already seeing a slowdown as customers pulled back from committing to deals that could become uneconomical if costs rose.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Scott Canada, a senior vice president at McCarthy Building Companies, said that uncertainty surrounding the case had brought a flurry of business this year to a screeching halt and that the imposition of high tariffs could stall the industry for 18 months or more.
At the same time, the industry is focused on lowering its costs, especially given that an important federal tax credit is set to begin phasing down in 2020.
The dispute stemmed from a trade war between the United States and China that started in 2011.
In that case, SolarWorld Americas, a subsidiary of a now-bankrupt German panel maker, filed a trade complaint along with six other United States solar manufacturers.
They accused Chinese companies of using unfair government subsidies to help sell their merchandise for less than the cost of manufacturing and shipping it.
SolarWorld won the case, as well as a second that included Taiwan, where Chinese manufacturers had turned to avoid anticipated tariffs.
But the result sparked a global race to the bottom on price, Suniva and SolarWorld Americas argued, as manufacturers continued to evade tariffs by opening factories in other low-cost countries.
To end what the petition referred to as a game of Whac-a-Mole, the two companies sought blanket global protections to prevent manufacturers from circumventing tariffs aimed at specific countries, which the commission moved ahead on Friday.
The case relied on a section of United States trade law that has not been used since President George W. Bush levied tariffs on foreign steel in 2002.
In the intervening years, Barack Obamas administration chose to rely more heavily on the World Trade Organization to settle trade disputes.
President Trump and his advisers have argued that the World Trade Organization has been ineffective and slow at resolving trade violations.
They have urged more unilateral action by the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Analysts see a good chance of the presidents taking action to protect the solar industry, given his longtime support for tariffs as a way to protect industries from cheap foreign products, especially from China.
As a result, broad segments of the solar industry say they are worried that the case will determine how and whether the American solar industry continues to grow.
The sharp drop in the cost of panels has made it difficult for domestic manufacturers to compete, but it has also fueled a boom in solar development throughout the country, providing a lift to an industry that says it employs over a quarter-million workers.
Indeed, the case has already reshaped the market.
Prices for solar panels have increased as buyers have rushed to get ahead of potential tariffs.
Solar-farm developers have became skittish about long-term commitments to supply power at prices that could become uneconomical if tariffs raise their costs.
Yet the tariffs could end up having relatively little effect on Chinese products, said Chad Bown, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
Earlier trade cases have already stemmed the flow of many solar products from China, he said.
As a result, the broad tariffs that this measure could impose would fall more heavily on imports from South Korea, Mexico, Japan, Europe, Singapore and Malaysia, Mr. Bowns research shows.
Over the years Ive seen so many homages to Gianni Versace and direct reference to Gianni Versace, she said.
But I didnt have the courage to do it myself.
I was always afraid to touch the work of Gianni.
I thought I would be criticized: She isnt Gianni.
I thought I was going to fail.
I mean, I did fail for a while!
But then I realized: I was there for all of it.
And the younger girls  Kendall, Gigi  kept asking what it was all about.
Because you know, he died before there was social media.
Photo

So she went into the archives: a 10,760-square-foot storage facility in Novara, Italy, a town west of Milan, which houses 13,000 pieces by Mr. Versace.
And she came out with a collection that would be a celebration of 12 classic prints her brother created between 1991 and 1997, including the Warhol (a primary-colored riot of Marilyn and James Dean portraits), the animalire (leopard) and the baroque (ornate gold squiggles).
And while she remade a few pieces in their entirety, most she decided to reclaim via her own specifications: more day wear, sharper shoulders, fewer slits.
What would her brother say about the result?
Ms. Versace laughed.
Bitch!
Then she added, No, hed love it.
The difference between my brother and me is I also love women and think clothes are a good weapon to show here I am, look at me,  she said, But for me, its not look at me, I am so gorgeous, but look at me, I have something to say.
When I first started, I was doing 12 or more pieces of evening wear a collection.
Now its like two.
Photo

The result, on the Friday show schedule, was Versace past through the eyes of Versace present, with a riot of in-your-face prints given the platform to speak very loudly indeed, unrestrained by overcomplicated cut or concept.
Every garment will come complete with a label that notes the collection and the year, so consumers will know the moment of origin.
And then, to top it all off, Ms. Versace invited some of her brothers favorite models, the ones who had been most associated with his glamazon ideal  Cindy Crawford, Claudia Schiffer, Helena Christensen, Naomi Campbell and Carla Bruni (or Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, as she is now)  to create a finale tableau for the show that mimicked a 1994 ad campaign shot by Richard Avedon of many of the same models in gowns of gold chain mail.
Video

In the original they were draped over or dominating the prone figures of naked men but Ms. Versace thought she would skip that part of the re-creation.
Its 2017, after all.
Besides, as an affirmation of the continued relevance of Mr. Versace to the fashion world, the grouping would be pretty convincing.
How many brands could get the former first lady of France to return to their runways, after all?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She said yes immediately, Ms. Versace said.
For me, this is a celebration of my brother, an opportunity to do something lively and fun, that creates joy.
We need it these days.
Indeed, the effect may be almost distracting enough to overwhelm the rumors  except for the fact that invited to sit in the front row were a host of other designers: Pierpaolo Piccioli of Valentino and Alessandro Michele of Gucci; Anthony Vaccarello of YSL, one of the designers who worked with Ms. Versace in the past on her second line, Versus; and Mr. Jones.
Wait  what?
Just imagine the freakout.
Presumably they did, because he decided not to come.
Photo

Still, it was as if Ms. Versace, who has never flatly denied the talking-to-other-designers rumors was teasing the Kremlinologists of fashion, dropping bread crumbs to see who would follow.
(She usually plays coy and falls back on phrases like at this moment and nothing is changing for the time being  the kind of things brands say when change may be coming but the legal issues have not been resolved, so who knows, it could all fall through at the last minute, which it occasionally does.)
As if she had decided to make the gossip into a meta game.
Maybe Ill pick among all of them, she said archly, referring to her peers.
This is not my last show, Im not leaving the company, she had announced back in Via Ges  which does not mean, of course, that she is not redefining her role.
But then she added, in reference to her work with Versus: I have always opened the doors of the house for others to come in.
Its very interesting to bring people in to show Versace through their eyes.
We learn from each other.
And companies need to change.
Gianni always took risks, and he taught me that.
Having done her take on her brothers work, having said that the experience of making the Tribute collection had liberated her to move on, that the result gave her closure, or as much closure as she can have  Ill never get over what happened, it was too brutal, but this helped me get through it some more  its easy to see her considering the possibilities of someone elses (Mr.
Joness?)
take on the brand.
To replace me completely?
she said.
Where would they get a platinum blonde like me?
Im irreplaceable.
But to work with her, or nearby?
Ive never been afraid to confront myself.
As weapons production increased, the manufacture of autos and electronics shifted partly or wholly overseas.
So did the production of other civilian products  leaving behind weapons bought by the Defense Department as an ever bigger share of the nations factory output.
While President Dwight D. Eisenhower warned of the perils of the military-industrial complex in his farewell address in January 1961, the Vietnam War accentuated this reliance on weapons production, which became embedded in annual budgets.
That may well continue in the years ahead.
In his first budget proposal in May, Mr. Trump called for significant cuts in domestic spending but roughly a 10 percent increase in military outlays.
Given the history of recent decades, is it any wonder that we now have a president who, at least in part, equates making America strong again with an enhanced military equipped with the weaponry that an enhanced military requires?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Public money flows to factory owners in many ways  often as a result of the frequent bidding by municipal governments to persuade a manufacturer to locate a factory in one community rather than another.
These auctions sometimes top $100 million per factory location.
A manufacturer who finally accepts a municipalitys bid collects tax breaks, a gift of land on which to put a factory and sometimes the cost of building and equipping the factory itself at taxpayers expense.
Cities and towns are that eager to have a factory, with its network of nearby suppliers and its relatively well-paying jobs  relative, that is, to the lower paying retail and service industry work that is often the alternative for high-school- or even junior-college-educated men and women.
That outlay of taxpayer money is concentrated in eight sectors of manufacturing, including ammunition, aircraft, guided missiles, shipbuilding and armored vehicles.
Shut down production in those areas and factory production in America, measured as value added, would shrink 10 percent or more, according to Richard Aboulafia, a vice president of the Teal Group, a defense consulting firm.
Mr. Aboulafia based his estimate, he said, on an analysis of the Defense Department budget and export data.
Dan Luria, research director of the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center, concurred with those figures.
To put the matter graphically, factories in the United States churn out one rifle barrel for every nine auto fenders.
Cutting back on factory production isnt the direction the Trump administration has been going.
Instead, the promise is that  whatever goods they produce  the Trump eras factories will be big employers.
But the reality is that modern factories, even when they materialize, are highly automated, which helps to explain why the manufacturing work force has bumped along at less than 13 million for nearly a decade, according to the Labor Department, although factory output  including weapons production  keeps rising smartly.
These constraints make me yearn for the good old days just after World War II, when America seemed to have easier policy choices.
Even inexpensive trinkets were manufactured in America, and my mother, for one, ordered her children to stay away from a neighborhood boy whose parents had bought him a BB gun.
Disarmament ran deep in the late 1940s.
We didnt need to produce weapons, even BB guns, to keep manufacturing afloat.
Im afraid that we do now.
In a phone conversation, Professor Bessembinder reminded me that the stock market is a moving target and that his rankings, while valid through the end of 2016, dont capture the sharp movements of this calendar year.
In his 2016 rankings, Exxon Mobil, not Apple, appears at the top, with net wealth creation of more than $1 trillion.
Apple lags at about $745 billion.
But it has been a wild year.
Exxon Mobil shares have declined more than 11 percent at a time of weak energy prices, while Apple, which just introduced a raft of new iPhones, is on a spectacular stock surge, gaining more than 37 percent.
Run the numbers as I did, and its clear that at this moment, Apple has pulled ahead of Exxon Mobil, with total net wealth creation of somewhere in the vicinity of $1 trillion.
Counting dividends, Exxon Mobils losses in the stock market have reduced its total to a bit over $910 billion.
(Note that, as a technical matter, Professor Bessembinder defines net wealth creation as total stock returns in excess of one-month Treasury bill returns, which averaged an annualized 3.38 percent, so the actual stock returns for Apple, Exxon, and the others are even higher than indicated.)
Its remarkable that Apple has generated so much wealth in such a short period of time, he said.
Exxon has had decades to pile up those returns.
Exxon is among the top wealth-creating companies that have been publicly trading  under the name of a predecessor, Standard Oil of New Jersey  since the inception of Professor Bessembinders tally in July 1926.
Others include General Electric, IBM, Altria, Coca-Cola, DuPont, PepsiCo and Schlumberger.
He relied on a database developed at the University of Chicago, known as CRSP, for the Center for Research in Security Prices, that contains virtually all publicly traded stocks in the United States.
The Center for Research uses rigorous and logical criteria to determine when stocks enter and depart its listings, with some results that may seem surprising at first glance.
General Motors, for example, ranks eighth.
It was publicly traded in 1926, but the list says it ceased to exist in June 2009.
A company called General Motors exists today, of course, but as Chloe Fu, senior support and relationship manager at the Center for Research in Security Prices, explained it, G.M.s bailout and bankruptcy led the center to declare the old company terminated, with a new G.M.
coming to life in June 2009.
Consequently, the new G.M.
returns arent included in the total for G.M.
on the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The list is a fascinating ranking of big winners in the stock market.
But for a variety of technical reasons, it isnt a straightforward table of the greatest wealth generators in market history.
For example, the long-term gains generated by Exxon Mobil and its predecessors are understated because of the databases limited duration and strict criteria.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exxon Mobils wealth in the list doesnt include Mobils, which Professor Bessembinders listing says, ceased to exist in November 1999, when it merged with Exxon.
And going back further, both Exxon and Mobil were among the descendants of the Standard Oil trust, established by John D. Rockefeller and his partners in the 19th century.
The total wealth generated by the cluster of companies derived at least partially from the trust  which also include Amoco and Chevron  doesnt appear in a single notation, because of the lists logic.
Other apparent oddities are explained by Professor Bessembinders application of the centers criteria.
There are two companies on the list called AT&T, for example, neither capturing the total net wealth generated by an investment in the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company at its 19th century inception.
To start with, the old AT&T, a.k.a.
Ma Bell, is ranked 17th.
It is said to have gone out of existence in November 2005.
Another AT&T appears in the 33rd spot.
That company came to life in March 1984 as Southwestern Bell, spun off from the old AT&T as a result of an antitrust suit.
A descendant of Southwestern Bell bought the AT&T name in 2005 and operates under it today.
Other AT&T cousins are on the list: Verizon, as well as Comcast, which resulted from a merger between AT&T Broadband and an older company also known as Comcast.
The listings for most of the recently created companies are less tangled.
As I wrote in July, Amazon, which started trading in 1997, has soared to the 14th spot.
Although it hasnt been in existence long compared with Exxon Mobil, its annualized return is the highest in the list, 37.4 percent through December.
A group of young companies have also had remarkable results.
Facebook, which started trading in June 2012, is the youngest on the list, with an annualized return of 34.5 percent.
Visa, which had its initial public offering of stock in 2008, is the second-newest company, with a 21 percent annualized return, followed by Alphabet (Google), ranked 11th with a 24.9 percent annualized return.
And then there is that great wealth machine, Microsoft, ranked as the third-greatest wealth creator.
Since 1986, it has had an annualized return of 25 percent, making its founder, Bill Gates, the richest man in the world, with a net worth of more than $87 billion, according to Bloomberg.
No list of wealth-generating companies is complete without Berkshire Hathaway.
It ranks 12th, just behind Alphabet, with an annualized return of 22.6 percent.
By comparison, Exxon Mobils annualized return was only 11.94 percent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Why is Berkshires annualized return so much higher?
It is because the return doesnt include decades of mediocre performance for the old textile company Berkshire Hathaway, which started in 1929.
The Center for Research says the Berkshire on this list started in November 1976.
It was a holding company for Warren E. Buffett, who guided it to fabulous gains.
Thanks to Berkshire, Mr. Buffett is a rich man, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $79 billion.
Anyone who invested in Apple or Microsoft or, really, in any of these companies at their inception and just held on did extraordinarily well.
You might look at that record and conclude that you should just buy the best companies as a foolproof way to get rich.
If only it were that easy.
How do you find those companies?
Not here.
The problem is, I have no idea which companies will generate the best returns over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years,  Professor Bessembinder said.
Probably it will be some companies weve never heard of.
Maybe it will be companies that dont even exist now.
This list is worth studying for understanding the past.
But, unfortunately, its not a guide to the future, except for this: In a market where most of the gains are attributable to a few big winners that are hard to identify in advance, Professor Bessembinder said, it makes a lot of sense to diversify your position  to avoid the danger of omitting the big winners from your portfolio.
Photo

Solomon Pali, 55, is the outrigger canoe instructor at the Fairmont Kea Lani Hotel on the island of Maui, Hawaii.
How long have you been paddling?
Since I was a child  a keiki, in the Hawaiian language  of about 7.
Basically as soon as my father thought I could hold a paddle.
Is it hard to learn?
The key is to keep the paddle facing forward with the flat side facing back toward the rear.
This pushes the water under the canoe, which raises it to help you glide faster.
Then theres getting the feel of the ocean  the ebb and flow, currents and waves  which you can learn simply by floating flat on your back on the waters surface.
It still amazes me how many guests we have whove never been in the ocean.
Photo

How far back does your family heritage go in Hawaii?
Back to before the kingdom of Hawaii and time of King Kamehameha, who united the Hawaiian Islands in the early 1800s.
Our lineage here goes back to the 1500s and 1600s.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What are the different kinds and uses of Hawaiian canoes?
All our canoes were built for livelihood and transportation.
The single-hulled canoe, which we call waa kaukahi, is 45 feet long and weighs about 400 pounds, and can be manned by six people.
Worth noting: Uber will appeal the decision, and can keep operating in London throughout the process.
From a statement by an Uber spokesman:

Uber operates in more than 600 cities around the world, including more than 40 towns and cities here in the UK.
This ban would show the world that, far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies who bring choice to consumers.
Joe Murphy, the political editor of Londons Evening Standard newspaper, had this to say on Twitter:

Related Reading

The Wall Street Journals Greg Bensinger says that Benchmark, one of Ubers earliest backers, wont participate in a plan to let SoftBank buy out existing investors.
Facebook Bows to Pressure From Washington

Lawmakers had complained that Facebook had turned over evidence of Russian-linked political advertisements to special counsel Robert S. Mueller, but not to Congress.
The technology giant is now bowing to the pressure, agreeing to turn over more than 3,000 of those ads to congressional investigators.
The New York Times's Scott Shane and Mike Isaac reported on Facebooks reasoning:

I care deeply about the democratic process and protecting its integrity, Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said during an appearance on Facebook Live, the companys video service.
He added that he did not want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy.
Thats not what we stand for, he said.
In a Facebook post, Mr. Zuckerberg also outlined the companys newest initiatives:

 The service will now show which Facebook page paid for the ad, and the advertisers page will show all the ads the entity is running.
(Still, that doesnt necessarily identify who is running the page.)
We will strengthen our ad review process for political ads, Mr. Zuckerberg promised.
Facebook will hire 250 more employees for its security team.
The company will expand coordination with global election commissions.
It also promised to work closely with other technology companies to share threat information.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Zuckerberg also said Facebook was monitoring activity related to the German elections on Sunday:

Were also examining the activity of accounts weve removed and have not yet found a similar type of effort in Germany.
This is incredibly important and we have been focused on this for a while.
The Response

Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, to The Times:

This is a good first step, he said.
Im disappointed its taken 10 months of raising this issue before theyve become much more transparent.
He said he believed there were additional troll farms in both Russia and Eastern Europe, and its really important that Facebook work with us to investigate other sources of advertising and fake accounts.
Representative Adam Schiff of California, the senior Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, to Bloombergs Sarah Frier:

It will be necessary to hear directly from Facebook, Google and Twitter, as well as others in the tech sector, including in open hearings that will inform the American public, Schiff said in a statement.
Moving forward, the committees investigation will require greater and ongoing cooperation by Facebook and other social media companies on this and other issues.
The Context

Facebook is trying to stave off stricter government regulation.
Tech executives have been worried that new rules could lay huge burdens on the worlds biggest advertising business.
Facebook says it is not legally allowed to share everything it knows about advertisers, but some in the industry worry that could change.
The Timess media columnist, Jim Rutenberg, discussed this on a Recode podcast:

Television stations have to keep records that literally anyone in the public can see, in windows close to elections, who bought ads, Mr. Rutenberg said.
Maybe who bought it is Citizens for Blue Skies, and you have to figure out who they are, but theres a record of this.
And theres talk now about making social media properly accountable for this kind of advertising.
At the same time, Facebook and Alphabet are finding themselves under pressure from older tech companies and other sometime allies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
From The Informations Cory Weinberg:

In the debate-du-jour in the U.S. Senate, Oracle, Disney, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and 21st Century Fox recently voiced support for an anti-sex trafficking bill that would change the bedrock internet platform law, the Communications Decency Acts Section 230, to put more legal liability on web companies like Facebook and Alphabet.
Co-sponsored by Republican senator Rob Portman of Ohio, it is aimed mainly at Backpage.com, a classifieds site that ran ads connected with sex trafficking.
But it is written broadly enough that most big consumer internet companies have voiced concerns.
Related Reading

 Mr. Zuckerberg denied to Bloomberg Businessweek that his well-document tour around the United States was political:

Wouldnt it be better, he asks with a sly smile, if it was actually an accepted thing for people to want to go understand how other people were living?
He also complained about perceptions among the media that he is being inauthentic:

As he says this, his publicist stands up and indicates the interview is over, but Zuckerberg isnt quite done.
He smiles and then says, I need to give you a hard time.
He proceeds to complain about a Bloomberg Businessweek story in January that noted he employs a team of about a dozen content moderators  as well as communications managers, professional photographers, video producers, Morgan Freeman  who are all responsible for maintaining his personal Facebook page.
Youre taking away from all the time that I spent on this, he says.
The Timess Kevin Roose suggests that Facebook should learn from Wall Street and create a risk department.
From The Financial Timess lunch with Margarethe Vestager, Europes antitrust commissioner:

To some degree some of these companies are very old-school advertising companies in a completely new dress.
Some of the things that they do, they are amazing.
These are innovations that have changed our societies.
But that doesnt change the fact that they still have a responsibility.
If youre a dominant company, you have a special responsibility.
Yoshua Bengio, a professor at the University of Montreal and a pioneer in artificial intelligence, wants more government regulation of the big tech companies, according to Axioss Steve LeVine:

I asked Bengio if the companies should be broken up.
He harrumphed and responded that antitrust laws should be enforced.
Governments have become so meek in front of companies, he said.
Mr. Zuckerberg may deny that hes running for political office.
But The Washington Posts Aaron Blake thinks that another corporate mogul is itching to run for something:

Schultz spoke with The Washington Post at a job fair for young people on Wednesday, and while he insisted he wasnt talking politics, it wasnt difficult imagine him delivering the same words in a stump speech in Des Moines.
Brexit Is Poised to Take Shape

On the Political Front

After months of very public infighting among her cabinet members, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain appears ready to commit to a negotiating strategy for her countrys exit from the European Union.
At a speech in Florence today, Ms. May is expected to announce plans for a two-year transition period after leaving the political bloc.
From Bloombergs Tim Ross, Ian Wishart and Simon Kennedy:

The goal is to maintain trade ties to the U.K.s biggest market and give businesses time to adjust to the new regime.
A holdover period would protect companies from being hit with unwieldy tariffs and regulations overnight, if no long-term trade deal has been struck by Brexit day in March 2019.
The Guardians Jon Henley adds that Ms. May will concede that Britain will pay some kind of divorce bill to the European Union:

It is thought May will offer to pay enough into the EU to ensure no member state need make extra contributions during the current budget round, which ends in 2020  a year after the UK leaves.
This would amount to about 20bn (18bn), although she may not mention a figure.
The assessment of The Financial Timess Sebastian Payne: The new approach marks the end of no deal is better than a bad deal.
On the Business Front

Britain is hoping to keep the financial services sector from fleeing to continental Europe with a more industry-friendly approach to regulation.
From The Financial Timess Sarah Gordon, Laura Noonan, Patrick Jenkins and George Parker:

[David Davis, Britains lead Brexit negotiator] believes that if Britain maintained the same regulatory framework for financial services as the EU in the long term  without having any influence over its composition  this would erode any competitive advantage the UK-based industry would gain from being outside the bloc.
After Bettencourt, LOral May Be in Play

For years, LOrals independence was all but guaranteed by the 33-percent stake held by the family of Liliane Bettencourt, the daughter of the founder of the cosmetics giant.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Her death on Wednesday, at age 94, has raised questions about how much longer that independence will endure.
The most obvious suitor: Nestl, which owns a 23-percent stake.
The Swiss conglomerate has long said that it views the holding as long-term and strategic.
(Third Points Daniel S. Loeb, who is urging changes at Nestl, disagrees: He wants the company to sell those shares.)
Nestls website says that the company will not make any moves on LOral for at least six months, as dictated by an agreement with her family.
That restriction will end in March.
A spokeswoman for Nestl told DealBook that the company declined to comment beyond this statement:

It is with great sadness that we received the news of the passing away of Mrs. Liliane Bettencourt.
We express our most sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to Mrs. Bettencourts family and to all at LOral at this difficult moment.
What Investors Think

Shares of LOral were up 3.5 percent this morning on the Euronext Paris stock exchange, at 182.80 euros, or nearly $218, their highest level since July.
Related Reading

Mrs. Bettencourt was long regarded as the richest woman in the world.
(Bloomberg estimates her net worth at $42.5 billion.)
But her later years were marked by controversy.
From the obituary by Robert D. McFadden in The Times:

LAffaire Bettencourt had captivated France since 2007, when a daughters lawsuit charged that Mrs. Bettencourt, ranked as the richest woman in the world, had been bamboozled by a society photographer 25 years her junior for cash, annuities, fine art and, it seemed, an island in the Seychelles.
This became a government scandal, too, when a former family accountant suggested that Mrs. Bettencourt had made contributions to Nicolas Sarkozy shortly before his election as president of France.
Taking Aim at Harvard Favoritism

This op-ed in The Washington Post by Sarah Ruden, a doctoral graduate from Harvard, has had the business world talking.
Ms. Ruden recounts how a student in a Latin class she had taught was outraged at having received an A-minus.
From her piece:

This professor didnt ask to see any evidence.
He accepted the students plea that he had worked really hard.
Then, in front of the student, he pressed me to explain the reason for my poor teaching, apparently the only thing that could reveal why the student wasnt satisfied with his grade.
Ms. Ruden adds:
Some, like Ms. McKerrow, are taking free lessons or video instructions online.
(About a million of Codecademys 45 million users globally are 55 or older.)
Others subscribe to web-based courses or take classes at community colleges, universities or boot camps.
To say there are many might be a stretch, said Jake Schwartz, a founder and chief executive of General Assembly, which offers technology and design training online and in 20 locations worldwide to corporations and individuals.
But they have been a welcome addition to class dynamics.
Many older coders want to develop new skills to keep their jobs or to start second careers.
Some are looking for volunteer opportunities or hobbies in their retirement.
Nearly all who have gone through the rigors of trying to understand correct syntax, algorithms and other technical foundations also gain a sense of confidence and accomplishment, while maintaining and improving their mental acuity.
Liz Beigle-Bryant, 60, of Seattle, credits the online classes she took in HTML and CSS code, the building blocks of the web, for helping her land a dream job recently as a document control coordinator at the public transit agency Sound Transit.
She expects to use these tools often in her new position.
One of the big obstacles in a job interview when youre older is that people think youre inflexible and you cant learn new things, said Ms. Beigle-Bryant, who was laid off from her job as an administrative assistant at Microsoft in 2011.
The code lessons she took a few years ago, also through Codecademy, gave me an edge, she said.
I developed a confidence that I didnt have before.
The operators of many of the nations nearly 100 coding boot camps say the vast majority of students enrolled in immersive training programs, which usually last 12 to 15 weeks and cost about $12,000 to $15,000, find employment upon completion.
(The most popular program?
According to Course Report, a website that monitors this industry, its a JavaScript-focused full stack, which teaches all stages of software development.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Older people have been part of these success stories, too, yet they are often hesitant even to get started.
I think so many people are discouraged because they think theyre too old, said Letta M. Raven, a tech support specialist for a payroll software company and a frequent speaker at womens tech conferences.
She has observed this reluctance among some conferencegoers and even had it herself.
I was considered old in this industry, said Ms. Raven, who is 42 and held many jobs, including pastry chef and artist, before settling into her current career.
She was long interested in software development, but it wasnt until two years ago that she enrolled at PDX Code Guild, a boot camp, and took courses in programming languages like Python, Ruby and JavaScript.
Ms. Beigle-Bryant also remembers being pointed away from anything technical and more toward the fine arts when she was younger.
Programming was something Ive wanted to do since high school, she said, but I was always discouraged from taking computer classes.
She did manage to take one, in Basic programming, in 1973.
Successful coders dont have to have a math background to succeed, said Zach Sims, a founder and the chief executive of Codecademy, which offers both free and premium coding programs, and this isnt something that requires a master of science.
Tenacity and persistence, he continued, are two important traits.
The ability  or at least desire  to solve problems is another.
Can you break a problem down and structure the solution in a logical manner?
said Avi Flombaum, a founder and the dean of the boot camp Flatiron School in New York.
He finds a correlation between programming and creative writing, which he studied in college: Writing also follows rules.
There is structure with writing, and grammar is technical.
Mr. Flombaum described programming as pretty transparent.
You can either do it or you cant, he said.
And once a person can code, I dont think age is a setback.
But he added: Learning anything from scratch can be difficult whether youre 23 or 50.
Both age groups battle insecurities.
Steve Deddens, 71, a retired commercial pilot from Austin, Tex., who flew fighter jets during the Vietnam War, admitted to being a little anxious about embarking on a second career in programming.
He worried about keeping up with his younger classmates at General Assembly, where he took an immersive program two years ago.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

People my age still have an AOL account, he said.
But Mr. Deddens, who is now a software engineer at a company that provides information technology services to Microsoft, found the transition relatively easy.
Ive always been good at solving problems, he said.
I like taking things apart.
Im an engineer by nature.
While the income he earns from his second career is certainly nice, he said, the other side of it is the joy of doing something with your mind and keeping yourself young.
Ms. McKerrow agreed: I think learning computer skills is great for older people.
There is no heavy lifting or physical demands, and exercise of the brain is so necessary to avoid atrophy, Alzheimers or dementia.
One way to get started  or at least see if coding is a good fit  is to attend a meetup.
These are organized get-togethers where people sign up online and meet offline to discuss common interests.
Codecademy, for instance, holds regular meetups in 300 cities around the world.
I made a commitment to go every month, said Laurie Alaoui, 59, from Lincoln, Calif., which is near Sacramento.
There, she said, she became familiar with the industry lingo and observed coders of all levels.
At the third one, I understood maybe 5 percent of what was said, she said.
But I took notes, and words I had no idea what they meant, I came home and looked them up.
And then the next month I would go to another one.
Before long, it got to where I could sit through the talk and understand what they were talking about, said Ms. Alaoui, who became disabled from a car accident in her teens and was looking for something less taxing physically.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In addition to attending meetups, she took lessons in HTML, CSS and JavaScript at Khan Academy, which, she said, are basically geared toward kids  they spell everything out.
She then enrolled at one of General Assemblys immersive programs and is now developing Gets You Inc., a website that helps connect people with autism.
That was the reason I wanted to get into coding, she said.
I saw that you really can change the world.
Paul Gruhn, a senior systems engineer at Yale University and an adjunct professor at Quinnipiac University and Manchester Community College, said some older students in his code classes had struggled to keep up with their younger classmates.
Web development is not for everyone, he said, but it is useful to have a broad understanding of technology.
Having a specific goal can help, too.
One of Mr. Gruhns students, Robert Maynard, 71, of East Windsor, Conn., wanted to build a blog to help promote his campaign for first selectman of his town.
He decided to enter politics after retiring in 2009 as a systems analyst at an insurance company, where he specialized in mainframe computers.
Mr. Maynard completed three classes at Manchester Community College (in HTML, PHP and SQL) and was elected in 2015.
It was nice to be with young people  it was invigorating, he said.
Although his campaign blog never materialized, he has gone on to build other websites, admittedly with not too many bells and whistles, including one for the East Windsor Republican Town Committee and one for his son in Colorado.
A ban on operating in one of its largest markets would certainly hit Ubers bottom line.
The company said it had 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million customers in London who used its app at least once every three months.
Mr. Khosrowshahi, in a Twitter post on Friday afternoon, acknowledged that Uber was far from perfect and urged city regulators to work out a solution with the company.
Less than a year ago, a British tribunal ruled that Uber could no longer treat its drivers as self-employed contractors and would have to meet tougher labor standards, including offering holiday pay and pensions.
Fit and proper is a benchmark that Britain applies across different industries and its charitable organizations to ensure that people or organizations meet the requirements of their industry or specialty.
Ubers approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications, Transport for London said in a statement.
Tests typically assess factors like an individual or companys honesty, transparency and competence, though there is no formal exam.
In Ubers case, Transport for London said it had examined issues of how the company dealt with serious criminal offenses, how it conducted background checks on drivers and its justification for a software program called Greyball, which could be used to block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to the app.
In May, Transport for London extended Ubers license by four months as it considered whether the company met that threshold.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for it being unsafe, Londons mayor, Sadiq Khan, wrote in The Guardian soon after the ruling was announced.
The regulatory environment is critical in protecting Londoners safety, maintaining workplace standards for drivers and sustaining a vibrant taxi and private hire market with space for a range of providers to flourish.
Ubers London license will now expire on Sept. 30.
But it can continue to operate in the city during the appeal process in Britains courts.
Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in London, said the agency and Mr. Khan had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
Uber conducted background checks using the methods used for black-cab drivers, he said.
Our pioneering technology has gone further to enhance safety with every trip tracked and recorded by GPS, Mr. Elvidge said, adding that the company had a dedicated team who work closely with the Metropolitan Police.
He also said Greyball had not been used to block scrutiny by regulators or the police in London.
The move by regulators in London picks up the political mood of the times, said Tony Travers, a professor at the London School of Economics.
London, like New York and Paris, is full of urban progressives who, even if they use Uber, feel guilty when they read things about it that they dont like.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Thursday, a Dutch appeals court upheld a ban of an Uber service in the Netherlands, saying the companys low-cost UberPop ride-hailing offering had been operated illegally.
The French authorities took a similar case to the Court of Justice of the European Union, and last year Uber and two executives were convicted and fined the equivalent of nearly $500,000 in France in relation to UberPop.
In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio has criticized Ubers rapid expansion for making congestion worse on city streets.
But in 2015, his administration backed down from a fight with Uber by abruptly dropping a plan for a cap on the number of Uber vehicles operating within the city.
Until now, London had been one of Ubers most notable success stories outside the United States.
It debuted in the city in 2012, just before the Summer Olympics, initially with a luxury service.
It added UberX, which competes more directly with the citys storied black taxis, a year later.
The company now operates in more than 40 cities and towns across Britain.
Its arrival here, however, created a clash almost immediately with the black cabs, which trace their roots to 1634.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Black-cab drivers, who earn licenses by memorizing some 25,000 streets and 100,000 landmarks for an exacting test known as The Knowledge, complain that Uber drivers are under-regulated.
Many fear that the rivalry will put them out of business: Uber fares are about 30 percent lower than those of black cabs.
The conflict also involves tensions over ethnicity and class.
Most black-cab drivers are white native-born Britons, while many Uber drivers are immigrants.
Uber has said it receives hundreds of complaints a month from its drivers about remarks from black-cab drivers.
Among the insults hurled are Uber slave!
and Go back to your country!
Many black-cab drivers have now signed up with competing apps like Gett and MyTaxi, which like Uber allow passengers to hail rides via their smartphones.
Londoners can also choose from a wide variety of private-hire services, known as minicabs.
Black-cab drivers, and the unions representing them, cheered Fridays ruling.
Jeffrey Marcus, who has been driving a London taxi for 42 years, described it as long overdue.
Weve got a brilliant taxi service here, Mr. Marcus, 67, said.
You pay a little more for a licensed taxi, but you get the service.
The reaction online to the Transport for London ruling, however, was generally negative.
Hours after the decision was announced, a Change.org petition that was started and heavily promoted by Uber within its app and via emails to customers had over 200,000 signatures.
Ahmad Shoaib, an Uber driver, said the service was being unfairly targeted.
I know there have been some problems with drivers, but most of us are good and reliable and play by the rules, he said.
It is not fair to punish everyone because of the mistakes of one or two people.
Mr. Shoaib switched to Uber from a minicab company in Croydon, in South London, after he saw how much work friends were getting from the ride-hailing service.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

London needs Uber, he said, its cheap and easy.
In light of the continuing standoff, many businesses worry about a cliff edge scenario, in which Britain would crash out without a deal, so Mrs. May is under pressure to find a way out of the impasse.
Speaking in Florence on Friday, Mrs. May did not say precisely how much money Britain would continue to contribute to the European Union.
But she made a significant promise that the British  who are big net contributors to the bloc  would not leave a hole in the unions budget in 2019 and 2020.
I do not want our partners to fear that they will need to pay more or receive less over the remainder of the current budget plan as a result of our decision to leave, Mrs. May said.
That would probably mean payments of around 20 billion euros, or about $24 billion, after Britains departure.
It would also effectively maintain the status quo for the duration of a two-year transition period, meaning that Britain would allow the free movement of European workers and accept rulings from the European Court of Justice.
This alone is unlikely to be enough to satisfy the 27 other member nations, but Mrs. May hinted that she would be willing to go further and honor commitments we have made during the period of our membership.
In addition, Mrs. May proposed a security partnership with the European Union, stressing Britains importance as a defense power, and also offered new legal safeguards to guarantee the rights of European Union citizens in Britain after Brexit.
Over all, Mrs. May sought to stress the common interest London shares with continental European capitals in reaching an agreement and avoiding disruption to trade, wrapping her offer in dialogue that was more positive, and less antagonistic, than that of some previous interventions.
Photo

European Union negotiators have refused to talk about post-Brexit ties until they judge that there is sufficient progress on the issues they consider a priority: the status of European Union citizens in Britain after it leaves, the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland (which is a part of the United Kingdom) and Britains financial commitments to the bloc.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I think it is definitely a net plus in terms of moving it forward said Mats Persson, who was a special adviser to former Prime Minister David Cameron and is now head of international trade at the advisory firm EY.
Mrs. Mays language opened the possibility of a breakthrough over financial contributions, Mr. Persson said, though he expressed surprise at how little was new in Mrs. Mays remarks about her hopes for the shape of the final Brexit deal.
Mrs. May suggested that an arrangement like Norways, which is part of Europes single market, accepting its rules and the free movement of people, would not work for Britain.
But she added that Britain could do better than a free trade deal of the type that Canada has negotiated with the European Union.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Yet, there is little sign yet that the other 27 nations are prepared to grant Britain a bespoke agreement, and officials have warned London on numerous occasions that there would be no cherry picking of the parts of European Union membership it likes.
Mrs. May had briefed her cabinet about plans for the speech on Thursday, after a tense week in which divisions were paraded in public, with Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary and a hard-line proponent of a withdrawal, publishing a 4,000 word essay outlining his vision of the future.
The episode illustrated how the referendum last year on withdrawal, intended to end the Conservative Partys divisions over Europe, only sharpened them.
To make matters worse, senior ministers are jockeying to succeed Mrs. May, who made a huge tactical mistake by calling a general election in June, in which her party lost its parliamentary majority.
Mr. Johnson attended Mrs. Mays speech in Florence alongside the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, who has led calls for a softer departure from the bloc that could afford greater protections for the economy.
Afterward on Twitter, Mr. Johnson welcomed the speech and put his spin on its contents which he described as positive, optimistic and dynamic.
That suggested that Mrs. May may succeed for now in reassuring most Brexit hard-liners that, when the all is said and done, Britain would not be bound by the blocs economic, migration and legal rules.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In March, Mrs. May formally began the withdrawal process, invoking a treaty article that sets a two-year deadline for the completion of talks  unless all member countries agree to extend it.
Not everyone was pleased with Mrs. Mays speech.
In a Twitter post, Manfred Weber, leader of the center-right group of political parties in the European Parliament, dismissed it as bringing no more clarity.
In Britain, Nigel Farage, the former leader of the U.K.
Independence Party and a hard-line Brexit supporter, said that withdrawal had been kicked into the long grass.
Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour Party, described the speech as the product of the internal negotiation of the Tory Party rather than negotiations with the E.U.
Another opponent warned that this was just the first step on a long and costly road for Britain.
The money that Theresa May is reportedly about to offer as the biggest divorce settlement in history would simply be the down payment, said Vince Cable, leader of the centrist Liberal Democrats, who flatly oppose withdrawal.
Brexit will cost a lot, lot more than this.
But those two top contenders combine for lower than 50 percent odds in our expert survey  meaning that our panelists thought there was a better-than-even chance that the appointment will be one of many contenders with individually modest but collectively high chances of rising to the top of the presidents list.
Compared with PredictIt, an online marketplace based on news events, our experts saw slightly lower odds for either of them.
On Thursday afternoon, trading on PredictIt implied 30 percent odds for Ms. Yellen and 28 percent for Mr. Warsh.
Using our expert survey  and comments from some of the participants in it  heres a guide to President Trumps options as he makes perhaps the single most consequential economic decision of his first year in office.
Yellen reappointment: continuity and bipartisanship

Theres a tradition of reappointing Fed chairmen who were originally appointed by a member of the opposite party.
President Obama did so with Ben Bernanke; Bill Clinton with Alan Greenspan; and Ronald Reagan with Paul Volcker.
That tradition has helped keep the Fed, with its vast power over the economy and financial system, insulated a bit from politics, but President Trump has no obligation to follow it.
The case for renominating Ms. Yellen is straightforward.
She has presided over four years of steady economic expansion and rising financial markets.
She moved cautiously toward raising interest rates even though the economy seemed to be approaching full employment.
By contrast, some more conservative contenders for the job have indicated they want to raise rates more quickly, which could endanger the economy as President Trump approaches midterm elections in 2018 and a potential re-election battle in 2020.
After criticizing her during his campaign, President Trump has had some kind words for her, saying in July that he liked her and that shes done a good job.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, as President Trump dabbles in making deals with Democrats, reappointing Ms. Yellen could serve as an expression of good faith to Democratic senators.
As administration officials focus on tax legislation and other priorities on Capitol Hill, it might be helpful to them to nominate someone who might sail through confirmation, rather than demand a bruising, time-consuming battle.
Shes a known quantity, and there is less risk of disrupting the financial markets if the president renominates Dr. Yellen, said Brian Gardner, managing director of Washington Research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and one of the panelists.
Although President Trump is unorthodox in many ways, every president wants calm financial markets.
The case against Ms. Yellen is similarly straightforward: She is a liberal economist in a government dominated by conservatives.
She is a cerebral academic serving during the presidency of a bombastic businessman.
And she is a staunch defender of the work the Fed and other bank regulators have done to try to limit risk in the financial system  including in a high-profile speech last month  amid an administration focused on deregulation.
Kevin Warsh: well connected, but with baggage

Our experts consensus was that Mr. Warsh has slightly better odds than Ms. Yellen.
He was a Fed governor from 2006 to 2011, and was a member of Mr. Bernankes inner circle in shaping the Feds extraordinary (and often extraordinarily unpopular) actions to battle the global financial crisis.
He is well connected in conservative political circles and is now a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.
Before joining the Fed, where he was the youngest governor in the institutions history, he worked in the George W. Bush White House and at Morgan Stanley.
He has a law degree, but no advanced degree in economics.
Mr. Warsh has been a skeptic of the Feds efforts to boost the economy through quantitative easing and has advocated raising interest rates more quickly.
He also has a regulatory philosophy more in line with the administrations.
The Race to Be the Next Fed Chairman Appears to Be Wide Open Experts surveyed by The Times believe that Kevin Warsh and Janet Yellen stand the best shot at being appointed to lead the central bank, but combine for less than a 50 percent chance.
EXPERT CONSENSUS PREDICTIT Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22% Expert Consensus PredictIt Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22%

Another factor that might weigh in Mr. Warshs favor with the president?
Mr. Warshs father-in-law is Ronald Lauder, of the Este Lauder cosmetics fortune, a major Republican donor with longstanding ties to Mr. Trump.
If Mr. Warsh is nominated, expect significant blowback during the confirmation process from Democrats, who are likely to accuse the 47-year-old Mr. Warsh of being underqualified, of being responsible for the 2008 bank bailouts and inclined to regulate banks too lightly now, and of being too overtly political for the traditionally nonpartisan Fed chairmanship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whatever happened to Gary Cohn?
Not long ago, Gary Cohn, the head of the White House National Economic Council, looked like the leading candidate to be the next Fed chairman.
In late July, his odds were 46 percent on PredictIt.
But now our panel puts those odds at 12 percent, and PredictIts odds were about the same.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A former No.
2 at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Cohn has been reported to have swung out of favor with Mr. Trump after criticizing his response to racially motivated violence in Charlottesville, Va.
But there were some reasons to be skeptical of Mr. Cohns appointment to the Fed chairmanship even before that.
Mr. Cohn has a hard-charging style that would be an unusual fit for an agency that is run more like an academic department.
The last businessman to become Fed chairman, G. William Miller, was appointed by President Jimmy Carter and lasted only 18 months in the job.
And given his rsum, Mr. Cohns nomination would surely set off a heated confirmation battle.
Democrats would be eager to criticize the administration for naming a recent top executive at Goldman Sachs to be the nations most powerful financial regulator.
Some populist Republicans might join them.
Still, given the way people move in and out of Mr. Trumps favor, and his preference for appointees with business experience, a Cohn appointment cant be ruled out.
The other contenders

The expert consensus is that there is about a one-in-three chance collectively for the other possible nominees, even as each of them individually is viewed as having single-digit odds.
Foremost among them are several of the names we would probably be hearing about if a conventional Republican president were in the White House.
John B. Taylor is a respected economist at Stanford who worked in the George W. Bush administration and has been an influential voice among congressional Republicans who want to see the Fed bound by stricter rules governing its actions.
Glenn Hubbard was a top economic adviser to Mr. Bush who is dean of Columbia Business School.
Larry Lindsey was another top adviser to Mr. Bush and a former Fed governor with an economics doctorate from Harvard.
Our panels consensus odds for the three were 8, 7 and 6 percent, respectively.
Their doctorates and affiliations with top universities may actually be downsides in an administration that has shown disdain for academic expertise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another intriguing possibility is Jerome Powell, known as Jay, a current Fed governor who served in the George H.W.
Bush Treasury Department and was a partner at the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm.
If Mr. Trump wanted a nominee who would probably maintain continuity with current Fed policy but was more conservative and business-minded than Ms. Yellen, Mr. Powell would be a below-the-radar option.
The panel rates his odds of ending up in the job at 5 percent.
A range of other names has emerged in various reports, including the F.D.I.C.
vice chairman Thomas Hoenig and John Allison, the former chief executive of BB&T bank, but our panel assigns them only long-shot odds.
The surprise factor

Mr. Trump loves a surprise.
In his search for a secretary of state, for example, he considered numerous prominent options before going with Exxons chief executive, Rex Tillerson, a bit of an out-of-left-field choice.
As he focuses on the choice for Fed chief, a similar pattern could reappear, and a less conventional choice could emerge.
Thats why the consensus of our panel is that theres a 10 percent chance the nominee is not on this list at all.
Then again, in another appointment that has some similarities to the Fed chairmanship, the selection of a Supreme Court nominee, Mr. Trump went with a respected conservative jurist in Neil Gorsuch.
As Mr. Trump starts focusing on the Fed chief decision in the months ahead, that may be the biggest decision of them all: whether to look at conventional qualifications, or go with a surprise.
Either way, with Ms. Yellens term coming to a close and a crowded calendar of Senate business that could stand in the way of a confirmation vote, the clock is ticking.
ABOUT OUR PANEL: The odds listed here are based on a survey of 11 savvy observers of the Fed and economic policy making who were asked to offer a probability on each of the potential nominees listed.
Their probabilities were to add to 100 percent, including the odds on rest of field, or another nominee emerging.
Those odds were then averaged to create a consensus probability of each selection.
The participants were: Shehriyar Antia of Macro Insight Group; Tony Fratto of Hamilton Place Strategies; Brian Gardner of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods; Krishna Guha of Evercore I.S.I.
; Roberto Perli of Cornerstone Macro; Douglas Rediker of International Capital Strategies; Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute; Phillip Swagel of the University of Maryland; Diane Swonk of DS Economics; Eric Winograd of AllianceBernstein; and Mark Zandi of Moodys Analytics.
If Doug thinks hes at war, the statement said, why does he contact us every two weeks asking for millions (40 percent for him) in exchange for peace?
Television viewers have long been familiar with Foxs public product, but for more than a decade, there have also been persistent glimpses of its private culture as numerous women have come forward accusing men like Mr. Ailes  or the host Eric Bolling, who was ousted this month after sending lewd text messages to female colleagues  of predatory sexual misconduct.
As Mr. Ailes did before he died in May, Mr. Bolling has denied the allegations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The accusations by Mr. Wigdors clients  former news anchors, former news analysts, former accounting department employees  have only deepened the portrait of a toxic culture.
One of the people he represents, a regular guest political commentator, says the network retaliated against her after she lodged a rape claim against a Fox Business host.
Another, a Bangladeshi payroll worker, says a colleague once referred to him as a terrorist.
In lawsuits that run to nearly 300 pages, there are charges that the network demoted a freelance reporter at Fox 5 News, its New York affiliate, after she became pregnant; that Foxs former comptroller repeatedly ridiculed black and Hispanic colleagues; and that some Fox journalists conspired with the White House to produce fake news.
The network has denied these charges and in each of the cases has promised to vigorously defend itself.
On Monday night, it filed a motion to dismiss the fake news suit, calling it without merit and legally insufficient.
Two days later, one of the defendants in the suit asked a court to professionally sanction Mr. Wigdor for having whipped up a media frenzy over what he claimed was a false narrative.
Using the media is one of his favorite tactics, and he has on occasion included details in his complaints  about his defendants sex lives, for example  that are sensational and embarrassing but not necessarily legally relevant.
At 48, Mr. Wigdor has found himself as the courtroom general leading an army of Fox complainants largely because of his reputation as one of New York Citys most aggressive employment lawyers.
During his career, he has filed gender discrimination suits against Deutsche Bank and Citigroup (both of which, like many of his lawsuits, were settled without a claim of liability), and an age and racial bias suit against The New York Times.
In June, he sued Uber, alleging that officials at the company illegally sought the medical records of a woman who claimed she was raped by an Uber driver in India.
(An Uber spokesman has apologized that the plaintiff had to relive the experience.)
And in 2013, after he sued SoulCycle, charging that the indoor cycling studio had cheated an instructor out of his wages, the company banned him from all of its locations.
So he sued over that, too, and lost.
But despite the fact that he has repeatedly taken on corporate giants, Fox may be his toughest target yet.
In February, the network fired Judith Slater, the former comptroller, who is accused of racial animus by many of his clients.
The network since maintained that Mr. Wigdors lawsuit naming Ms. Slater was needless and that his follow-up amended suits were copycat complaints.
In April, days before one of those amended suits was filed, Mr. Wigdor said that Foxs lawyers threatened to seek sanctions against him if his new plaintiffs went public with their claims.
(A lawyer for Ms. Slater said that Mr. Wigdors claims against her rely on false allegations and were nothing more than a money grab.)
The threats have not just come from Fox itself.
This spring, Mr. Wigdor held a televised news conference in which he announced additional plaintiffs in an expanding racial bias suit against Fox.
Minutes after the event was aired, the police said a man called his office threatening to blow it up.
When the man called back, Mr. Wigdor got on the phone with him.
Mr. Wigdor said the man called him a nigger lover, adding he was going to kill him and his family.
Mr. Wigdor called the police, who eventually identified the caller as Joseph Amico, a computer repairman from Las Vegas.
Within three weeks, two New York detectives had traveled to Las Vegas to arrest Mr. Amico, but a standoff ensued when he refused to leave his home.
After several hours, a local SWAT team broke into the house and found Mr. Amico in the attic.
Mr. Amicos lawyer, Todd Spodek, said his client would fight the charges.
In this political climate, Mr. Spodek said, people are so worked up about the issues that its very easy for words to be misunderstood and hysteria to take place.
Slim and sinewy, with a disarmingly focused gaze, Mr. Wigdor says he has always had a passion for competition.
He is a regular tennis player (and claims that while in law school he gave lessons to Alan Greenspan, a future chairman of the Federal Reserve).
He bikes each day from his home in Forest Hills, Queens, to his law firm on lower Fifth Avenue.
While working on a masters degree at Oxford University, where he met his wife Catherine, he played starting point guard on its 1995 national champion basketball team.
It has spawned start-ups like RapidMiner, a maker of so-called machine learning software  software capable of teaching itself to do things.
Founded in 2007 by alumni of the university, RapidMiner employs 30 people in a local office, where the conference rooms are named after closed coal mines.
There is a good start-up culture, Ralf Klinkenberg, one of the companys co-founders, said of Dortmund.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

State and local officials also sought to improve the quality of life, which they see as key to attracting employers.
After an enormous ThyssenKrupp steel-making complex closed in 2001, the local government cleared the property and created an artificial lake big enough to accommodate a small fleet of sailboats.
Today the lake is ringed by modern low-rise buildings containing offices, pricey apartments and cafes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All of this comes at a price conservatives in America would find unacceptable.
The government safety net here is more comprehensive, with taxes to match, including a 19 percent national sales tax.
Germany has universal health insurance, relatively generous unemployment benefits, and free university tuition.
The government plays a role in the economy that many Americans would consider heavy handed.
Germany also has powerful labor unions, which have a long history of opposition to right-wing parties.
Some research has linked President Trumps rise to the decline of union membership in the United States.
In Dortmund, worker representatives have successfully pressured companies to finance retraining or early retirement for laid-off workers.
Sabine Birkenfeld, chairwoman of the workers council at a ThyssenKrupp steel galvanizing factory in Dortmund, has lived through serial mergers and layoffs over the years that reduced the work force by 90 percent to 1,300 people.
Still, she said, no one had to go to the unemployment office.
The struggle continues.
Ms. Birkenfeld arrived for an interview with The New York Times wearing a hard hat after touring the factory floor to urge workers to protest plans by ThyssenKrupp to merge its steel operations into a joint venture with Tata Steel.
ThyssenKrupp said the deal would lead to the loss of 2,000 jobs.
Ms. Birkenfeld said workers would push hard for the best possible terms.
If no one lands on the street, she said, then there wont be any fodder for the right-wing parties.
It wont be clear until the vote on Sunday whether Germany has succeeded in containing right-wing sentiment.
Some analysts say the rise of populist parties stems not from economic factors, but rather from a feeling by some voters that mainstream politicians are not listening to them.
In that case, Dortmunds revival would provide no insurance against a right-wing surge.
Its not economic conditions but whether they perceive their concerns are heard by the establishment, said Timo Lochocki, a fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.
A wild card is whether AfDs anti-foreigner policies, including calls for armed guards at the borders, will resonate with some voters here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Emad Abdelmalak, a 30-year-old Egyptian studying in Dortmund, said he did not think so.
Mr. Abdelmalak has sensed hostility in Germany once or twice since arriving three years ago, he said.
But, he added, in Dortmund Ive never had this feeling.
I dont feel this is a risky proposition, because I know myself and know what I can do, she said.
And I know that Im about to launch the show that I was born to do.
This is what I was meant to do.
Ms. Kelly, 46, did provide some details about the show.
She said she did not plan to talk all that much about politics.
Her show will have a mix of celebrity guests  Robert Redford, Jane Fonda, and the casts of This Is Us and Will & Grace will be on during her first week  along with segments dedicated to what she described as regular people.
There will be a studio audience of about 150 people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Kelly said she opened a rehearsal show on Wednesday by touching on the earthquake in Mexico City and the hurricane in Puerto Rico before quickly moving on to discuss the open letter that Serena Williams wrote to her mother, which has gone viral.
In a recent promo for the show, Ms. Kelly said she hoped NBCs new 9 a.m. hour would be fun and uplifting and empowering  that makes people feel fists in the air at the end of it.
Her show on Fox News often felt more like a fist to the face.
Ms. Kelly rose to fame  in conservative and liberal circles alike  for her withering cross-examinations of her guests.
Her 9 p.m. show was No.
1 in the time slot.
Photo

But she suggested that the job, toward the end, wasnt bringing her joy anymore.
(Over the course of a 40-minute interview, she said joy, joyful or joyous nine times.)
Still, Fox News was prepared to pay her more than $20 million a year for the job she wasnt born to do.
NBC also made an impressive offer, somewhere north of $15 million.
If I had sat there saying, I have job security here at Fox News, theyre not going to fire me, theyre going to pay me very well, that would have been a decision based on fear, she said.
Fear of the unknown, fear of failure.
And thats an unhealthy place from which to make any decision.
Though she had a Sunday newsmagazine show in the summer (and that will return next spring, she said), the centerpiece of her NBC deal is the morning show.
Her pivot to the daytime format feels like a reboot after years in the political maelstrom, though she will not call it that.
I think its the presentation of the whole me, Ms. Kelly said.
Its not like I am changing.
Im just sharing more of who I am.
My friends and my family would say, Youre going to see the Megyn we know.
For me, it truly is all about pursuing more joy.
Thats the reason we are here.
On a recent appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, she got a crash course on what her new life will look like: dancing in the stands, donning a sumo wrestler fat suit, cooking.
Photo

Ms. DeGeneres is good at producing laughs from her audience.
Megyn Kelly Today has pledged to do the same.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our viewers at 9 want to be informed, they want to be inspired, they want to laugh, said Jackie Levin, the executive producer of the show and a Today veteran.
I think most importantly people want to laugh a little bit more.
Thats what we hope to do.
The competition will be stiff.
In the most recent weekly ratings, Live With Kelly and Ryan averaged three million viewers, its best viewership in months.
And that celebrity-driven morning show has no shortage of stars in the coming weeks, including Harrison Ford, Viola Davis and Kate Winslet.
Ms. Kelly acknowledged that ratings were significant (I understand that this is still a business and the show doesnt get to stay on the air if it doesnt rate) but said she wouldnt be paying attention to them the way she did with her top-rated Fox News show.
After all, she has her dream job now.
And why exactly is this her dream job?
Its because I am a person who is searching, she said.
And always has been.
I am searching for my joy and more love and more wellness.
Always have been.
Finally my job is going to align with my soul, with my heart, with my reason for being.
Its not going to just be a paycheck because it happens to be something I do well.
The White House and Senate leaders are now in an intensive final push to repeal the Affordable Care Act by September 30.
After that, under Senate rules, they will need 60 votes, which they acknowledge is an impossibility.
Senator Graham said in a statement on Thursday that the legislation was gaining momentum and support because it would send money and power back to the states, and closer to patients, to deliver quality health care.
The legislation would turn over more than $1 trillion that would have been spent on the law known as Obamacare over the next seven years  everything from the funds for the expansion of Medicaid to the subsidies to help people buy private insurance  to states as block grants with very few strings attached.
They would then use the money to set up their own health care programs.
Congress would have to reauthorize the money after 2026 or it would go away.
The decisions about individual mandates, mandated benefits, and all the other decisions the ACA moved to Washington are best made at the state level by governors who understand the unique needs of their states, said Gov.
Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican.
Arkansas expanded Medicaid under Obamacare, and would lose roughly $6 billion under the bill, but Governor Hutchinson supports the legislation nonetheless.
Graham-Cassidy is putting federal spending on a budget, he said.
That is the fiscal discipline the federal government and states both need to ensure the sustainability of Medicaid and other state health care programs.
Like previous Republican proposals, the bill would also cancel the federal governments commitment to the open-ended funding of the traditional Medicaid program, capping an entitlement for the poor and disabled that now covers one in five Americans.
States could choose to take some of that Medicaid money in a block grant too.
Winners and Losers

One of the most striking things about the bill is how it redistributes federal money among states.
Some states that have invested a lot in expanding coverage under Obamacare (many of them Democratic) would lose big to others (mostly Republican) that have fiercely resisted going along with the law and are hostile to federal spending in general.
Photo

The biggest spoils would go to Texas, which refused to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and had the nations highest uninsured rate last year at 16.6 percent.
The health data firm Avalere estimated that Texas would receive an additional $35 billion by 2026 under the bills formula.
California, which has expanded coverage to an additional 3.7 million under the A.C.A.
would get $78 billion less through 2026 than under current law, and New York would see $45 billion less, Avalere found.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Mississippi, which Avalere calculated would reap an extra $6 billion through 2026, some public health officials were skeptical that the state would even want the money.
Mississippi has one of the nations sickest populations and has historically resisted federal funding for social welfare programs.
After the Affordable Care Act became law, Gov.
Phil Bryant, a Republican, rejected not only the chance to expand Medicaid but also his own state insurance commissioners attempt to create a state-based insurance marketplace with federal funds offered under the law.
Year after year we have fought to get our policy makers to take money from the feds, said Roy Mitchell, executive director of the Mississippi Health Advocacy Program.
I could just see another scenario like that with this bill.
These states that would see more money are just rife with ideologues that do not want to see this specific population get any kind of opportunity for affordable coverage.
Thats my stark reality.
In an emailed statement on Wednesday, Governor Bryant said his priority if the Senate bill passed would be to implement a system of health care that best fit the specific needs of Mississippis most vulnerable citizens, and did not endanger coverage for those with pre-existing conditions.
In Iowa, state officials have already filed a formal application to opt out of the Obamacare insurance market next year.
The insurance commissioner, Doug Ommen, said he liked the idea of a health care block grant even though under the bills formula, Iowa stood to lose some federal funding.
The proposal he submitted to the Trump administration would use the federal money that helps cover lower-income peoples deductibles to instead provide more premium subsidies and help insurers cover their most expensive customers costs.
It could be an early example of something states might try to do under the Senate bill, if the money was sufficient.
I think we would make it work here, Mr. Ommen said of the bill.
We are a proponent of flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Alabama, another winner under the Senate bill, Jim Carnes, policy director at Arise Citizens Policy Project, an advocacy group, described the bill as a bait and switch for the state.
The early gains from the redistribution will take a nose-dive 10 years out and we will lose billions, he said.
No state is a winner in the end.
Remaking Medicaid

The bill would make the most sweeping changes to Medicaid since the programs inception in 1965.
It goes farther than previous Senate proposals, and a bill passed by the House in May, by eliminating the expansion of Medicaid set up by the Affordable Care Act, which has extended the programs coverage to 11 million more lower-income people, and putting the money into block grants starting in 2020.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The states could use that money for a variety of health care expenses, including creating high-risk pools to cover particularly expensive patients, to create a health care exchange run by the state, or to subsidize the cost of premiums or out of pocket costs for people with private insurance.
Photo

In all, Medicaid now covers 74 million Americans, most of them poor but also middle class people with disabilities and in nursing homes.
The federal government shares the cost of Medicaid with states, and has traditionally paid between 50 and 75 percent of the costs, with poor states receiving more money.
The commitment was open-ended; the government covered its share no matter the cost, or how many people enrolled.
The federal government picked up the entire cost of the Medicaid expansion at first, with that share ultimately tapering to 90 percent.
Like previous Republican proposals, Graham-Cassidy would cap traditional Medicaid spending on a per-person basis, based on a complex formula.
That provision worries many hospital systems.
These funding reductions are unsustainable for many Ohio hospitals, said John Palmer, a spokesman for the Ohio Hospital Association, adding that nearly 20 percent of hospitals in the state already spend more than they take in.
Its hard to overstate the potential effects.
Medicaid now provides medical care to four out of 10 American children, and covers the costs of nearly half of all births in the United States, as well as care for two-thirds of people in nursing homes and also for 10 million children and adults with physical or mental disabilities.
It would unleash massive health care debates in every state capital, said Mr. Levitt, at Kaiser.
All these tough decisions would no longer be on Congress plate but on the plates of governors.
Consumer Protections

The proposal is much more aggressive than some of the other Republican plans in rolling back the Affordable Care Acts consumer protections, say health care lawyers and other experts who have studied the bill.
It would allow states to stop requiring insurers to cover essential health care needs like hospitalization, prescription drugs, maternity care and mental health treatment.
Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, a co-author of the legislation, has insisted that it would continue to provide vital protections to people with chronic illnesses so they would be able to find health insurance.
But lawyers say the bill would allow states an almost unfettered ability to permit insurance companies to charge someone with, say, cancer or diabetes much higher rates  or to exclude certain expensive conditions like pregnancy or addiction from the plans they offer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Though it is unclear how many would do so, states would be able to waive the existing rules much more easily because the bill would only require a state to explain how it intended to cover people with pre-existing conditions.
Its not at all required that their explanation or plan meets any kind of standard, said Richard J. Zall, a partner at the law firm Proskauer.
Moreover, unlike previous proposals, the bill would pave the way for insurers to adjust their prices every time someone renewed a policy, based on the individuals changing health status.
People could sign up for a plan and see the price skyrocket if they developed a potentially serious condition like cancer, said Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser foundation.
Even the way people bought insurance would change in states that relied on the current federal insurance marketplace, which allows people to buy subsidized plans through HealthCare.gov.
It would be dismantled in 2020.
The federal exchanges go away, said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor at Washington and Lee University law school who opposes to the bill.
Instead of setting up their own website so people can shop for a plan, the state could use the money to set up high-risk insurance pools for people with expensive chronic conditions or pay hospitals and doctors directly for care.
But even with the best of intentions, the time frame is very short for states to come up with an alternative plan, he said.
The biggest problem is how are states are going to do this in two years, Mr. Jost said.
JAMES GRAHAM I began writing it at the beginning of 2016, but even before Brexit and Trumps election, I was interested in the way our news discourse was changing online and through social media.
The more aggressive populist language of journalism there made me think about the aggressive populist tone that started with The Sun.
Photo

I was fascinated by these two characters: Rupert Murdoch, who feels very present in our cultural life, and Larry Lamb, expunged from history despite his influence in changing the voice of popular discourse.
But I also had a wider desire to understand the tabloid appeal, and its wider effect on our political life.
And then, its just a damn good story!
What you cant deny is what was in the air: The national mood, the temperature of the country, and particularly the language  the tone of conversation in the media, social media, at the pub.
The presentation of the young Murdoch is very evenhanded.
Did you discover aspects of his character that went against expectations?
BERTIE CARVEL I dont know what I had in mind before I came to the table.
It was important to me not to decide who this guy was before it began.
One of the things that emerged is that Murdoch was a visionary, a story perhaps suppressed by those who think he was an uncouth outsider who just wanted to wreck the shop.
GRAHAM The narrative that has been perpetuated is that we are somewhat sympathetic to Murdoch.
I dont think its that.
Its about understanding human motivation.
I dont think people wake up and think, How can we make the world worse?
What does it mean for this play to be staged in London now, after the phone hacking scandals and the 20th anniversary of Dianas death, often blamed on tabloid hunger for stories?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

CARVEL I think the play shows a bunch of themes and arguments that have huge resonance, and not just in Britain.
Murdoch talks about giving people more choice, more freedom, and that sounds good, specially in opposition to a patrician we-know-whats-good-for-you.
But when you track it through, you see where it may be problematic.
Which is where we are now.
Photo

GRAHAM I would love to think this could be played in 50 years time and have different resonances.
Its the universals of the human experiences that make it last; thats the stuff I had to go away and work harder on when I was writing.
To what extent do we live in Rupert Murdochs world now?
Do you think he knew where media culture was headed?
CARVEL The question is: Was it ever thus?
Did tabloids shift peoples political allegiances or did they follow them?
The idea that Rupert Murdoch can decide who your Prime Minister is  well, I think that even the people who wrote the famous 1992 headline, Its The Sun Wot Won It, didnt think that was true.
But you cant deny the impact of that journalism and those characters in terms of how we talk about ourselves and view ourselves today.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
During the rehearsal period we had the general election, which no one had expected, and then a result that no one had expected.
Afterward, we had to ask, has the influence of the tabloids diminished because they tried hard, but didnt succeed, in crushing Jeremy Corbyn?
I think that by isolating a moment in history when the power of the tabloids was so great, and their influence so huge, audiences may have that conversation about whether that power is still the same.
There are often parallels drawn between Murdoch and Trump, who are famously friendly.
James, did you think about that while writing?
GRAHAM I thought about Trump a lot during the latter stages of rehearsal.
And also about British figures like Nigel Farage and Arron Banks.
I am fascinated by populism and the contradiction, possibly even the hypocrisy, of the fact that its often men of great privilege and wealth who are the epitome of the establishment, who present themselves as anti-establishment and representative of working-class anger.
But I do think that what drove Rupert Murdoch was more than commercial interests.
Like Trump, even though he was an insider, he felt like an outsider, that people humiliated him, mocked him.
The anger that boiled within fueled the desire for revenge.
But the Murdoch in my play is also driven by the desire to provide a voice to others who feel outside the system, because he had an understanding of what that feels like.
Im not sure thats true for Trump.
Youve got rising market power, said Marshall Steinbaum, an economist at the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal think tank.
In general, that makes it hard for new businesses to compete with incumbents.
Market power is the story that explains everything.
That argument comes at a potent political moment.
Populists on both the left and right have responded to growing public unease about the corporate giants that increasingly dominate their online and offline lives.
Polling data from Gallup and other organizations shows a long-running decline in confidence in banks and other big businesses  a concern not likely to abate after high-profile data breaches at Equifax and other companies.
The start-up slump has far-reaching implications.
Small businesses in general are often cited as an exemplar of economic dynamism.
But it is start-ups  and particularly the small subset of companies that grow quickly  that are key drivers of job creation and innovation, and have historically been a ladder into the middle class for less-educated workers and immigrants.
Perhaps most significant, start-ups play a critical role in making the economy as a whole more productive, as they invent new products and approaches, forcing existing businesses to compete or fall by the wayside.
Across the decades, young companies are really the heavy hitters and the consistent hitters in terms of job creation, said Arnobio Morelix, an economist at the Kauffman Foundation, a nonprofit in Kansas City, Mo., that studies and promotes entrepreneurship.
The start-up decline might defy expectations in the age of Uber and Shark Tank.
But however counterintuitive, the trend is backed by multiple data sources and numerous economic studies.
Photo

In 1980, according to the Census Bureau data, roughly one in eight companies had been founded in the past year; by 2015, that ratio had fallen to fewer than one in 12.
The downward trend cuts across regions and industries and, at least since 2000, includes even the beating heart of American entrepreneurship, high tech.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although the overall slump dates back more than 30 years, economists are most concerned about a more recent trend.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the entrepreneurial slowdown was concentrated in sectors such as retail, where corner stores and regional brands were being subsumed by national chains.
That trend, though often painful for local communities, wasnt necessarily a drag on productivity more generally.
Since about 2000, however, the slowdown has spread to parts of the economy more often associated with high-growth entrepreneurship, including the technology sector.
That decline has coincided with a period of weak productivity growth in the United States as a whole, a trend that has in turn been implicated in the patterns of fitful wage gains and sluggish economic growth since the recession.
Recent research has suggested that the decline in entrepreneurship, and in other measures of business dynamism, is one cause of the prolonged stagnation in productivity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Weve got lots of pieces now that say dynamism has gone down a lot since 2000, said John Haltiwanger, a University of Maryland economist who has done much of the pioneering work in the field.
Start-ups have gone down a lot since 2000, especially in the high-tech sectors, and there are increasingly strong links to productivity.
What is behind the decline in entrepreneurship is less clear.
Economists and other experts have pointed to a range of possible explanations: The aging of the baby-boom generation has left fewer Americans in their prime business-starting years.
The decline of community banks and the collapse of the market for home-equity loans may have made it harder for would-be entrepreneurs to get access to capital.
Increased regulation, at both the state and federal levels, may be particularly burdensome for new businesses that lack well-staffed compliance departments.
Those and other factors could well play a role, but none can fully explain the decline.
More recently, economists  especially but not exclusively on the left  have begun pointing the finger at big business, and in particular at the handful of companies that increasingly dominate many industries.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (<100 employees) 1980 1990 2000 2010 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (less than 100 employees) 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
The evidence is largely circumstantial: The slump in entrepreneurship has coincided with a period of increasing concentration in nearly every major industry.
Research from Mr. Haltiwanger and several co-authors has found that the most productive companies are growing more slowly than in the past, a hint that competitive pressures arent forcing companies to react as quickly to new innovations.
A recent working paper from economists at Princeton and University College London found that American companies are increasingly able to demand prices well above their costs  which according to standard economic theory would lead new companies to enter the market.
Yet that isnt happening.
If were in an era of excessive profits, in competitive markets we would see record firm entry, but we see the opposite, said Ian Hathaway, an economist who has studied the issue.
That, Mr. Hathaway said, suggests that the market is not truly competitive  that existing companies have found ways to block competitors.
Experts also point to anecdotal examples that suggest that the rise of big businesses could be squelching competition.
YouTube, Instagram and hundreds of lower-profile start-ups chose to sell out to industry heavyweights like Google and Facebook rather than try to take them on directly.
The tech giants have likewise been accused of using the power of their platforms to favor their own offerings over those of competitors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most recently, Amazon openly called for a bidding war among cities for its second headquarters  hardly the kind of demand a new start-up could make.
Mr. Morelix said the Amazon example was particularly striking.
Were saying that its O.K.
that they shape how a city charges taxes?
Mr. Morelix said.
And what kind of regulations they have?
That should be terrifying to anyone that wants a free market.
In Washington, where for years politicians have praised small businesses while catering to big ones, issues of competition and entrepreneurship are increasingly drawing bipartisan attention.
Several Republican presidential candidates referred to the start-up slump during last years primary campaign.
Progressive Democrats such as Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have pushed for stricter enforcement of antitrust rules.
In a speech in March, Ms. Klobuchar explicitly tied the struggles of entrepreneurs to rising corporate concentration.
In July, entrepreneurs achieved a mark of political relevance: their own advocacy group.
The newly formed Center for American Entrepreneurship will conduct research on the importance of new businesses to the economy and push for policies aimed at improving the start-up rate.
Its founding president, John Dearie, comes from big business  he was most recently the acting head of the Financial Services Forum, which represents big financial institutions.
Everybody loves entrepreneurship, but theyre not aware its in trouble, Mr. Dearie said.
If new businesses are the engine of net new job creation, and if new businesses are the engine of innovation, and new business creation is at 30-year lows, thats a national emergency.
We dont really see this trend ending anytime soon, said Marci Freede, who opened the Paint Place on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in 2014 and added a second location, in Astoria, Queens, last year.
Photo

Photo

Whether run by franchisees or sole proprietors, the classes have a similar structure: An artist offers step-by-step instructions on how to paint a predetermined image.
While they paint, customers enjoy an alcoholic beverage of their choice (or, if they prefer, coffee or water).
And when they finish, they get to keep their creations.
Classes can cost $35 to $65 a person, depending on location and format.
Cathy Deano, a founder of Painting With a Twist, which is based in Mandeville, La., said that most participants had not done much painting, if any, before taking a class, and that having a few sips of wine helped tame what she called the white canvas anxiety that novice artists can feel when starting a painting.
It just relaxes them, she said.
I tell my husband, Its like going fishing, said Susan Jean, the proprietor of Painting With a Twists Bentonville location.
You drink a little, talk a lot and bring something home.
Ms. Jean, 59, said she had always wanted to run her own business and had decided on a paint-and-sip shop after taking a class with her sister.
She is not an artist herself: I cant paint a wall, she said with a shrug.
She hires local artists to teach the classes, while she and her daughter, Katie Collins, run the business.
Some classes are open to anyone; others are geared toward couples or girls night out groups.
Companies also schedule classes as team-building exercises or fund-raising events.
The paint-and-sip trend has been driven in part by a generally heightened interest in wine, said Ben Litalien, an instructor in the franchise-management certificate program at Georgetown Universitys School of Continuing Studies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But, Mr. Litalien said, consumers were also increasingly being drawn to experiences that engage them and allow them to express themselves, rather than simply buying something.
Other examples of experience-based businesses that he cited included Top Golf, where customers play golf-related games, and escape rooms, where participants solve puzzles together.
The growth of such businesses may reflect the findings of recent psychological research showing that people are happier when they have an experience rather than making a purchase.
In a 2014 article in Psychological Science (title: Waiting for Merlot), researchers at Cornell University and the University of California, San Francisco, found that just the anticipation of experiences could be more pleasurable than the anticipation of buying merchandise.
Starting a Painting With a Twist location requires an initial franchise fee of $25,000; total upfront costs, including that fee, can run from $89,000 to $188,000, depending on location.
The companys franchise agreement calls for a seven-year commitment.
Annual gross revenue for individual outlets averages about $388,000, according to Painting With a Twist.
Mr. Litalien said that demand for so-called experiential classes was high and that there appeared to be little risk of cannibalization as the industry grew.
A potential long-term challenge was getting customers to return, especially, he said, as the novelty subsides.
In other words, how many paintings of sunsets and butterflies do people want, even if they painted them themselves?
Some outlets are trying different approaches to keep the experience fresh.
Bottle & Bottega, which is based in Chicago, offers classes to personalize a wine glass or holiday ornament.
It also offers bachelorette parties, where participants paint a nude male model.
Bottle & Bottegas website describes the sessions as fun, classy and upscale.
Photo

Photo

Ms. Freede of the Paint Place said her outlets tried to spice things up as well, offering erotic painting nights for couples.
Nothing vulgar, she said, just paintings that might be a bit more risqu than those offered on a typical night.
Many locations tap into Americans obsession with dogs and cats by offering Paint Your Pet classes.
Participants provide photographs of their pets in advance, which an artist sketches in pencil.
Classes are then devoted to finishing the images with paint.
Those always sell out, said Ms. Collins of the Painting With a Twist location here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Studios also try to connect painting classes to the wider world.
The Bentonville group, for instance, painted a purple-hued eclipse, in honor of the solar eclipse in August.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Shelby Nichols, the instructor for the two-hour session in Bentonville on that August Friday, stepped onto a raised platform.
Wearing a headset with a microphone, she ran through a checklist of supplies: chalk, paint and brushes.
Were going to put the first layer on a bit thin, she said, demonstrating on her own canvas.
Dont glop it on!
Ms. Nichols, 31, a professional illustrator, said she enjoyed moonlighting as a teacher for inexperienced artists.
Im a ham, she said, so I like being on stage.
As she delivered instructions, a playlist featuring the singer Bruno Mars and 80s bands like Simple Minds provided a soundtrack.
Ms. Collins surveyed the room and offered encouragement.
As the session proceeded, the mood grew increasingly relaxed, an end-of-week feeling combined with the effect of the alcohol.
The sessions are as much about socializing as they are about art.
Resist the urge to paint the middle right now, Ms. Nichols admonished, as the participants painted a yellow oval.
Resist!
Photo

The class was a mix of couples, friends, newcomers and regulars.
Gayle Jackson, 70, sipped a glass of white wine as she painted.
She said she considered the drink incidental to the camaraderie.
Im a widow, she said, and this gets me out.
She added that it also gave her ideas for painting at home with her grandchildren.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the next table, Lexy Paryzek, 25, a human resources manager at a hospital, and her date, Jonathan Hendrix, 29, a real estate appraiser, shared a bottle of wine.
Mr. Hendrix said it was their second visit; it had been his idea to bring Ms. Paryzek the first time.
Its quality time together, he said, adding that it was nice to have a date night that did not involve a bar.
This time, they had brought along their mothers, who sat across the table.
Its just relaxing, said Mr. Hendrixs mother, Karen Hendrix, who had been before.
Im a teachers aide, so I need some stress-free time.
Local regulations governing such businesses vary.
Some paint-and-sip locations allow people to bring their own alcohol, but others do not and require patrons to buy drinks on site.
Classes typically last just two hours, so it is rare for someone to get too tipsy, Ms. Collins said.
The exception is on weekends, when it is sometimes obvious that a patron has been pre-gaming, drinking before class.
In those instances, she said, she makes sure to ask if the person has a ride home.
So far, she said, weve never had to shut somebody off.
Patrons have mostly been able to follow an instructors directions, but occasionally someone will need extra help.
Once, Ms. Collins said, a male patron planned to paint Will you marry me?
on a canvas and present it to his girlfriend as a proposal, but he got too nervous.
The instructor finished it for him.
