New York (CNN) Former Rep. Anthony Weiner was sentenced Monday to 21 months in prison for sexting with a minor.
In addition to the prison term, Weiner also was sentenced to three years of supervised release.
"This is a serious crime that deserves serious punishment," Judge Denise Cote of the Southern District of New York said.
In May, Weiner, 53, pleaded guilty to one charge of transferring obscene material to a minor in federal court in Manhattan.
The charges stem from communications that the former congressman had with a 15-year-old girl on social media sites between January and March 2016.
Weiner is the estranged husband of Huma Abedin, Hillary Clinton's former adviser.
The charge carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison .
Prosecutors recommended a sentence of 21 to 27 months in jail, arguing Weiner's pattern of behavior "suggests a dangerous level of denial and lack of self-control warranting a meaningful incarceratory sentence."
Defense attorneys asked that Weiner receive probation.
The 15-year-old girl initially contacted Weiner through a direct message on Twitter in January 2016.
Weiner and the girl continued to communicate on social media sites, including Facebook Messenger, Skype, Kik, Confide and Snapchat.
The last three messaging applications delete images and messages after users view them.
Weiner asked the teen to "engage in sexually explicit conduct via Skype and Snapchat, where her body was on display, and where she was asked to sexually perform for him," prosecutors said in a sentencing memorandum.
Weiner was fully aware of the girl's age when they were communicating, prosecutors said.
Weiner's attorneys said his crimes were a "product of sickness" and maintained he wasn't a sexual predator.
"He responded as a weak man, at the bottom of a self-destructive spiral, and with an addict's self-serving delusion that the communications were all just Internet fantasy," the defense wrote.
"I knew this was as morally wrong, as it was unlawful," Weiner said in his guilty plea in court.
"This fall, I came to grips for the first time with the depths of my sickness.
I had hit bottom."
A downward spiral

Weiner's personal and professional life had been collapsing around him for half a decade even before the sexting case.
He resigned from Congress after a lewd picture appeared on his Twitter page in June 2011.
At first, he claimed his account had been hacked but later revealed that he had lied.
Sexually charged, sometimes explicit, texts with women also emerged around this time.
Weiner insisted his marriage with Abedin was intact.
She gave birth to a son, the couple's only child, six months later.
In 2013, Weiner sought to revive his political career by running for mayor of New York.
Two months after he announced his candidacy, screenshots surfaced of sexual conversations that Weiner had with a woman the previous year.
At the time, Abedin joined Weiner in a news conference, saying that although her husband had made some "horrible mistakes ... what I want to say is I love him, I have forgiven him, I believe in him ... we are moving forward."
During the 2016 campaign, it was revealed that emails from Hillary Clinton containing classified information were forwarded by Abedin to a computer used by Weiner.
A decision by former FBI Director James Comey to alert Congress just days before the election about his agency's investigation into messages potentially related to Clinton's personal server has been cited by Clinton as a key reason she lost the presidential race.
Investigators ultimately determined the emails were mostly ones they had previously seen and Clinton was ultimately cleared by the FBI two days before the election.
In May, Abedin filed for divorce around the time Weiner pleaded guilty in the sexting case.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Washington (CNN) North Korea's Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho on Monday accused US President Donald Trump of declaring war on his country by tweeting over the weekend that North Korea "won't be around much longer."
In light of this, Ri said North Korea would take counter measures, including the right to shoot down US bombers flying over the Korean Peninsula, even if they did not enter North Korean airspace.
Ri made the comments to reporters in New York.
"In light of the declaration of war by Trump, all options will be on the operating table of the Supreme leadership of DPRK," Ri said, according to his official English translator.
This story is breaking and will be updated.
Washington (CNN) Republicans are expected to release a framework this week of their widely-anticipated tax reform plan as the party desperately seeks a legislative victory before the end of the year.
Leaders announced earlier this month they would unveil some details of the plan this week in a "consensus document."
But the timeline grew complicated after a last-minute push to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act surged in attention and soaked up oxygen away from tax reform.
However, with at least three Republicans now opposed or leaning against the bill, the latest health care effort is on thin ice , signaling that tax reform may be back in the spotlight this week, even as efforts are underway to change senators' minds and keep the so-called Graham-Cassidy effort afloat.
Still, leaders of the tax negotiations plan to move forward with their plan to release the framework, though it's unclear just how many specifics will be disclosed.
It's all part of a coordinated effort.
President Donald Trump is set to meet with conservative groups Monday to discuss tax reform.
He will later speak about taxes in Indiana on Wednesday, the same day that House Republicans are scheduled to gather for a retreat to discuss the plan.
Before then, Republicans on the ways and means committee -- the tax writing panel in the House -- are holding their own retreat earlier in the week.
This comes a week after an agreement on the Senate budget committee was reached to to greenlight a tax reform package that ends up adding as much as $1.5 trillion to deficits over 10 years.
While running up debt is normally against GOP fiscal dogma, many Republicans have said they don't mind so long as the cause is tax cuts, which they contend will bolster economic growth.
Republicans want to use budget reconciliation to pass tax reform, a procedural maneuver that would allow the Senate to avoid a filibuster by Democrats and advance a bill with only a 51-vote majority (Republicans currently hold a 52-48 majority).
But to do that, Republicans must first pass a budget resolution in both chambers, and they need to get the conservative House Freedom Caucus members on board.
Releasing the framework this week is in part aimed at giving conservatives enough details on tax reform so that they'll sign onto a budget by the end of the month.
Complicating matters further, Sen. Lindsey Graham, one of the authors of the struggling health care bill, sits on the Senate budget committee and told ABC's "This Week" Sunday he would not vote for a budget resolution unless it allowed more time for the health care date beyond September 30, when reconciliation for health care is set to expire.
While very little is known about the tax reform plan, the White House put out a one-page outline in April of its tax goals.
Among the priorities were consolidating the number of brackets down to three from seven, lowering of the top individual rate from 39.6% to 35%, doubling the standard deduction, and lowering the corporate tax to 15%, far below its current rate of 35%.
Since then, however, leading Republicans have tempered expectations for such a low corporate rate, indicating a rate in the low 20% range was more achievable.
Negotiators have been meeting frequently throughout the summer in a group called the Big Six, which consists of Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, the President's chief economic adviser Gary Cohn, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Paul Ryan, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch.
Democrats have complained loudly about being left out of the negotiations.
Trump has sought to assuage some of their concerns by declaring repeatedly that the wealthy won't benefit from the tax plan.
While a popular talking point, his comments have put congressional Republicans in an awkward position, since many feel that lowering tax rates for everyone, including the wealthy, would help spur the most economic growth.
Mnuchin, explaining Trump's claim about the wealthy, has said that even if the wealthy get a break in their income tax rates, they ultimately may not pay less because of expected eliminations of loopholes and other tax breaks that they take advantage of.
"There's lots of changes," he said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union."
"We're getting rid of lots of deductions.
We're trying to get rid of state and local deductions to get the federal government out of subsidizing it and yes I can tell you the current plan, for many, many people -- it will not reduce taxes on the high end."
With so few details known about the plan, however, it's entirely unclear if the fine print of an actual tax reform bill will match Trump's rhetoric or anything else key Republicans are promising.
(CNN) As the Republican Party's last-ditch effort to repeal Obamacare hangs by a thread, a revised version of the Graham-Cassidy bill was circulated to Senate Republicans on Sunday with the aim of winning over key votes.
Even with the new changes, the task ahead is daunting.
GOP Sens.
Rand Paul and John McCain have already publicly opposed the bill, and leadership can't afford to lose one more.
Plenty of others, including Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine have made known their deep reservations -- Collins went as far as to say on CNN Sunday morning that it was "very difficult" for her to envision getting to a "yes."
And time is ticking.
The vehicle that Republicans are using that allows them to advance a bill without any Democratic support is set to expire at the end of September, making the next several days critical.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will soon have to make a call: walk away from his party's latest attempt to gut the Affordable Care Act, or put Graham-Cassidy on the Senate floor and hope that it passes.
Neither option is ideal.
GOP lawmakers are now once again at risk of confronting backlash from their base for failing to overhaul Obamacare, while another unsuccessful vote would deal a major blow to McConnell just two months after his first attempt to pass a repeal bill failed in dramatic fashion.
An internal GOP analysis, circulated to Senate offices, shows spending boosts states like Alaska and Kentucky -- data that will almost certainly be used to sell the revised proposal in the days ahead.
But notably, those increases in the projection incorporate savings from ending the state match of Medicaid expansion.
So in total, there is still a reduction in health care spending in these states when compared to current law.
(For example, Alaska would get a $100 billion cut via its block grant in the bill, but the GOP analysis shows it would receive a boost of three percent.)
The analysis also doesn't address the overhaul of the Medicaid program, from an open-ended entitlement program to a per person cap.
How the new version helps Alaska

In an important nod to Murkowski, the revised bill says Native Americans and Alaska Natives enrolled in Medicaid expansion prior to 2020 could continue to be eligible after that point, according to documents circulated Sunday night to senior Senate aides and obtained by CNN.
The state's sizeable native population and that group's unique health needs has been a serious concern for Murkowski.
In one new provision particularly beneficial to Alaska, the state would receive a 25% boost in federal matching funds for Medicaid due to its defined high-level of poverty.
Speaking of Medicaid expansion

The newest version of the bill gives Medicaid expansion states that expanded the program after 2015 additional federal dollars.
Under the latest proposal, states that expanded Medicaid after December 2015 would be eligible for $750 million that the federal government would allocate between 2023 and 2026.
According to a summary of the bill, "the administrator will distribute fund to qualifying states based on their percentage of low-income individuals in the state compared with the total number of low-income individuals for all qualifying states."
States can design their own rules

The updated bill would also allow states to design some of their own insurance rules.
This would wipe away many of Obamacare's protections not only for those with pre-existing conditions, but also for those who get medical care.
It would let states alter the essential health benefits, which require insurers to cover prescription drugs, mental health and other services.
But states could also change many of Obamacare's financial protections, including limiting how much people must pay out of pocket each year and how much of the tab insurers must pick up.
That means that insurers could once again offer plans with deductibles of $10,000 or more for a single person.
Republicans have long criticized Obamacare for having high deductibles, which this year cannot exceed $7,150.
Also, states could allow insurers to create multiple risk pools -- meaning those who are healthy could be assigned to one risk pool with lower premiums, while those who are not could be put into another with higher rates.
The new bill would also let states change the Obamacare requirement that insurers could not charge older Americans in their 50s and early 60s more than three times the rates of younger enrollees.
Under the Affordable Care Act, younger consumers essentially subsidized the premiums of older ones.
All the GOP repeal bills this year have loosened this provision, which has led the influential AARP to blast Republicans for levying an "age tax" on older Americans.
And under Obamacare, many preventative services -- including annual check-ups, mammograms and colonoscopies -- were free.
States could make changes to this provision too.
Loosening the insurance regulations has been a priority for Paul, whom Republicans are also trying to woo.
Pre-existing conditions protections have been a flashpoint

The new proposal has already sparked fresh concerns about the way people with pre-existing conditions would be treated.
It would make it even easier for states to change the rules because they would not have to apply for waivers -- so long as they describe how they would provide "adequate and affordable coverage" for individuals with medical histories.
Critics and experts have widely said such a requirement would not guarantee the same protections as under Obamacare.
Also, the Department of Health and Human Services would not oversee states to make sure they are adhering to their promises.
"There are no teeth behind that requirement," said Larry Levitt, a health care policy expert at the Kaiser Family Foundation.
"There's no question under this revised bill that states could alter benefit requirements, eliminate the cap on patient out-of-pocket costs, and allow segregated risk pools."
If there was any question about Graham-Cassidy's removal of federal protections for pre-existing conditions, this new draft is quite clear.
Larry Levitt (@larry_levitt) September 25, 2017

The pre-existing conditions issue became a flashpoint in recent days when late-night comic Jimmy Kimmel accused the authors of Graham-Cassidy of failing to preserve protections for people with pre-existing conditions, pointing to his own son who was born with a congenital heart defect.
As in the previous version of the bill, the new Graham-Cassidy would repeal the individual and employer mandates -- penalties imposed by the Affordable Care Act on people who don't have insurance and certain employers that don't provide coverage for employees.
This story has been updated and will continue to update with new information and analysis.
Story highlights The new restrictions cover eight countries and replace a provision of the travel ban that expired Sunday night

Legal challenges may even need to start fresh in lower courts

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump's proclamation issued late Sunday night restricting travel from eight countries will impact the upcoming Supreme Court arguments, legal experts say, and could even stop the justices -- for now -- from weighing in on the legality of the President's controversial executive order.
And legal challenges may even need to start fresh in lower courts, further delaying a Supreme Court answer on the constitutionality of the travel ban.
Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco filed a letter with the Supreme Court "respectfully suggesting" that the justices request supplemental briefs from both sides by October 5 because of the new restrictions the President has outlined.
In the letter, Francisco emphasized that part of the March travel ban had expired, and the administration is putting in place new restrictions after a worldwide review.
Oral arguments are currently set for October 10.
"In general, when one policy expires and a new policy is developed, the court may consider any challenge to the expired policy to be moot," said Irv Gornstein, the executive director of the Supreme Court Institute at Georgetown Law.
Gornstein stressed he was talking generally, but he suggested that if the parties are no longer affected by the new policy, there may not be the injury that is necessary to establish a case -- potentially meaning things will have to start anew.
Read More
(CNN) Lost amid Donald Trump's swirl of tweets about NFL players who sit or kneel during the national anthem were some decidedly odd comments by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin about the 1st Amendment.
Here's what Mnuchin told CNN's Jake Tapper on "State of the Union" Sunday morning when asked about the protests:

"This is about respect for our military.
This is about respect for our first responders.
This is not about Republicans or Democrats.
Players have the right for free speech off the field.
On the field, this is about respect for lots of people.
And I don't understand why there's rules that when the Dallas Cowboys wanted to put stickers on their helmets out of respect for people there, they couldn't do it, but now the NFL is saying people should be able to decide what they want to do and disrespect the United States flag."
Let's start with Mnuchin's assertion that standing for the national anthem is fundamentally about "respect for our military" and "respect for our first responders."
That may well be why many people stand for the anthem.
Which is great.
But the national anthem isn't the sole territory of the military and first responders.
The national anthem is not about any one group.
It is about our trajectory as a country -- about the effort to be a more perfect and equal union every day from our founding until today.
About how we are always striving to do better and be better.
Read More
Story highlights Brady locked arms with teammates during the national anthem on Sunday

His comments are notable as he is a friend of the 45th president

Washington (CNN) New England Patriots' quarterback Tom Brady said he believes President Donald Trump's comments about NFL players are "divisive" and on Monday said he supports those NFL players who are protesting during the national anthem.
"Yeah, I certainly disagree with what (Trump) said.
I thought it was just divisive," he told "Kirk and Callahan" on Boston's WEEI Monday in his most extensive comments on the subject.
Brady customarily gives interviews to the station on Mondays following games.
His comments are especially notable as he is a friend of the 45th President.
Brady -- who locked arms with teammates during the national anthem on Sunday -- continued, "Like I said, I just want to support my teammates.
I am never one to say, 'Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.'
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.
Those are the values that my parents instilled in me.
That is how I try and live every day."
Brady also told "Kirk and Callahan" that he thinks "everyone has the right to do whatever they want to do.
If you don't agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
It's part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about."
Read More
(CNN) Over the weekend, President Trump went on a tweet storm directed at players who refuse to stand during the national anthem.
One of the posts took aim at the NFL, demanding the league change its policy:

"Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country.
NFL should change policy!"
the tweet read.
Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country.
NFL should change policy!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

The irony of President Trump's tweet is not lost when you consider a tweet from businessman Trump four years ago.
At the time, he was blasting then-President Obama who said he'd change the name of the Washington Redskins if he were the team's owner because the name is offensive to some Native Americans:

"President should not be telling the Washington Redskins to change their name-our country has far bigger problems!
FOCUS on them,not nonsense," Trump tweeted on October 8, 2013.
(CNN) Tension is rising between congressional investigators probing Russia meddling and the Trump administration, as the White House and Justice Department withhold a number of records sought by Capitol Hill at a critical time in the investigations.
Operating on parallel tracks from special counsel Robert Mueller, the three congressional committees probing Russia's election meddling have asked for scores of documents related to everything from Jared Kushner's security clearance to records surrounding President Donald Trump's discussions with James Comey before he was fired as FBI director.
At the same time, the GOP leader of the House intelligence committee is threatening to hold a public hearing this week over documents the Justice Department has so far failed to turn over to Capitol Hill regarding the FBI's ties to a British operative who compiled a dossier of allegations on Trump's connections with Russia.
And the GOP-led Senate judiciary committee is in a growing standoff with the Justice Department's deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, over several issues, including the department's decision to prevent two senior FBI officials from sitting down for transcribed interviews on Capitol Hill to provide eyewitness accounts of the Comey firing.
While the Trump campaign has provided lawmakers with thousands of pages of documents thus far, there are numerous requests where the White House, FBI and Justice Department have missed the committees' deadlines, prompting some committee members to threaten to issue subpoenas to the West Wing and Justice Department.
Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House intelligence committee, told CNN on Saturday that the White House has "refused" since June to comply with the panel's bipartisan request for documents over Trump's conversations with Comey -- "despite repeated attempts" to obtain the information.
"The White House's refusal to answer Congress in full and truthfully raises serious questions about the White House's intent, including the potential that it is misleading Congress," Schiff said in an email.
"The White House must fully comply immediately; if it does not, the Committee should, on a bipartisan basis, subpoena the records."
A spokeswoman for Republican Rep. Mike Conaway, who is leading the House intelligence committee Russia investigation, did not respond to a request for comment.
The White House did not comment when asked about its standoff with Congress over the Russia documents.
Trump and White House officials have denied there was any collusion with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign, with the President calling the inquiries a "witch hunt."
It's not unusual for the executive branch to ignore requests from Capitol Hill over records requests -- something that far predates the Trump administration.
But the resistance now to providing key documents could limit the key congressional committees' abilities to learn the extent of contacts between Russia and the Trump campaign -- as well as whether Trump acted improperly by seeking to fire Comey to quash an FBI probe into Russian election meddling.
Complicating matters further is Mueller's probe, which has ramped up in aggressiveness and has broadened to examine Trump's White House.
Mueller has asked for an array of documents from the White House, including documents and emails relating to the dismissals of former national security adviser Michael Flynn and Comey, as well as Trump's Oval Office meeting with senior Russian officials in which he said Comey's firing eased pressure on the White House, sources have told CNN.
Of particular concern to Capitol Hill are comments made by White House special counsel Ty Cobb, who was overheard in a lunch conversation by a New York Times reporter suggesting he wouldn't cooperate with Capitol Hill.
"If we give it to Mueller, there is no reason for it to ever get to the Hill," Cobb was reported as saying.
A White House official said Cobb has no involvement with congressional inquiries, and that the decision on whether to comply with Hill requests is one left to the White House counsel's office, run by Don McGahn.
Earlier this year, well before Mueller was tapped as special counsel, White House lawyers instructed aides to preserve documents and other materials that could be related to Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
There are several unfilled requests for documents from the White House already, and the list is likely to grow as the congressional probes heat up this fall.
The House intelligence committee request stems from Trump's suggestion earlier this year there were tapes of his conversations with Comey.
The panel asked McGahn for any "recordings or memoranda" related to their conversations, and the White House did respond with a letter stating there were no tapes that existed, citing a Trump tweet.
But that didn't satisfy the House Russia investigators.
Conaway and Schiff issued a June 29 statement that their initial request had only been partially met, and they asked again for the White House "to appropriately and fully comply" with the request, which is still outstanding.
Rep. Devin Nunes, who stepped aside from leading the committee's Russia probe over concerns about his own handling of classified information, is running a parallel investigation into alleged "unmasking" of Trump officials by the Obama administration.
Earlier this month, Nunes pushed back a deadline for the FBI and Justice Department to produce documents about the FBI's relationship with the former British agent Christopher Steele, who produced a dossier of allegations -- some details of which have been substantiated, but others have not -- about Trump ties to Russia.
He warned he would haul Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray before the committee if his requests were not met.
But the second deadline set for this past Friday came and went.
The panel has now scheduled a Thursday hearing for "document production" related to the subpoena, which could lead to a public showdown between the California Republican and the DOJ and FBI.
A Nunes spokesman declined to comment.
A Justice Department spokesperson said: "Discussions with the committee are ongoing, and we have asked that the subpoenas that had compliance dates for (Friday) continue to be on hold during that process."
The scrutiny on the Justice Department also extends to the Senate side.
The Justice Department has not responded to some key requests from the Senate Judiciary Committee, including a June request by Sens.
Chuck Grassley, the committee chairman, and Sen. Lindsey Graham, to detail whether the US government sought to spy on any Trump associates during the last election season.
In particular, what has irked Grassley and the committee's top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, is the Justice Department's decision not to allow two senior FBI officials, James Rybicki and Carl Ghattas, to interview with the panel about the Comey firing.
The department has said it's up to Mueller's team to decide whether to allow them to come forward, something it has not done so far.
Discussions with Rosenstein are supposed to continue this week, sources said.
"We've got subpoenas at the Senate counsel office," Grassley told CNN last week, referring to the Senate office that would draft the subpoenas.
"When we get done there, I'm gonna have to consult with Sen.
Feinstein."
Moreover, the White House has ignored a July deadline to respond to a series of questions related to Kushner, the President's son-in-law, about his application forms to get his security clearance -- something that had to be repeatedly amended because of his failure to list meetings with foreign officials, including Russians.
Among the questions the judiciary committee leaders have asked: Whether any White House official intervened during the background check process on Kushner's behalf and whether he has any "continuing contact" with a foreign national.
Kushner's attorneys have responded to the committee, citing in large measure his public statement insisting his mistakes were innocent and his meetings with Russians were innocuous.
But the White House has not answered the questions raised by GOP and Democratic leaders of the committee, according to committee officials.
The Kushner security clearance form also has come under sharp scrutiny from Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House oversight committee.
Along with the other Democrats on the panel, Cummings requested a response by July 5 about omissions on Kushner's security clearance and whether he should continue to access classified information.
They have yet to receive a response, according to Cummings' office.
Cummings has pushed for a range of documents, including on Flynn and Comey, but has not received responses from the White House on those matters either.
Lacking support from the GOP chairman of the committee, Trey Gowdy, who wants to pursue the issues through the House intelligence committee, Cummings is unable to issue subpoenas for such records.
Yet the previous chairman of the House Oversight committee, then Rep. Jason Chaffetz, did sign onto a March request asking for documents related to the Flynn vetting process.
But the White House sent an April letter suggesting that such information would not be forthcoming, and Republicans on the panel did not pursue the matter after that.
Senate Intelligence committee officials refused to say if they've made any requests for documents from the White House that are still outstanding.
But committee Chairman Richard Burr and ranking Democrat Mark Warner said in May they would request a briefing from the White House on what was said in the meeting that month between Trump, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and then-Russian Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak

Warner also told CNN in July that the committee had requested more records from Kushner, as well as Donald Trump Jr., following the revelation of their June 2016 meeting with a Russian lawyer.
A spokeswoman for Burr did not respond to a request for comment, and a Warner spokeswoman declined to comment.
Washington (CNN) The biggest question in the NFL this year isn't who will win Super Bowl 52.
The President's decision to use the bully pulpit to start calling political plays from the sidelines has brought the all-Trump, all-the-time mania that has raged through Hollywood, late-night talk shows and the arts roaring into professional sports.
It was probably inevitable, given the way he has seized the nation's psyche since his shock win in last year's presidential election, that the most powerful man in the world would sooner or later turn his attention -- and his volcanic Twitter feed -- toward America's most powerful sports league.
His decision to do so now threatens not just to embroil the NFL in politics for years to come but to reshape the experience of those who watch it.
Wading into the debate about protests by mostly African-American players during pre-game national anthem ceremonies, Trump is exacerbating questions about his own attitude toward race and his apparent determination to keep tugging at the societal and cultural fault lines in American politics.
He kept up his end of the controversy Monday morning, comparing on Twitter what he saw as the patriotism of NASCAR to the "disrespecting" of the US and its flag.
But invoking auto racing -- which is especially popular in the conservative south, the epicenter of Trump's political support -- will do little to quiet the fervor or dispute the suggestion that he is stoking racial tensions.
While some of the most prominent players in the NFL and the NBA are black, auto racing has long been viewed as one of the whitest of professional American sports.
'One of the biggest sports stories'

In years past, on any given Sunday, the NFL has offered moments of rare unity in a nation split by politics, economic disparity and race, when the logo on your jersey was more important than whether you came from red or blue America.
The controversy that erupted when Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, first took a knee during the national anthem last season to protest a flag he said oppressed people of color has led the league into treacherous political territory.
Now that the President is involved, it's only going to get more fraught.
"There is no doubt this is one of the biggest sports stories and the biggest cultural stories that we have seen in some years," said USA Today sports columnist Christine Brennan on CNN's "Reliable Sources" on Sunday.
Trump's attitude did not come out of the blue.
While supporters of the take-a-knee protests believe the players are exercising their constitutional rights, the President was speaking for other Americans, many on the right, who see the whole thing as unpatriotic.
And his willingness to speak up will strike many of his most loyal supporters as validation for their vote for the most unconventional politician in modern American history last fall.
Football is not the first area of national life to experience the turbulence stirred by Trump's status-quo rattling election victory last year.
The President's unique, politically incorrect style has injected a jolt of resistance into late-night talk shows -- with comedians like Jimmy Kimmel leading a campaign to save Obamacare.
Alec Baldwin's dark take on Trump has meanwhile helped drive the political conversation and returned the glory years to NBC's "Saturday Night Live."
In another sign of the disconnect between the former reality show star and the showbiz world that he once courted, Trump is skipping the annual Kennedy Center Honors ceremony in December after top artists threatened a political backlash.
Even as he reserved his deepest scorn for the NFL, the President's capacity to draw everyone within shouting distance into his web of controversy was obvious Sunday as he left the National Basketball Association, Major League Baseball and the National Hockey League with public relations headaches.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

The NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins for instance, found themselves on the end of a Twitter battering from some fans after Trump tweeted that the Stanley Cup winners accepted an invitation to visit him in the White House, hours after he had rescinded an invitation to the NBA champion Golden State Warriors, following criticism from the team's star player Stephen Curry.
Protests also seemed to be spreading to baseball.
Trump's political play-by-play

Trump's wild weekend all started at an Alabama rally on Friday, when he said an NFL owner should fire any "son of a bitch" player who knelt during the national anthem.
By Sunday, his comments had changed the way the game is covered.
Pre-game shows, normally pulsating with chalk talk, instead probed the political implications of race and protest.
Sports politics, once waged by pioneers like Muhammad Ali and Jackie Robinson, but now largely confined to tussles between multi-millionaire players and multi-billionaire owners, suddenly became consumed once more by questions of civil rights, freedom, and what it means to be an American.
Throughout the day, the President kept up his own political play-by-play, amazingly calling for a boycott of the league.
"If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!"
Trump tweeted.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

Trump's succession of explosive interventions on the NFL was so surreal it even eclipsed the President's flippant threat to wage nuclear war in North Korea -- against the "little Rocket Man" Kim Jong Un, in the United States at least.
His shots at the NFL appeared to be an attempt to separate the players from team owners and the fans from their Sunday afternoon obsession.
Yet, just as his bluster has not stopped Kim's quest for a nuclear weapon, his outspoken remarks seemed to spark more defiance among NFL players, officials and owners than sympathy.
Dozens of players knelt on one knee, or locked arms, as the anthem singers belted out the Star-Spangled banner.
Some teams refused to take the field at all for the pre-game ceremonies.
Trump's friend, Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, who gave him a Super Bowl ring, meanwhile said he was "deeply disappointed" by the President's tone.
And the protest even reached Wembley Stadium in London, where the Jacksonville Jaguars were playing the Baltimore Ravens.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, under fire over the league's handling of domestic violence perpetrated by players and brain injuries, meanwhile seized the chance to capture the moral high ground.
But Trump refused to back down.
"Well I think the owners should do something about it.
I think it's very disrespectful to our flag and to our county," Trump said on Sunday evening.
His blast at the NFL players came as he waged a separate feud with several top NBA stars.
"It's not what leaders do," said Curry.
In another remarkable moment, the NBA's top star LeBron James took to Twitter to brand Trump a "bum."
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

For Trump's critics, his swipes at prominent African-American sports stars is simply a evolution in what they see as a deeply suspect position on race, following his "Birther" crusade against former President Barack Obama and his failure to swiftly condemn white supremacists after violence in Charlottesville.
But the President insisted on Sunday that he's simply standing up for the flag as he voices sentiments that he says are felt deeply by many people, who he says are turned off that football has been entwined with political statements.
"I've never said anything about race.
This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag," Trump told reporters Sunday.
Critics of the take a knee protests argue that the issue is about the constitutional right to protest but amounts to defaming a flag that has been a poignant rallying point for US service personnel and first responders in the decade-and-a-half of war since 9/11.
"This is not about Republicans or Democrats," said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on CNN's "State of the Union."
"Players have the right for free speech off the field.
On the field, this is about respect for lots of people."
(CNN) The Office of Government Ethics (OGE) is crafting a new advisory on legal defense funds for the first time in 24 years, according to an official with knowledge of the plan.
The updated guidance addresses a controversy that recently arose about the agency's policies on the funds and comes at a critical moment for some White House staff who are racking up bills from attorneys.
The forthcoming OGE guidance will make clear that the identities of donors to these funds should be disclosed, said the official, who has seen the draft document.
It will also call for political appointees to comply with the Trump administration's ethics pledge, which prohibits gifts from lobbyists.
The document will not change long-standing practice and advice OGE has been providing for at least 20 years.
But the official said OGE wanted to formalize its position on a 1993 legal opinion that allowed anonymous donations.
Changes to a header on that document this year stoked controversy and questions over whether the agency currently permits anonymous donations, the official said.
But the revised guidance may leave some questions unanswered, because the agency is facing a new set of circumstances it has rarely had to consider, according to the source.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Senate GOP leaders and the Trump administration are not going into this week in any better of a position on health care than they were on Friday after Sen. John McCain came out against their party's current proposal -- and perhaps they're facing a worse field of play.
Sen. Susan Collins said on CNN's "State of the Union" it is "very difficult for me to envision a scenario where I would end up voting for this bill."
Sen. Rand Paul, on NBC's "Meet the Press," said he would consider coming around if the central element of the entire proposal -- the block granting of Obamacare's funds -- is scrapped.
McCain is a firm no.
Sen. Lisa Murkowski is still studying the proposal.
Sen. Ted Cruz said Sunday he isn't there yet in terms of support.
When you can only lose a total of two votes, that would appear to be a pretty significant numbers problem.
What to watch Monday

1.
Revised Graham-Cassidy proposal will officially be unveiled.
Preliminary CBO score expected as soon as Monday morning.
Senate Finance Committee hearing on Graham Cassidy at 2 p.m.
Senate GOP leadership will hold their weekly meeting behind closed doors at 5 p.m.

5.
Any movement from Collins or Murkowski.
Any answers at all from the dozen or so senators who have been, shall we say, quiet about where they stand on this bill.
CNN Debate, Sanders/Klobuchar vs. Graham/Cassidy.
Graham-Cassidy, revised

Late Sunday night the revised version of the proposal that Graham and Cassidy have been working on hit our email inboxes.
It doesn't take very long to see that there are some very specific targets in this bill (see: Alaska.
Alaska.
Alaska.
Alaska.)
Here's our first look at the new additions , via MJ Lee, Lauren Fox, Tami Luhby and me:

The bottom line: many of these revisions are very clearly narrowly tailored for Murkowski (significant boost in federal matching Medicaid funds, grandfathering of Native Americans and Alaska natives enrolled in Medicaid expansion into Medicaid, etc.)
The overall formula tweaks/funding boosts are an effort to appeal to Murkowski and Collins.
And tweaks to the regulations aspect of the proposal -- which would give states even more leeway to loosen Obamacare regulations -- appear tailored to address the concerns of people like Cruz, Sen. Mike Lee and to some degree Rand Paul.
This is their best shot effort at threading the needle.
We'll see Monday afternoon if it takes at all.
About those numbers

An internal Republican analysis circulated with the bill to GOP offices shows spending boosts states like Alaska and Kentucky.
That's a big deal, as both were expected to take very hard hits in the bill.
But notably, those increases in the projection come because they incorporate savings from ending the state match of Medicaid expansion.
So in total, it's still a reduction in health care spending in these states when compared to current law.
(For example, Alaska would receive a $100 billion cut via its block grant in the bill, but the GOP analysis it would receive a boost of 3%.)
JUST WATCHED Collins urges bipartisan Obamacare fix Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Collins urges bipartisan Obamacare fix 01:42

This is a feature, not a bug -- a proposal like this isn't designed to be some massive increase in spending.
But reducing spending on health care is a political problem, hence the revisions.
The analysis also doesn't address the overhaul of the Medicaid program, from an open-ended entitlement program to a per person cap.
This is all important as that analysis is being given to senators as evidence they should come around.
On regulations it certainly gets closer to Cruz.
But despite funding boosts, those same regulations provisions likely move it further away from Collins.
And when it comes to Paul, well ...

Will the Senate vote on anything?
First things first -- nothing has been scheduled yet and a final decision either way likely won't be made after GOP senators have their closed-door conference lunch on Tuesday.
But for sake of explaining things, you basically have two camps right now -- the Sen. Lindsey Graham camp, which is determined to have a vote no matter what, and the, shall we say, other camp.
Which wants no part of either:

a) Another embarrassing floor failure for all to see.
b) Somehow finding a way to get the votes on the motion to proceed to move onto the bill, then enter a vote-a-rama with no clear end-game and limited (or no) pathways to 50 votes on a final product.
Which would lead back to A.
Who wins out between the two camps?
We'll see.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell operates through consensus -- it wasn't his plan to even restart this process, but it's what his conference wanted so he went all in.
But he's keenly aware of the big lifts on other key agenda items that are staring the conference in the face (reminder: this week is tax reform launch week!)
and doesn't want to do anything to stunt progress on those.
He's also keenly aware of putting his members in the unenviable position of voting for a product with limited outside support (seriously, even conservative groups are at best holding their nose and grudgingly supporting this) if it doesn't have a clear path to passage.
All that said, his team has been all in the last 72 hours trying to find a path forward.
Time will tell if one appears at some point before the end of the week.
Always a good reminder

Marc Short, the White House legislative affairs chief, said Sunday a vote would occur on Wednesday.
The majority leader's office has been clear that as of this moment, no vote has been scheduled.
That's important because, well, the majority leader decides what goes on the floor when.
Best to stick to Hill for all things scheduling related this week.
What to expect from the CBO score

Not much, which clearly irked McCain.
The CBO said last week the best it could do in such a compressed time table was a "preliminary" report -- one that shows the deficit reduction numbers that are key to whether or not the bill complies with budget rules.
It is expected to pass that test -- at least for the initial draft of Graham-Cassidy.
But that, of course, is no longer the working draft and it's unclear how quickly they'll be able to turn around a revised score for the new version of the bill.
And perhaps a bigger issue is coverage numbers, and estimates for what would happen to premiums, are not expected to be included.
Is this in and of itself a death knell for the bill?
Not necessarily -- Republicans have made no secret of their distaste for how the CBO models their health care proposals.
But it does matter to McCain.
And it does matter to Collins.
And moving forward without a full score is akin to writing a fresh round of political attack ads for Democrats in the 2018 cycle.
How this bill gets through the Senate

There's a limited amount of optimism about the path forward for this bill, but here's the way this could actually happen, per multiple sources involved:

Find some way to get Murkowski on board -- all the stops are being pulled out to do just that.
If that were occur, all eyes would shift to Paul.
At the moment, it's primarily the White House that has taken on the responsibility of trying to pull Paul back from his firmly entrenched "no" position.
If Murkowski gets to yes, then that will turn into an all-out blitz from everyone -- from Capitol Hill, to outside conservative groups, to the President.
The goal would be to get 50 for the procedural vote, then start making deals -- whether it's a promise of amendment votes, or clear policy changes, the idea would be to find some way to thread an incredibly complicated needle over the course of the vote-a-rama that would immediately follow the procedural vote.
Is it likely?
Again, significantly more skepticism than optimism.
But in the minds of those working on this, that's the way it could happen.
And yes, it all hinges on Murkowski right now.
The wildcard returns

Don't forget, this proposal will still need to go through the so-called "Byrd bath," where the Senate parliamentarian takes a look at various provisions and recommends whether they pass muster under budget rules.
That could create new problems nobody outside of senior budget staffers have gotten their heads around yet.
This isn't as high profile as last time around because leaders don't have the numbers yet.
But if they manage to get them, and then, say, the Obamacare regulation opt-out language, or the effective one year defunding of Planned Parenthood get stripped, a whole new world of potential problems opens up.
The players

Lisa Murkowski

Murkowski spent the weekend back in Alaska studying the proposal and all sorts of numbers, from administration, from Graham and Cassidy and from her state agencies.
Senior GOP aides aren't optimistic she'll come around -- they point to where her governor has firmly been (opposed), they point to Alaska's extremely complicated and unusual health care needs, they point to the reception she received back home when she helped vote down the effort in July.
But the effort to get her to yes is concerted, real and of the all-hands variety.
Changes clearly were made to benefit her state in the most specific of ways.
It's anyone's guess it will do the trick, but it can't be argued that supporters of the bill haven't gone all out to get her to yes.
Rand Paul

No GOP senator -- heck, few Democratic senators -- have so viscerally attacked Graham-Cassidy like Paul.
His opposition has remained firm throughout, despite the wide belief off Capitol Hill that if it came down to it, he'd eventually come around.
Paul appeared to open the door a sliver on Sunday when he announced he'd consider supporting the bill ... if it stripped the central mechanism of the bill: the block grants that utilize Obamacare's subsidy and Medicaid expansion money to parcel out $1.2 trillion in funds directly to states.
He has also been clear that Obamacare's regulatory infrastructure needs to be cut back to a significant degree further for him to have any interest.
The former is essentially non-starters in the bill -- it would render it a completely different proposal, which isn't by accident.
Paul wants a completely different proposal.
The latter is closer to where Paul wants to be in the revised version.
But far from what he would prefer.
In July, Paul was willing to support the motion to proceed in exchange for an amendment vote.
He supported the "skinny repeal" plan because it was "better than no repeal."
This is the basis for people -- including the President apparently -- thinking he can eventually come around.
Maybe the door continues to slowly creak open, but Senate GOP aides aren't optimistic.
Well, presenting this tweet from Sunday : "I didn't run to put a cap ON Obamacare, I ran to put a cap IN Obamacare #killObamaCare #nofakerepeal"

I didn't run to put a cap ON Obamacare, I ran to put a cap IN Obamacare #killObamaCare #nofakerepeal https://t.co/jv6Q5yB0Zj  Senator Rand Paul (@RandPaul) September 24, 2017

JUST WATCHED Ted Cruz on health care: The math is simple Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ted Cruz on health care: The math is simple 01:39

Ted Cruz

Cruz said on Sunday that he wasn't quite there yet on the proposal, but wanted to get to yes.
This was misinterpreted by many -- Cruz wasn't saying he's a "no."
In fact, last week at one point he said things were "moving in the right direction."
Cruz's point is he has specific asks -- while he hasn't outlined them in detail, his push has always been pushing to cut back Obamacare's regulations.
This issue is actually addressed in the revised bill -- states have a significant amount of new flexibility to rid themselves of the regulations.
The key here is he's in the game and looking for specific changes, not just outright opposing anything.
It's unclear whether those changes are attainable, but he's far from a firm "no" and shouldn't be treated as such.
Others

Go ahead and take a look at the "unclear" column in CNN's whip count , which Ashley Killough has painstakingly maintained up to the minute for the past week:

That's a lot of folks, right?
Now, to be sure, the vast majority of them are expected to be solid "yes" votes in the end.
But there's a handful in there, sources say, that have quietly expressed serious concerns with the proposal.
Will they all come around?
Totally possible, if not probable.
But it's safe to say there's a group of GOP senators who aren't thrilled about the policy but don't want to make a show of it.
Right now things don't look good for the bill, but should things start gaining momentum, keep your eyes open for new problems to emerge from one (or more) of the individuals in that group.
Final note

Graham said something really interesting Sunday that's worth keeping a close eye on.
In his interview on ABC's "This Week," he suggested he and Sen. Ron Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican, were "not going to vote for a budget resolution that doesn't allow the health care debate to continue."
Given the 2018 budget is the mechanism for unlocking tax reform (and senators struck an agreement on it last week), that would seem to be a very significant statement.
If the latest repeal effort does go down, we'll see if it holds, but keep an eye on this.
Story highlights Trump repeated calls over the weekend to fire players who kneel during the national anthem

His remarks struck many as stoking racial resentments

(CNN) President Donald Trump is not putting to rest this weekend's uproar over professional football players' protests during the national anthem, declaring early Monday that a rival sports franchise was more suitably patriotic.
"So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans," Trump wrote on Twitter at 7:25 a.m.
"They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!"
He went on to write eight minutes later: "Many people booed the players who kneeled yesterday (which was a small percentage of total).
These are fans who demand respect for our Flag!"
He later tweeted "#StandForOurAnthem" and retweeted a user who cited for NFL player Pat Tillman, who was killed in Afghanistan in 2004 while serving with the Army Rangers.
The message praising America's foremost auto racing circuit came after widespread demonstrations at football games over the weekend, prompted by Trump's repeated calls to fire players who kneel during the national anthem.
Several NASCAR team owners said over the weekend they wouldn't tolerate a similar movement in their sport.
The rancor began Friday evening, when Trump used an expletive to describe players who took part in protesting the anthem during a campaign rally in Alabama.
He threw gasoline on the flames Saturday and Sunday, writing on Twitter that the league was suffering a decline in viewership because of the political protests.
Read More
Story highlights He has been a strong critic of Trump's

He recalled coming back to the Senate to vote for the health care plan

Washington (CNN) Sen. John McCain's brain cancer is "very, very serious," the Arizona Republican said in an interview Sunday night, adding that doctors told him "it's a very poor prognosis."
"So I just said, 'I understand.
Now we're going to do what we can, get the best doctors we can find and do the best we can.
And at the same time, celebrate with gratitude a life well-lived,'" he said on CBS's "60 Minutes."
He recalled how he went back to Washington, against his doctors' requests because it was only 11 days after his brain surgery, to vote on health care.
"I got very choked up," McCain said, recalling the standing ovation he got on the Senate floor.
"And then, of course, you know, all of them coming over and giving me a hug.
It was deeply moving, I had never seen anything like that."
Read More
(CNN) President Donald Trump is planning to visit Puerto Rico, which he says was "absolutely obliterated" by Hurricane Maria, and the administration and Congress are making plans to assemble an aid package for the island.
A White House official told CNN that the island may not be prepared for a presidential visit quite yet.
"He is committed to going, but date is still unclear," the official said.
"As you note, there are significant infrastructure concerns."
The President spoke with Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossello on Thursday, and there are growing concerns that the process of restoring power to the island could take months.
The presidential attention could offset concerns that the US territory, which has no voting representation in Congress, might not get the same attention or financial relief as some states, like Florida and Texas, that were also recently struck by hurricanes.
Sen. Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican already focused on securing help for his home state, has also made a point to press for money for Puerto Rico.
In a series of tweets this week he noted he was working with Rossello and the territory's lone representative in Congress, Republican Jenniffer Gonzalez-Colon.
"Spoke to @WhiteHouse yesterday.
@Potus coming to #PuertoRico very soon.
You will NOT be forgotten.
We will rebuild better than ever!"
he tweeted.
House Speaker Paul Ryan said at a Hurricane Harvey cleanup event in Texas that he was still waiting for an official request from the Trump administration on what kind of disaster aid package it would like Congress to approve for victims in Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico.
A senior House GOP leadership aide told CNN on Friday that the spending panel has not received any specific requests yet, and federal agencies are still assessing the needs.
After Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, the Federal Emergency Management Agency burned through disaster money quickly and Congress approved $15 billion more.
Recently the pace of FEMA's spending has slowed, but aides expect to get additional requests for money.
Ryan said Congress is expected to vote on two bills with more money in October.
On top of dealing with back-to-back blows from Hurricanes Irma and Maria, Puerto Rico is still struggling to stabilize from its debt crisis.
Last spring Congress negotiated a deal with the Obama Treasury Department to help stabilize the situation, but Ryan stipulated that no taxpayer money would be used to bail out the government there, and there has been little evidence that Capitol Hill will weigh in again to prop up the financial system.
But in terms of providing disaster aid, there is bipartisan support to swiftly deliver help.
Rubio and Florida Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson wrote a letter to Trump on Wednesday urging for specific assistance for Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.
"It is important that the federal government stands ready to assist in the difficult days after Hurricane Maria passes, when hope must be available to combat despair," they wrote.
An aide to Rubio told CNN on Friday that it's too early to know what the territory's disaster relief needs will be, and the funding conversation will begin after the damage is fully assessed.
The aide said Puerto Rico is expected to need a lot of money.
In a separate letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the GOP and Democratic senators jointly wrote: "As the National Center for Disaster Fraud continues its important work with the U.S. attorneys' offices and other federal, state, and local agencies related to Hurricane Irma, we respectfully urge you to expand the scope of the task force in Puerto Rico to account for any illegal activity related to Hurricane Maria."
Illinois Democratic Congressman Luis Gutierrez sent a letter Friday to Ryan and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi pressing them to organize a bipartisan delegation to visit the island.
"It was a powerful direct hit that struck Puerto Rico when it was already down because of the economic situation, financial crisis, limited autonomy because of the federal takeover, and a barely adequate public health, power, and public services infrastructure," Gutierrez wrote.
"What little Puerto Rico had before Maria was literally blown away and in order to understand the scope of the damage and the magnitude of the recovery, Members of Congress need to see it with their own eyes."
Signaling the importance politically of the ties of Florida to those living on Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, Florida Democratic gubernatorial candidate Gwen Graham sent letters earlier this week to the state's entire congressional delegation urging them to secure assistance.
"Just as we helped our neighbors in Florida, we must now stand with our neighbors in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, who just days after enduring Hurricane Irma, have been hit by Hurricane Maria, another devastating storm," Graham wrote.
In her letters, Graham cited how many Puerto Ricans reside in the members' districts, indicating that more than 11,000 live in GOP Rep. Matt Gaetz's district and as many as 186,000 are in Democratic Rep. Darren Soto's district.
Soto is the first Floridian of Puerto Rico descent to serve in Congress.
Birmingham, Alabama (CNN) Sen. Luther Strange and Roy Moore are into the final hours of a hard-fought intra-party campaign that is testing President Donald Trump's influence with Republican voters and could set the stage for a series of GOP Senate primaries next year.
The final day of campaigning here features Vice President Mike Pence as Strange's most visible advocate and Steve Bannon, the recently ousted former White House chief strategist, stumping for Moore.
Pence will visit NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, and then head to Birmingham, Alabama's largest city, for a nighttime rally to close Strange's campaign.
Bannon, meanwhile, heads to Fairhope -- just outside Mobile, on the Gulf of Mexico -- to join "Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson at a Monday night "faith and family rally" with Moore.
Bannon will also appear on Fox News host Sean Hannity's show from the rally, giving Moore's side one final audience with Hannity's right-wing audience.
The last-minute campaigning comes amid deep fears among Republicans in Washington about what a Moore win could mean for the party in 2018's midterm elections.
Strange has been propped up by more than $9 million in spending from the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Moore, meanwhile, has cast the campaign as an opportunity to reject McConnell -- a much less popular figure among Alabama Republicans than Trump.
Trump's visit to Alabama on Friday night was designed to lend his popularity to Strange, who Trump told a crowd of thousands has been a loyal ally in the fight to repeal former President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act.
But the President acknowledged the potential that Moore could win -- and what such a victory would mean for Trump.
"If Luther doesn't win, they're not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time," Trump told the crowd.
"They're going say, 'Donald Trump, the President of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line.'"
Alabama's matchup is unusual in that many of Trump's core supporters also back Moore, the 70-year-old former state Supreme Court justice who was ousted from that job twice -- first in 2003 for refusing to remove a monument of the Ten Commandments at a state court building, then again recently for refusing to abide by the US Supreme Court's ruling legalizing same-sex marriage nationwide.
Moore's campaign even touted Trump's comment from his Friday night rally in Huntsville that he would "fight like hell" for Moore if he defeats Strange.
Either Strange or Moore would be favored against the Democratic nominee, Doug Jones, in the December special election for the seat formerly held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and which Strange has held since being appointed in February.
"If (Strange) loses, I think the reality is that the Republicans will still hold that seat," White House legislative director Marc Short said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press."
Still, a Moore win could be damaging for Republicans nationally.
He is well-known for a history of bombastic statements about race sexual orientation and more -- such as Thursday night, when he told a debate audience that "abortion, sodomy, sexual perversion sweep our land."
Democrats could use Moore's remarks as a fundraising tool and to put Republicans on the spot.
Republicans are closely watching Alabama for signs of what could happen in other races featuring anti-establishment challengers next year.
In Nevada, Republican Sen. Dean Heller already faces a primary fight against Danny Tarkanian.
In Arizona, Sen. Jeff Flake faces conservative Kelli Ward.
Both, like Moore, have Bannon's support.
And across the board, Republican candidates recruited to take on Democratic incumbents in states won in 2016 face tough battles against farther-right foes.
(CNN) President Donald Trump ignited a war of words with the nation's African-American athletes this weekend, yet again putting himself squarely in the middle of a racially charged debate.
At a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump called on National Football League owners to dismiss players who choose to kneel in protest during the national anthem and needled the Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry, one of the country's most popular athletes.
Trump's comments elicited sharp rebukes from the NFL's commissioner and a number of well-known athletes, and a Major League Baseball player knelt during the national anthem for the first time.
Trump could have acknowledged the deep challenges African Americans face -- Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, chose to take a knee during the anthem last season to spotlight police violence against African Americans.
Or Trump could have avoided this issue entirely and focused his energy on his teetering health care bill or the Alabama Senate race.
Instead, the President blasted the athletes' actions and missed the meaning behind them.
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem," Trump tweeted Saturday afternoon.
"If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
Trump's Saturday tweet doubles down on the message he delivered Friday during a political speech in Alabama in which he called on NFL owners to release players who kneel during the national anthem.
At a rally for Alabama Sen. Luther Strange, who is facing Republican Roy Moore in a runoff, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired.
He's fired!'
You know, some owner is going to do that.
He's going to say, 'That guy that disrespects our flag, he's fired.'
And that owner, they don't know it [but] they'll be the most popular person in this country."
Trump's words suggest that athletes of color should stick to the game and leave their political views, and perhaps even their humanity, on the sidelines.
But the fact of the matter is that the sporting institutions that have been revered by Americans for so many years have always been infused with politics.
And the President's words fail to take into account why players like Kaepernick and others choose not to stand during the national anthem.
In Colin Kaepernick's America, simply walking down the street while black can be a liability that costs you your life.
It is an America where scores of demonstrators, most recently in St. Louis, Missouri, have taken to the streets to protest the killings of black men by white police officers -- and in many cases, acquittals of the officers in question.
Kaepernick began kneeling ahead of the 2016 season, telling NFL Media that "there are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder."
"I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color," Kaepernick said.
The comments have divided the athletic community as well as fans.
The President faced sharp rebukes from the NFL commissioner, the union that represents players and a number of high-profile athletes.
Martellus Bennett of the Green Bay Packers tweeted that he was OK being fired for protesting the anthem and suggested that racial animus was at the root.
"I'm ok for being fired for what I believe in," Bennett tweeted.
"The idea of @realDonaldTrump thinking that suggesting firing me from football, confirms that he thinks that it's all I can do as a Black man"

And the singing of the national anthem ahead of the meeting between the Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars in London's Wembley Stadium on Sunday morning saw multiple players of both teams taking a knee on the sidelines.
Others, including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, signaled that they agreed with Trump that players should not protest.
"The owners should meet and they should decide on this rule the way they decide on any other rule," Mnuchin said on CNN's "State of the Union."
"Again, you know, for as long as I can remember people have stood in honor of the country.
This isn't about politics.
If people want to talk politics off the field, when they're not working for the NFL, they have the absolute right to do that."
Words matter, and Trump's tell you a lot about how he sees America.
In his America, athletes that voice opinions he disagrees with should lose their jobs for speaking out.
He used the term "son of a bitch" to describe them as he said they should be removed from the field.
It was just a few weeks ago that the President defended some white nationalists and neo-Nazis in Charlottesville, Virginia, as "very fine people" after racially charged clashes left one woman dead.
In the wake of the Virginia clashes, Trump said you don't make direct statements "unless you know the facts."
In the case of condemning the protests by athletes, he seems to have entirely ignored them.
(CNN) Once again, the Senate is focused on whether Republicans have enough votes to pass a repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act.
Sunday brought more signs that the chances for the Republican health care bill from Sens.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana were dim when Sen. Susan Collins of Maine told CNN's Jake Tapper that it would be " very difficult for me to envision a scenario " where she would vote for the bill.
The latest GOP push to repeal and replace Obamacare had already hit what might be an insurmountable roadblock when Sen. John McCain on Friday again raised his hand and said no.
Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, considered to be a "yes" vote, said Sunday that the bill, as written, did not currently have his support

However, Kentucky Republican Sen. Rand Paul, who has been a vocal and firm "no" vote, said Sunday that he might be able to support the measure, if the plan abandons the block grant funding program for states, the main tenet of the Graham-Cassidy bill.
Supporters vowed to keep fighting to prevent another GOP senator from joining McCain and, presumably, Paul in opposing the bill because three Republican votes against it would kill it.
All eyes now rest on Collins, who said she wanted to hear from the Congressional Budget Office before rendering her final decision -- which is expected to release a partial score on Monday -- and Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski.
On Sunday evening, the GOP released its latest version of the health care bill, which aimed to convince members who are still undecided to support the bill.
The changes aim to increase funding for states like Alaska, but there's no proof that the bill will bring the undecided senators onboard now.
In one new provision particularly beneficial to Alaska, the state would receive a 25% boost in federal matching funds for Medicaid due to its defined high-level of poverty.
But despite the new version, there are still plenty of obstacles ahead.
In the meantime, the Senate finance committee has a hearing to examine the bill Monday afternoon.
Progressive advocates plan to protest the hearing to show their support for preserving Obamacare.
GOP leaders must decide soon whether to press forward with a vote on the measure -- something that could be embarrassing if it is defeated.
Still, Republicans might want to do it to put all senators on the record.
Republicans face a deadline Saturday when a special budget rule expires that would allow Republicans to pass a repeal on a party-line vote.
Tax reform

Another major focus for the week will be tax reform.
The so-called Big Six gang of tax negotiators were already planning to release a "consensus document" this week that reflects their "core principles" that would outline a framework of the pending tax reform bill.
It's unclear how detailed the framework will be, but Republicans are eager to move forward on tax reform, desperate for a legislative victory before heading into next year's midterm elections.
But first they must pass a budget -- so they can use the same rules they tried with health care to pass tax reform without Democratic votes -- and they need to get the conservative House Freedom Caucus members on board.
Releasing the framework is in part aimed at giving conservatives enough details on tax reform so that they'll sign onto a budget by the end of the month.
Republicans on the House tax writing panel -- the ways and means committee -- will meet this week to discuss several issues, including tax reform, while the full Republican conference will hold a retreat Wednesday to do the same.
Russia

Facebook is turning over the ads it sold to what turned out to be Russian operatives during the 2016 campaign to the congressional committees investigating charges of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian officials.
They don't plan to make these public, but more details on the content could come out this week.
Officials from social media giant Twitter will meet with Senate intelligence committee investigators Thursday.
Former Trump campaign adviser Roger Stone will appear Tuesday before the House intelligence committee.
Alabama runoff

All political eyes will be on Alabama where Republican Sen. Luther Strange takes on Judge Roy Moore, also a Republican, in the primary runoff for the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
The GOP establishment in Washington -- including President Donald Trump -- is backing Strange but the outspoken conservative judge could still pull out a win.
Disaster aid

Lawmakers will weigh needs for disaster relief as the situation in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands becomes clearer.
GOP leaders have pledged to pass additional aid to help these hurricane-stricken islands as well as previously-hit Texas and Florida.
Notable hearings

Tuesday, the Senate judiciary committee will consider two separate bipartisan-sponsored bills that would protect Justice Department special counsel Robert Mueller from being fired.
One bill from Graham and Sen. Cory Booker, a New Jersey Democrat, would require judicial review for Mueller to be removed as special counsel.
The second bill -- sponsored by Sens.
Thom Tillis, R-North Carolina, and Chris Coons, D-Delaware -- would allow Mueller to challenge his dismissal in federal court.
FBI Director Christopher Wray and acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke will appear before the Senate homeland security committee Wednesday to testify about threats to the homeland.
Wray is also expected to face questions about the Russia investigation and whether the FBI warned Trump that his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, was being watched by the agency because of his dealings with pro-Kremlin figures.
Not a hearing, but still notable: Congress is also likely to pass a short term extension for the Federal Aviation Administration this week.
Story highlights 8 countries are now affected

The new restrictions take effect Oct. 18

Washington (CNN) The Trump administration has unveiled new travel restrictions on certain foreigners from Chad, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Syria, Venezuela and Yemen as a replacement to a central portion of its controversial travel ban signed earlier this year.
The new restrictions on travel vary by country and include a phased-in approach beginning next month.
"Making America Safe is my number one priority.
We will not admit those into our country we cannot safely vet," President Donald Trump tweeted just after his administration released the details of the restrictions Sunday night.
Making America Safe is my number one priority.
We will not admit those into our country we cannot safely vet.https://t.co/KJ886okyfC  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

In a statement Sunday night, the White House called the new restrictions a "critical step toward establishing an immigration system that protects Americans' safety and security in an era of dangerous terrorism and transnational crime."
"We cannot afford to continue the failed policies of the past, which present an unacceptable danger to our country," Trump said in the White House statement.
"My highest obligation is to ensure the safety and security of the American people, and in issuing this new travel order, I am fulfilling that sacred obligation."
Read More
Washington (CNN) The Education Department announced Friday it is formally rescinding Obama-era guidance on how schools should handle sexual assaults under Title IX federal law.
Education Secretary Betsy DeVos announced earlier this month that her department was concerned that previous guidance denied proper due process to those accused.
As part of the interim guidance, the department released a Q&A outlining recommendations on how schools should respond, including guidance on what schools are obligated to do in response to allegations and their flexibility in establishing their own procedures.
The administration is formally withdrawing the Obama administration's "dear colleague letter" that some, including DeVos, have criticized for going too far.
The standard for proof has been raised for school disciplinary proceedings in some instances, as different schools have different policies.
One aspect of the Obama-era guidance that remains is the responsibility of the school to investigate, rather than leave the matter to law enforcement.
Title IX is a federal law that prohibits discrimination based on sex for schools and programs that receive federal funding, including protection from sexual harassment.
The announcement quickly received backlash from advocacy groups and lawmakers.
"Shameful.
This decision will hurt and betray students, plain and simple," Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-New York, tweeted.
Shameful.
This decision will hurt and betray students, plain and simple.
https://t.co/b2syuMM4ma  Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) September 22, 2017

Vermont Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders called on Congress to respond to the move.
"This is a disgrace and a disservice to everyone who has worked to address sexual violence.
Congress must act to undo this terrible decision," the senator tweeted.
This is a disgrace and a disservice to everyone who has worked to address sexual violence.
Congress must act to undo this terrible decision.
https://t.co/OcuJez0Gff  Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) September 22, 2017

"Betsy DeVos and Candice Jackson's intentions are clear: to protect those who 'grab' by the genitals and brag about it  and make college campuses a safer place for them," Sofie Karasek, director of education and co-founder of End Rape on Campus, said in a statement.
Jackson is the head of the civil rights division within the Education Department.
Earlier this week, former Vice President Joe Biden was featured in a three-year anniversary video for "It's On Us" -- the group he co-founded with President Barack Obama aimed at curbing sexual violence on college campuses.
In the video, Biden warned against "new challenges" in combating campus sexual assault.
"You may have heard the progress we made, the additional protections we put in Title IX, which is now the law, that protects students from sexual discrimination -- that includes sexual violence," Biden says in the video.
"Now the Department of Education under new leadership is working to roll back the protections under Title IX that we worked so hard to put in place."
However, some applauded the department's announcement.
"The campus justice system was and is broken," Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) Executive Director Robert Shibley said in a statement.
"Fair outcomes are impossible without fair procedures.
When the government sprang its 2011 letter on colleges and students without warning, it made it impossible for campuses to serve the needs of victims while also respecting the rights of the accused.
With the end of this destructive policy, we finally have the opportunity to get it right."
FIRE is a free speech and student right's organization that has repeatedly criticized the Obama administration's policy.
The guidance affects colleges, universities and K-12 schools.
"The withdrawn documents ignored notice and comment requirements, created a system that lacked basic elements of due process and failed to ensure fundamental fairness," a Department of Education statement reads.
"This interim guidance will help schools as they work to combat sexual misconduct and will treat all students fairly," DeVos said in a release.
"Schools must continue to confront these horrific crimes and behaviors head-on.
There will be no more sweeping them under the rug.
But the process also must be fair and impartial, giving everyone more confidence in its outcomes."
CLARIFICATION: This story has been updated to reflect that schools have different standards regarding disciplinary proceedings.
(CNN) White House chief of staff John Kelly has been omnipresent during President Donald Trump's first appearance at the United Nations General Assembly this week, a multiple-day foray into the complicated world of international politics.
The message has already been heard back in Washington.
A half-dozen Republicans inside and outside the White House tell CNN that Kelly's efforts to rein in an unruly West Wing have started to show results.
The President is still surrounded by people who feed his impulsive tendencies, such as Dan Scavino, his social media director who regularly helps Trump fire off some of his most controversial social media missives.
But as much as Trump is not retreating from the rhetoric and tone that helped win him the White House, sources say the President has also begun to make a conscious shift in his approach to governing after months of failing to score a sweeping legislative victory.
Out -- for now -- are the days of Trump sending nasty tweets at Republican lawmakers , such as Sens.
John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska.
In -- CNN reported Monday -- is outreach to lawmakers whose relationships with the White House have frayed, including Murkowski, as well as Democratic leaders.
Personalities

JUST WATCHED Who is John Kelly?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is John Kelly?
01:10

To help with this effort Kelly has enlisted staff secretary Rob Porter, a longtime Capitol Hill aide whose stock is on the rise inside the White House.
Republican sources say Porter helps Kelly vet what information gets to the President's desk and what gets stopped at the door.
Concerned by the top-heavy, sprawling organization when he took over, Kelly began interviewing aides to determine what they did, how much access they had to the President and whether that access was deserved.
Kelly is now putting what he learned into practice, sources tell CNN, restricting access to the President, watching the information put in front of Trump and limiting the power of top aides.
"In the old days, you would arrive and the door to the Oval office would be open ... and the door behind you would stay open, and people were still wandering in and out -- staff, kids, grand kids," one GOP senator who has made multiple visits to the White House both before and after Kelly told CNN.
Now during visits, the senator said, the visits are much more formal.
"When we walked in the Oval Office door was closed.
The President was sitting alone at his desk," the senator said.
"We had our meeting, no one came in or out.
It was all business."
Some aides, such as former adviser Sebastian Gorka and former White House strategist Steve Bannon, were let go altogether.
Longtime confidante Keith Schiller left his White House position Tuesday, according to multiple sources.
He had told associates he planned to leave the White House because of income concerns, other sources told CNN.
But he shared plans to leave just over a month after Kelly became chief of staff with the mission of instilling new order.
Trump, to be sure, is still very much himself with Kelly as chief of staff.
The President recently stood by his comments equivocating blame between white supremacists and protesters in Charlottesville, Virginia, retweeted an offensive gif of Hillary Clinton and delivered a bellicose, nationalist speech to the world on Tuesday at the United Nations.
But Republicans across Washington say they are noticing changes within the White House's operations.
Even so, Kelly has told associates he has no interest in trying to control the President -- any such effort, he adds, would surely fail.
In fact, Trump still talks to outside advisers -- like Bannon -- and longtime friends on the phone, giving those who hope to influence Trump a back door into the White House.
Republican sources outside the West Wing who are pleased that Kelly is asserting his control acknowledged that the chief of staff can only do so much.
Trump's cell phone use, which usually happens in the confines of the President's private residence, shows no signs of abating.
Policy

JUST WATCHED Video shows Kelly's reaction to Trump's speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows Kelly's reaction to Trump's speech 00:59

Kelly works from a stand-up desk in his corner office of the West Wing, just down the hall from the Oval Office.
A single portrait of President Abraham Lincoln hangs on the wall, with a bronzed sculpture of the flag-raising at Iwo Jima providing the only decoration in the second-best piece of office real estate in the building.
Even though there is no playbook for a Trump presidency, Kelly has sought the advice of former White House chiefs of staff Rahm Emanuel and Leon Panetta, Democrats, and Andy Card and James Baker, Republicans.
"He doesn't care how long he stays.
That's what makes him effective -- for now," a Republican close to the White House said, noting that the biggest open question in Washington is whether -- or how soon -- Trump will chafe under Kelly's stern hand.
So far, Trump has responded by ever-so-slightly moderating on policy, taking less hardline positions than he previously held and signaling a willingness to work with Democrats on immigration or tax reform.
Kelly's fingerprints are firmly on this new outreach to Democratic congressional leaders, with Kelly convincing Trump that he could be seen as trying to rise above the partisan gridlock of Washington.
It was a sales pitch Trump accepted, aides say, in part because of his anger at the Republican-controlled Congress.
"This wouldn't have happened without Kelly," a White House official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid violating Kelly's biggest pet peeve: talking to reporters.
Some of the changes have earned Trump the scorn of his base.
Breitbart, the conservative publication run by former Trump aide Steve Bannon, labeled the President "Amnesty Don."
But to those now surrounding Trump in the White House, the criticism is worth the chance of scoring a major legislative win.
Protection

Kelly has also made his presence felt by deciding which White House staff gets Secret Service protection, according to two sources with knowledge of the move.
White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, a Trump aide who received Secret Service protection starting in January, no longer has the constant security, sources tell CNN.
The move is part of a broader review -- initiated, in part, by Kelly -- of who really needs protection in the White House, sources said.
Part of the review is aimed at helping an operation that has been stretched thin by the demands of Trump's sprawling family.
But Kelly, according to a source, also wanted to review which positions inside the White House warrant protection.
Washington (CNN) On Friday night, President Donald Trump began a full frontal assault against NFL players who refused to stand during the national anthem -- deriding them as "sons of bitches."
On Sunday night, he was still at it, tweeting : "Sports fans should never condone players that do not stand proud for their National Anthem or their Country.
NFL should change policy!"
Over those intervening 48 hours, a national controversy erupted -- with professional athletes asserting their right to express their First Amendment freedoms , team owners expressing their support for their players and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell condemning Trump's "divisive comments."
So, why would Trump continue to poke at the players and, as he did Sunday night, call for the NFL to change its policies to ban any sort of protests surrounding the anthem?
The most basic (and right) answer is because he knows that, for his base, this fight is a winner for him.
Here's why:

1.
The players are rich.
Remember that Trump, despite being a billionaire, sees himself (and is regarded) as the voice of the Average Joe.
And he knows that lots of Average Joes resent how much money these players make for playing a game.
The players are playing a game.
Spend 10 minutes talking about football (or any pro sport) with a group of people, and I guarantee that you will hear someone (if not several) say something like: "Man, they get to play a game for their job.
I'd do that for free."
(Obviously points No.
1 and No.
2 are closely tied.)
The players are (mostly) black.
Trump insisted on Sunday night that "this has nothing to do with race."
But that simply doesn't fly.
The vast majority of the players in the NFL are black.
Ditto the players in the NBA, whom Trump also went after over the weekend.
Trump knows that.
And he also knows that when he uses phrases such as "our heritage" to describe what's allegedly under assault in the anthem protests, many of his supporters see that in racial terms.
You don't simply get to repeatedly flick at racial animus -- in the campaign and as President -- and then plead total innocence when those code words trigger a reaction.
Trump can paint this as a battle for patriotism.
The anthem protest was begun last year by then-San Francisco 49er quarterback .
The anthem protest was begun last year by then-San Francisco 49er quarterback Colin Kaepernick , who cited concerns about the deaths of African-American men at the hands of police as the motivation for his stance.
Trump has seized on the protests as some sort of slap in the face to the military, which it's not.
By painting the players as insufficiently loyal to the country, Trump can make an appeal to patriotism -- a powerful emotion not just in his base but in the country.
This is, of course, an incredibly oversimplified argument.
The flag represents America -- and America represents the right to express your views without fear of retribution.
Patriotism isn't just following orders because the President (or anyone else) tells you to.
It's about loving the country enough to fight for it to be a more perfect and equal union.
For Trump then, attacking the NFL -- and the reaction from the players, the media and even the team owners -- is a natural.
Not only does he always do better when he has an active opponent on which to focus his energy, but it's also an opponent that embodies many of the resentments and anger of the people who support him.
"Who do these rich, pampered athletes think they are?"
his supporters will say.
"They've got an easy life -- why don't they just shut up and play football?"
Sen. Ted Cruz, no ally of Trump's, nonetheless summed up that sentiment in an interview Sunday at the Texas Tribune Festival.
"I am not a fan of rich, spoiled athletes disrespecting the flag," Cruz said.
Finally, there is an element of distraction here -- of changing the subject or the landscape on which the national conversation is happening.
For Trump, a fight he can frame as all about patriotism and pampered athletes is better ground on which to stand than any of those storylines.
And it's not close.
So, Trump leans into the criticism -- knowing that his base will love it and it might just also take the focus away from stories he'd rather not talk about.
None of that "why" behind Trump's doubling down deals with the fact that we've never had a modern president like this one who is so willing to weaponize patriotism and lingering racial tensions and stereotypes to score political points.
Trump may well score some of those points.
That point-scoring overlooks the long-term damage Trump's tactics could well do to our democracy.
That's what we should be spending more time thinking about.
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump responded to protests across the National Football League on Sunday over his remarks about players taking a knee during the national anthem, expressing approval for those who locked arms, but not those who knelt.
"Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!"
the President tweeted Sunday afternoon.
Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
Across the country, dozens of NFL players have been taking a knee during the playing of the national anthem before their Sunday games.
Their protests come as Trump renewed his criticism of athletes taking a knee during the national anthem in protest over perceived social injustices.
On Sunday morning, Trump slammed the league's ratings in a post on Twitter and said again players should be fired or suspended for such protests -- reiterating remarks he made at a rally in Alabama Friday night.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.
The President inflamed tensions further Saturday by withdrawing a White House invitation to basketball star Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors.
Curry had remarked at the Warriors' media day Friday that he doesn't want to attend the White House ceremony scheduled to commemorate the team's championship title.
"'By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to,'' Curry told reporters.
''It's not just the act of not going.
There are things you have to do on the back end to actually push that message into motion."
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

At the first NFL game Sunday, which took place at London's Wembley Stadium, members of both the Jacksonville Jaguars and Baltimore Ravens took a knee while many other players and coaching staff stood and linked arms.
Dozens more players on other teams knelt at their games Sunday afternoon.
Notably, almost the entire Pittsburgh Steelers roster stayed in their locker room during the national anthem.
The NFL announced Sunday morning that it will be dusting off a one-minute ad it produced for the Super Bowl earlier this year that originally was produced to "demonstrate the power of football to bring people together," the league said.
In response to Trump's remarks in Alabama, Robert Kraft, of close friend of Trump's and owner of the New England Patriots, issued a statement Sunday morning saying: "I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities."
NFL players began to kneel during the national anthem last year, when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" before kickoff, sparking both support and backlash.
Kaepernick, who is currently without a team, told NFL Media last August : "I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color."
On Sunday morning, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin appeared on CNN's State of the Union with Jake Tapper and said that NFL owners should decide on a rule on how to handle players who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
"The owners should meet and decide on this rule the way they decide on any other rule," Mnuchin said.
Washington (CNN) Former US attorney Preet Bharara said Sunday that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein might have a conflict of interest over special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
Speaking with Jake Tapper on CNN's "State of the Union" Sunday, Bharara called it "odd and unusual" that Rosenstein could serve as a witness in the investigation while also while overseeing it, adding, "It would seem that there's a conflict."
As part of the Russia investigation, Mueller's team is looking into allegations of potential collusion by Donald Trump's campaign in Moscow's effort to influence last year's election and reportedly is investigating whether the President has obstructed justice, which could include an examination of the circumstances surrounding Trump's firing of former FBI Director James Comey in May.
Trump has branded the investigation the "single greatest witch hunt" in political history, and well into his presidency has consistently questioned the intelligence community's findings on Russia's efforts to influence the election outcome.
"We do know that (Rosenstein) had some role in putting forth what I think most people think was a pre-textual basis for the firing of Jim Comey, and to the extent that an obstruction investigation relies a little bit on the facts relating to the firing of Jim Comey, it would seem that there's a conflict," Bharara, a CNN senior legal analyst, said.
The Justice Department declined to comment on Bharara's remarks.
A source familiar with Mueller's interview of Rosenstein has told CNN that Rosenstein has no plans to immediately recuse himself.
Ian Prior, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said in a statement last week: "As the deputy attorney general has said numerous times, if there comes a time when he needs to recuse, he will.
However, nothing has changed."
On Sunday, Bharara discussed the recusal issue: "What I think people should want to know is whether or not, like (Attorney General) Jeff Sessions, the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, has consulted with the top ethics advisers in the department and gotten clearance to continue, and, if not, he shouldn't."
(CNN) President Donald Trump criticized some in the National Football League Friday night at a rally for Alabama Republican Senate candidate Luther Strange, saying team owners should fire players for taking a knee during the national anthem.
Trump added that if fans would "leave the stadium" when players kneel in protest during the national anthem, "I guarantee, things will stop."
Trump said NFL owners should respond to the players by saying, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
"For a week, (that owner would) be the most popular person in this country.
Because that's a total disrespect of our heritage.
That's a total disrespect for everything we stand for," Trump said.
Last year, Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
Read More
(CNN) A man who was arrested near the White House Sunday morning was found to have nine guns and three knives in his car, according to a police report.
The man was initially stopped by law enforcement for allegedly urinating in public.
Secret Service Uniform Division officers approached the man outside an art gallery in the area of 17th street and Pennsylvania Avenue near the White House, according to law enforcement sources and arrest records.
The suspect told Secret Service officers and agents that he was going to the White House to speak with National Security Agency Director Admiral Mike Rogers and Defense Secretary James Mattis "for advice on missing paychecks and how to get the chip out of my head," according to the incident report obtained by CNN.
The man was discovered driving a 2009 Silver Nissan with Tennessee Fraternal Order of Police license plates.
After being questioned by law enforcement and admitting to having multiple weapons, according to the report, he consented to a search of his vehicle.
The search turned up nine guns, three knives, brass knuckles, suppressors, and various types of ammunition.
The firearms included multiple handguns as well as AR- and AK-style rifles.
The suspect was taken to a DC facility "for mental observation" and later transported to a DC police station, where he was charged with multiple weapons violations, according to the report.
Read More
Story highlights Trump said the Arizona senator had let down his constituents

The criticism comes a day after McCain said he couldn't vote for the GOP's latest health care proposal

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump on Saturday continued his criticism of Sen. John McCain, going after the Arizona Republican on Twitter after he threw the Senate GOP's latest health care effort into jeopardy.
Trump, who also bashed McCain during a campaign rally Friday night, said the Arizona senator had let down his constituents, as well as his friend and fellow senator, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.
"John McCain never had any intention of voting for this Bill, which his Governor loves.
He campaigned on Repeal & Replace.
Let Arizona down!"
Trump began Saturday morning.
John McCain never had any intention of voting for this Bill, which his Governor loves.
He campaigned on Repeal & Replace.
Let Arizona down!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

He continued: "Arizona had a 116% increase in ObamaCare premiums last year, with deductibles very high.
Chuck Schumer sold John McCain a bill of goods.
Arizona had a 116% increase in ObamaCare premiums last year, with deductibles very high.
Chuck Schumer sold John McCain a bill of goods.
Sad  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Then: "Large Block Grants to States is a good thing to do.
Better control & management.
Great for Arizona.
McCain let his best friend L.G.
down!"
Large Block Grants to States is a good thing to do.
Better control & management.
Great for Arizona.
McCain let his best friend L.G.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Read More
Washington (CNN) Jared Kushner, senior White House adviser and son-in-law of President Donald Trump, has occasionally used a private email account for correspondence with fellow administration officials, his lawyer, Abbe Lowell, confirmed to CNN on Sunday.
"Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business," Lowell said in a statement.
"Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account."
Politico first reported Kushner's use of a private account and said it was set up in December and was used to sometimes trade emails with senior White House officials, outside advisers, and some others about media coverage.
During his campaign, Trump repeatedly criticized Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton for her use of a private email server to send and receive email during her time as secretary of state.
Lowell said that the emails on Kushner's private account were "usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal, rather than his White House, address."
Read More
As he prepared to board Air Force One to return to Washington from New Jersey on Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017, President Donald Trump said that NFL players protesting the national anthem are "very disrespectful to our country," calling again on team owners to stop what he considers unpatriotic displays in America's most popular sport.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

After his racially charged confrontation with athletes and sports teams about kneeling during the national anthem, President Donald Trump is getting a much-needed morale boost from his supporters who see the refusal to stand for the anthem as a show of disrespect, NBC News reported.
Trump made a fiery declaration on Friday that National Football League owners should "fire or suspend" players who kneel, which was met with criticism and protests on the field Sunday.
Republican strategists say Trump found an issue that reminds his supporters where he stands on cultural issues at a time when his allies are lining up against him, his effort to dismantle "Obamacare" is hanging by a thread and the president is teaming up with Democratic leaders.
"He is giving lots of red meat to his base to fire them up before a crucial election," GOP strategist John Feehery said of the Alabama Republican Senate runoff, which pits Trump-backed Sen. Luther Strange against anti-establishment favorite Roy Moore.
"I am fascinated by how the Democrats are falling into Trump's trap and fully backing the protesters."
Marc Short, White House director for legislative affairs, listens to a question during an off-camera press briefing at the White House in Washington, Monday, July 10, 2017.
Despite a rushed timetable and the daunting task of pulling together enough votes, the White House is planning on a Senate vote on the Graham-Cassidy health care bill this week, White House Director of Legislative Affairs Marc Short said on Sundays Meet The Press, NBC News reported.
He claims they are aiming for Wednesday.
There are millions of Americans who will benefit from this bill, Short said.
In fact, we think every state will benefit.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who decides when the Senate could address the bill, has said they intend to vote this week on the legislation thats aimed at restructuring the U.S. health care system and repealing some of the signature elements of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
President Donald Trump, flanked by Sen. Tom Cotton, R- Ark., left, and Sen. David Perdue, R-Ga., speaks in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, Wednesday, Aug. 2, 2017, during the unveiling of legislation that would place new limits on legal immigration.
A wall along the Mexico border isnt President Donald Trumps only proposal to curtail immigration into the United States.
Trump also wants to limit legal immigration into the U.S. by, among other revisions, making it more difficult for immigrants to qualify for a visa.
The proposed changes to current immigration law are outlined in a bill called the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, which was first introduced by Republican Sens.
Tom Cotton and David Perdue in February.
Under the proposed bill, qualifying for a visa would move to whats called a points-based system.
An applicant would earn points for achievements in six separate areas, including age, English-speaking proficiency and whether or not he or she has a lucrative job offer in the United States.
English proficiency is measured by a score an applicant receives on a pre-approved language test.
The higher the test score, the more points earned toward the visa.
Similarly, the more lucrative a job offer an applicant has, the more points he or she will receive.
The job-offer points are measured in relation to the median household income of the state where the job is being offered.
Applicants who have a job that is three times the state's median income, for example, will earn the most points toward the visa application.
Take this quiz to see if you'd be able to apply for a visa if the RAISE Act was signed into law.
A total of 30 points are needed to apply.
President Trump is hitting North Korea with severe new sanctions and issuing an ultimatum to the world: If you do business with Kim Jong Un the United States will not do business with you.
Republicans expect to vote next week on a health care bill known as Graham-Cassidy, named for the senators who wrote it, which would scale back Medicaid.
Some GOP lawmakers are split on the newest effort to undo Obamacare, while Democrats are planning for more demonstrations against it.
The President was joined by Vice President Mike Pence as well as other officials as he began touring parts of Southwest Florida following the devastation from Irma.
A majority of Americans support President Donald Trump's deal with Democratic leaders to provide hurricane relief and keep the government open for 90 days, according to a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll.
More than 70 percent approve of the move.
However, the same poll finds that less than 30 percent support his handling of health care, race relations and the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Meanwhile, Trump's overall job-approval rating is at 43 percent, up three points since August.
The poll comes after Trump worked with Democrats on temporarily funding the government and raising the debt limit  and after two hurricanes hit U.S. states.
The NBC/WSJ poll was conducted Sept. 14-18 of 900 adults  nearly half reached by cell phone  and it has a margin of error of plus-minus 3.3 percentage points.
Among the 741 registered voters who were interviewed, the margin of error is plus-minus 3.6 percentage points.
'Rocket Man': Trump Slams N. Korea at UN
Late-night host Jimmy Kimmel sounded off on Tuesday to blast Republican Sen. Bill Cassidy for his part in crafting the latest GOP health care proposal that, Kimmel said, goes against the promises the senator had made to him on his show.
Kimmel had discussed health care with Cassidy after the late-night host revealed in early May that his newborn son had open-heart surgery to fix birth defects.
This led Kimmel to deliver an emotional message to Congress, pleading for affordable health care for Americans, especially those in similar situations.
Cassidy then famously coined the "Jimmy Kimmel test" phrase, saying families like Kimmel's should not have to deal with high premiums, lifetime caps and rate hikes when it comes to coverage.
A week after Kimmel's plea, the Louisiana senator appeared on "Jimmy Kimmel Live" to expand on his idea of affordable health care.
Kimmel is now claiming Cassidy "lied right to my face" in that conversation.
Cassidy delivered his replacement for the Affordable Health Care Act last week.
In a proposed bill written with Sen. Lindsey Graham, states would receive block grants and cuts would be made to Medicaid, among other things.
"This new bill (passes) a different 'Jimmy Kimmel test,'" Kimmel said on his show.
"In this one, your child with a pre-existing condition will get the care he needs if, and only if, his father is Jimmy Kimmel.
Otherwise, you might be screwed."
He claimed the Graham-Cassidy bill would kick 30 million Americans off their insurance and give states certain control over lifetime caps and coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
The Congressional Budget Office said it plans to deliver an initial analysis on the bill early next week, but can't do a full analysis by the end of the month.
That's when a crucial deadline hits for Senate Republicans to act under special budget rules.
In the meantime, groups including the American Medical Association and AARP have come out against the proposal.
Kimmel went on to argue this latest bill is "actually worse" than the GOP's previous attempt to replace the ACA.
That "skinny repeal" came to a halt when Republican Sen. John McCain delivered the deciding vote against it in the early hours of July 28.
Before McCain went thumbs down, GOP Sens.
Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski also voted "no."
"I hope they have the courage and good sense to do that again with this one," Kimmel said of the Graham-Cassidy proposal, calling it a "scam of a bill."
"Health care is complicated.
It's boring.
I don't want to talk about it And that's what these guys are relying on," Kimmel continued.
"Most of the congresspeople who vote on this bill probably won't even read it, and they want us to do the same thing.
They want us to treat it like an iTunes service agreement."
Cassidy responded to Kimmel's heated monologue with a statement late Tuesday.
"We have a September 30th deadline on our promise," the senator wrote.
"Let's finish the job.
We must because there is a mother and father whose child will have insurance because of Graham Cassidy Heller Johnson.
There is someone whose pre-existing condition will be addressed because of GCHJ.
I dedicated my medical career to care for such as these; this is why GCHJ must pass."
Speaking on CNN Wednesday morning, Cassidy also argued that "more people will have coverage and we'll protect people with pre-existing conditions."
"I'm sorry he does not understand," Cassidy said of Kimmel.
Independent analysts have said the proposal allows states to take action that could raise the cost of coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
Cassidy said that if a state applied for a waiver it must provide affordable coverage.
As Kimmel urged viewers to call their representatives with opposition to the bill, he offered one final reason why he renewed his health care debate.
"Before you post a nasty Facebook message saying I'm politicizing my son's health problems, I want you to know, I am politicizing my son's health problems because I have to," Kimmel said.
"My family has health insurance.
We don't have to worry about this, but other people do."
Trump to Senate Majority Leader: 'Get to Work'
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

The full text of President Donald Trump's speech on Tuesday to the United Nations General Assembly, as provided by the White House.
Mr. Secretary General, Mr. President, world leaders, and distinguished delegates: Welcome to New York.
It is a profound honor to stand here in my home city, as a representative of the American people, to address the people of the world.
As millions of our citizens continue to suffer the effects of the devastating hurricanes that have struck our country, I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to every leader in this room who has offered assistance and aid.
The American people are strong and resilient, and they will emerge from these hardships more determined than ever before.
Fortunately, the United States has done very well since Election Day last November 8th.
The stock market is at an all-time high -- a record.
Unemployment is at its lowest level in 16 years, and because of our regulatory and other reforms, we have more people working in the United States today than ever before.
Companies are moving back, creating job growth the likes of which our country has not seen in a very long time.
And it has just been announced that we will be spending almost $700 billion on our military and defense.
Our military will soon be the strongest it has ever been.
For more than 70 years, in times of war and peace, the leaders of nations, movements, and religions have stood before this assembly.
Like them, I intend to address some of the very serious threats before us today but also the enormous potential waiting to be unleashed.
We live in a time of extraordinary opportunity.
Breakthroughs in science, technology, and medicine are curing illnesses and solving problems that prior generations thought impossible to solve.
But each day also brings news of growing dangers that threaten everything we cherish and value.
Terrorists and extremists have gathered strength and spread to every region of the planet.
Rogue regimes represented in this body not only support terrorists but threaten other nations and their own people with the most destructive weapons known to humanity.
Authority and authoritarian powers seek to collapse the values, the systems, and alliances that prevented conflict and tilted the world toward freedom since World War II.
International criminal networks traffic drugs, weapons, people; force dislocation and mass migration; threaten our borders; and new forms of aggression exploit technology to menace our citizens.
To put it simply, we meet at a time of both of immense promise and great peril.
It is entirely up to us whether we lift the world to new heights, or let it fall into a valley of disrepair.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea

President Trump is hitting North Korea with severe new sanctions and issuing an ultimatum to the world: If you do business with Kim Jong Un the United States will not do business with you.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

We have it in our power, should we so choose, to lift millions from poverty, to help our citizens realize their dreams, and to ensure that new generations of children are raised free from violence, hatred, and fear.
This institution was founded in the aftermath of two world wars to help shape this better future.
It was based on the vision that diverse nations could cooperate to protect their sovereignty, preserve their security, and promote their prosperity.
It was in the same period, exactly 70 years ago, that the United States developed the Marshall Plan to help restore Europe.
Those three beautiful pillars -- theyre pillars of peace, sovereignty, security, and prosperity.
the Marshall Plan was built on the noble idea that the whole world is safer when nations are strong, independent, and free.
As President Truman said in his message to Congress at that time, Our support of European recovery is in full accord with our support of the United Nations.
The success of the United Nations depends upon the independent strength of its members.
To overcome the perils of the present and to achieve the promise of the future, we must begin with the wisdom of the past.
Our success depends on a coalition of strong and independent nations that embrace their sovereignty to promote security, prosperity, and peace for themselves and for the world.
We do not expect diverse countries to share the same cultures, traditions, or even systems of government.
But we do expect all nations to uphold these two core sovereign duties: to respect the interests of their own people and the rights of every other sovereign nation.
This is the beautiful vision of this institution, and this is foundation for cooperation and success.
GOP Still Split on Graham-Cassidy Health Care Bill

Republicans expect to vote next week on a health care bill known as Graham-Cassidy, named for the senators who wrote it, which would scale back Medicaid.
Some GOP lawmakers are split on the newest effort to undo Obamacare, while Democrats are planning for more demonstrations against it.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

Strong, sovereign nations let diverse countries with different values, different cultures, and different dreams not just coexist, but work side by side on the basis of mutual respect.
Strong, sovereign nations let their people take ownership of the future and control their own destiny.
And strong, sovereign nations allow individuals to flourish in the fullness of the life intended by God.
In America, we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to watch.
This week gives our country a special reason to take pride in that example.
We are celebrating the 230th anniversary of our beloved Constitution -- the oldest constitution still in use in the world today.
This timeless document has been the foundation of peace, prosperity, and freedom for the Americans and for countless millions around the globe whose own countries have found inspiration in its respect for human nature, human dignity, and the rule of law.
The greatest in the United States Constitution is its first three beautiful words.
They are: We the people.
Generations of Americans have sacrificed to maintain the promise of those words, the promise of our country, and of our great history.
In America, the people govern, the people rule, and the people are sovereign.
I was elected not to take power, but to give power to the American people, where it belongs.
Graham Confident on New GOP Efforts to Revise Healthcare

An upbeat Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) touted his healthcare bill co-sponsored with Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana) Tuesday, speaking to reporters after a closed-door luncheon with other law makers to push the bill.
(Published Wednesday, Sept. 20, 2017)

In foreign affairs, we are renewing this founding principle of sovereignty.
Our government's first duty is to its people, to our citizens -- to serve their needs, to ensure their safety, to preserve their rights, and to defend their values.
As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like you, as the leaders of your countries will always, and should always, put your countries first.
All responsible leaders have an obligation to serve their own citizens, and the nation-state remains the best vehicle for elevating the human condition.
But making a better life for our people also requires us to work together in close harmony and unity to create a more safe and peaceful future for all people.
The United States will forever be a great friend to the world, and especially to its allies.
But we can no longer be taken advantage of, or enter into a one-sided deal where the United States gets nothing in return.
As long as I hold this office, I will defend Americas interests above all else.
But in fulfilling our obligations to our own nations, we also realize that its in everyones interest to seek a future where all nations can be sovereign, prosperous, and secure.
Trump Mulling Parade to Show US 'Military Strength'

President Donald Trump enjoyed France's Bastille Day celebration so much while he was visiting France that he is considering a July 4th parade to showcase the U.S. military.
(Published Monday, Sept. 18, 2017)

America does more than speak for the values expressed in the United Nations Charter.
Our citizens have paid the ultimate price to defend our freedom and the freedom of many nations represented in this great hall.
America's devotion is measured on the battlefields where our young men and women have fought and sacrificed alongside of our allies, from the beaches of Europe to the deserts of the Middle East to the jungles of Asia.
It is an eternal credit to the American character that even after we and our allies emerged victorious from the bloodiest war in history, we did not seek territorial expansion, or attempt to oppose and impose our way of life on others.
Instead, we helped build institutions such as this one to defend the sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all.
For the diverse nations of the world, this is our hope.
We want harmony and friendship, not conflict and strife.
We are guided by outcomes, not ideology.
We have a policy of principled realism, rooted in shared goals, interests, and values.
That realism forces us to confront a question facing every leader and nation in this room.
It is a question we cannot escape or avoid.
We will slide down the path of complacency, numb to the challenges, threats, and even wars that we face.
Or do we have enough strength and pride to confront those dangers today, so that our citizens can enjoy peace and prosperity tomorrow?
If we desire to lift up our citizens, if we aspire to the approval of history, then we must fulfill our sovereign duties to the people we faithfully represent.
We must protect our nations, their interests, and their futures.
We must reject threats to sovereignty, from the Ukraine to the South China Sea.
We must uphold respect for law, respect for borders, and respect for culture, and the peaceful engagement these allow.
And just as the founders of this body intended, we must work together and confront together those who threaten us with chaos, turmoil, and terror.
The scourge of our planet today is a small group of rogue regimes that violate every principle on which the United Nations is based.
They respect neither their own citizens nor the sovereign rights of their countries.
Trump and the United Nations

As a candidate President Trump called the United Nations weak, incompetent, not a friend of democracy.
Now he needs the U.N. to deal with North Korea.
Tracie Potts reports.
(Published Monday, Sept. 18, 2017)

If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph.
When decent people and nations become bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only gather power and strength.
No one has shown more contempt for other nations and for the wellbeing of their own people than the depraved regime in North Korea.
It is responsible for the starvation deaths of millions of North Koreans, and for the imprisonment, torture, killing, and oppression of countless more.
We were all witness to the regime's deadly abuse when an innocent American college student, Otto Warmbier, was returned to America only to die a few days later.
We saw it in the assassination of the dictator's brother using banned nerve agents in an international airport.
We know it kidnapped a sweet 13-year-old Japanese girl from a beach in her own country to enslave her as a language tutor for North Korea's spies.
If this is not twisted enough, now North Korea's reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles threatens the entire world with unthinkable loss of human life.
It is an outrage that some nations would not only trade with such a regime, but would arm, supply, and financially support a country that imperils the world with nuclear conflict.
No nation on earth has an interest in seeing this band of criminals arm itself with nuclear weapons and missiles.
The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.
Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime.
The United States is ready, willing and able, but hopefully this will not be necessary.
Thats what the United Nations is all about; thats what the United Nations is for.
Lets see how they do.
Sanders Doubles Down on Calls for ESPN Host to Be Fired

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders doubled down on her statement Friday in a back and forth with NBC's Hallie Jackson, calling for ESPN to fire "SportsCenter" host Jemele Hill for her anti-Trump tweets.
(Published Monday, Sept. 18, 2017)

It is time for North Korea to realize that the denuclearization is its only acceptable future.
The United Nations Security Council recently held two unanimous 15-0 votes adopting hard-hitting resolutions against North Korea, and I want to thank China and Russia for joining the vote to impose sanctions, along with all of the other members of the Security Council.
Thank you to all involved.
But we must do much more.
It is time for all nations to work together to isolate the Kim regime until it ceases its hostile behavior.
We face this decision not only in North Korea.
It is far past time for the nations of the world to confront another reckless regime -- one that speaks openly of mass murder, vowing death to America, destruction to Israel, and ruin for many leaders and nations in this room.
The Iranian government masks a corrupt dictatorship behind the false guise of a democracy.
It has turned a wealthy country with a rich history and culture into an economically depleted rogue state whose chief exports are violence, bloodshed, and chaos.
The longest-suffering victims of Iran's leaders are, in fact, its own people.
Rather than use its resources to improve Iranian lives, its oil profits go to fund Hezbollah and other terrorists that kill innocent Muslims and attack their peaceful Arab and Israeli neighbors.
This wealth, which rightly belongs to Iran's people, also goes to shore up Bashar al-Assad's dictatorship, fuel Yemen's civil war, and undermine peace throughout the entire Middle East.
We cannot let a murderous regime continue these destabilizing activities while building dangerous missiles, and we cannot abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual construction of a nuclear program.
(Applause.)
The Iran Deal was one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into.
Frankly, that deal is an embarrassment to the United States, and I dont think youve heard the last of it -- believe me.
Mixed Messages Surround Trump's DACA Deal

President Trump landed in Florida Thursday afternoon to survey damage from Hurricane Irma, but not before making a statement on immigration.
"We are not talking about amnesty.
We're talking about - we're talking about taking care of people," Trump said.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 14, 2017)

It is time for the entire world to join us in demanding that Iran's government end its pursuit of death and destruction.
It is time for the regime to free all Americans and citizens of other nations that they have unjustly detained.
And above all, Iran's government must stop supporting terrorists, begin serving its own people, and respect the sovereign rights of its neighbors.
The entire world understands that the good people of Iran want change, and, other than the vast military power of the United States, that Iran's people are what their leaders fear the most.
This is what causes the regime to restrict Internet access, tear down satellite dishes, shoot unarmed student protestors, and imprison political reformers.
Oppressive regimes cannot endure forever, and the day will come when the Iranian people will face a choice.
Will they continue down the path of poverty, bloodshed, and terror?
Or will the Iranian people return to the nation's proud roots as a center of civilization, culture, and wealth where their people can be happy and prosperous once again?
The Iranian regime's support for terror is in stark contrast to the recent commitments of many of its neighbors to fight terrorism and halt its financing.
In Saudi Arabia early last year, I was greatly honored to address the leaders of more than 50 Arab and Muslim nations.
We agreed that all responsible nations must work together to confront terrorists and the Islamist extremism that inspires them.
We will stop radical Islamic terrorism because we cannot allow it to tear up our nation, and indeed to tear up the entire world.
North Korea's Nuclear Missile Program Explained - Part 2: Military Options

With North Korea conducting a sixth nuclear test on Sept. 2, 2017, there have been a lot of questions about the capabilities of that country's nuclear program.
Dr. Bruce Bennett, a Senior International/Defense Researcher at the RAND Corporation, is a leading expert on the subject and breaks down possible military responses and what their implications would be.
Watch Part 1: Cache here Watch Part 3: Other Solutions here (Published Wednesday, Sept. 13, 2017)

We must deny the terrorists safe haven, transit, funding, and any form of support for their vile and sinister ideology.
We must drive them out of our nations.
It is time to expose and hold responsible those countries who support and finance terror groups like al Qaeda, Hezbollah, the Taliban and others that slaughter innocent people.
The United States and our allies are working together throughout the Middle East to crush the loser terrorists and stop the reemergence of safe havens they use to launch attacks on all of our people.
Last month, I announced a new strategy for victory in the fight against this evil in Afghanistan.
From now on, our security interests will dictate the length and scope of military operations, not arbitrary benchmarks and timetables set up by politicians.
I have also totally changed the rules of engagement in our fight against the Taliban and other terrorist groups.
In Syria and Iraq, we have made big gains toward lasting defeat of ISIS.
In fact, our country has achieved more against ISIS in the last eight months than it has in many, many years combined.
We seek the de-escalation of the Syrian conflict, and a political solution that honors the will of the Syrian people.
The actions of the criminal regime of Bashar al-Assad, including the use of chemical weapons against his own citizens -- even innocent children -- shock the conscience of every decent person.
No society can be safe if banned chemical weapons are allowed to spread.
That is why the United States carried out a missile strike on the airbase that launched the attack.
We appreciate the efforts of United Nations agencies that are providing vital humanitarian assistance in areas liberated from ISIS, and we especially thank Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon for their role in hosting refugees from the Syrian conflict.
North Korea's Nuclear Missile Program Explained - Part 3: Other Solutions

With North Korea conducting a sixth nuclear test on Sept. 2, 2017, there have been a lot of questions about the capabilities of that country's nuclear program.
Dr. Bruce Bennett, a Senior International/Defense Researcher at the RAND Corporation, is a leading expert on the subject and explains what other pressures besides military options the world can put on North Korea in order to slow down or eliminate their nuclear capabilities.
Watch Part 1: Cache here Watch Part 2: Military Options here (Published Wednesday, Sept. 13, 2017)

The United States is a compassionate nation and has spent billions and billions of dollars in helping to support this effort.
We seek an approach to refugee resettlement that is designed to help these horribly treated people, and which enables their eventual return to their home countries, to be part of the rebuilding process.
For the cost of resettling one refugee in the United States, we can assist more than 10 in their home region.
Out of the goodness of our hearts, we offer financial assistance to hosting countries in the region, and we support recent agreements of the G20 nations that will seek to host refugees as close to their home countries as possible.
This is the safe, responsible, and humanitarian approach.
For decades, the United States has dealt with migration challenges here in the Western Hemisphere.
We have learned that, over the long term, uncontrolled migration is deeply unfair to both the sending and the receiving countries.
For the sending countries, it reduces domestic pressure to pursue needed political and economic reform, and drains them of the human capital necessary to motivate and implement those reforms.
For the receiving countries, the substantial costs of uncontrolled migration are borne overwhelmingly by low-income citizens whose concerns are often ignored by both media and government.
I want to salute the work of the United Nations in seeking to address the problems that cause people to flee from their homes.
The United Nations and African Union led peacekeeping missions to have invaluable contributions in stabilizing conflicts in Africa.
The United States continues to lead the world in humanitarian assistance, including famine prevention and relief in South Sudan, Somalia, and northern Nigeria and Yemen.
We have invested in better health and opportunity all over the world through programs like PEPFAR, which funds AIDS relief; the President's Malaria Initiative; the Global Health Security Agenda; the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery; and the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, part of our commitment to empowering women all across the globe.
We also thank -- (applause) -- we also thank the Secretary General for recognizing that the United Nations must reform if it is to be an effective partner in confronting threats to sovereignty, security, and prosperity.
Too often the focus of this organization has not been on results, but on bureaucracy and process.
In some cases, states that seek to subvert this institution's noble aims have hijacked the very systems that are supposed to advance them.
For example, it is a massive source of embarrassment to the United Nations that some governments with egregious human rights records sit on the U.N. Human Rights Council.
The United States is one out of 193 countries in the United Nations, and yet we pay 22 percent of the entire budget and more.
In fact, we pay far more than anybody realizes.
The United States bears an unfair cost burden, but, to be fair, if it could actually accomplish all of its stated goals, especially the goal of peace, this investment would easily be well worth it.
Major portions of the world are in conflict and some, in fact, are going to hell.
But the powerful people in this room, under the guidance and auspices of the United Nations, can solve many of these vicious and complex problems.
The American people hope that one day soon the United Nations can be a much more accountable and effective advocate for human dignity and freedom around the world.
In the meantime, we believe that no nation should have to bear a disproportionate share of the burden, militarily or financially.
Nations of the world must take a greater role in promoting secure and prosperous societies in their own regions.
That is why in the Western Hemisphere, the United States has stood against the corrupt and destabilizing regime in Cuba and embraced the enduring dream of the Cuban people to live in freedom.
My administration recently announced that we will not lift sanctions on the Cuban government until it makes fundamental reforms.
We have also imposed tough, calibrated sanctions on the socialist Maduro regime in Venezuela, which has brought a once thriving nation to the brink of total collapse.
The socialist dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro has inflicted terrible pain and suffering on the good people of that country.
This corrupt regime destroyed a prosperous nation by imposing a failed ideology that has produced poverty and misery everywhere it has been tried.
To make matters worse, Maduro has defied his own people, stealing power from their elected representatives to preserve his disastrous rule.
The Venezuelan people are starving and their country is collapsing.
Their democratic institutions are being destroyed.
This situation is completely unacceptable and we cannot stand by and watch.
As a responsible neighbor and friend, we and all others have a goal.
That goal is to help them regain their freedom, recover their country, and restore their democracy.
I would like to thank leaders in this room for condemning the regime and providing vital support to the Venezuelan people.
The United States has taken important steps to hold the regime accountable.
We are prepared to take further action if the government of Venezuela persists on its path to impose authoritarian rule on the Venezuelan people.
We are fortunate to have incredibly strong and healthy trade relationships with many of the Latin American countries gathered here today.
Our economic bond forms a critical foundation for advancing peace and prosperity for all of our people and all of our neighbors.
I ask every country represented here today to be prepared to do more to address this very real crisis.
We call for the full restoration of democracy and political freedoms in Venezuela.
The problem in Venezuela is not that socialism has been poorly implemented, but that socialism has been faithfully implemented.
(Applause.)
From the Soviet Union to Cuba to Venezuela, wherever true socialism or communism has been adopted, it has delivered anguish and devastation and failure.
Those who preach the tenets of these discredited ideologies only contribute to the continued suffering of the people who live under these cruel systems.
America stands with every person living under a brutal regime.
Our respect for sovereignty is also a call for action.
All people deserve a government that cares for their safety, their interests, and their wellbeing, including their prosperity.
In America, we seek stronger ties of business and trade with all nations of good will, but this trade must be fair and it must be reciprocal.
For too long, the American people were told that mammoth multinational trade deals, unaccountable international tribunals, and powerful global bureaucracies were the best way to promote their success.
But as those promises flowed, millions of jobs vanished and thousands of factories disappeared.
Others gamed the system and broke the rules.
And our great middle class, once the bedrock of American prosperity, was forgotten and left behind, but they are forgotten no more and they will never be forgotten again.
While America will pursue cooperation and commerce with other nations, we are renewing our commitment to the first duty of every government: the duty of our citizens.
This bond is the source of America's strength and that of every responsible nation represented here today.
If this organization is to have any hope of successfully confronting the challenges before us, it will depend, as President Truman said some 70 years ago, on the "independent strength of its members."
If we are to embrace the opportunities of the future and overcome the present dangers together, there can be no substitute for strong, sovereign, and independent nations -- nations that are rooted in their histories and invested in their destinies; nations that seek allies to befriend, not enemies to conquer; and most important of all, nations that are home to patriots, to men and women who are willing to sacrifice for their countries, their fellow citizens, and for all that is best in the human spirit.
In remembering the great victory that led to this body's founding, we must never forget that those heroes who fought against evil also fought for the nations that they loved.
Patriotism led the Poles to die to save Poland, the French to fight for a free France, and the Brits to stand strong for Britain.
Today, if we do not invest ourselves, our hearts, and our minds in our nations, if we will not build strong families, safe communities, and healthy societies for ourselves, no one can do it for us.
We cannot wait for someone else, for faraway countries or far-off bureaucrats -- we can't do it.
We must solve our problems, to build our prosperity, to secure our futures, or we will be vulnerable to decay, domination, and defeat.
The true question for the United Nations today, for people all over the world who hope for better lives for themselves and their children, is a basic one: Are we still patriots?
Do we love our nations enough to protect their sovereignty and to take ownership of their futures?
Do we revere them enough to defend their interests, preserve their cultures, and ensure a peaceful world for their citizens?
One of the greatest American patriots, John Adams, wrote that the American Revolution was "effected before the war commenced.
The Revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people."
That was the moment when America awoke, when we looked around and understood that we were a nation.
We realized who we were, what we valued, and what we would give our lives to defend.
From its very first moments, the American story is the story of what is possible when people take ownership of their future.
The United States of America has been among the greatest forces for good in the history of the world, and the greatest defenders of sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all.
Now we are calling for a great reawakening of nations, for the revival of their spirits, their pride, their people, and their patriotism.
History is asking us whether we are up to the task.
Our answer will be a renewal of will, a rediscovery of resolve, and a rebirth of devotion.
We need to defeat the enemies of humanity and unlock the potential of life itself.
Our hope is a word and world of proud, independent nations that embrace their duties, seek friendship, respect others, and make common cause in the greatest shared interest of all: a future of dignity and peace for the people of this wonderful Earth.
This is the true vision of the United Nations, the ancient wish of every people, and the deepest yearning that lives inside every sacred soul.
So let this be our mission, and let this be our message to the world: We will fight together, sacrifice together, and stand together for peace, for freedom, for justice, for family, for humanity, and for the almighty God who made us all.
Thank you.
God bless you.
God bless the nations of the world.
And God bless the United States of America.
Thank you very much.
At least 10 people were arrested in a demonstration outside Trump Tower Tuesday.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

What to Know Three members of Congress were among the 10 people arrested in front of Trump Tower during a protest of the White House decision to end DACA

Organizers had timed the protest to coincide with Trump's visit to New York City for his address to the United Nations General Assembly

Trump is scheduled to stay at Trump Tower Tuesday evening, but wasn't present for the protest

New York congressman Adriano Espaillat, City Council President Melissa Mark Viverito and other lawmakers have been arrested in a protest outside Trump Tower.
They were fighting President Trump's decision to end the DACA program, which protected immigrants who arrived in the U.S. illegally as children.
Espaillat's spokeswoman confirmed to News 4 he was arrested.
"Since day one, the Trump administration has threatened Latinos, Muslims, LGBT, women, and the list continues.
His decision to end the DACA program earlier this month increased the urgency of what's at stake and the lives at risk when we fail to speak out against racism in America," spokeswoman Candace Randle Person said.
Hundreds Protest Trump's DACA Decision in Manhattan

The protesters on Saturday waved signs that read "No one is illegal" and "Immigrants welcome" and chanted "Deport Donald Trump."
(Published Saturday, Sept. 9, 2017)

Dozens of people gathered at the corner across Trump Tower for the planned protest, holding signs and chanting.
NYPD officers were also there in force to control the crowds.
The lawmakers had planned to get arrested by sitting down on Fifth Avenue and refusing to move.
Three members of Congress, along with Mark Viverito, were among the 10 people arrested.
Organizers had timed the protest to coincide with Trump's visit to New York City for his address to the United Nations General Assembly.
They're demanding the president work with Congress to pass a clean DREAM Act that includes a path to citizenship for immigrant youth.
Trump is scheduled to stay at Trump Tower Tuesday evening, but wasn't present for the protest.
In this Oct. 24, 2012 file photo, former Chief Justice Roy Moore poses for a photo in his Montgomery, Ala., office.
Moore, an Alabama GOP senate candidate, used racial slurs in speech in a video obtained by NBC News.
Roy Moore, the Republican frontrunner in next weeks special Senate election in Alabama, referred to "reds and yellows fighting" in a campaign speech, a video obtained by NBC News shows.
Moore, the ultra-conservative former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, lamented racial divisions in his remarks on Sunday.
"We have blacks and whites fighting, reds and yellows fighting, Democrats and Republicans fighting, men and women fighting," he said.
"Red" and "yellow" are widely recognized as racial slurs.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea
A file photo of CIA Director Mike Pompeo answering questions while speaking at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) In Washington, Thursday, April 13, 2017.
Pompeo has pushed for more freedom of action for the CIA, which Trump intends to give him, officials told NBC News.
When President Donald Trump visited CIA headquarters in the first weeks of his presidency, he toured the secure floor where agency officers direct drone strikes against suspected terrorists, current and former U.S. officials told NBC News.
Impressed by what he saw, Trump conveyed to incoming CIA Director Mike Pompeo and the assembled agency officers that he wanted them to take a more aggressive posture, according to two current U.S. officials and one former official briefed on the visit.
Soon afterward, multiple sources said, the CIA began carrying out drone strikes that might not have been authorized under the Obama administration, including in Syria, where the military has taken the lead on targeting militant leaders.
The White House granted CIA officers more autonomy to decide on whether and when the U.S. can pull the trigger in various places around the world, including in Yemen, where the military carries out the bulk of the airstrikes, according to four U.S. officials who have been briefed on the agency's counterterrorism operations.
The upshot is less micromanaging of targeting decisions by the White House, these officials say.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea
President Donald Trump enjoyed France's Bastille Day celebration so much while he was visiting France that he is considering a July 4th parade to showcase the U.S. military.
As a candidate President Trump called the United Nations weak, incompetent, not a friend of democracy.
Now he needs the U.N. to deal with North Korea.
Tracie Potts reports.
Stephen Colbert kicked off the Emmys Sunday with an old-school production number straight out of "The Music Man," a classic show about a con artist who hoodwinks Middle American townsfolk by spouting false promises about making life great.
"Everything's better on TV," he sang, sprinkling in lyrics about global warming, white supremacists and Russia.
Colbert even offered a surprise non-musical coda: a surreal appearance by deposed White House press secretary Sean Spicer, who spoofed his demonstrably false claims about the size of the audience for President Donald Trump's inauguration.
"This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys  period!
both in person and around the world," Spicer declared from behind a mobile podium seemingly plucked from Melissa McCarthy's sketches lampooning him on "Saturday Night Live."
After his stunt, Spicer told NBC4 Los Angeles that he hoped his former boss "found it humorous."
The multi-tiered spectacle marked vintage Colbert, who long ago proved himself the master of the ironic comedic con, where the audience is in on the joke, even if the joke may be on us.
Colbert boldly reached higher Sunday, by ceding the top role to an in-absentia Trump, making the president both the star of the show  and its target.
"Hello, sir, thank you for joining us  looking forward to the tweets," Colbert said, addressing Trump.
It wasn't immediately clear whether the president watched the CBS broadcast, dominated in the late night comedy-filled categories by "SNL" and "Last Week Tonight," which likely rank among his least favorite shows.
But Trump's presence loomed.
Colbert cited Trump's past complaints of supposed Emmy-rigging he blamed for snubs of "The Apprentice," a springboard for his political rise.
"I bet if he had won an Emmy, he never would have run for president.
So in a way, this is all your fault," he told the Hollywood crowd that packed Los Angeles' Microsoft Theater.
Alec Baldwin later picked up that thread after winning an Emmy for his ongoing "Saturday Night Live" stint as Trump.
"I suppose I should say, 'At long last, Mr. President, here is your Emmy,'" Baldwin quipped.
Even some of TV's top dramatic players  the dystopic duo "Westworld" and "The Handmaid's Tale"  got in on the humor game.
Colbert performed with scantily clad dancers in "Handmaid's"-inspired garb.
He doffed his tux for a filmed bit with "Westworld" star Jeffrey Wright.
"Have you ever questioned the nature of your reality?"
asked Wright, reviving his Bernard Lowe character.
Colbert, nude except for a bow tie, responded: "Every day since November 8."
The "Late Show" host signaled from the start that he planned to play with reality Sunday: "I know the world outside is getting crazy, but look on the bright side: Television has never been better."
Colbert, with song, dance and pointed humor, fulfilled the promise of TV on its biggest night.
No matter how many people wound up watching, Colbert demonstrated he's the real deal by helping us laugh at strange times while never letting us forget them.
'Tonight': Fred Armisen's Noise Remix

Jimmy Fallon has Fred Armisen record some noises, like laughs and gasps, and uses the Samplebot app on his iPad to remix them into a song.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
THE TAKE with ABC News' Rick Klein

President Trump declared that he saw "tremendous solidarity" on the sidelines of NFL games - bringing full circle a debate he inflamed for little good discernible reason.
Don't discount the meaning, though: Trump picks fights that he wants, and he picks fights that he needs.
His feud with pro athletes and sports leagues may be both of those things.
It's a distraction, yes - redirecting attention from the health care bill, the Mueller probe, North Korea, and a special election that may not go his way.
But it's more than that: Trump seeks power by seeking divisions.
The image of a great divider has gotten through.
In the new ABC News/Washington Post poll, 66 percent of Americans say the president has done more to divide than unite; 29 percent of Republicans and 65 percent of independents agree.
In urging owners to fire players who choose a particular forum for political protest - protests that, until now, weren't even about Trump - the president is lining up against the First Amendment.
He put himself on the side of the flag, and against spoiled, wealthy, and - yes - mostly black athletes.
That "solidarity" he saw, of course, was united in opposition to the president and what he had to say.
Trump likes winning, but he also likes it when people take sides.
That's happening anyway in Trump's America.
The president is urging it along, in words and deeds.
THE PATH AMERICANS WANT LAWMAKERS TO TAKE ON HEALTH CARE

Sen. Tim Kaine Sunday night referred to Sen. John McCain's decision to oppose the Graham-Cassidy bill as a "victory," but cautioned that Democrats were not "taking anything for granted."
Kaine, a member of the Senate Health and Education Committee, told ABC News the committee was actually close to a bipartisan deal earlier this month to stabilize insurance markets, and that committee leadership only "shelved" the plans when this last Republican attempt at repeal gained stream.
Kaine and other Democrats think a modest bipartisan deal could be dusted off and revisited if Republicans miss the Sept. 30 deadline for their party-line Obamacare overhaul.
Polls suggest that's the direction Americans want lawmakers to go.
A Kaiser poll out last week found that 69 percent of Americans say it is very important or extremely important for Congress to work on passing legislation to stabilize the Affordable Care Act marketplaces now.
In the ABC News/Washington Post poll, not only did respondents overall prefer Obamacare to Graham-Cassidy, nearly a quarter of Republicans said they did, too.
Another indicator of the country's interest in bipartisan work: The president scored praise in the poll for his journey across the aisle on immigration, ABC News' MaryAlice Parks notes.
ALL EYES STILL ON ALABAMA

If you want a reason to forget NFL protests soon enough, Alabama presents itself.
Vice President Mike Pence will campaign for Sen. Luther Strange in Birmingham tonight, while Roy Moore's campaign holds a rally featuring Steve Bannon, "Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson and "special guest" Nigel Farage, the Brexit architect who has previously appeared at rallies with President Trump.
While the president did his best to tamp down talk of the Alabama race as a proxy war between the establishment and populist wings of the GOP, the dueling rallies in the GOP primary's final hours sure seems to support that narrative.
(Trump even allowed Friday night that he "might have made a mistake" by getting involved.)
Many Republicans have resisted calls for unification in Alabama, but they'll need to regroup quickly following tomorrow's primary run-off.
The Democrats have fielded a legit challenger in former U.S. Attorney Doug Jones, who has former Vice President Joe Biden heading down to the state next month to headline a rally.
Depending on the outcome, a squabbling party could endanger a deep red seat for Republicans, ABC News' John Verhovek writes.
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW TODAY

America is for Dreamers: A whopping 86 percent of Americans support a right to residency for undocumented immigrants who come to the U.S. as children, according to a new ABC News/Washington Post poll out today.
The long-awaited "tax plan that's totally finalized," Trump said Sunday, is expected to be unveiled this week.
Travel ban 3.0: Trump issued a new travel ban Sunday night severely restricting entry from eight countries  including several non-Muslim countries.
Sink or swim?
The Graham-Cassidy bill gets revisions to entice on-the-fence senators, along with a Senate Finance Committee hearing and a CBO analysis that will likely become obsolete immediately.
Jared's got (private) mail: Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, used a personal email account to email White House officials for the first nine months he was in the White House.
QUOTE OF THE DAY

"This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag."
-- President Trump on calling for NFL owners to fire players who kneel during the national anthem

NEED TO READ

ABC News/Washington Post poll: Trump seen by most Americans as doing more to divide than unite country.
More than half of respondents said President Trump has done more to divide than to unite the country, considerably worse than the highest "divide" scores for his two predecessors, Barack Obama and George W. Bush, both 55 percent.
Even as a record number of Americans see North Korea as a threat, the public, by a wide 62-37 percent margin, does not trust Trump to act responsibly in handling the situation.
http://abcn.ws/2xx5pqh

NFL players can have "free speech on their own time": Mnuchin.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended President Donald Trump's comments calling for NFL players who kneel during the national anthem to be fired, saying players "have the right to have the First Amendment off the field."
"This isn't about Democrats.
It's not about Republicans.
It's not about race, it's not about free speech.
They can do free speech on their own time," the Treasury secretary said Sunday on "This Week."
http://abcn.ws/2xCcXIK

Ted Cruz: "Right now they don't have my vote" on health care bill.
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said Sunday that he does not yet support the Graham-Cassidy health care bill, which appears to put the Republicans' latest effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act in jeopardy.
Another Republican leaning "no" on the Graham-Cassidy bill, Sen. Susan Collins, said it is "very difficult" to envision herself voting for the legislation.
http://abcn.ws/2fKz2eG

Mnuchin defends use of costly government jet.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended his use of a costly government jet to make the short journey from New York City to Washington, D.C., following an August meeting in Trump Tower.
"There are times when I need secure communications to be in touch with the president and National Security Council," Mnuchin said on "This Week."
"I had a secure call that day that was critical and set up.
It needed to be done at that time, and that's why I used it."
http://abcn.ws/2xxQaNL

Sen. Lindsey Graham to Sen. Rand Paul: Health care bill will "save a lot of money."
"Rand Paul objects to the taxes, but when you look at the bill, Rand, we save a lot of money over time for Medicaid," Graham said in an interview on "This Week" Sunday.
"We've put a cap on Obamacare growth to make it more sustainable, more affordable, more flexible."
http://abcn.ws/2hrTocB

Trump: "Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable."
ABC News

NFL players who protested during the national anthem in Week 3.
ESPN

Trump warns North Korea 'won't be around much longer' if threats continue to escalate.
ABC News

Graham, Cassidy revise Obamacare repeal bill, appealing to holdouts.
Politico

#Takeaknee trending hashtag reveals sharp debate over NFL players' kneeling.
ABC News

Sen. Rand Paul lays out demands on health care as talks continue.
The Washington Post

HHS Secretary Price will stop using private planes until internal review is completed.
Fox News

Weiner faces sentencing in latest chapter of sexting drama.
The Associated Press

The Note is a daily ABC News feature that highlights the key political moments of the day ahead.
Please check back tomorrow for the latest.
A vast 86 percent of Americans support a right to residency for undocumented immigrants who arrived in the United States as children, with support crossing the political spectrum.
Two-thirds back a deal to enact such legislation in tandem with higher funding for border control.
See PDF with full results here.
Possibly in light of President Donald Trumps decision to phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, disapproval of his handling of immigration overall reaches 62 percent in this ABC News/Washington Post poll.
Just 35 percent approve.
Additional hurdles for Trump are his demand for a wall on the U.S. border with Mexico -- again 62 percent oppose it -- and substantial concerns about his immigration enforcement policies.
Americans were asked whether they support a program that allows undocumented immigrants to stay in the United States if they arrived here as a child, completed high school or military service and have not been convicted of a serious crime, all elements of DACA, established by Barack Obama by executive order in 2012.
Support spans demographic groups, including three-quarters of Republicans and conservatives, 86 and 87 percent of independents and moderates, and 97 and 96 percent of Democrats and liberals.
Support reaches 94 percent among Hispanics, 93 percent among blacks and 84 percent among whites.
Strong support, 87 percent among Hispanics and 85 percent among blacks, declines among whites to 61 percent.
Trump early this month said he would rescind DACA, giving Congress a six-month window to act before nearly 800,000 undocumented immigrants lose protection from deportation.
He later reached a tentative agreement with top congressional Democrats for DACA legislation accompanied by upgraded border security.
As noted, 65 percent support that potential compromise -- a bipartisan result, with 76 percent support among Republicans, 66 percent among independents and 59 percent among Democrats.
Similarly, 71 percent of moderates, 66 percent of conservatives and 56 percent of liberals back the deal.
Just 27 percent of Americans in this poll, produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates, are opposed.
Enforcement

Just 30 percent of Americans say Trump has immigration enforcement about right, compared with the 44 percent who say this was so before he took office.
Nearly half (45 percent) say immigration enforcement under Trump is too tough, much higher than the 6 percent who say this was the case before he took office.
That said, 49 percent say enforcement was not tough enough before Trump took office; just 22 percent say so now.
Matching the number who disapprove of Trumps handling of immigration overall, 62 percent oppose his promise to build a wall along the Mexican border; this has held steady since Trump first proposed it.
Fifty-five percent also oppose cutting legal immigration by half, another proposal backed by Trump.
In contrast, 79 percent support requiring employers to verify that new hires are here legally  a current requirement, with stricter enforcement on the table.
In a general measure of suspicion, just 12 percent of Americans think undocumented immigrants commit more violent crimes than other people in the country.
The vast majority instead say they commit violent crimes at either an equal or lesser rate than U.S. citizens (64 percent and 19 percent, respectively).
Approval of Trumps handling of immigration is stronger among those who think undocumented immigrants commit more violent crimes than U.S. citizens (78 percent); it drops to 33 percent among those who think crime rates are the same, and 12 percent among those who think theyre lower among undocumented immigrants.
Groups

Views on Trumps handling of immigration are highly partisan.
Three-quarters of Republicans and 61 percent of conservatives approve, vs. a third of independents and moderates, 10 percent of Democrats and 8 percent of liberals.
Differences also emerge by demographic groups.
Forty-three percent of men approve, vs. 28 percent of women.
Americans over age 40 are more apt than younger adults to approve, 42 vs. 24 percent among those younger than 40.
And while 46 percent of whites approve, this drops to 13 percent among both blacks and Hispanics alike.
Methodology

This ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted by landline and cellular telephone Sept. 18-21, 2017, in English and Spanish, among a random national sample of 1,002 adults.
Results have a margin of sampling error of 3.5 points, including the design effect.
Partisan divisions are 31-23-36 percent, Democrats-Republicans-independents.
The survey was produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates of New York, N.Y., with sampling, data collection and tabulation by Abt Associates of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
See details on the surveys methodology here.
President Donald Trump faces deep challenges on international and domestic issues alike, with a job approval rating mired in historic lows, a broad sense hes done more to divide than unite the country and a high level of public distrust that hell act responsibly in dealing with North Korea.
See PDF with full results here.
Views on North Korea underscore trepidations about Trump on the global stage.
Even as a record number of Americans see North Korea as a threat, the public by a wide 62-37 percent does not trust Trump to act responsibly in handling the situation.
Compare that with trust in U.S. military leaders; at 72 percent, its about double the level of trust in their commander-in-chief.
But Trump faces equal difficulties at home.
His approval rating is the lowest of any president at eight months in office in polling back 71 years.
The public by 66-28 percent says hes done more to divide than to unite the country, considerably worse than the highest divide scores for his two predecessors, Barack Obama and George W. Bush, both 55 percent.
And despite his drain the swamp promise, Americans by 59-39 percent say Trump has not brought needed change to Washington, 6 percentage points more than Obamas worst rating on this gauge, which came after nearly two years in office.
Approval ratings

Eight months in, 39 percent of Americans approve of Trumps performance in office overall, while 57 percent disapprove.
Both precisely match his average ratings in four ABC News/Washington Post polls since he took office.
His approval rating remains the lowest for any president at this point in polls dating back to Harry S. Trumans presidency.
Strong critics of Trump, moreover, far outnumber strong supporters, by 48 percent vs. 26 percent in this poll, produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates.
That 22-point gap is the same as Obamas career worst.
But the average edge in negative intensity throughout Obamas two terms was just 6 points.
Its averaged 21 points to date for Trump.
There is differentiation in Trumps approval ratings on individual issues.
On immigration, just 35 percent approve, and 62 percent disapprove.
On the economy, his approval advances to 43 percent, with 49 percent disapproving.
And his ratings turn positive when it comes to handling the recent hurricanes that struck the United States: Fifty-six percent approve, 31 percent not.
Hurricane response ratings are a notable bright spot not just for Trump but for the federal government more broadly.
It gets a 70-24 percent positive rating for its hurricane response, a result that suggests lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
About two weeks after Katrina hit, just 38 percent of Americans approved of the federal response, and 62 percent disapproved.
That said, positive views of the federal response were somewhat higher, 78 percent (among likely voters), immediately after superstorm Sandy hit the Northeast coast in 2012.
And negative views are 19 points higher now than after Sandy, with fewer unsure.
Regardless, the hurricane response ratings are a clear positive for Trump and the government.
So, too, is response to the Trump/Democratic agreement to fund disaster relief while also raising the limit on the national debt.
Sixty-five percent support it, on an unusually bipartisan level -- including 77 percent of Republicans, 67 percent of Democrats and 62 percent of independents.
North Korea

A record 84 percent of Americans now see North Korea as a threat to the United States, and 70 percent see it as a serious threat; both have been high, but not quite this high, in four ABC/Post polls since 2003.
While Trump is seen as a wildcard  as noted, 62 percent dont trust him to handle it responsibly  thats even more so for North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
Eighty-nine percent dont trust him on the issue.
Tougher sanctions are by far the preferred approach in dealing with the situation, with 76 percent support.
Backing for other responses falls below half: Forty-three percent for discontinuing joint U.S.-South Korean military exercises, 39 percent for air strikes on North Korean military targets and 32 percent for offering North Korea financial incentives.
Showing a hardening of attitudes, support for offering North Korea aid or trade incentives to give up its nuclear weapons has fallen sharply since tensions last were this high in 2005, from 51 percent then to 32 percent now.
Concurrently, support for a U.S. strike on North Korean military targets has grown sharply, about doubling from 20 percent in 2005.
Still, however, 67 percent say any U.S. strike should be retaliatory only, while just 23 percent favor a preemptive attack.
A central reason is that 82 percent think a U.S. first strike could risk starting a larger war in East Asia; 69 percent see this as a major risk.
Compared with 12 years ago, the rise in support for air strikes is broadly based, excluding younger adults (under 40) and liberals.
Its up 34 points among Republicans and 21 to 27 points among conservatives, adults age 40 and older and political moderates.
Declines in support for aid or trade incentives, while again broadly based, are largest among Republicans, conservatives and whites, down 29, 26 and 25 points, respectively.
Trump

There are wide if now-customary gaps in Trumps ratings, and not only political and ideological ones.
His overall approval rating is 16 points higher among men (47 percent) than women (31 percent) and among Americans age 40 and older (45 percent) vs. those younger than 40 (29 percent).
There also are sharp differences moving from rural to suburban to urban residents (54-41-28 percent approval).
He has 42 percent approval among those who arent college graduates vs. 29 percent among those with postgraduate degrees.
Among the largest divisions, 49 percent of whites approve vs. 19 percent of nonwhites.
And within the white population, Trumps approval rating ranges from 66 percent among non-college white men to 31 percent among college-educated white women, key voting groups in the election that brought Trump to power.
Trumps 77 percent disapproval among nonwhites matches its previous high in April, and the number who disapprove strongly, 65 percent, is a new high.
Hes at a new low among conservatives, albeit one of his best groups, at 65 percent approval.
His approval rating from liberals, a mere 9 percent, matches its low, while hes gained ground among moderates, to 36 percent approval now vs. 27 and 28 percent in two midsummer polls.
Notably, Trump does less well, even in his higher support groups, on the question of whether hes done more to unite or to divide the country.
Sixty-six percent of Americans say the president is doing more to divide the country.
That includes 61 percent of men, 58 percent of older Americans (50 and up, in this case), 62 percent of those without a college degree, nearly half of the rural population, 64 percent of suburbanites and 55 percent of whites -- as well as four in 10 conservatives and three in 10 in his own party.
Methodology

This ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted by landline and cellular telephone Sept. 18-21, 2017, in English and Spanish, among a random national sample of 1,002 adults.
Results have a margin of sampling error of 3.5 points, including the design effect.
Partisan divisions are 31-23-36 percent, Democrats-Republicans-independents.
The survey was produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates of New York, N.Y., with sampling, data collection and tabulation by Abt Associates of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
See details on the surveys methodology here.
Sen. Ted Cruz said today that he does not yet support the Graham-Cassidy health care bill, which appears to put the Republicans' latest effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act in jeopardy.
"Right now they don't have my vote," the Texas Republican said during an interview at the Texas Tribune Festival at the University of Texas Austin on Sunday.
Cruz said he wants to be a "yes" vote on Republicans' latest push to repeal Obamacare, the health care law he called a "disaster."
"And I don't think they have Mike Lee's either," Cruz said of the Republican senator from Utah.
A spokesperson for Sen. Mike Lee told ABC News, "We want some technical changes, we are working with Cassidy but we haven't committed to anything yet.
Another Republican leaning no on the Graham-Cassidy bill, Sen. Susan Collins said it is "very difficult" to envision herself voting for the legislation.
"It's very difficult for me to envision a scenario where I would end up voting for this bill," Collins, R-Maine, said in an interview with CNN Sunday.
"I have a number of serious reservations about it."
Collins said she wants to wait for the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis of the bill before she makes a final decision.
The CBO scoring of the bill is expected this week.
Collins said Friday that she was "leaning no" on the bill, concerned about its proposed changes to Medicaid and health care premium costs.
Republican Sens.
Rand Paul of Kentucky and John McCain of Arizona have already publicly come out against the latest GOP health care bill.
The Graham-Cassidy bill, introduced earlier this month by Sens.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Bill Cassidy, R-La., would give states control over health care by providing them with block grants that expire in 2026.
The bill would eliminate the individual and employer insurance mandates under the Affordable Care Act -- also known as Obamacare -- Medicaid expansion, and federal tax credits.
McCain said Friday he could not in "good conscience" vote for the Cassidy-Graham bill, and that he is concerned that the bill does not have bipartisan support, nor has it gone through regular order, which would include hearings and debates on the legislation.
"[Republicans] should not be content to pass health care legislation on a party-line basis, as Democrats did when they rammed Obamacare through Congress in 2009," McCain said in a statement explaining why he's chosen not to support the bill.
"If we do so, our success could be as short-lived as theirs when the political winds shift, as they regularly do."
Paul's main gripe with the bill is that he believes it doesn't go far enough in repealing Obamacare.
The Senate will consider the bill on the floor this week, ahead of the Sept. 30 deadline that allows Republicans an easier path to passing the bill by a simple majority.
Republicans can only afford to lose three votes, or else their efforts in the Senate to repeal Obamacare will fail for a second time this year.
The Senate Finance Committee will also hold a hearing Monday afternoon on the Graham-Cassidy proposal.
ABC News' Katherine Faulders and Miriam Khan contributed to this report.
President Trump has issued a presidential proclamation banning or restricting travel from eight countries, adding Chad and Venezuela and North Korea to the original list of Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen.
The administration is taking a tailored approach, providing a variety of conditions, ranging from suspended immigrant and non-immigrant travel to allowing travel for nonimmigrants with additional scrutiny.
Since the travel ban is condition-based, if and when the conditions change for any of the eight countries, the proclamation can be changed.
Also, at any time, the Secretary of Homeland Security can recommend that countries be added.
The restrictions are indefinite, however, since they don't have a 90- or 120-day limit like the previous travel bans Trump issued in January and in March.
The new travel restrictions are effective immediately for those subject to the two earlier travel bans and take effect October 18 for those subject to these new provisions.
This ban does not apply to lawful permanent residents, those already in the United States on the effective date, those with valid visas on the effective date, dual citizens who are traveling on passports of a non-banned country, or those already granted asylum.
The ban is tailored slightly differently for each country.
Also, like the last ban issued in March, there is a provision for case-by-case waivers, which helps the administration's legal arguments that the ban is Constitutional.
"The travel ban -- the tougher the better," the president said Sunday before boarding Air Force One on his way back to Washington, D.C., from Bedminster, New Jersey.
President Trump has responded to players from multiple NFL teams kneeling or locking arms on Sunday, tweeting that taking a knee is not acceptable, and suggested the act of protest will lead to bad ratings for the leagues games.
Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

Meanwhile, while one Pittsburgh team did not come out of the locker room for the anthem on Sunday, another has accepted the president's invitation to join him at the White House.
Trump tweeted that the Stanley Cup Champion Pittsburgh Penguins will be joining him at the White House, but did not provide a date.
"Great team!"
he added.
The Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday chose not to participate in the national anthem ceremony at all at Soldier Field in Chicago for their noon game against the Chicago Bears.
Elsewhere, owners from the Atlanta Falcons, Detroit Lions, New York Jets, Miami Dolphins, Philadelphia Eagles and Jacksonville Jaguars have now joined players on the field in solidarity.
One owner, Robert Kraft of the New England Patriots, criticized Trump, who he has previously called a very good friend, saying he is "deeply disappointed" in the presidents comments condemning NFL players who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
"There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics," Kraft said in a statement tweeted by the Patriots.
The team's CEO added that he supports players' rights "to peacefully [effect] social change."
"I think our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal," the statement said.
"Our players are intelligent, thoughtful, and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is impactful."
The public disagreement comes only months after the Patriots made a formal visit to the White House in April during which Kraft called Trump a "very good friend."
Statement from #Patriots Chairman & CEO Robert Kraft: pic.twitter.com/f5DJeK0Woj  New England Patriots (@Patriots) September 24, 2017

Kraft's comments came shortly after Trump early on Sunday morning turned his attention to NFL fans in his feud with the league over players who kneel in protest during the national anthem, saying many people "stay away" from the games "because they love our country."
The president also suggested that if fans refuse to go to games due to the protests, "you will see change fast."
...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

Trump's tweets Sunday came just a couple of hours before a series of NFL games scheduled for the day begin.
Earlier, on Saturday night, the president slammed NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell for speaking out against Trump's condemnation of kneeling players and statement that team owners should fire those players.
Goodell is "trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country," Trump tweeted.
Roger Goodell of NFL just put out a statement trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country.Tell them to stand!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Goodell did not mention the president by name in his statement earlier today.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities."
NFL players across the league and their union -- and even some team officials -- were more direct in their response to Trump's criticism Friday night of the handful of NFL players who have kneeled or sat on the bench during the national anthem performed before games over the past two seasons.
The practice was most famously done by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez

Kaepernick, who is currently unsigned, began kneeling in the preseason in 2016 as a sign of protest over the treatment of blacks in the U.S.

Trump, speaking at a rally in Alabama on Friday, said, "Wouldnt you love to see one of the NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now?'"
"You know, some owner ... is going to say, 'That guy who disrespects our flag, hes fired,'" the president said to thunderous applause and cheers.
Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images

The president of the NFL Players Union, which represents current and former players, released a statement on Saturday: "The balance between the rights of every citizen in our great country gets crossed when someone is told to just 'shut up and play.'"
Union President DeMaurice Smith acknowledged in his statement that the peaceful demonstrations by some of our players" haven't been universally supported, but "have generated a wide array of responses."
But, he added, "Those opinions are protected speech and a freedom that has been paid for by the sacrifice of men and women throughout history ... No man or woman should ever have to choose a job that forces them to surrender their rights."
Hours later Trump fired back at his critics, tweeting that it was a "privilege" for athletes to earn a lucrative career in professional sports.
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

San Francisco 49ers CEO Jed York weighed in Saturday afternoon, called the president's comments "callous and offensive" and "contradictory to this great country stands for."
Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross did not refer to the president directly, but said in a statement the country "needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness."
Statement from Miami Dolphins Owner and Founder of Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality (RISE) Stephen Ross.
pic.twitter.com/6W3mXwJO6M  Miami Dolphins (@MiamiDolphins) September 23, 2017

Seattle Seahawks head coach Pete Carroll released a lengthy statement on Saturday evening supporting players' right to protest.
"In this incredibly polarizing time, there's no longer a place to sit silently.
It's time to take a stand," Carroll said.
"We stand for love and justice and civility.
We stand for our players and their constitutional rights, just as we stand for equality for all people."
Reaction to Trump's comments on social media by players were largely negative:

Broncos linebacker Brandon Marshall

Lions tight end Eric Ebron

Does anyone tell trump to stick to politics, like they tell us to stick to sports?
Eric Ebron (@Ebron85) September 23, 2017

Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis

Trump!!
??????????????
Thomas Davis (@ThomasDavisSDTM) September 23, 2017

Redskins linebacker Zach Brown

Trump stay in ur place... football have nothing to do wit u smh  Zach Brown (@ZachBrown_55) September 23, 2017

Titans wide receiver Rishard Matthews (a college teammate of Kaepernick)

I'm a full supporter of the Flag & This country!
Trust Me!
But this can't be real!
https://t.co/GAPkZPB8hz  Rishard Matthews (@_RMatthews) September 23, 2017

Buccaneers safety T.J. Ward

Vikings running back Bishop Sankey

It's a shame and disgrace when you have the President of the US calling citizens of the country sons of a bitches.
Bishop Sankey (@BishopSankey) September 23, 2017

Former Saints/Lions running back Reggie Bush

NFL players don't work for you Donald!
Request denied ???
https://t.co/rdu0ocS7Y9  Reggie Bush (@ReggieBush) September 23, 2017

Former Texans running back Arian Foster

cloth has more value than people.
apparently.
https://t.co/PZjeRA9861  feeno (@ArianFoster) September 23, 2017

Kaepernick did not directly address Trump's comments following the speech by Trump, but he did retweet multiple messages of support from fans and even a tweet of support from his mother on Saturday.
Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett recently reignited the debate when he criticized Las Vegas police for racial profiling following an accidental arrest last month.
Bennett was detained by police outside a Las Vegas casino on Aug. 27 after police responded to a report of gunfire in the area.
Video obtained by TMZ of the incident shows an officer yelling at Bennett and pointing his gun at him while he is handcuffed.
He was later let go by police.
Bennett has begun sitting on the bench during the national anthem in protest of police violence.
President Trump is no stranger to the NFL.
In February, he was seen dining with New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, and in January just before his inauguration, the president singled out Kraft at a dinner.
ABC News' Maia Davis, Brendan Rand and M.L.
Nestel contributed to this report.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., directly addressed fellow Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky over his opposition to the latest GOP bill aiming to repeal and replace Obamacare, saying the new legislation would "save a lot of money."
"Rand Paul objects to the taxes, but when you look at the bill, Rand, we save a lot of money over time for Medicaid," Graham said in an interview with ABC News Chief Global Affairs Correspondent Martha Raddatz on "This Week" Sunday.
We've put a cap on Obamacare growth to make it more sustainable, more affordable, more flexible.
Graham and fellow GOP Sen. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana both appeared on the show to talk about their legislation, the Graham-Cassidy health care bill.
Despite the announced opposition of Paul and Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona as well as all Senate Democrats, Graham said he is optimistic that Republicans will be able to pass the bill.
"We're moving forward and we'll see what happens next week.
I'm very excited about it.
We finally found an alternative to Obamacare that makes sense," Graham said.
I think we're going to get the votes next week, Graham added.
And the fight goes on.
It is a fight worth having.
McCain announced his opposition to the legislation in a statement Friday, saying he cannot in good conscience vote for the Graham-Cassidy bill.
Sen. Susan Collins of Maine has expressed reservations about the bill but said she wants to wait for the Congressional Budget Office to release its analysis before she makes her final decision.
The Graham-Cassidy proposal has also been met with criticism from organizations representing the country's doctors, hospitals, and health insurers.
"While we sometimes disagree on important issues in health care, we are in total agreement that Americans deserve a stable health care market that provides access to high-quality care and affordable coverage for all.
The Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson bill does not move us closer to that goal.
The Senate should reject it," said a joint letter released Saturday by the American Medical Association, American Academy of Family Physicians, American Hospital Association, Federation of American Hospitals, Americas Health Insurance Plans, and BlueCross BlueShield

When asked about the letter on "This Week," Graham dismissed the organizations' concerns and said their criticism doesn't surprise him.
"The fact that insurance companies are objecting to the fact they no longer get direct payments from the federal government, the same amount of money goes to states to set up new health care systems that won't fail, doesn't surprise me," he said.
"I would have been surprised if these people were for our bill, because we take money away from them, we give it to state governments to design systems that will deliver a better outcome," Graham said.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended his use of a costly government jet to make the short journey from New York City to Washington D.C. following an August meeting in Trump Tower.
When asked about the travel by co-anchor Martha Raddatz on ABC News This Week, Mnuchin responded that it was necessary for national security purposes.
There are times when I need secure communications to be in touch with the president and National Security Council, Mnuchin said.
I had a secure call that day that was critical and set up.
It needed to be done at that time, and thats why I used it.
Mnuchin also confirmed that his use of the private jet on Aug. 15 is now under review, as are as at least two other requests for government travel involving the secretary.
The inspector general is reviewing my travel, Mnuchin replied.
If theres suggestions well follow it.
ABC News previously reported on Mnuchin's August trip on a U.S. Air Force C-37 jet, which took less than an hour.
Mnuchin was in New York to attend the now-infamous press conference in Trump Tower during which the president made highly controversial remarks on the violence in Charlottesville.
Mnuchin and Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, who also flew on that government jet, flanked the president during his remarks.
The Treasury Department's review of Mnuchin's travel habits was triggered after ethical questions were raised about a military jet he and his wife, Louise Linton, used to travel to Louisville and Fort Knox, Kentucky, in August.
It was speculated that they may have used that taxpayer-funded trip to catch a prime view of the solar eclipse.
Investigators are also examining why Mnuchin, an independently wealthy former banker at Goldman Sachs, requested a government jet to take the couple on their European honeymoon in early August, a story first reported by ABC News.
Mnuchin has strongly denied he used the Kentucky trip to view the eclipse, and a spokesman for the Treasury Department said the honeymoon request was made so he could communicate securely with Washington.
They added that the honeymoon request was later withdrawn.
ABC News' Justin Fishel and Elizabeth McLaughlin contributed to this report.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told ABC News on Sunday that President Trump is ready to defend the United States from North Korean nuclear threats, both economically and militarily.
The president has said all the options are on the table.
The president has lots of alternatives that have been presented to him, and he will make decisions at the time, Mnuchin told ABC News Martha Raddatz on This Week.
Trump signed an executive order last week that expands economic sanctions on North Korea, limiting the isolated totalitarian states trade with other countries.
Mnuchin called the sanctions the most strong sanctions that have ever been done, but said they are only one form of action.
Military is one form, economics is another form, and the president will pursue all the options, Mnuchin said.
During a four-day visit to the United Nations General Assembly last week, Trump said the U.S. would totally destroy North Korea if forced to defend itself or its allies.
In response, North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said leader Kim Jong Un is considering testing a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean.
Mnuchin called the threat of that potentially devastating test unbelievable.
This is about someone whos testing nuclear weapons, a hydrogen bomb that is dramatically bigger than any bomb that has been used, Mnuchin said.
This is about sending ballistic missiles across Japans airspace.
These things are not going to continue to be allowed, and the president has made that very clear.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended President Donald Trump's comments calling for NFL players who kneel during the national anthem to be fired, saying, players "have the right to have the First Amendment off the field."
This isnt about Democrats.
It's not about Republicans.
It's not about race; its not about free speech.
They can do free speech on their own time," the treasury secretary said in an interview with ABC News Chief Global Affairs Correspondent Martha Raddatz on "This Week" Sunday.
"This is about respect for the military and first responders and the country."
"They have the right to have the First Amendment off the field," he added.
Mnuchin said NFL team owners and league administrators should create and enforce rules to have players stand for the anthem.
The NFL has all different types of rules.
You cant have stickers on your helmet; you have to have your jersey tucked in, Mnuchin said.
I think what the president is saying is that the owners should have a rule that players should have to stand in respect for the national anthem.
Mnuchin also accused the NFL of "picking and choosing" rules they want to enforce.
"This is a job.
And the employers have the right, when the players are working, to have rules.
So, you know, why didn't they wear stickers?
Why didn't the Dallas Cowboys, why were they allowed to wear stickers in response to people they wanted to pay respect to? "
Mnuchin said.
"So, the NFL is picking and choosing what they want to enforce."
Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James lashed out at President Trump today on social media after the president said he was withdrawing his invitation to the Golden State Warriors' Steph Curry to visit the White House.
James, in his tweet, referred to Trump's comment that visiting the White House is "a great honor."
"Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up," Lebron wrote.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

The three-time NBA champion later posted a two-minute video on Uninterrupted.com, a media outlet dedicated to giving athletes a platform to speak their minds, in which he criticized Trump, saying he "has tried to divide us once again."
"Hes now using sports as the platform to try to divide us," James said.
"For him to try to use this platform to divide us even more is not something I can stand for and is not something I can be quiet about."
James finished the monologue by encouraging "us to all come together.
Its not about a division.
It's not about dividing.
We as American people need to come together even stronger."
The president's earlier tweet apparently was in response to Curry's disclosure that he didn't want to go to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
No formal White House invite had been made to the Warriors but championship teams often make such a visit.
The Warriors, winner of the 2017 NBA championship, have been in discussions with the White House about whether to visit, ESPN reported.
"I don't want to go," Curry told the press Friday.
"My beliefs stay the same."
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Curry, the Warrior's star shooter, has said it was important for the team "to understand the magnitude" of its decision of whether to visit the White House.
"Just like our country, every opinion counts and matters," Curry said, according to ESPN.
"Based on the conversations we've had in the past and what people have said to the media, to each other, I know pretty much where everybody kind of stands on it," he said.
"But we want to respect the opportunity to represent not only ourselves, our own beliefs, but our organization because we're obviously in this position because we won a championship and we did something special together.
So for us to just really take the time to understand the magnitude of this decision and the right thing to do, the right way to go about it is important."
Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images

Warriors coach Steve Kerr said Friday that he expects the team to meet in coming days to decide whether to go.
But after Trump's tweet, the team posted a statement to Twitter on Saturday afternoon, saying, "We accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited."
"While we intended to meet as a team at the first opportunity we had this morning to collaboratively discuss a potential visit to the White House, we accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited.
We believe there is nothing more American than our citizens having the right to express themselves freely on matters important to them.
We're disappointed that we did not have an opportunity during this process to share our views or have open dialogue on issues impacting our communities that we felt would be important to raise," the Warriors said in the statement.
It added, "In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that we'll constructively use our trip to the nation's capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion -- the values that we embrace as an organization."
Statement from the Golden State Warriors: pic.twitter.com/6kk6ofdu9X  Warriors PR (@WarriorsPR) September 23, 2017

Curry spoke to the media again on Saturday after a practice, and he reiterated his stance from Friday.
"My stance is the same as it was," Curry told ESPN.com on Saturday.
"And even kind of cemented even further about how things in our country are going, especially with [Trump] representing us in a very damaging way.
"I don't know why he feels the need to target certain individuals rather than others.
I have an idea of why, but it's kind of beneath a leader of a country to go that route.
That's not what leaders do."
NBA commissioner Adam Silver said Saturday evening he was "disappointed" the NBA champs wouldn't be going to the White House, which he said was "a rare opportunity for these players to share their views directly with the President."
"More importantly, I am proud of our players for taking an active role in their communities and continuing to speak out on critically important issues," he added.
The NBA Players Association also supported the Warriors' decision.
"The National Basketball Players Association defends its members' exercise of their free speech rights against those who would seek to stifle them.
The celebration of free expression - not condemnation - is what truly makes America great," the union said in a statement.
Now Playing: President Trump calls for kneeling NFL players to be fired

Now Playing: The Note: The NFL unites in the face of Trump's divisiveness

Now Playing: Trump faces backlash after blasting NFL players

Now Playing: Colin Kaepernick's friend speaks out about anthem controversy

Now Playing: J.Lo donates $1M to hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico

Now Playing: NFL star speaks out on the league's unity after Trump comments

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran performs his smash hit 'Shape of You' live on 'GMA'

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran rocks out to a special performance of 'Perfect' live on 'GMA'

Now Playing: Suspect arrested in Tennessee deadly church shooting

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran reveals how he landed a role on 'Game of Thrones'

Now Playing: Freddie Highmore dishes on 'The Good Doctor'

Now Playing: How to make extra cash outside of your day job

Now Playing: What to know about the new 'clever gut diet'

Now Playing: Meghan Markle supports Prince Harry at Invictus Games

Now Playing: Elizabeth Moss, Jim Parsons read mean but hilarious tweets about them on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Now Playing: GOP releases new version of health care bill

Now Playing: New technology offered for teen drivers

Now Playing: Colin Kaepernick remains unsigned amid national anthem controversy

Now Playing: NFL owners lock arms with players during national anthem
Transcript for President Trump issues new travel ban

LET'S LISTEN IN.
AND THEN IT WENT ON AGAIN, GETTING CLOSER, SAID THAT'S THREAT GUN.
YEAH, HE SAID HE HEARD SOMETHING THAT SOUNDED LIKE FIREWORKS.
YOU HEARD THE LAST PART.
HE SAID IT WENT OFF AGAIN AND HE SAID THAT'S A GUN.
A DEADLY CHURCH SHOOTING IN MIDDLE TENNESSEE.
THIS MORNING AN USHER IS BEING HALED AS A HERO, HOLDING THAT SHOOTER AT GUNPOINT UNTIL THE POLICE ARRIVED.
WE KNOW THAT ONE WOMAN WAS KILLED AND SEVEN OTHERS WERE SHOT.
THE GUNMAN, EMANUEL SAMSON, WAS CHARGED WITH MURDER OVERNIGHT.
SHELBY SANSONE IS LOOKING INTO LAWS DEALING WITH GUNS AND CHURCH, IN TENNESSEE REALLY HAS NOT BEEN ADDRESSED.
Reporter: YOU TRY TO FIND LAWS IN THE STATE OF TENNESSEE ABOUT CHURCHES AND GUNIOUS WON'T GET VERY FAR.
THAT'S BECAUSE THERE AREN'T ANY.
IF YOU WANT TO KEEP GUNS OUT OF CHURCH YEARS AGOING TO HAVE TO PUT A NO CARRYING SIGN ON YOUR DOORS SAY FOG GUNS ALLOWED.
WE TALKED TO THE VICTIM IN THE ANTIOCH CHURCH'S SHOOTING THAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY LEAVES ONE PERSON DEAD.
ONE OF THE USHERS THERE 12 JUMPED ON THE SHOOT INVENTORY KEEP HIM FROM HURTING ANYONE.
HE WAS SHOT, BUT WILL BE OKAY.
WE TALKED TO HIS DAD ABOUT THE EXPERIENCE.
ALL I HEARD WAS TWO SHOTS UP AT THE FRONT, AND THEN I HEARD TWO MORE, AS HE WAS WALKING BACK TO THE BACK, AND I'M SEEING MY SON'S FACE COVERED IN BLOOD, AND I'M THINKING DADGUM, HE DONE GOT SHOT.
Reporter: SO I DECIDED TO LOOK INTO HOW MANY CHURCHES HAVE THESE TYPE OF SIGNS.
I WENT TO SIX OF THEM IN OUR AREA, RIGHT NEXT TO OUR STATION.
THIS IS ON HIGHLAND, AND THEN ON CENTRAL.
ALL DIFFERENT DENOMINATIONS.
NONE OF THEM HAD ANY SIGNS DISPLAYING ANYTHING ABOUT GUNS.
30, I'M GOING TO COME BACK AND TELL YOU ABOUT MISSISSIPPI AND ARKANSAS LAWS DEALING WITH GUNS IN CHURCHES.
I'LL TELL YOU HOW HOUGH THEY

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump issues new travel ban restricting entry from 8 countries

STOPPED HIM FROM ENTERING THE CHURCH.
THEY CALLED POLICE.
AND IN JULY, A WORKER AT BELLEVUE BAPTIST CHURCH WAS SHOT IN THE FACE WITH A PAINTBALL GUN.
FORTUNATELY HE WAS NOT SERIOUSLY INJURED.
ALSO DEVELOPING THIS MORNING, A KILLER ON THE RUN, AFTER A DEADLY DOUBLE SHOOTING AT MEMPHIS STRIP CLUB.
IT HAPPENED EARLY YESTERDAY MORNING AT THE PURE PASSIONS STRIP CLUB.
SOUND FAMILIAR?
YOU BET IT DOES.
TOM DEES JOINS US IN WHITE HAVEN.
THIS CLUB WAS SHUT DOWN LAST YEAR.
WE'VE HAD A LOT OF SHOOTINGS THERE.
Reporter: THAT, IN FACT, WE HAVE, AFTER A STRING OF SHOOTINGS IN NOVEMBER LAST YEAR.
THERE WERE THREE OF THEM IN THAT ONE MONTH.
THE D.A.
'S OFFICE, MPD, AND THE CLUB'S OWNERS AGREEING TO SHUT IT DOWN AND HAVE NEW SECURITY CAMERAS INSTALLED IN THERE THAT COULD BE MONITORED BY MPD'S REAL-TIME CRIME CENTER.
THEY ALSO HAVE A SHOOTING BACK IN MARCH, AND NOW THIS SHOOTING, ON A SUNDAY MORNING.
YOU HAD ONE PERSON SHOT DEAD.
ANOTHER, WE DO UNDERSTAND, INJURED, AND THEY WERE TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL.
LABOR TO GOING TO BE OKAY.
I DO HAVE PHONE CALLS AT THIS HOUR INTO THE D.A.
'S OFFICE, AND INTO THE CLUB, WORKING TO

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Jared Kushner used personal account to email WH officials

AND LAWMAKERS SAY THIS ALLOWS THEM TO SEE IF THEY NEED MORE LEGISLATION TO PROTECT OUR FAMILIES.
WE HAVE WEATHER, AND TRAFFIC EVERY 10 MINUTES.
WALKING OUT THE DOOR, I'M TRACKING SOME PATCHY FOG ACROSS THE MID, MAINLY EAST OF THE RIVER, WHERE VISIBILITY IS DOWN TO A MILE IN COVINGTON, 5 IN SENATOBIA, AND SOMERVILLE.
ALSO LOW BEAM ASK NOT HIGH BEAM.
IT WILL FEEL LIKE 92 DEGREES THIS AFTERNOON, SO REMEMBER TO STAY HYDRATED AND KEEP APPLYING THAT SUNSCREEN.
RAIN CHANCES ONLY AROUND 10 TO 20%.
WALKING OUT THE DOOR RIGHT NOW, IT FILES GREAT.
TELLS MAINLY IN THE 60s ACROSS THE MID-SOUTH.
63 IN BOLIVAR.
67 RIGHT NOW IN JONESBORO.
00 HOUR, STILL IN THE 60s AND 70s.
00, WE'LL BE AT 81 PRESS.
BY NOONTIME, YOU CAN ACTUALLY EAT OUTSIDE ON THE PATIO, NOT THAT BAD.
TEMPERATURES RIGHT AT 86, HEATING UP TO 88 WHEN THE KIDs 00 HOUR.
AFTERNOON HIGHS TODAY, ONCE AGAIN, UNSEASONABLY WARM AT 89 DEGREES, WHEN WE SHOULD BE AROUND 82.
FEELING LIKE 92.
RAIN CHANCES ON THE LOW END.
LATER ON THIS EVENING, MAYBE WANT TO GO TO THE MID-SOUTH FAIR, AT 4:00 WHEN THE GATE GATES OPEN, WE'LL BE AT 89 DEGREES.
THAT WILL BE THE HIGH, 7:00.
00, COOLING DOWN TO 77.
BUT OVERNIGHT LOWS DIPPING GONE DOWN TO THE 60s AND 70s.
TOMORROW MORNING, AS YOU HEAD TO WORK AND SCHOOL, WE'LL BE TRACKING SOME PATCHY FOG.
RAIN CHANCES TOMORROW, AROUND 10% TO 20%.
NOT MUCH GOING ON IN THE MORNING BUT JUST THAT FOG.
BUT THEN SPOT BY SHOWERS BY THE TIME THE KIDS GET OUT OF SCHOOL 00 HOUR.
MOST OF US, THOUGH, WILL JUST BE LOOKING AT PARTLY CLOUDY SKIES TOMORROW, AND FEELING THE HOT TEMPERATURES.
89 TODAY.
93 TOMORROW, AND BY WEDNESDAY, 90 DEGREES.
AND THEN A COLD FRONT WILL MOVE THROUGH.
LOW RAIN CHANCES WITH IT, BUT IT WILL BE BREEZY.
THURSDAY, CHECK OUT THIS HIGH.
83 DEGREES, THURSDAY, FRIDAY WITH A HIGH OF 80 DEGREES, AND THEN THIS WEEKEND, FOLKS, RIGHTING BACK INTO THE 70s.
75 THE HIGH ON SATURDAY WITH MOSTLY SUNNY SKIES, STILL STAYING SUNNY ON YOUR SUNDAY, A HIGH OF 79 DEGREES.
MORNING LOWS BY YOUR SUNDAY

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for The Note: The NFL unites in the face of Trump's divisiveness

--

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump struggles to unify with North Korea, NFL comments

Good morning.
Donald Trump promised to be a ewe fie enwher he was running for office.
If that hapts he hoped to achieve, he's not having much success.
According to our new ABC news/"washington post" poll out this morning, 66% of all Americans, including nearly 4 in 10 conservatives think trump has done more to divide the country than unite it.
Instead of bringing the country together, he's proved to be a provocateur.
And as we are reminded yet again this week, when the president tries to be provocative, it can have real consequences.
Let's start with North Korea.
President trump at the U.N.
This week, threatening to totally destroy the reclusive nation.
That nirng the eye of Kim Jong-un escalating tensions so da matticly, we were left with this split screen yesterday.
On the left, b-1 bombers flying farther north of the dmz than any American planes have in decades.
On the right, that was north Korea's foreign minister, tletenning that launching his country's missiles and hitting the U.S. Is now quote enevidentable.
This day afrs hez said his country could debten nay a high drone general bomb over the pacific ocean.
That would be major escalation.
It's been decades since the last atmospheric h-bomb tests were conducted.
Despite the toll, it could fry electrical grids.
It is an understandably frightening thought.
This morning, a very different cause for concern here at home.
A concern once again provoked by the president.
There he was, Friday night, in Alabama, wading once more into the thicket of race relations in the country, attacking the predominantly African-American NFL players saying they're protesting racial injustice.
Wouldn't you love the see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag to say get that son of a Off the field right now.
Out, he's fired.
He's fired!
While some, including in the military, find it deeply offensive not the stand for a flag for which many have given their lives, condemnation of trump's comments was widespread.
From players across the league.
Nearly half of all NFL teams, the NFL xhirgs, NBA star Lebron James, spreading to baseball last night.
The president's response?
Taking to Twitter.
Doubling down on his attacks.
Even suggesting fans boycott the NFL.
Of course, we have seen that before.
The president provokes on race, takes criticism, refuses to back down.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Vega: President Trump is 'maxing out' on base

???
oh say can you see ???
by the dawn's early light ???
That was the scene just moments ago at this morning's first NFL game in London.
Members of the jaguars and ravens, players, coaches, everyone a team owner, linking arms and taking a knee during the national anthem in response to president trump.
We're joined by our powerhouse rbt rbt.
Congressional correspondent Mary Bruce, ABC news senior white house correspondent Cecilia Vega.
And Jake Sherman and Anna palmer, co-tlauthors of politico playbook.
What are they thinking in the white house?
I got off the phone from someone in the white house.
They feel like most Americans will side with the president on -- in that most Americans they say want to see people stand during the national anthem.
Think in some way, they will try to say behind the scenes this is helping him.
I have to say, here we are.
Once again.
In the wake of charlottesville.
And the president of the united States has yet again inserted himself into what will end up being a very horribly ugly discussion about race in the country.
This is not about players versus the president.
This is about race in the united States of America.
And I think a lot of people, particularly minorities in the country, are going the hear what the president has said and see this as a very, very divisive tone.
And we had secretary mnuchin say they have can free speech on their own time.
I think it's fair.
But a lot of people on capitol hill think the spt trying to pass a health care bill, tax care reform.
A senate race in Alabama.
He's elevating something that would have been con find to people's Sunday watching habits while drinking beer and eating bad food.
And he's made this into a big national issue.
He didn't have to do that.
Ady traction.
Really, I mean, once again, the president distracting from what is going to be really bad week for him.
And doubling down.
The third day in a row he's tweeting about that, commentinging on that.
Mary, the president's approval is lowest of any president at the eight-month mark.
Slightly up.
39% say they approve of the job president trump is doing.
That's just up from July.
You cover congress.
What is he going to do with that?
That's a good question.
Where does he go from here?
Everyone on capitol hill, Republicans and Democrats, are well aware of that number.
As Jake and Anna are mentioning, they're hitting nine months into the administration without a single major legislative achievement.
Republicans are trying their hard toast get one on the books.
It's not looking very likely this morning.
It comes as the president again is trying to distract.
Veer the the national conversation back into this conversation about race, intolerance, politics, sports.
Do you think he did that on purpose?
In Alabama, I'm going to turn the conversation back to that?
He knew what audience he was speaking to.
The base, the base, the base.
Now the conversation will continue and continue to dominate on capitol hill when they want to be talking about other things.
I totally agree.
He went into the speech on Friday, and there was language in it about the NFL.
He went and said a lot more than what was in the speech originally.
One of the numbers that jumps out at me in the poll is this idea that he's maxing out on his base.
They're hitting a peak here.
Their cap.
The number of people who support this president dwindles in comparison to the strong critics he's got out there.
48% to 26%.
He can reach out to the base.
But how much further can he go with that?
There's a positive number.
65% approve of the deal the president made with Democrats on hurricane funding and raising the the national debt ceiling.
Does he seize that kind of number and go with that and try to go beyond the base?
Clearly hasn't done that in the last few days.
I think the question is, can they find an immigration deal to be cut.
Just because the Democrats will cut some deals, iouldn't expect chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi saying, let's hold arms together, kumbaya moment.
Let talk about health care.
Senators graham and Cassidy talked about it.
Very optimistically.
Do you think it's all but dead?
Yes, I do.
I mean, I don't want to -- Thank you for the short answer, Jake.
Think we can take a poll right here.
Anything could happen.
There are senate Republicans and we have put this in this morning apt "Playbook" that are more optimistic to get it on the floor and get a process that would pass the bill.
I think it's difficult.
Three or four people have objections to core elements of the bill.
Senator McCain, murkowski, noncommittal.
Senator Collins.
They oppose the guts of the bill.
So many Republicans just want to move on from health care to tax reform.
Something else.
Health care is a leerz issue for them.
They're not going to be able to figure it out.
This was the major promise for seven years.
Repeal and replace.
What happens to the Republican IFS this goes down?
If it does.
We think the chances are high, they still have to get something done.
And, it seems most likely at the end of the week, they could be where they were two weeks popping heading toward some kind of bipartisan fix.
Both sides of the aisle know something has the to be done.
Then it's a conversation about repairing Obamacare, not repealing and replacing.
It's what McCain wants.
Regular order.
Open hearings.
They want to fix the problem and move on to tax reform.
And I want to move on to another issue.
The Alabama election.
Cecilia, you' were watching the speech.
I wasn't sure by tehe end who he was courting?
He was there for Luther strange.
He sounded very conflicted, right.
He said I might have made a mistake in endorsing this -- in some ways, he's in a weird position.
He has his people in his own camp.
Steve Bannon is going to Alabama tomorrow to endorse the other candidate.
The speech was an hour and 20-plus minutes.
Ill was all over the map.
Some of it was about the Alabama race.
The real test for the president is can he sway his base?
A lot of people in the room where there to see the president who don't support strange.
I think the big question is if Luther strange loses, it's a probable for Mitch Mcconnell.
You have conserve fiatives try to go after incumbents.
Mitch Mcconnell will have a problem.
You did so well on that.
You were so happy with my brevity.
Mitch Mcconnell will have problems in the capital.
If he wins, Mcconnell has problems keeping the lights on.
Number two I don't -- if I'm Mitch Mcconnell and Paul Ryan, I don't want to see what Donald Trump does if he doesn't get health care through and loses the race in Alabama.
He could run to Democrats again.
That's a problem for Republicans who have campaigned for years of unified Republican governing in Washington.
Going into 2018.
The house is in play.
The senate could be in play.
If Moore does win, does he become a test?
He's a staunch Christian conservative.
Does every candidate get asked, do you agree with him?
Not what the Republican leadership wants to be facing.
Okay, something the trump administration doesn't want to face is this Russia investigation.
And, Cecilia, this week, special council Mueller asked the white house for information about meetings the president himself had.
How do you view this?
What is going on there as far as you can tell?
At meetings about the president had in the oval office with the Russians.
There are 13 areas of interest they're seeking information on.
All we really know at this point is that this tells us that special counsel Mueller is -- his line of ink wirry is focused on the president and the people closest to him.
We don't know that the president surnd investigation.
I have talked to people in the white house.
None of this sun expected.
Everyone in the inner circle is expected to be talked to, interviewed.
The fact that they have to hand over documents is zero surprise to them.
On a week where we're talking about North Korea sorry, Alabama, all of these other things, this is the fist week this a long time where I remember Russia and the investigation was overshadowed by so many other things.
Much to the happiness of the white house, I'm sure.
There is that sort of drip, drip, drip of this.
It keeps.
Maybe under the radar this week quite a bit.
But it keeps copping back.
I think this is just going to be in constant problem for the white house.
Hurricanes.
It gets lower in the new.
Mueller is aggressively going after this.
It's an expectation that indictments could come soon.
Thank you all of you for joining us.
We'll be right back.
Sage

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Sens.
Graham and Cassidy: 'We're moving forward' on health care bill

Republicans promised for seven years to repeal and replace Obamacare.
With senator McCain's announcement Friday that he can't support the latest GOP proposal, does it still have a chance?
Let's go to the co-authors of the bill, Louisiana senator bill casedy, and South Carolina senator Lindsey graham.
Senator graham, let's start with you.
This bill is seen as the GOP as last attempt to get something done on health care before the September 309 deadline.
Your good friend, senator McCain said he won't vote for the bill.
How can you make this happen in the little time you have?
Number one, the only way know how people will vote is to vote.
We thought we had the votes last time.
We didn't.
It's not about our friendship.
I love John McCain.
He's an American hero and many my dear friend.
I just disagree with him here.
My state had a 31% premium increase against Obamacare.
If we don't repeal and replace, it's a disaster for south Carolina.
I'm a bipartisan guy.
I have come to conclude Obamacare is a placeholder for berniecare in the democratic world.
The best you could hope for is to prop up Obamacare.
Because they're moving toward berniecare.
There's not a snowballs a chance to substantially change.
Is there a snowball's chance your bill will pass?
Yeah, there is.
I think Maine, Susan Collins is great senator.
They get a 4% increase.
The governor of Arizona has come out for this bill.
Rand Paul objects to the taxes.
When you look at the bill, we save a lot of money over time for medicaid.
E we make it more affordable, more flexible.
I think senator's Paul associated health plan married up with our bill changes health care.
Yes, we're moving forward.
We'll see what happens next week.
I'm very excited about it.
We finally found an alternative that makes sense.
Take the money and power out of Washington.
The same amount of money we would have spent on Obamacare and let states design systems.
The if you keep replicating Obamacare, you get the same outcome.
Flexibility and innovation is what we're seeking.
Senator Cassidy.
Let's get to detail.
Senator graham mentioned Susan Collins.
Whose vote you're trying to get said she's reading the fine print and says it doesn't protect people are pre-existing conditions.
You have the same argument from Jimmy Kim M because the premiums could be so high that it wouldn't be affordable.
Show this H someone who is going to come around?
One, that's absolutely incorrect.
President trump said he will not sign a bill that doesn't protect those with pre-existing conditions.
I'm a physician who worked in a hospital for 25 years caring for those with pre-existing conditions.
A state wishes too do something different, they must first establish that those with pre-existing conditions have access to affordable and adequate coverage.
Two things more.
Affordable, how do you define it?
It means able to afford.
Now, contrast that with status quo.
If you're not getting subsidies right now on the exchanges, your premiums with be -- How is that decided, who can afford snit how is that decided?
What is adequate and affordable care?
That's what people are complaining about.
If I may, we have understatus quo, family with a child paying $32,000 a year.
We're being cared to somebody with a preem use plus dediktable approaching $40,000.
If I were to say to you, I'm going buy a car that I can afford.
You would have a good sense of what sit.
So we give the states the latitude to establish, it may be someone who is a millionaire would lay more and someone lower income would pay less.
Do you really know this?
You don't have a full cbo report.
That's a complaint as well.
How do you know?
If you're speaking of the language that it has to have access to adequate and affordable health care, that's not related to the cbo.
That's contrasting with the status quo in which people are playing $0,000 to $40,000 out of pocket.
I want to go back to senator graham.
Quite an extraordinary statement from major physician, hospital, insurance groups yesterday, including blue cross, blue shield.
While we sometimes disagree on important issues in health care, we are in tote.
Agreement that Americans deserve a stable health care market that provides access to high-quality care and affordable coverage for all.
The graham-cassidy-heller-johnson bill does not move us toward that goal.
An extraordinary statement.
It's extraordinary that the insurance companies would willingly allow that money to be given to state governments to design new and innovative systems.
The fact that insurance companies are objecting to the fact that they no longer get payments directly from the federal government.
Doesn't surprise me.
I would have been surprised if these people were for our bill because we take money away there them, give to it state governments to design systems that will deliver a better outcome.
Let me just say this.
If we move the money and power out of Washington and don't allow flexibility, we require the states to do what Obamacare is doing, how can you get a different result?
This system is collapsing all over the place.
The big winners are hospitals and people that get direct payments from the government.
I want to take that block of money, give it to governors at the state level.
If you don't like what you get under Obamacare who do you complain to?
Under our bill, if you don't like the health care you're receiving, complain to your state house member, to your governor, who cares about you, because they want your vote.
If this fails, what will you tell people about your promise to repeal and replace Obamacare?
That I did everything I could.
I'm not going to stop fighting.
I'm on the budget condition.
Johnson son the budget committee.
We're not going to vote for a budget resolution that doesn't allow the health care debate to continue.
I thing we'll get the votes next week.
We're using the exact same process the Democrats did to pass Obamacare.
They complained about a process they used.
They're never going to give in to changing Obamacare.
They're going to single payer health care.
There is no bipartisan solution to health care that changes Obama kair because tlooir a stakeholder single payer health care.
We have to speed this up.
If they did to pass it.
The fight goes on is a fight worth having.
Thank you very much to both of you.
Let's turn to before nard J.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Treasury Secretary: NFL players can have First Amendment rights 'off the field'

And let's bring in treasury secretary Steven mnuchin.
With all the urgent issues, why is the president etch talking about NFL players and disinviting NBA players to the white house?
Good morning, it's great to be here with you.
The NFL has all types of rules.
You can't have stickers on your helmet.
You have to have your Jerseys tucked in.
I think what the president is saying is that the owners should have a rule that players should have to stand in respect for the national anthem.
This not about Democrats.
Republicans.
Not about race.
It's not about free speech.
They can do free speech on their own time.
That this is about respect for the military.
And the first responders and the country.
The president is calling them S.O.B.S.
Is that the kind of language, no matter how you feel about the issue, that he should be using?
I think the president can use whatever language he wants to use.
I think the issue is the topic.
And the topic, I agree with the president.
Why are the -- why does the NFL have all these other rules that they enforce, that they fine players?
This is about respect for the military, the first responders.
I was at the 9/11 memorial.
Is it not about their first amendment rights?
No, it's not.
They have the right to have the first amendment off the field.
This is a job.
The employers have a right, when the players are working, to have rules.
Why didn't they wear stickers?
Why weren't the dal cowboys allowed to wear stick NERs support?
This is not about politic.
It's about respect for the country and the people that have made great, great sacrifices for the country.
Let's talk about the NFL.
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell calls the president's comments divisive.
Before the S.O.B.
Comments.
The latest abc/"washington post" poll shows 66% feel he has done more to divide the country than unite it.
You to see these kinds of statements unite the country?
We have Bob Kraft saying I am deeply does appointed by the tone of the the comments made by the president on Friday.
I'm proud to be associated with so many player who is make such tremendous contributions in positively impacts our communities.
I think our political leaders could learn lot from the lessons of team work and the importance of working together toward a common goal.
I support they're right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
We're talking about dividing the country.
Is this a ewe fire?
I think the president was trying to unify the country.
Because the national anthem is about unification.
I think the owners have the right.
They should have a meeting.
Decide.
They make the rules.
They should decide.
Many of those owners sound like they have already decided this is a right the players have.
Some of them have.
They should all meet.
They should decide.
And I'm happy to you can that about this all morning.
But I would be happy to talk about North Korea, taxes, all the other things we're trying to do for the American people.
I want to turn to North Korea right now.
What will we accomplish by sending the b-1 bombers further north than they have been in the 21st century?
It was great experience being at the united nations general assembly this week with the president.
I sat next to secretary tillerson and ambassador Haley.
Sitting in that room, you realize how important all these issues are.
I think the president did two important things.
One, he explained what America first means.
It mean that as president, he is responsible for Americans first.
But that he also wants to work with the world community.
The second thing is he used the opportunity to talk about two very difficult situations.
One is North Korea.
The other is Iran.
And we're very happy that the security council came through 15-0, to put sanctions on north Korea.
Let's go -- can we go back to the question?
What do you think we'll accomplish by sending those bombers?
Think the president has said everything is on the table.
So this week, the president signed an executive order that aloud me to issue the most strong sanctions that have ever been done.
I can cut off financial institutions.
Anywhere in the world.
That support North Korea.
The military is one form.
Economics is another form.
The president will pursue all the options.
I think it's unbelievable that the government of North Korea said this week they may test a hydrogen bomb above the pacific ocean.
That is something that even in the world should be completely put off on and unify against.
How should the U.S.
Respond if he does something like that?
I am obviously subject -- I'm a member of the national security council.
I'm privy to plans.
I won't comment about that on this show.
The president has said all the options are on the table.
The president has lots of alternatives that have been presented to him.
He'll make decisions at the time.
You know, we know so little about Kim Jong-un.
We do know this is about his personal reputation.
It's the core of his leadership.
So this back and forth provocation, making it very personal.
The president made it very personal.
He also said that he would totally destroy North Korea.
So, might this be provoking him too far?
Might this make the situation worse?
Not at all.
This is not about personalities.
This is not personal.
This is about someone testing nuclear weapons, a high drone general bomb.
This is about sending ballistic missiles across Japan's air space.
These things are not going to be continued to be allowed.
The president has made that very clear.
And the the rest of the world has made it very clear at the security council.
This behavior is unacceptable.
Is nuclear war possible?
This is a very frightening concept to Americans.
62% of Americans say they don't trust president trump to handle it responsibly.
Well, I don't know where that poll came from.
And I -- question it -- It is our abc/"washington post" poll.
I see that.
I wonder how a different poll would be.
I can assure you.
The president's number one priority is the safety of the American people and our allies.
The president doesn't want to be in a nuclear war.
We'll do everything we can to make sure that doesn't occur.
On the other hand, the president will protect the American people and our allies.
Having a country like the this having nuclear weapons.
Testing it.
Sending rockets over our allies, that is unacceptable behavior.
Can we talk about your travel?
ABC is reporting that you used a military jet following the press conference at trump tower.
The plane cost $2500 an hour.
Why couldn't you use a commuter jet?
The inspector general is look at our travel.
If there are suctions, we'll follow it.
It doesn't cost $25,000 an hour.
But it costs a lot of money.
Number three, there are times I need secure communications to be in touch with the president and the national security council.
That's the reason why.
Can you remember anything specific from that day why you would have needed to be in touch with them on that airplane?
Absolutely.
I have specific.
And the Pentagon gave us those figures.
$25,000.
You can check with the Pentagon.
That's not what they charge.
They charge a lot of money.
I had a secure call that day that was critical and set up and needed to be done at that time.
That's why I used the plane.
Thank you very much secretary mnuchin.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump takes on NBA and NFL stars

And good morning on this football Sunday where we are witnessing an extraordinary mixture of sports and politics.
Not just football.
Trump at war with some of America's most popular athletes including Lebron James and Steph curry.
It all started Friday night when the president used profanity to bash NFL players like Colin Kaepernick who kneel during the national anthem to protest social injustice against African-Americans.
This morning on@ twitterer, the president tweeted, if NFL fans refuse to go the games until plirs stop disrespecting our flag and country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend.
This morning, we're expecting more players to join Kaepernick.
This is ravens-jaguars at wembley stadium.
Now the protest is spreading to baseball.
Overnight, this is Bruce Maxwell from the Oakland a's taking a knee.
All against the back grop of a new ABC news/"washington post" poll.
Saying 66% of Americans have done more to divide the country.
Yet the poll shows his approval ratings up slightly.
We begin with Mary Bruce.
Reporter: The president this morning is picking the fight with two of the world's largest sports leagues and some of their most influential stars.
And he's not backing down.
He's added fuel to the argument over race, politics, sports.
This morning, the president versus the players.
As trump sparks a political war with professional sports.
It started with this jab and profanity about football players like Colin Kaepernick who kneel during the national anthem to protest racial and social injustice.
Zbluld won't you like to see fl own owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, get that son of a Out.
Reporter: The president tweeted if a layer wants the the privilege of making millions of dhars in the NFL or other lesion, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect our great American flag and the national anthem.
The NFL fired back saying divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our players.
The owners collectively donated more than $7 million to trump's campaign.
Trump is take on basketball, too.
After NBA champion Steph curry said he would vote against a golden state warriors visit to the white house.
I don't want to go.
That's really.
Reporter: Trump then beat him to it.
Disinviting him.
Tweeting going to the white house is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Steph curry is hesitating.
Therefore, invitation is withdrawn.
Lebron James 57s spops, you bum.
Curry already said he ain't going.
Going to the white house was great honor, until you showed up.
For the president who promised to bring people together -- I think I'll bring people together.
That includes blacks, whites, and everything.
Reporter: Now he's inserting himself into the debate over race in America.
All eyes on today's game.
If the has encouraged stoons leave the stadium in players decide to kneel during the national anthem.
Others are encouraging the players to take a knee now more than ever.
Mary produy Bruce at the white house.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Treasury secretary under investigation for private plane use

We are going to turn now to currently serving government officials including a few trump cabinet secretaries who are under scrutiny for their travel habits.
One congressman is looking into what's being spent on private flights.
Gio Benitez is here with the latest.
Great to have you in the studio.
Reporter: We're talking about expensive private planes.
The flights are costing tens of thousands of dollars but spokes people for some of the secretaries say they're necessary.
Still, some members of congress aren't buying it.
This morning treasury secretary Steve mnuchin is under investigation for trips on costly jets with American taxpayers footing the bill.
Mnuchin's flight on a U.S. Airforce c-37 costing taxpayers at least $25,000.
That ride from New York to Washington D.C. Less than an hour.
That rate on a commercial plane, 210 bucks.
It happened after the president's controversial press conference in charlottesville.
I think there's blame on both sides.
Reporter: Mnuchin's travels had already taken center stage after he and his wife took a military jet to Kentucky last month, some questioning if the business trip was really used to watch the solar ellipse.
Also under review, why he requested a government jet for his honeymoon, ultimately withdrawing that request, saying it was just one of the things they explored to ensure security communication communication.
Mnuchin is now one of at least three trump cabinet secretaries under the microscope for their travels.
Investigators this morning are also looking at secretary Tom price who just last week reportedly chartered five flights on private planes.
Politico reporting the health secretary flew a total of 24 private flights since early may, racking up more than $300,000 in taxpayer bills.
It's just not right.
It's just not right.
Reporter: Congressional Democrats are sounding off.
I don't think he really has a justification, and he's taken dozens of charter flights claiming they're an emergency, but basically they're for his own convenience.
Reporter: Secretary price's office saying in a statement, commercial travel is not always feasible.
Secretary price will continue meeting with the American people outside of the beltway to hear their concerns and ensure HHS makes decisions that best provide for their needs.
And meanwhile, mnuchin denies any wrongdoing and says that the Kentucky trip was official business, not to see the solar eclipse, and that his wife's ticket was approved and reimbursed, but so many questions this morning, enough to trigger these investigators.
Not what they need in the middle of this health care fight in the senate either.
Gio, thank you very much.
Let's check the forecast

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump campaigns for Alabama senator in GOP election fight

North Korea was clearly on president trump's mind as we spoke overnight in Alabama.
He was there to campaign on behalf of incumbent senator Luther strange who is facing a tough challenge from a fellow Republican.
The election is days away.
The president is back in new Jersey and that's where we find ABC's Stephanie Ramos.
Reporter: Last night president trump on stage in Alabama hyping up his accomplishments, jumping from topic to topic, including health care and North Korea's leader.
The president confident that Kim Jong-un was watching.
And then this morning president trump is up and at 'em, tweeting about health care, posting, John McCain never had any intention of voting for this bill which his governor loves.
He campaigned on repeal and replace.
Let Arizona down.
Overnight the president taking the stage in Huntsville, Alabama.
I love this state and I love the people of this state.
Reporter: Rallying for embattled senate candidate Luther strange.
Trump going after everything from North Korea, even the NFL, to health care.
The president still vowing to get rid of Obamacare.
We're going to win.
It's going to be gone.
Reporter: This morning the GOP health care bill is one vote away from failing, with senator John McCain shooting it down again, saying in a statement Friday, he cannot in good conscience vote for the latest Republican plan.
He says a bill of this impact requires a bipartisan approach.
It was just a couple of months ago when McCain walked on the senate floor and gave a thumbs down during a vote to repeal Obamacare.
The president telling the Alabama crowd he was shocked.
Totally unexpected thing, terrible.
Reporter: And trump again using a nickname to call out North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un.
Ramping up insults toward the dictator.
Rocket man should have been handled a long time ago.
Reporter: North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un says trump is mentally deranged, sienile and old.
During that hour and a half speech president trump even urged the NFL to fire players who protest racial and social injustices during the playing of the national anthem, even suggesting that punishments for hard hits are ruining the game.
Then there's Russia, the president continuing to claim that the Russian tie to him is a hoax despite the deepening investigation that is narrowed in on trump's closest connections.
Dan, Paula.
Newsy speech overnight and a newsy morning as he continues to tweet.
Stephanie, thank you.
For more let's go to Washington and ABC news political commentator cokie Roberts.
Cokie, good morning.
Hi, how are you guys?
Great now that you're here.
Let me start with North Korea where we're dealing with this miystifying news about the earthquake.
As you know president trump has called the north Korean leader rocket man and a mad man.
Is this the right approach?
As long as it's words it's harmless and Kim Jong-un had all of us looking up the word dotard because that's what he called president trump.
It turns out to mean senile old man or something along those lines.
The fact is that if the president is correct and if the leader of Korea is a mad man, then provoking him is probably not the smartest thing to do.
Let's talk about health care, shift gears a little bit, cokie.
Once again the health care bill is on life support.
The president says he's not giving up, but do you have confidence that he's going to be able to sway crucial Republican votes to get that done?
He just Ted, I know Rand Paul and I think he might find a way to get there for the good of the party.
Do you think he sidewalk some can sway some of those votes?
He might be if he puts some sweeteners in that bill.
This is a bill that's opposed by the American pediatric association, every disease group is against it, the insurance companies are against it.
So the only reason that it would pass is that Republicans are saying, well, we promised we would do it so we'll do it.
Whether that gets it all the way through and to a presidential signature is a very, very big if.
A long way to go here.
Let's sneak in a question about what the president was doing in Alabama overnight.
He was there because he's thrown his weight behind incumbent senator Luther strange.
Strange is facing a pretty tough challenge from a fellow Republican.
If strange loses, what does that say about trump's influence?
It says that trump is more important than trump because actually strange's opponent, Roy Moore, is really much more appealing to trump voters.
Now, 80% of the Republicans in Alabama have a favorable impression of Donald Trump.
So it's possible that he can bring Luther strange over the top.
But it's an interesting race for him to get into and to get into on that side, and he said that last night in that long, rambling speech.
He did say maybe I made a mistake.
He was almost like he was talking to himself because he knows that Moore is really much more in his mold, and the president's own cabinet member, Ben Carson, has been campaigning for Moore.
Sarah Palin has been campaigning for Moore.
And so I think the president's a little bit conflicted there, but he had a great big crowd there in Huntsville and of course he always loves that.
Everybody is interested to see how that race shakes out in Alabama.
Cokie, thanks for your insight and analysis this morning.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Sports, to President Trump, has long been about the spectacle more than the spectators.
He has a spot in the WWE Hall of Fame, and briefly and unsuccessfully owned a team in the USFL, the would-be competitor to the NFL that flamed out in the 1980s.
But Trump loves winners, and he is also keenly aware of sports ability to inflame passions.
The president knew exactly what he was doing by inserting himself into a debate over national anthem protests  making it about him and his views in a battle hes happy to engage in.
The result is a remarkable cultural moment that speaks to the vast divides in the country, of which Trump is both symptom and accelerant.
Football players of diverse backgrounds linked arms on NFL sidelines on Sunday, joined in many cases by team owners  including some who have supported Trump politically and financially.
Other teams stayed inside their clubhouses during the playing of the Star-Spangled Banner.
The condemnation from sports biggest names  including some individuals with bigger social-media footprints than the president himself - was sweeping.
Hes now using sports as the platform to try to divide us, LeBron James said in an online video, responding to the presidents decision to uninvite Steph Curry of the Golden State Warriors to the White House.
If there was any doubt about the presidents wish to inflame a culture war, he announced on Twitter today that he is so proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans for not tolerating disrespecting our Country or our flag.
Hes pitting league against league, athlete against athlete, and fan against fan.
And yes, his protestations to the contrary notwithstanding, this is about race.
In taking on an unsigned Colin Kaepernick, and an issue thats barely been in the news of late, Trump singled out a small protest movement that was started by a black athlete more than a year ago explicitly to draw attention to police brutality and unfair treatment of African-Americans.
Just last month, Trump infamously waded into racially-charged politics by equating white supremacists who rallied in Charlottesville, Virginia, with counterprotesters.
He came down squarely on the side of keeping Confederate monuments: Theyre trying to take away our culture, Trump said.
As Charlottesville unfolded, Trumps then-chief strategist, Steve Bannon, was explicit in casting identity politics as a trap for Democrats.
The longer they talk about identity politics, I got em, Bannon told The American Prospect.
I want them to talk about racism every day.
If the left is focused on race and identity, and we go with economic nationalism, we can crush the Democrats.
The words Trump chose Friday to describe protesting players deserve examination: Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out, he's fired.
He's fired. "
Since he dropped that sentence into an unrelated political speech Friday night, Trump has kept up the pressure.
Hes now calling on NFL owners to get together to decide on how to respond to protests and is suggesting that a boycott of the nations most popular sports league might be in order.
This is awkward territory for any president.
He is proposing what in effect would be limits to the First Amendment, at least when it comes to the free expression of prominent athletes in sports whose players happen to mostly be minorities.
Trump appeared ready to declare something of an early victory on Sunday, despite the intense blowback his latest crusade has drawn.
I watched a little bit of it.
And I will say that there was tremendous solidarity for our flag and for our country, the president said after a full slate of NFL games aired on television.
But that solidarity was not in standing  or kneeling, for that matter  with him.
The president revealed a determination among athletes to use their platform for causes that matter to them, in the tradition of Jackie Robinson, Muhammad Ali, Bill Russell, Tommie Smith and John Carlos.
Trump wants people to take sides.
But, as always in America, both sides can speak for themselves.
THE TAKE with ABC News' Rick Klein

President Trump declared that he saw "tremendous solidarity" on the sidelines of NFL games - bringing full circle a debate he inflamed for little good discernible reason.
Don't discount the meaning, though: Trump picks fights that he wants, and he picks fights that he needs.
His feud with pro athletes and sports leagues may be both of those things.
It's a distraction, yes - redirecting attention from the health care bill, the Mueller probe, North Korea, and a special election that may not go his way.
But it's more than that: Trump seeks power by seeking divisions.
The image of a great divider has gotten through.
In the new ABC News/Washington Post poll, 66 percent of Americans say the president has done more to divide than unite; 29 percent of Republicans and 65 percent of independents agree.
In urging owners to fire players who choose a particular forum for political protest - protests that, until now, weren't even about Trump - the president is lining up against the First Amendment.
He put himself on the side of the flag, and against spoiled, wealthy, and - yes - mostly black athletes.
That "solidarity" he saw, of course, was united in opposition to the president and what he had to say.
Trump likes winning, but he also likes it when people take sides.
That's happening anyway in Trump's America.
The president is urging it along, in words and deeds.
THE PATH AMERICANS WANT LAWMAKERS TO TAKE ON HEALTH CARE

Sen. Tim Kaine Sunday night referred to Sen. John McCain's decision to oppose the Graham-Cassidy bill as a "victory," but cautioned that Democrats were not "taking anything for granted."
Kaine, a member of the Senate Health and Education Committee, told ABC News the committee was actually close to a bipartisan deal earlier this month to stabilize insurance markets, and that committee leadership only "shelved" the plans when this last Republican attempt at repeal gained stream.
Kaine and other Democrats think a modest bipartisan deal could be dusted off and revisited if Republicans miss the Sept. 30 deadline for their party-line Obamacare overhaul.
Polls suggest that's the direction Americans want lawmakers to go.
A Kaiser poll out last week found that 69 percent of Americans say it is very important or extremely important for Congress to work on passing legislation to stabilize the Affordable Care Act marketplaces now.
In the ABC News/Washington Post poll, not only did respondents overall prefer Obamacare to Graham-Cassidy, nearly a quarter of Republicans said they did, too.
Another indicator of the country's interest in bipartisan work: The president scored praise in the poll for his journey across the aisle on immigration, ABC News' MaryAlice Parks notes.
ALL EYES STILL ON ALABAMA

If you want a reason to forget NFL protests soon enough, Alabama presents itself.
Vice President Mike Pence will campaign for Sen. Luther Strange in Birmingham tonight, while Roy Moore's campaign holds a rally featuring Steve Bannon, "Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson and "special guest" Nigel Farage, the Brexit architect who has previously appeared at rallies with President Trump.
While the president did his best to tamp down talk of the Alabama race as a proxy war between the establishment and populist wings of the GOP, the dueling rallies in the GOP primary's final hours sure seems to support that narrative.
(Trump even allowed Friday night that he "might have made a mistake" by getting involved.)
Many Republicans have resisted calls for unification in Alabama, but they'll need to regroup quickly following tomorrow's primary run-off.
The Democrats have fielded a legit challenger in former U.S. Attorney Doug Jones, who has former Vice President Joe Biden heading down to the state next month to headline a rally.
Depending on the outcome, a squabbling party could endanger a deep red seat for Republicans, ABC News' John Verhovek writes.
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW TODAY

America is for Dreamers: A whopping 86 percent of Americans support a right to residency for undocumented immigrants who come to the U.S. as children, according to a new ABC News/Washington Post poll out today.
The long-awaited "tax plan that's totally finalized," Trump said Sunday, is expected to be unveiled this week.
Travel ban 3.0: Trump issued a new travel ban Sunday night severely restricting entry from eight countries  including several non-Muslim countries.
Sink or swim?
The Graham-Cassidy bill gets revisions to entice on-the-fence senators, along with a Senate Finance Committee hearing and a CBO analysis that will likely become obsolete immediately.
Jared's got (private) mail: Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, used a personal email account to email White House officials for the first nine months he was in the White House.
QUOTE OF THE DAY

"This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag."
-- President Trump on calling for NFL owners to fire players who kneel during the national anthem

NEED TO READ

ABC News/Washington Post poll: Trump seen by most Americans as doing more to divide than unite country.
More than half of respondents said President Trump has done more to divide than to unite the country, considerably worse than the highest "divide" scores for his two predecessors, Barack Obama and George W. Bush, both 55 percent.
Even as a record number of Americans see North Korea as a threat, the public, by a wide 62-37 percent margin, does not trust Trump to act responsibly in handling the situation.
http://abcn.ws/2xx5pqh

NFL players can have "free speech on their own time": Mnuchin.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended President Donald Trump's comments calling for NFL players who kneel during the national anthem to be fired, saying players "have the right to have the First Amendment off the field."
"This isn't about Democrats.
It's not about Republicans.
It's not about race, it's not about free speech.
They can do free speech on their own time," the Treasury secretary said Sunday on "This Week."
http://abcn.ws/2xCcXIK

Ted Cruz: "Right now they don't have my vote" on health care bill.
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said Sunday that he does not yet support the Graham-Cassidy health care bill, which appears to put the Republicans' latest effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act in jeopardy.
Another Republican leaning "no" on the Graham-Cassidy bill, Sen. Susan Collins, said it is "very difficult" to envision herself voting for the legislation.
http://abcn.ws/2fKz2eG

Mnuchin defends use of costly government jet.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin defended his use of a costly government jet to make the short journey from New York City to Washington, D.C., following an August meeting in Trump Tower.
"There are times when I need secure communications to be in touch with the president and National Security Council," Mnuchin said on "This Week."
"I had a secure call that day that was critical and set up.
It needed to be done at that time, and that's why I used it."
http://abcn.ws/2xxQaNL

Sen. Lindsey Graham to Sen. Rand Paul: Health care bill will "save a lot of money."
"Rand Paul objects to the taxes, but when you look at the bill, Rand, we save a lot of money over time for Medicaid," Graham said in an interview on "This Week" Sunday.
"We've put a cap on Obamacare growth to make it more sustainable, more affordable, more flexible."
http://abcn.ws/2hrTocB

Trump: "Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable."
ABC News

NFL players who protested during the national anthem in Week 3.
ESPN

Trump warns North Korea 'won't be around much longer' if threats continue to escalate.
ABC News

Graham, Cassidy revise Obamacare repeal bill, appealing to holdouts.
Politico

#Takeaknee trending hashtag reveals sharp debate over NFL players' kneeling.
ABC News

Sen. Rand Paul lays out demands on health care as talks continue.
The Washington Post

HHS Secretary Price will stop using private planes until internal review is completed.
Fox News

Weiner faces sentencing in latest chapter of sexting drama.
The Associated Press

The Note is a daily ABC News feature that highlights the key political moments of the day ahead.
Please check back tomorrow for the latest.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption John McDonnell: "It's what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing contracts back in-house."
A future Labour government would bring "wasteful" PFI contracts back in the public sector, shadow chancellor John McDonnell has said.
He told Labour's conference the contracts were set to cost the taxpayer 200bn over coming decades and private companies were making "huge profits".
He said Labour, which has previously promised to strike no new deals, would bring PFI contracts "back in-house".
Labour sources later said this meant they would "review" all PFI contracts.
This means it is not clear whether all existing PFI contracts would be taken back - although shadow chief secretary to the Treasury Peter Dowd told the BBC's Daily Politics he expected the "bulk" to "come back in".
The PFI model of funding public services such as new schools and hospitals was pioneered by the Conservatives in the 1990s and has continued under successive governments.
But Mr McDonnell told activists in Brighton that it was draining the public sector of resources and its time was at an end.
"The scandal of the Private Finance Initiative has resulted in huge long-term costs for taxpayers while providing enormous profits for some companies," he said.
"Over the next few decades, nearly 200 billion is scheduled to be paid out of public sector budgets in PFI deals.
In the NHS alone, 831 million in pre-tax profits have been made over the past six years.
"Never again will this waste of taxpayer money be used to subsidise the profits of shareholders, often based in offshore tax havens."
He added: "We have already pledged there will be no new PFI deals signed by us in government.
But we will go further.
It is what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing PFI contracts back in-house".
The BBC's assistant political editor Norman Smith said such a move would "end the 25-year consensus" on using the private sector to fund major projects but to do so would require a "massive" compensation bill and it was not clear where the money would come from.
What is PFI and how prevalent is it?
Image copyright PA Image caption PFI-funded projects range from hospitals and waste facilities to army barracks

PFI is a way of financing investment in public infrastructure using private capital.
Private firms stump up the cost of building facilities - such as a hospital or school - and, in return, the state makes payments over a period of time - often about 25 years - for their use and management.
The model has been attractive to governments of all political persuasions as it limits upfront capital expenditure and reduces risk while future payment obligations do not count towards the national debt.
However, its value for money has long been questioned.
As of March 2016 there were 716 PFI projects, 686 of which were still operational.
The others had either been cancelled or had reached the end of the contract period.
The SNP government stopped new PFI contracts when it came to power in Scotland, replacing them with NPDs (non-profit distributing projects).
One leading economist, John Appleby, from the Nuffield Trust, told the BBC that the NHS alone was repaying private firms about 2bn a year for PFI schemes and the cost of interest payments for completed projects was likely to total 56bn by 2048.
But he added: "The trouble with these kind of announcements is the fine print of the details.
Taking them back into public ownership does not come free.
The money will have to come from somewhere."
But Dave Prentis, from Unison, welcomed the move - saying that although there would be a cost to buying out the contracts it would still be "better value" for the taxpayer than letting them continue for the next 20 years.
Mr McDonnell said Labour had proved doubters wrong by making gains in June's snap election and its goal was to get into power, "rescue" the UK from austerity and "set the political agenda for a generation".
"We have proved we are an effective campaigning party," he said.
"We now have to prove we will be an effective governing party."
He promised to bring "ownership and control of the utilities and key services into the hands of people who use and work in them - rail, water, energy, Royal Mail - we're taking them back".
'Misplaced nostalgia'

Carolyn Fairbairn, director general of the employers organisation the CBI, said Mr McDonnell's plans on nationalisation and PFI were "the wrong plan at the wrong time".
"Forced nationalisation of large parts of British industry will send investors running for the hills, and puts misplaced nostalgia ahead of progressive vision," she said.
And the Conservatives said Labour's promises were "unaffordable" and would not improve public services.
In his speech, Mr McDonnell also promised legislation limiting the amount of interest that can be charged on credit card debts, which he said would ensure no-one would pay more than they borrowed in the first place.
Labour said the proposals would work in a similar way to measures on payday loans, which came into force in 2015, and help people trapped in a "persistent debt spiral".
UK Finance, which represents the financial and banking industry, said it was committed to responsible lending and "the last thing the industry wants is to see those who are most vulnerable being pushed towards the hands of unscrupulous and unregulated lenders".
Image copyright PA

The Labour leadership has insisted its approach to Brexit is "grown-up and pragmatic" as it faced opposition from some activists at its conference.
Shadow Brexit Secretary Sir Keir Starmer said customs union and single market options should not be "swept off the table" at this stage.
He accused the Tories of "joyriding" the economy "off a cliff-edge".
But he faced claims that by not opposing Brexit Labour were letting the Tories "do what they want".
Members in Brighton discussed Brexit for an hour on Monday morning amid a row over why more time was not being given to the issue after it was not chosen by delegates among eight policy motions for full debate.
The focus of the session was about building agreement around Labour's existing policy and there will be no vote on contentious issues such as the future of single market membership.
But a number of Labour members criticised the party's pro-Brexit stance, suggesting they were giving the government a free ride.
Cameron Clack, from Stamford and Grantham, said Labour had "voted away" its chance to keep the UK in the single market and customs union, telling activists we "will be remembered as the opposition that let the Tories to do what they want with Brexit".
"We're supposed to be a party of outward-looking, internationalist, democratic socialists," he said.
But Sir Keir Starmer said that rather than laying down "rash ideological red lines" during the negotiations, Labour had settled on an agreed position which respected the result of last year's referendum but prioritised the economy and trade in exit talks.
Failing to reach any kind of deal with the EU was not a "viable option", warning that continued collaboration and co-operation was vital.
Analysis

By Laura Kuenssberg

What the shenanigans over a debate at Labour conference on the contentious issues around Brexit really shows us is who has the whip-hand now in the party.
The Corbyn-backing campaign group Momentum organised its members to choose subjects other than Brexit to be debated fully at the conference this week.
It wasn't directly snuffed out by the leadership, it was a vote of delegates, but they act to protect their political hero.
Brexit is essentially the only big issue where Jeremy Corbyn is in conflict with the Labour membership.
Motions that advocated membership of the single market or continuing freedom of movement clashed with the party's carefully constructed position on the EU and therefore would have given Corbyn's team a rough ride on the conference floor.
Read more

"Labour are now the grown-ups in the room," Mr Starmer said, insisting that "remaining in a form of customs union after a transition post-Brexit phase remained a "possible end destination" for the party.
"We are also flexible as to whether the benefits of the single market are best retained by negotiating a new single market relationship or working up from a bespoke trade deal," he added.
"The outcome is what matters."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Confused about Labour's position on Brexit?
Labour has faced accusations it is downplaying the issue during its conference but shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry said Labour's front bench were "all pulling in the same direction" over Brexit.
Earlier, shadow chancellor John McDonnell insisted Labour was not trying to ignore the issue but the leadership had "no control" over issues chosen by members to be voted on, which include housing, rail, the NHS and pay but not Europe.
"The delegates choose their priorities and that is what they have done," he told BBC Radio 4's Today.
"The leadership does not control that at all... the whole point of our party now is to hand our party back to the membership."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Emily Thornberry: "I know that Boris doesn't like paternity tests, but maybe we need one for Brexit"

The Jeremy Corbyn-supporting Momentum group had urged its members not to support a resolution on Brexit, emailing them with an alternative list of subjects to choose - including the Grenfell Tower tragedy, rail, growth and investment, workers' rights and social care.
Several Labour MPs tweeted their displeasure at suggestions Brexit was being downplayed.
The BBC's political editor Laura Kuenssberg said that while minimising the opportunities for conflict might be seen as "politically clever", given the divisions in the party over Brexit, she said many MPs would find the situation "frustratingly vague".
But Hove activist Darryl Telles said a Stop Brexit protest on the first day of conference was intended to "undermine" Jeremy Corbyn's leadership.
"I remember the Monty Python sketch, the parrot is dead, it doesn't exist, it has ceased to exist.
You have as much chance of stopping Brexit as Jeremy Corbyn has of wearing my Tottenham shirt."
Although Labour's ruling NEC will finalise an agreed statement on Brexit that delegates will be allowed to vote on this afternoon in an attempt to defuse tensions, it will not commit the party to single market membership beyond the transition period.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The last round of talks was held in August

Brexit Secretary David Davis will lead the UK team of negotiators into their fourth round of talks with EU officials in Brussels on Monday.
It will be the first opportunity for the European delegation to respond to Theresa May's speech in Florence.
Mrs May aimed to restore momentum to a process that was stalling.
Key figures such as EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier described her tone as constructive, which should improve the atmosphere of the talks.
But EU negotiators will be expecting more detail on, for example, what payments the UK is prepared to make as it departs.
Next month, EU leaders are due to decide on so-called separation issues - including the rights of citizens, the Irish border and the "divorce bill" or financial settlement - to allow talks to move on to the future of the bilateral trade relationship, as the UK would like.
For the moment, the odds seem to be against that test being passed at the first opportunity, said BBC Europe correspondent Kevin Connolly.
Budget black hole

In her speech on Friday, Mrs May offered to continue paying into the EU for a two-year transition after the UK leaves in 2019 to ensure the bloc is not left with a budget black hole.
The prime minister sought to reassure member states that they would not lose out financially during the current EU budget period, which runs to 2020.
She also confirmed there would be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition period, but after Brexit they would be registered as they arrived.
Mr Davis has insisted that Mrs May's speech was not influenced by a 4,000-word article by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, in the run-up to the event, setting out his own vision for Brexit.
The speech "had been coming for a long time", he said.
Meanwhile, the UK and Scottish governments are due to hold a fresh round of talks on Brexit in London.
Scotland's Deputy First Minister John Swinney and Brexit minister Mike Russell will meet First Secretary of State Damian Green to discuss concerns about the EU Withdrawal Bill.
And Mrs May holds talks in Downing Street with Irish premier Leo Varadkar, in her first meeting with an EU leader since the Florence speech.
Image caption Theresa May greets Leo Varadkar at 10 Downing Street

It is too early to say whether the UK has made sufficient progress in Brexit talks, the Irish prime minister has said.
Taoiseach Leo Varadkar was speaking after talks with Prime Minister Theresa May in Downing Street.
Mr Varadkar gave Mrs May's speech in Florence a cautious welcome.
Speaking to reporters following their talks, he said her proposal for a post-Brexit transitional period was a step in the right direction.
Mr Varadkar said the two leaders were in a "shared space" on trying to get Northern Ireland's Executive up and running again - adding that it was important that the UK government did not want any form of physical border on the island of Ireland.
Image caption Mr Varadkar's visit is Mrs May's first meeting with a European leader since her Florence speech last week

He said neither he nor the Prime Minister are contemplating failure in their efforts to restore devolution at Stormont.
Mr Varadkar played down the need for external intervention and said he could see no advantage in holding another Stormont election.
He also registered his strong opposition to direct rule from Westminster.
On Brexit, the Taoiseach welcomed the Prime Minister's commitment last week that there should be no physical infrastructure on the border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.
He said Brexit negotiations between the EU and the UK have, so far, not made sufficient progress to allow the talks to move on to discuss a trade deal after the UK's departure.
However, he said that may change by the end of October when European leaders meet in Brussels.
'No hard border'

In her speech in Florence on Friday, the Prime Minister offered to continue paying into EU coffers during the transition period to ensure the bloc is not left with a budget black hole.
Mrs May said there should be a two-year transition period after the UK leaves the EU in 2019, during which trade would continue on current terms.
Mrs May restated the UK's position that there would be no hard Irish border after Brexit.
Although the UK will be leaving both the customs union and the single market, she said that both the UK and EU had "stated explicitly" they would not accept any "physical infrastructure" along the frontier.
Following Monday's meeting, Downing Street said that maintaining the current British and Irish Common Travel Area and the citizenship rights guaranteed by the Good Friday Agreement are at the heart of the government's approach to Brexit.
Number Ten said the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach also discussed a trade dispute between US Aircraft manufacturer Boeing and Canadian plane maker Bombardier, which has a plant in east Belfast.
The leaders expressed their shared concern about the impact this could have on jobs and livelihoods in Northern Ireland.
Meanwhile, the Welsh first minister has said that, when it comes to discussions with the UK government about Brexit, Northern Ireland's voice is "not being heard."
Speaking at the Labour Conference in Brighton, Carwyn Jones told the BBC "a Westminster minister can never have the same kind of clout or knowledge that a politician from Northern Ireland, or politicians can have".
Image caption Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones said Brexit trading issues could not be addressed until the question of the Irish border was resolved

He said the issue of the Irish border needed to be given the top priority in discussions between the UK and the EU.
"Unless you resolve the issue of the border you cannot resolve issues around the single market and the customs union.
The UK can not be out of the customs union but have an open and patrolled border with a country that is in the customs union - it just does not work," Mr Jones said.
He said the UK should stay in the single market, and said the experience of Norway should be used as an example.
Northern Ireland has effectively been without a devolved government since January.
Its institutions collapsed amid a bitter row between the DUP and Sinn Fin about a botched green energy scheme.
Several rounds of talks have failed to reach an agreement.
The DUP has welcomed comments from Sinn Fin President Gerry Adams indicating that republicans are committed to the restoration of devolution in Northern Ireland.
Mr Adams told a republican commemoration event that a deal to restore the Stormont executive was possible.
Image caption Changes to women's retirement age sparked widespread protests

Labour would allow hundreds of thousands of women born in the 1950s to retire at 64 on a reduced state pension, rather than wait until 66.
Government changes to the retirement age have been "chaotic", shadow work and pensions secretary Debbie Abrahams will tell Labour's conference later.
Many women who expected to retire at 60 must now work several years longer before receiving a state pension.
Ms Abrahams will say her plan would mean pension security for thousands.
Her change would benefit women born between 1954 and 1960.
"This will ensure that those who have suffered the consequences of this government's chaotic mismanagement of the state pension age have the security they need," she will tell the party's conference in Brighton.
"We will continue to work with these women to get justice."
Many women were caught by surprise when the timetable for moving to a later retirement age was accelerated in 2011.
The Waspi - Women Against State Pension Inequality - campaign is pushing for a transitional "bridging pension" to help women whose retirement plans have been thrown into disarray.
Labour has already promised to extend pension credit to the women affected.
In its manifesto for the June general election, the party said it was "exploring options for further transitional protections to ensure that all these women have security and dignity in older age".
Precise financial details were not immediately available, but Ms Abrahams will say the scheme would be "cost-neutral in the long term".
Ms Abrahams will also call for a pause in the roll-out of universal credit, to allay fears that claimants will be plunged into poverty as it is extended across the country over the next 12 months.
She argues that there is evidence of "deepening poverty" as more welfare claimants are transferred to universal credit, which replaces a range of older benefits.
She will cite reports that one in four claims are not paid within six weeks, leading to increased debt and mounting rent arrears.
Image copyright PA Image caption Mike Russell and John Swinney sat down with Damian Green and David Mundell

The Scottish and UK governments have held "constructive" talks over Brexit, but are still a long way from a deal.
Scotland's Deputy First Minister John Swinney and Brexit minister Mike Russell met First Secretary of State Damian Green in London to discuss concerns about the EU Withdrawal Bill.
UK ministers have said it is time to "get serious" about the issues.
The Scottish government is seeking changes to the legislation for taking the UK out of the EU.
It has described the legislation as a "power grab" and has said it will not ask Holyrood to give consent to the bill in its current form.
The UK government has insisted that Holyrood will see "significant" new powers devolved after Brexit.
After an hour of talks in London, both sides said the meeting had been "constructive" but conceded there is still a long way to go before any deal can be reached.
Further negotiations are planned.
The dispute stems from what happens to powers which are currently not reserved to the UK government, but which are exercised from Brussels.
UK ministers want them to go to Westminster in the first instance, before some are incorporated into UK-wide frameworks and others are sent on to the devolved administrations.
Both the Welsh and Scottish governments say this plan would undermine the founding principle of devolution, that any powers which are not specifically reserved to Westminster should be devolved.
They do not oppose UK-wide frameworks, which UK ministers say are necessary to prevent trade barriers developing within the internal UK market, but say they want them agreed jointly.
The Scottish government has also been pushing for single market membership to be retained, and wants the country to remain in the European customs union.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The UK and Scottish governments have been locked in a dispute over the EU Withdrawal Bill

Following the meeting, Mr Swinney said it had been a "useful opportunity for an exchange of views", but said there was still some way to go towards a deal.
He said: "The discussions were constructive but we remain absolutely clear that, as things stand, we will not recommend to the Scottish Parliament that it gives its consent to the EU Withdrawal Bill.
"We made clear, we are not opposed in principle to UK-wide frameworks in certain areas - but this must be on the basis of agreement among equals, not imposed by Westminster.
"The bill as currently drafted is impractical and unworkable.
It is a blatant power grab which would take existing competence over a wide range of devolved policy areas, including aspects of topics like agriculture and fishing, away from Holyrood, giving them instead to Westminster and Whitehall.
"That means that unless there are serious and significant changes to the proposed legislation, we will not recommend that the Scottish Parliament give consent to the bill."
What is the repeal bill?
Formally known as the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill, the draft legislation is a key plank of the government's Brexit strategy

The first line of the bill says the European Communities Act 1972, which took Britain into the EU, will be "repealed on exit day"

This will end the supremacy of EU law and stop the flow of new regulations from Brussels

But all existing laws derived from the EU will continue to be in force - they can be changed or scrapped by further legislation

The bill does not detail policies line-by-line but transfers all regulations into domestic law

It gives the UK two years after Brexit to correct any "deficiencies" arising from the transfer

Mr Green said he was "cautiously optimistic" a way forward could be agreed.
He said: "I said that it was time for the talks to get serious and today they have got serious.
"We had a positive and constructive meeting and we are now starting to get into the nitty-gritty of the detail of how we make sure Brexit works for all parts of the UK.
"We are in agreement that we do not want to damage the UK internal market that is so important to Scottish businesses and their customers.
"The key point is that we want to bring back these powers from the EU in a way that protects the UK market and also preserves the spirit and letter of the devolution settlement."
Image copyright Stefan Rousseau Image caption London Mayor Sadiq Khan chairs Transport for London

London Mayor Sadiq Khan has asked the city's transport regulator to be available to meet Uber's boss after the firm apologised.
Uber chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi said he was sorry for the "mistakes we've made" after the taxi-hailing firm lost its London licence.
He said in an open letter that Uber would appeal against the city's decision, but accepts it "must change".
On Friday, Transport for London (TfL) denied Uber a new licence to operate.
Mr Khan said: "I welcome the apology from Dara Khosrowshahi, the Uber CEO.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London.
"Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him."
TfL cited concerns over public safety and security in its decision not to renew Uber's London licence.
However, Uber says it has followed the regulator's rules and works closely with the Metropolitan Police.
Mr Khosrowshahi, who took over at Uber less than a month ago, wrote on Monday: "While Uber has revolutionised the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way.
"On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologise for the mistakes we've made."
In a letter addressed to Londoners, the new Uber boss said the firm "won't be perfect, but we will listen to you".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dara Khosrowshahi took over as Uber boss last month after Travis Kalanick resigned

Earlier, the Mayor of London said Uber had put "unfair pressure" on TfL, with an "army" of PR experts and lawyers.
Mr Khan, who is also chairman of TfL, told the BBC: "What you can't do is have a situation where unfair pressure is brought on a quasi-judicial body, where there are officials working incredibly hard.
"I appreciate Uber has an army of PR experts, I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers - they've also made aggressive threats about taking us to court."
Uber-TfL talks

When asked if he would meet Uber personally, the mayor said it would be "improper for politicians to interfere with a quasi-judicial matter".
The mayor's office said Mr Khan would not be directly involved in discussions or meetings with Uber if they took place.
While Mr Khan chairs the TfL board, according to the organisation he was not involved in the process of deciding whether to issue Uber with a licence.
That is handled by TfL's taxi and private hire department.
Uber is keen to hold talks with officials from that department "as soon as possible", Fred Jones, a senior executive with Uber in the UK, told the Today Programme.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Over 750,000 people have signed an online petition to keep Uber operating

Mr Jones said that Uber was "not clear" about the issues raised by TfL when it denied the company a licence.
One of the points raised by TfL was Uber's "approach to how Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks are obtained" for its drivers.
That part of the process was not even handled by Uber, said Mr Jones.
Instead, the drivers organised their own DBS check and took that paperwork to TfL.
TfL then reviews that application before giving the driver a licence allowing them to drive for Uber.
TfL would not elaborate further on its issue with the way in which Uber organises DBS checks, because that would be likely to come up when Uber appealed against the decision.
It would only repeat that it was Uber's "approach" to DBS checks that was the problem.
More than 750,000 people have signed an online petition in a bid to keep Uber operating in London after its licence expires on 30 September.
Britain will need to boost its generation of electricity by about a quarter, Scottish Power has estimated.
The energy firm said electric cars and a shift to electric heating could send demand for power soaring.
Its chief executive also said there would have to be a major investment in the wiring necessary to handle rapid charging of car batteries.
Keith Anderson was speaking as the firm reached the milestone of 2,000 megawatts of wind power capacity.
That equates to about an eighth of the British total.
The figure includes Whitelee wind farm, on Eaglesham Moor, south of Glasgow, which has more than 200 turbines.
Believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm, it is capable of generating enough power for all of Glasgow's homes.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Whitelee is believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm

In the past 18 months, the Spanish-owned company has been installing nearly a quarter of the British total, but the pipeline of work is coming to an end.
Attention is turning to offshore wind.
But Mr Anderson told BBC Scotland there would have to be a renewed surge in the building of onshore wind turbines if consumer demand was to be met.
He warned that past experience with technology change had shown consumers could make the move faster than governments or companies expect.
Once the price of electric cars falls to that of petrol or diesel, which it is thought will happen between 2022 and 2025, there could be a rapid shift in buying patterns and electricity usage.
Earlier this month, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced a target of shifting from petrol and diesel-fuelled cars to battery power by 2032, while the UK government intends to make that shift by 2040.
'Worst position'

Mr Anderson said: "The worst position for this country to be in and the worst position for customers is that we get huge enthusiasm, people rushing out to buy electric cars because the price has come down, and then we can't allow people to plug them in because we haven't invested in the infrastructure.
"So one of the things we're looking at now is how we plan what has to happen to the distribution system."
The estimate of a 20%-30% increase in demand for electricity comes after years of gradually declining power use, much of that due to growing energy efficiency and the closure of older, energy-intensive industries.
Image copyright Getty Images

At the same time, old power stations - including Scottish Power's coal-burning plants at Longannet in Fife and Cockenzie in East Lothian - have been closed down.
The added challenge of cars is the change in technology from an eight-hour overnight charge to a rapid charge of 15 to 20 minutes.
If several car owners on a residential street plug those in at the same time, the system could not cope.
Mr Anderson said: "The system that takes the wires into the house, down the street, to local businesses - how do we make sure it can cope with that level of demand?
It'll take a long time to plan and deliver."
'Let's keep going'

Heating is the next frontier in the energy revolution, which has barely begun.
In place of gas and oil-fired boilers in each home, electric central heating can be powered by renewable generation.
What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success Keith Anderson, Scottish Power chief executive

However, it is likely to require not only removal of a boiler, but the replacement of radiators and hot water heating pipes throughout a home.
Mr Anderson said: "What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success.
"We have been able to develop these projects faster and faster, and to deliver them more efficiently, at much lower cost.
"Keep going, because that will bring costs down and make us more efficient for the future.
"If you stop now, the technology development stops, the innovation stops: the new jobs, the new roles, they all stop.
You stop that for two or three years, and trying to restart it becomes more difficult and more expensive."
Most of the recent onshore wind developments have been in Scotland, focused on the south west.
The UK government has allowed much less onshore wind developing, in response to anti-turbine campaigners.
It has also left onshore wind out of the auctions which offer generators a minimum price for their energy.
These auctions have helped drive down the cost of renewable power, with offshore wind nearly halving in price.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Labour leader told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise

Jeremy Corbyn has promised to listen to Labour members' calls to keep the UK in the EU single market - but warned it could hamper the government's ability to protect jobs and invest in industry.
The Labour leader said EU restrictions on state aid and pressure to privatise sectors like rail could cause problems.
He also predicted "a lot" of people would continue to come from the EU to work in the UK after Brexit.
Mr Corbyn was speaking on day one of the Labour conference in Brighton.
Boosted by Labour's better-than-forecast general election result in June, he told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show he wanted 10 years in office to implement Labour's agenda, saying at least two electoral terms would be needed to address challenges on housebuilding and inequality.
More than 40 senior party figures signed an open letter to the Observer urging Mr Corbyn to commit to remaining in the European single market and customs union after Brexit.
But delegates in Brighton have rejected demands from a number of constituencies for a vote on single market membership during the conference.
BBC political correspondent Iain Watson said that, in practice, it means there will be no vote on one of the most contentious issues in the party.
Labour has already said it would keep the UK in both agreements during a transitional period.
Theresa May has suggested a two-year timeframe for a transition period, but Mr Corbyn said Labour's version would last "as long as necessary".
It is "impossible" to say at this stage how long it would be, he argued.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Pro-EU protesters marched in Brighton as the Labour conference got under way

Asked about his plans beyond this period, Mr Corbyn said the "important priority" was seeking tariff-free trade access to the EU's markets, and that it was necessary to "look very carefully" at the terms of any trade deal to avoid restrictions on state aid, citing the UK's steel industry as an example.
"We need to be quite careful about the powers that we need as national governments," he said.
Mr Corbyn wants to return a number of key industries, including the railways, to public ownership, but says EU competition laws present significant obstacles to that.
One of the signatories to the letter, former minister Ben Bradshaw, told BBC News remaining in the market was "the only place we can sensibly be if we want to save the economy, end austerity and pursue the sort of vision of Britain that Jeremy Corbyn says he wants".
The customs union is the EU's tariff-free trading area, which imposes the same taxes on imports from certain countries outside the union.
The single market also includes the free movement of goods, services, capital and people.
Speaking at the Labour conference, Stephen Kinsella, a lawyer specialising in EU law, said he was "puzzled and slightly troubled" by Mr Corbyn's comments about state aid.
"I think what we see in the UK is too often government refers to EU law as an excuse, as a reason for not investing.
But it could do so, and it could do so within the law," said Mr Kinsella, who is a Labour Party member.
'Clean break'

The letter urging long-term commitment to the single market and customs union, co-ordinated by the Open Britain campaign, was signed by both Blairite and left-wing MPs, along with some prominent trade union leaders.
It said: "The supposed benefits of a clean break with the EU are a fantasy.
"The economic impact of leaving the single market would hit the most vulnerable in our society hardest."
Image copyright PA

Mr Corbyn is also facing calls to maintain the free movement of EU workers after Brexit from some Labour members, despite this being ruled out in Labour's general election manifesto.
"Manifestos evolve and change," MP Clive Lewis, one of those pushing for the matter to be debated at conference, told the Sunday Politics.
But fellow Labour MP Caroline Flint said she did not think maintaining the current arrangements "would be acceptable to British people".
Asked about free movement, Mr Corbyn said he understood "the importance of workers moving from one place to the other", but some employers had "grotesquely exploited" the system to pay EU workers very low wages.
"That has to stop.
But we have to recognise that in the future we're going to need people to work in Europe, and people from Europe are going to need to work here.
There's going to be a lot of movement."
McCluskey letter

In his Marr interview, Mr Corbyn also promised an end to the public sector pay cap.
He would not commit to the 5% increase called for by some, but promised workers a rise in line with inflation - currently 2.9% - in addition to recognition of the "sacrifice" they had made in recent years.
The Labour leader side-stepped questions about whether he would support illegal strike action by public sector workers against the cap, as backed by his ally, Unite leader Len McCluskey.
A new law requires a 50% turnout for successful strike ballots, but Unite is calling for co-ordinated action across sectors regardless of the threshold reached.
Repeatedly pressed on whether he would back unions defying the law, Mr Corbyn said: "I will be with those workers demanding a decent pay rise."
But speaking on Sky News, Labour's deputy leader Tom Watson said the party would not back unions in such circumstances.
"I have actually received a letter from Len McCluskey this week where he says he accepts Labour MPs aren't going to support calls for illegal strike action," he said.
Mr McCluskey confirmed that was the case, saying he did not expect support from the party's leadership or any of its MPs.
"I know that they are opposed to the current law and they will do all that they can inside Parliament to change this law," he told ITV's Peston on Sunday.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "My car's only got two seats" - David Davis responds to Boris backseat driving accusations

Theresa May's key EU speech was not influenced by Boris Johnson's article on the UK's future, the Brexit secretary has said.
The foreign secretary has been accused of undermining the PM with a 4,000-word piece setting out his own vision.
Some reports have claimed Mr Johnson threatened to resign if his blueprint for Brexit was not followed.
But David Davis said the policy in Mrs May's Florence speech "had been coming for a long time".
Theresa May declared on Friday she would seek a transitional period after Brexit in 2019, suggesting it could last for about two years.
The Sunday Express is reporting the period would have been longer had it not been for Mr Johnson's intervention six days ahead of her speech.
The Observer, meanwhile, claims he forced her to take the so-called "Norway model" off the table - a model which could have seen the UK pay for continued access to the single market.
But Mr Davis told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show: "I don't think there's been any change of policy in the last few weeks."
He said the government had begun designing some aspects of Mrs May's speech on transition "right back at the beginning of the year".
Several Sunday newspapers contain fresh allegations of splits in the cabinet.
The Sunday Telegraph reports that Mr Johnson is now demanding that EU rules are not applied to the UK during the transitional period, while the Sunday Times has published claims of a leadership plot involving Mr Davis, Mr Johnson, Chancellor Philip Hammond and Home Secretary Amber Rudd following June's general election.
Last week, Ms Rudd accused Mr Johnson of "back-seat driving" over Brexit with his article.
Asked about those remarks, Mr Davis would not be drawn, but joked: "My car's only got two seats."
Speaking on Marr, Mr Davis went on to say the government would not "under any circumstances" accept the "overarching supremacy" of the European Court of Justice after the UK leaves the EU, but judges would be allowed to interpret the European treaty and look at European decisions.
"The aim with the withdrawal treaty would be to have British citizens in Europe and European citizens in Britain treated broadly similar," he said.
"They won't be exactly the same because they're in different countries under different legal systems but as similarly as we can."
Registering citizens

Mr Davis denied reports that the UK faced a 40bn "divorce bill" for leaving the EU.
He said it would be "roughly" 10bn a year over two years, and claims in Brussels that the final settlement once pensions and other liabilities were taken into account could be double that amount were "made up".
"Things like pensions and other things, these are debatable to say the least," he said.
"The last time we went through line by line and challenged quite a lot of the legal basis of these things and we'll continue to do that."
In her speech in Florence on Friday, the prime minister sought to reassure member states that they would not lose out financially during the current EU budget period - which runs to 2020 - as a result of the UK's departure.
Mrs May also confirmed there would be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition period, but that after Brexit they would be registered as they arrive.
But the European Parliament's Brexit negotiator, Guy Verhofstadt, accused the UK of "cherry-picking", saying that a "new registration mechanism for EU citizens going to live and/or work in the UK is out of the question".
Mr Davis disputed that, arguing Britain would be "outside of European law by then" so the matter would be up for negotiation, and registration would be the UK's "intention".
Image copyright PA Image caption Andy Burnham and Sadiq Khan played in a conference football match against the press - but the mayor of Greater Manchester will not be speaking from the Brighton main stage

The Labour mayor of Greater Manchester has criticised his "London-centric" party for not giving its political leaders from the north of England speaking slots at conference.
Andy Burnham said he was disappointed at the lack of "prominent northern voice" to "balance" London Mayor Sadiq Khan, who has been invited to speak.
Jeremy Corbyn wants to "rebalance" the conference in favour of members.
The annual party get-together is under way in Brighton.
Having won the Greater Manchester mayoral election in May, Mr Burnham is one of Labour's most powerful elected politicians.
But he will not be speaking from the stage in Brighton.
'This is institutional'

He told the BBC's Sunday Politics: "It is not about me having a divine right to speak at conference.
"But it disappoints me that there is no prominent northern voice from one of the cities speaking to balance Sadiq Khan."
He added: "This is not a Jeremy criticism.
This is institutional.
The party is too London-centric.
"It isn't thinking enough about getting a strong message to voters in the North.
"What troubles me a little is that we have got the mayor of London speaking but not the mayor of Liverpool city region, Steve Rotheram.
Not the leader of Newcastle City Council, Nick Forbes.
"Why haven't we got balance here?
What does it say about the party's commitment to devolution?
"It could suggest that it's half-hearted.
I would say to them 'Let's not do this again'."
Defending the arrangements in an interview with BBC North West Tonight on Friday, Mr Corbyn said: "I want to make sure that delegates have more time to speak than in the past and so we've reduced the number of platform speakers and reduced the time for platform speakers, including shadow cabinet members.
"I can't say any of them are very happy about it but it has to be done if we're to rebalance our conference.
"And I want to make sure there is a big voice for local government."
Fees debate

Meanwhile, some MPs were denied access to the auditorium floor in favour of rank and file delegates in what BBC political correspondent Iain Watson said was another sign of the changing nature of Labour's conference.
MPs used to have reserved seating in their own "pen", he said.
Labour sources said when the floor was full all non-voting delegates had to sit in the balcony areas.
In his Sunday Politics interview, Mr Burnham also questioned Labour's flagship pledge to scrap university tuition fees in England.
"I just question is that the fairest way to spend money, to give it all to university students who may go on to a more middle class lifestyle and earnings?
"I would say; what about 16 to 18 year-olds who lost their education maintenance allowance?
"What about those kids on the apprenticeship wage?
What about technical education?"
Image caption Mr Rowley said very few people knew that Kezia Dugdale was going to resign

Scottish Labour's interim leader Alex Rowley has revealed that Kezia Dugdale only gave him a few minutes' notice that she was quitting as party leader.
Ms Dugdale announced she was standing down last month and a contest is ongoing to elect her successor.
Mr Rowley was Ms Dugdale's deputy at the time.
He told the BBC's Sunday Politics Scotland: "I didn't know that Kezia Dugdale was going to resign up until 10-15 minutes before she announced it."
He added: "I think very few people knew but that was Kezia's decision, a decision that she wanted to make.
"We now need to move forward.
We owe Kez a debt of gratitude for all the work that she's done over these last two years."
The leadership contest is between Anas Sarwar, Labour's health spokesman at Holyrood, and left-wing MSP Richard Leonard.
Image caption Kezia Dugdale served as the leader of Scottish Labour for two-and-a-half years

During the interview, Mr Rowley was also asked if he had set up Mr Sarwar during First Minister's Questions last week.
In Holyrood on Thursday, while talking about poverty, Mr Rowley said the SNP stood for "the millionaires, not the millions", which led to First Minister Nicola Sturgeon launching an attack on Mr Sarwar.
Mr Sarwar had previously denied being "one of the few" as he defended his family's firm over its failure to pay the real living wage to all staff.
He has since relinquished all his shares in his family's wholesale business.
The Glasgow MSP has also faced questions over his decision to send his children to a private school in the city.
In his response on Sunday Politics Scotland, Mr Rowley - who is attending the Labour Party Conference in Brighton - said: "I'm going to continue to make the case for the many, not the few.
I'm going to continue to make the case that we need to address the unacceptable levels of poverty that exist in Scotland.
"I haven't come out for any candidate.
I've remained neutral.
I have one vote the same as every other party member.
The Labour party members will decide who they want to put in as our next leader."
The result of the leadership contest will be announced in mid-November.
Image copyright Reuters

The UK must provide more clarity about its negotiating position on Brexit, the French president has said.
Emmanuel Macron said the issues of EU citizens' rights, the exit bill and the Irish border question must be settled before talks could be held on trade.
On Friday, Theresa May made suggestions including a two-year transition period after Brexit, and that the UK pay the EU for "commitments" previously made.
She hoped this offer, made in a speech in Italy, would unblock Brexit talks.
In the first response by a European leader to the speech, Mr Macron welcomed her initiative, but said the British position still needed to be fleshed out.
"Before we move forward, we wish to clarify the issue of the regulation of European citizens, the financial terms of the exit and the question of Ireland," he said.
"If those three points are not clarified, then we cannot move forward on the rest."
Mrs May said there should be a transition period of "about" two years after March 2019 - when the UK leaves the EU - during which trade should continue on current terms

EU migrants would still be able to live and work in the UK but they would have to register with the authorities, under her proposals.
And she said the UK would pay into the EU budget for decisions made while it was a member, so other member states were not left out of pocket.
'We have not left'

She did not specify how much the UK would be prepared to pay during the transition period, but it has been estimated as being at least 20bn euros (about 18bn).
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Demonstrators were out in Florence for the speech

In Germany, the ruling CDU's European spokesman Michael Stuebgen said Mrs May's speech would not provide the "new dynamism" needed as details had not been fleshed out.
And the head of the country's small and medium business association said her speech was a "wasted opportunity".
At home, Mrs May's speech was welcomed by senior Conservative figures including Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and Chancellor Philip Hammond.
But former Brexit minister Lord Bridges, who resigned from the department in June, said Britain needed to be ready for the scenario where the country crashed out of the EU without a deal.
"What will happen at customs, data, aviation, energy, law?
The list goes on and on.
I would urge the government to not be too coy about this," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
If the EU senses the UK is not ready to leave without a deal, it would be "captured" at the negotiating table, he said.
Backbench MP Jacob Rees-Mogg criticised the PM's stance on freedom of movement until March 2019, offering the union money, and the role of the European Courts of Justice on Britain.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption May on Brexit: "A two year transition period"

In her speech, the prime minister suggested there should be a new security agreement and a new model for trade

She said the UK and EU would continue to work together on long-term economic projects and the UK would want to contribute to costs.
When the two-year transition period was up, the UK and EU could move towards a new "deep and special partnership," she said.
By March 2019, neither the UK or EU would be ready to "smoothly" implement new arrangements, Mrs May said, so she suggested current trade terms should remain in place.
That would last until new systems were set up.
Analysis

By BBC Political Editor Laura Kuenssberg

It's been pretty well established in Whitehall for many months - the most eager Brexiteers who wanted short, sharp exit lost that battle some time ago.
Her acknowledgment of that pulls against her repeated insistence in the election that the public just want politicians to "get on with it".
And there were new nuggets of information that will influence the talks.
Read Laura's full blog

Mrs May said she hoped to build a "comprehensive and ambitious" new economic partnership with the EU in the long-term.
She reassured EU citizens in the UK that "we want you to stay, we value you" and said she wanted UK courts to take account of rulings by the European Court of Justice.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Cabinet ministers were in the front row in Florence to hear the speech

The EU's chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier described the speech as "constructive" and said the prime minister had shown "a willingness to move forward".
But he said statements must now be translated into a precise negotiating position of the UK government.
And he said he would look at the implications of the UK's pledge that no member state would have to pay more as a result of Brexit.
European Parliament Brexit negotiator Guy Verhofstadt said the UK's position was becoming "more realistic" but ruled out the UK registering EU citizens who wanted to stay.
Labour Leader Jeremy Corbyn acknowledged a transition was needed to provide stability for businesses and workers.
Mr Barnier meets Brexit Secretary David Davis for a fourth round of talks on Monday.
Image copyright Getty Images

Some shadow cabinet members are unhappy about not getting to speak from the main platform at the Labour conference in Brighton, Jeremy Corbyn has said.
Asked why Manchester mayor Andy Burnham would not get a slot, the Labour leader said there was a need to "rebalance" the conference in favour of delegates.
Speaking times would be "severely restricted" this year, he told the BBC.
He also said Labour would consider scrapping the Hinkley Point C nuclear plant, if it won power.
The Labour faithful are gathering in Brighton for what Mr Corbyn has said will be the party's biggest-ever conference.
He has denied being "bounced" into giving London mayor Sadiq Khan a slot by the party's conference arrangement's committee.
Mr Khan and Mr Burnham, who was elected mayor of the new Greater Manchester combined authority in May, are two of Labour's most powerful elected politicians.
Mr Corbyn - who will address delegates on Wednesday - told BBC North West Tonight: "I want to make sure that delegates have more time to speak than in the past and so we've reduced the number of platform speakers and reduced the time for platform speakers, including shadow cabinet members.
"I can't say any of them are very happy about it but it has to be done if we're to rebalance our conference.
And I want to make sure there is a big voice for local government."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption It has been confirmed that mayor of London Sadiq Khan will be speaking

The comments came after Mr Corbyn had told BBC London on Friday that he was "delighted" that Mr Khan will be speaking.
Mr Khan has been critical of Mr Corbyn in the past and backed Owen Smith's leadership challenge last year, had not been expected to get a conference slot.
Hinkley cancellation?
In another interview, for BBC Points West, Mr Corbyn would not rule out a Labour government pulling the plug on Hinkley Point C unless the nuclear power station was "already built and in operation".
Last year, the government approved the new 18bn plant at Hinkley Point in Somerset, which is being financed by French state-owned power company EDF and the Chinese government.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hinkley Point in Somerset already houses two power stations

Critics of the deal have warned of escalating costs, including in the so-called "strike price" - the guaranteed amount that consumers will pay for the electricity generated.
The UK government has guaranteed EDF a fixed price for the electricity it produces for 35 years.
Asked whether Britain's new nuclear power station should go ahead, Mr Corbyn said: "You have to look at the strike price, you have to look at the long term implications of it.
"The government has not yet concluded on that."
However, asked whether he would pull the plug if Labour came to power after the station had been built, he said: "If it's already built and in operation then of course not.
"But I do want to see, I must say, a much greater diversity of energy generation."
The Labour leader has given a series of media interviews ahead of the party's annual party conference, which begins in Brighton on Sunday.
He told the Guardian that Theresa May's government was in disarray and Labour under his leadership now represents the mainstream of British politics.
Image caption Mr Sarwar said he had taken the step to "demonstrate his commitment to public service"

Scottish Labour leadership candidate Anas Sarwar has announced that he has relinquished all his shares in his family's wholesale business.
The move follows criticism that United Wholesale (Scotland) did not pay all staff the real living wage.
Mr Sarwar said he had taken the step to "demonstrate his commitment to public service".
He added that it was also to ensure "the campaign debate can fully focus on policy issues".
The Glasgow MSP is standing against Richard Leonard in the Labour leadership contest, which was sparked by Kezia Dugdale's resignation last month.
Earlier this week Mr Sarwar denied being "one of the few" as he defended his family's firm over its failure to pay the real living wage to all staff.
He said United Wholesale (Scotland) Ltd did not pay everyone the real living wage of 8.45 an hour because it was "voluntary".
'Fully transparent'

Mr Sarwar's minority shareholding in the firm is said to be worth 4.8m.
In a statement released on Saturday, Mr Sarwar said he had signed a discretionary trust deed that meant he could never access the assets.
The beneficiaries of the trust will be Mr Sarwar's three young children, who he said would not access the assets until they were adults.
Image copyright United Wholesale (Scotland) Image caption Mr Sarwar says he has relinquished his entire shareholding in United Wholesale (Scotland) Ltd

The statement read: "To demonstrate his commitment to public service and to ensure the campaign debate can fully focus on policy issues, Mr Sarwar has today taken the decision to relinquish all his shares in United Wholesale (Scotland).
"The Glasgow MSP has always been fully transparent about his shareholding in the highly successful employer set up from scratch by his father, which Mr Sarwar plays no active role in and voluntarily waived his right to any dividend after becoming an MSP.
"He will now be unable to access the assets or take any remuneration for his lifetime, demonstrating his unswerving commitment to public service."
Father's achievements

Mr Sarwar said: "I will never apologise for being my father's son.
I am incredibly proud of his achievements, building a company from scratch than now employs around 250 workers - many in Nicola Sturgeon's own constituency.
"Scotland has cradled my family, nurtured it and gave it opportunity and success.
"And it's the Labour Party that allowed them to share that success to help others.
"I'm in the Labour Party because of those values and because I know our party remains the single best vehicle for change in this country.
"That's why I have dedicated my life to fighting for the values I believe in."
Mr Sarwar said earlier this week he was not a director of United Wholesale, had "no say" in how it operated and did not receive any remuneration from it.
He also said the firm did not pay everyone the real living wage because it was voluntary while he wanted to make it mandatory.
And he told BBC Scotland on Wednesday that he had received assurances from the company that it "wants to transition to a real living wage for all employees".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Police force to appoint commander in direct entry scheme

"Oh mum you look like a cop!"
said Maggie Blyth's daughter, seeing her in uniform for the first time.
But unlike many new cops, Maggie is not about to begin years of grinding out beat shifts as a constable.
She is getting ready to command more than a hundred police officers and staff.
The BBC's Daily Politics was given exclusive access to a new recruit becoming part of one of the most controversial reforms in the history of policing.
After just over a year's training, Maggie Blyth is to become Portsmouth District Commander, Hampshire's first Direct Entry superintendent.
She previously had a 30-year career in child protection.
"One colleague described it as a bit of a handbrake turn," Maggie tells me.
"She said, you've got retirement coming up, couldn't you just settle into those plans?
But I was looking for another challenge, I think I had something to offer."
'Much to be gained'

The government's Direct Entry scheme allows talented civilians to join the police in senior roles.
It breaks a 180-year tradition of officers with "mud on their boots" gradually rising through police ranks.
Maggie addresses this head on: "Before I joined, many of the questions I asked of colleagues in policing and elsewhere, were around credibility."
"I won't have some of the specialist skills of someone who has walked the beat.
What I do bring is a range of other skills and experiences that I think compliment where UK policing is going."
During her career Maggie Blyth dealt with some of the most challenging child protection issues facing authorities.
In Oxford, she chaired the safeguarding children board which made headlines after revealing that 300 children were believed to have been sexually exploited in the city over a number of years, by gangs of mostly Asian men.
Similar cases in Rotherham, Newcastle, and Rochdale showed vulnerable youngsters had been failed by the authorities.
Image caption Maggie Blyth became a superintendent after 30 years in child protection

"Policing is really changing," Maggie says.
"I think there has to be a much better join up between the different NHS health organisations, between local government and policing to find a joint solution to some of these continuing issues facing our communities."
The College of Policing received more than 2,000 applications for this year's Direct Entry scheme.
Recruits have come from banking, Army, and Home Office backgrounds - to name a few.
But not all police forces are receptive.
Only nine forces are looking to take on new Direct Entry recruits in 2017.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd believes there is "much to be gained" from bringing outside talent into policing.
She pointed out in a speech to the National Police Chief's Council last year that there were six people who passed the Direct Entry superintendent assessment who were not offered posts, saying: "That is policing's loss."
'Split second' decisions

Perhaps unsurprisingly from within an institution with a culture of discipline and earning one's rank, there have been concerns.
John Apter from the Hampshire Police Federation told the BBC Daily Politics Programme: "Whilst the Direct Entry recruits are highly motivated and very gifted individuals, they don't really have the concept of policing to fall back on.
"You get the knowledge, and the understanding of policing by walking in the same shoes as those police officers have done"

He believes it could even prove dangerous.
While superintendents take on a strategic, managerial role, John Apter says inspector level recruits could be left particularly exposed, because they must make critical operational decisions under pressure.
"At 3am on a Saturday morning, whether that's a firearms incident, whether it's a hostage type situation, or a large scale public order incident, you don't have a bank of experts on hand to give you advice."
"You have to make those decisions in a split second.
You have to rely on your experience.
I have serious concerns that that will be a problem."
"Direct Entry needs to be evaluated.
It's costing a fortune.
Is it good value for money?
I'm not convinced it is."
Portsmouth presents a wide range of policing challenges.
From alcohol-fuelled violence, to previous problems with radicalisation and some racial tensions, the city is a busy patch.
Maggie Blyth has been completing a series of placements with front-line officers, acting as a sergeant and inspector, making arrests and attending a variety of operations such as drugs raids.
While filming we accompany her to a tower block to follow up on a neighbourhood dispute.
She has been under continuous assessment and will have to sit final exams before becoming Portsmouth's district commander for real.
Respect

I ask her whether she really thinks she has been able to cram in all the knowledge and experience she'll need, in just a year?
"One of the things said to me," Maggie explains, "is that you're already 80% a superintendent in terms of the leadership skills you've brought from elsewhere, 20% is in-depth operational policing knowledge and understanding."
"This last year has equipped me with detailed knowledge of what it's like to be policing in Portsmouth and across Hampshire from a range of specialist aspects of policing.
I think in terms of the advice and support I will also have from colleagues, that equips me well."
So what about officers under her?
Will she have their respect?
Some may have been waiting years themselves for promotion.
"You'd have to ask them," Maggie says.
"I've had a very strong welcome.
Peers have said to me phone any time, even if it's 4am in the morning.
"I'm sure, quite rightly, there will be questions asked about new ways of entry into policing and how effective that is.
"My own personal view is that having different routes into policing is positive.
We should be diverse"

Changing long-held traditions in policing was always going to be tough.
Many have doubts about Direct Entry, and Maggie Blyth knows an excellent track record from her previous career can only get her so far.
She will need to prove her worth.
But an officer who accompanies us, confides in me off camera, saying: "Everyone wants her to succeed.
Whatever people say about it beforehand, once someone is in there with you, you want them to succeed.
That is policing.
We're a team."
Image copyright Getty Images

The 2017 general election was the moment when the internet finally delivered on its long-awaited promise of having a big effect, both on how individual people voted and the overall outcome of the election.
A flood of young voters, many of whom had relatively low levels of political knowledge, used the internet to get news about the general election.
This was crucial for boosting support for Labour and Jeremy Corbyn, according to new research on the dynamics of the 2017 vote.
In recent years, there has been talk about the power of the internet to affect elections.
Ahead of the 2017 general election, some pointed to a growth of pro-Labour websites and online forums as a potentially powerful weapon in Labour's arsenal.
Our study is one of the first to document how this online activity really did help Jeremy Corbyn and his party.
We've found that those who used the internet to get news about the general election were far more likely to have voted Labour.
And we observed that those who used the internet less often to gather political news and information were much more likely to vote Conservative.
This relationship is true for the entire electorate and across all age groups.
And it continues to have a strong and positive effect on how people voted, even after we take into account a whole range of factors including age, gender, social class, party identification, how people voted in the referendum and levels of education.
Overall, among all respondents, our research suggests that 16% used the internet "a great deal" to get information about the election, 23% used it "a fair amount", 23% "not very much" and 38% "not at all" or said they did not know.
However, those who use the internet more often were significantly more likely to vote Labour.
Sixty-one per cent of those who used the internet "a great deal" to gather news about the general election opted for Labour, compared with only 21% who voted Conservative.
Conversely, 56% who said they used the internet "not at all" voted Conservative, while 30% opted for Labour.
How much people use the internet also correlates with voting patterns among older people.
Again, those who said they use the internet a great deal were strongly pro-Labour and pro-Jeremy Corbyn.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The study found that Labour's vote was boosted by young people who followed the election online

These effects involve a combination of two factors: "mobilisation" (things that influence people to turn out and vote) and "persuasion" (things that influence their choice of party).
Turnout among people aged 18-29 was up by an estimated 19% on the previous general election in 2015.
Our data shows that both the decision to vote and the choices these young people made at the polls were associated with the volume of news about the election that they consumed online.
Another effect that we find relates to how knowledgeable people are about politics.
In our surveys, we tested people's political knowledge by asking if eight randomly selected statements were true or false and then counted the number of correct answers.
The statements included assertions like: "The minimum voting age for UK general elections is now 16 years of age," and "The chancellor of the Exchequer is responsible for setting interest rates in the UK."
Though internet usage and political knowledge are only slightly linked, it is clear that, after rigorous statistical tests, how knowledgeable people are about politics had significant effects on how they voted.
If survey respondents were frequent internet users but did not know much about politics they tended to vote Labour.
In contrast, if they weren't internet savvy but knew a fair bit about politics, they tended to vote Conservative.
These effects held across all age groups for both Labour and the Conservatives, with the exception of pensioners in the case of the Tories.
This means that those effects weren't caused by the age of the respondent, which at first sight is the obvious explanation for differences in internet usage among the voters.
Put simply, political knowledge continues to have a strong effect on Labour and Conservative voting even after we take statistical account of all of "the usual suspects" that are used to explain voting - such as social class, age, gender income, people's "left-right" placement and how they voted in the 2016 referendum.
The effects of internet usage and political knowledge work strongly through voters' images of the party leaders.
Even after we take account of a whole host of other things, like age and income, people with low political knowledge who used the internet to get their election news tended to like Jeremy Corbyn and dislike Theresa May.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May scored higher than Jeremy Corbyn among those who did not use the internet

For example, among those who said they used the internet "a great deal", the average score for Jeremy Corbyn on a 0 ("really dislike") to 10 ("really like") scale is 6.4, whereas among those who said they did not use the internet at all, his average score is much lower, only 3.4.
The pattern for Theresa May is the opposite: her average score among those who used the internet a great deal is 2.9, whereas among those who did not use the net, her average is considerably higher, at 5.3.
For Jeremy Corbyn, political knowledge, the survey suggests, has a negative effect on feelings about the Labour leader while internet usage has a positive effect.
For Theresa May, political knowledge has a positive effect on feelings about the Conservative Party leader while internet usage has a negative effect.
In contrast, people with high political knowledge who did not use the internet for general election news liked Mrs May and disliked Mr Corbyn.
About this piece

This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from experts working for outside organisations.
Harold Clarke is Ashbel Smith professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Matthew Goodwin is professor of political science at the University of Kent, Canterbury, Paul Whiteley is a professor of government at the University of Essex and Marianne Stewart is a professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Discover more about the methodology they used here.
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has used a speech in Florence to set out the UK's position on how to move Brexit talks forward.
With further negotiations planned next week, what did her speech tell us about the sort of Brexit deal we might end up with?
Reality Check correspondent Chris Morris has been scanning the speech.
Future of the EU

What's the significance?
It's worth noting that a lot of Brexit supporters in the UK jumped on Jean-Claude Juncker's State of the European Union speech last week - in which he set out an ambitious agenda of greater integration - as an example of why they wanted to leave in the first place.
The PM picked up on this - we're getting out of your way while you move in a different direction that we've never felt entirely comfortable with.
That's good for both of us she implied.
It slightly ignores the fact that many EU leaders wouldn't agree with Mr Juncker's proposals - but it's a point that will go down well on the Tory backbenches.
Success of Brexit

What's the significance?
The tone matters here.
Urging EU leaders to be creative, ambitious and to share a "profound sense of responsibility to make this change work" is a bit of a departure from the language in her last major speech on Brexit at Lancaster House in London in January.
It contained warnings of "an act of calamitous self-harm" for the countries of Europe if they sought to punish the UK, and the famous assertion that "no deal is better than a bad deal" for Britain.
The rest of the EU will take note of this more collaborative appeal but will also be watching to see whether the tone changes again in the prime minister's speech to the Conservative party conference next month.
Citizens' rights

What's the significance?
The prime minister is saying she wants to incorporate an agreement on EU citizens' rights into UK law, and she thinks UK courts should be able to "take into account" the judgements of the European Court of Justice.
It's a real guarantee, she says: "We want you to stay."
The trouble is that it's not what the EU is demanding.
The chief EU negotiator Michel Barnier insisted in a speech yesterday that the Court of Justice should remain the ultimate guarantor of any agreement.
The big difficulty here is that jurisdiction is a pretty black-and-white issue - there are few grey areas.
As things stand, the UK view is that British courts should have the final say, and the EU sees that as unacceptable.
Trade

What's the significance?
So the Prime Minister has ruled out a European Economic Area-style solution to a future relationship (this would be like Norway - part of the single market but not part of the EU).
Mrs May says it would still be too restrictive for the UK.
And she ruled out an ambitious free trade deal like the one the EU has with Canada - it would take too long and would ignore the fact that we start from a position where all our rules and regulations are the same.
So she wants a unique solution - a new deep and special partnership.
But in this speech she hasn't really given more details of exactly what that solution would be.
Transitional period

What's the significance?
This is important.
It means that during a transition period - the prime minister suggested two years as a possibility - all the rules will remain the same.
That means payments into the EU budget, free movement of people and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice would stay in place.
That's always been the position of the rest of the EU - it now appears that the UK has accepted that there is no way round this.
Mrs May confirmed that there will be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition, but that after Brexit they will be registered as they arrive.
That is something that the UK could already do under current EU rules, but it never has done so.
'Divorce bill'

What's the significance?
The prime minister is trying to reassure other member states that no net contributor will have to pay more, and no net recipient will receive less, during the current seven-year budget period, which runs until the end of 2020.
That suggests that the UK will provide the sum of roughly 20bn euros (18bn) in the two-year transition period that it has now proposed.
What's not yet clear is whether the UK thinks these payments will also cover some of its outstanding debts - debts that the EU insists have to be settled as part of a withdrawal agreement.
The rest of the EU will view the 18bn as payment for the UK being allowed to maintain its current role in the single market.
A lot depends on what exactly Mrs May meant by this key sentence: "The UK will honour commitments made during the period of our membership."
Note she didn't say "all" our commitments.
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Some critics dismissed Jeremy Corbyn's call for the state to take back control of water, electricity and rail

As Jeremy Corbyn prepares for his first party conference since a stronger than expected general election result, what would his plans for the state to take control of water, electricity and the railways mean for Britain?
Shareholders may not be fully compensated under Labour's nationalisation plans, it is understood.
Investors in companies judged to have behaved poorly since privatisation could lose out.
They will not necessarily receive the full market value of their shareholding.
Labour figures believe Parliament should consider how much companies have invested and how they have managed their assets when it calculates compensation.
English water companies would be a priority for public ownership, and Labour may make investors exchange shares for government debt - or gilts.
Prof David Hall, from Greenwich University, says the nationalisation of the failing bank Northern Rock - and a court case that followed - showed it was "perfectly reasonable" for the government to take ownership of a private company without fully compensating shareholders.
In Northern Rock's case, investors were paid nothing.
During Jeremy Corbyn's first leadership campaign John McDonnell - then Mr Corbyn's campaign agent, now shadow chancellor - warned a Labour government might take back recently privatised companies with reduced compensation or none at all.
Prof Hall says: "Some people think of it as the government just buying things on the stock market.
That's not how public ownership works."
Labour thinks privatisations in the 1980s and 1990s were a bad idea, and that privatised companies give consumers a bad deal.
'Bargain basement prices'

Mariana Mazzucato is the Director of UCL's Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose and a former Labour adviser.
Image copyright Mariana Mazzucato Image caption Prof Mariana Mazzucato warns poorly structured privatisation can sell the public sector short

She doesn't advocate the party's policy, but warns that privatisation without enough conditions attached can see businesses "benefiting massively from publicly created value".
They can get assets at "bargain basement prices," she says, and may not invest further but enjoy short-term profits.
"It ends up in the private sector, having [come] from the public sector, and [the new owner] not having done its part."
Labour says prices would be lower under public ownership because the state can borrow to fund investment more cheaply than private companies.
Disruptive?
Britain would need to borrow tens of billions of pounds to fund nationalisations, but would then hold valuable assets.
Supporters point out water, for example, was never privatised in Scotland and Northern Ireland, and is run by a not-for-profit company in Wales.
There are plenty of examples on the Continent of publicly run utilities.
But the details of Labour's likely plans show how disruptive they could be to some businesses.
Taking control of English water companies would see the state ordering companies whose shares are not listed on the stock exchange - some of whose owners are based abroad - to hand over equity in return for public debt.
Opponents say this would alarm investors, driving them and their money abroad.
With electricity, the party intends to take charge of the companies that run regional power networks by changing their licence terms.
Private companies would be left owning - but no longer controlling - electricity lines and substations.
Rail franchises - the rights to run trains in different parts of the country - would be taken up by the state as they expired.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Economist Sir John Vickers argues neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses

To sceptics and critics, there is a hole at the heart of the plan: any evidence that the state would do a better job than private companies.
Oxford economist and former head of the Office of Fair Trading Sir John Vickers says neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses where consumers can't shop around - such as control of water pipes.
Interference and inefficiency?
Independent regulation can deal with many problems, he says, but adds: "Memories can be short.
The previous era, the nationalised era, was not exactly glorious in terms of efficiency, customer service and investment in these sectors."
Put more robustly - nationalisation's critics think it would see a return to political interference and inefficiency.
Who's right?
There are clues, in not only longstanding public companies but also new ones.
Image copyright Bristol Energy

In Bristol and Nottingham, the city councils own their own energy retail businesses.
Bristol Energy was set up under a previous independent mayor, but the present Labour incumbent Marvin Rees says: "We are the shareholder as the city.
When we make a return, it comes back into the city.
People are buying a product off a company that invests in Bristol."
Public ownership for them means not just the principle of control, but ethical behaviour: advice for customers and seeking out the best deals for people who struggle to heat their homes.
Image copyright Bristol City Council Image caption Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees argues the Bristol Energy model can work

Crucially, if it works, it will be taxpayers, not shareholders, who benefit - if it works.
For now, Bristol Energy is losing money, more than 10m over two years.
The city has given the company loans and guarantees worth 17m.
The company expects to be profitable by 2021.
Plenty of new companies lose money, but when I ask Bristol Energy's managing director, Peter Haigh, how much he expects to have lost by 2021, I don't get an answer.
As with any business, failure is possible, and here taxpayers would bear the cost.
Neither side in this debate can prove by accountancy or precedent that nationalisation would see consumers better or worse off.
One group has been proven wrong though: those who paid the policy little attention when Labour's manifesto leaked before the general election because they thought the party leader was about to lead his party to political annihilation.
Mr Corbyn and Corbynism survived.
The nationalisation debate is back.
Image copyright Getty Images

The idea of a transition period after Brexit is being talked about more and more often.
But there's very little consensus on what it might look like.
Bespoke or off-the-peg?
In the frustratingly fuzzy terminology of Brexit, this tailoring choice, between something made to measure and ready-to-wear, is often used to describe the options for stitching together a relationship between the UK and the EU immediately after Brexit in March 2019.
This is not to be confused with the long-term "deep and special partnership" Theresa May promises.
Rather, it is what the prime minister describes as an "implementation period" but many others call "the transition" - the adjustment phase between Britain leaving the EU and arriving at some future and final destination.
When Mrs May talks about a "smooth" Brexit that avoids a "cliff edge", it is the arrangements for a transition phase she is referring to, covering customs systems, immigration controls, aviation regulation, criminal justice cooperation and more.
But 15 months on from the EU referendum, and with negotiations in Brussels apparently stuck, the UK government is under pressure (not least from business) to spell out what this transition phase might look like - to replace hazy rhetoric with specific proposals.
This is what cabinet ministers have been scrapping about, both in private and public through the summer, and it may be a focus of Theresa May's speech in Florence on Friday.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cabinet ministers have varying ideas on what a "transition phase" might look like

The Article 50 process allows only two years of negotiations to hammer out a withdrawal agreement (the terms of divorce), which should take into account "the framework for [the UK's] future relationship with the union".
With six months already gone, it's clear that neither side believes there's any chance of wrapping up and ratifying a new trade deal in that time.
In fact legally, the EU can conclude a new trade relationship with the UK only after Britain has left.
That's why the government now believes a transition period will be necessary.
It will have to be negotiated with the EU, of course, but what do we know about Theresa May's thinking?
Even though there is no formally stated government position, her ministers were very loquacious on the subject over the summer, and splits have been clear.
On 20 June, the Chancellor, Philip Hammond, pressed the need to negotiate "mutually beneficial transitional arrangements".
A month later, the Trade Secretary, Liam Fox, (a leading Leave campaigner) said any transition period had to end by the date of the next election, due in 2022.
In mid-August, the two cabinet ministers wrote a joint article stating a "time-limited interim period will be important to further our national interest and give business greater certainty - but it cannot be a back door to staying in the EU".
They also said the UK would be outside the customs union during this transition period.
Then on 12 September, Philip Hammond told a House of Lords committee the government was looking for a transition deal that looked "a lot like the status quo".
It's a fair guess that the Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson, does not.
His 4,300-word rumination in the Daily Telegraph on Britain's post-Brexit future made no mention of a transitional period.
Speaking afterwards in New York, Mr Johnson said the UK should not make any "extortionate" payments to the EU for access to the single market after Brexit, and insisted any transition period should not be "too long".
The argument goes on, and soon Theresa May will have to choose.
Although the cabinet does seem to broadly agree a transitional period is needed, it is a political minefield for the prime minister.
The government has been adamant that Britain will no longer be a member of the single market on Brexit day, and will leave the customs union.
Instead, it wants continued access to the single market and customs arrangements as frictionless as they are now, while having the freedom to strike trade deals with non-EU countries.
That's the "sweet spot" status quo Philip Hammond has talked about.
The Tories' opponents say this is a fantasy.
Over the summer, the Labour Party arrived at the view that the only way to minimise economic disruption during a transition period was to keep Britain in the single market (through membership of the European Free Trade Association and the European Economic Area) and the customs union.
It is one obvious "off the shelf" option.
But for many Eurosceptic Conservatives, it is a non-starter.
It would mean the continued free movement of people to Britain, a continued role for the European Court of Justice and a hefty price tag.
But Henry Newman, director of the think tank Open Europe, thinks a "pay-to-play" arrangement is what the UK is likely to seek.
"I think the UK is going to have to say it will voluntarily impose ECJ judgements, and voluntarily pay as if we were EU members during that period," Mr Newman says.
Furthermore, putting money on the negotiating table now to pay for a transition deal could be a way for the UK to unblock the stalled talks.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brexit talks in Brussels are currently focused on UK payments to the EU, rather than trade arrangements

How much?
The figure of 10bn euros a year for three years is often heard around Whitehall.
So long as payments do not continue beyond the transition period, Boris Johnson may be kept on board.
Apart from the cost, the big concern among Brexit-supporting Tories is that a transition deal that looks a lot like the status quo could harden into something permanent.
Prof Kenneth Armstrong is the author of Brexit Time: Leaving the EU - Why, How and When?
He believes that if the UK negotiates its way into the single market, the aim of then negotiating a comprehensive free trade agreement with the EU might be put off indefinitely.
The result?
"A UK that finds itself lost in transition," Prof Armstrong warns.
Complicating matters further for the UK is the fact the EU shows no inclination to sew together a bespoke transitional deal.
The EU's own negotiating mandate is clear that any transitional arrangements must be in the interests of the European Union, "limited in time, and subject to effective enforcement mechanisms".
EU leaders will not want the UK to have the benefits of the economic status quo without the obligations of membership.
"No cherry picking," is the mantra in Brussels.
The remaining 27 members of the EU are (so far) united in aims and tactics.
Even if Theresa May manages to bind her cabinet around a transition position that satisfies all wings of her party, it will still need the consent of the EU.
Negotiations with the EU are likely to move forward only if the UK is much more explicit about the price it is willing to pay and can map out where a transition will eventually lead.
Image copyright Getty Images

Labour's annual conference gets under way in Brighton on Sunday - what could the week hold for the expected thousands of delegates?
Party time

It's going to be noisy, colourful and big - Jeremy Corbyn did better than anyone expected at the general election, gaining an extra 30 MPs, and Brighton is the first chance his followers have had to celebrate that achievement en masse.
Party membership has increased to nearly 600,000, making Labour the biggest political party in Europe.
Mr Corbyn has said he is looking forward to "a brilliant conference, the biggest we've ever held".
But there are still tensions behind the scenes between the newly-dominant Corbynite wing of the party and the "moderates", some of whom will, no doubt, insist on ruining the party mood by pointing out that Labour did not actually win the election.
Preparing for an election

Making political predictions is unfashionable so it's anyone's guess whether there'll be another general election sooner rather than later.
With Theresa May trying to manage a minority government, Mr Corbyn is betting on the "sooner" option.
While most MPs headed for the beach, he spent the summer touring marginal constituencies ensuring his troops were on full election footing.
At conference, there'll be a big drive to train new members in Labour's latest campaign technology and techniques.
Instead of sipping warm wine (or Prosecco) at fringe meetings, many delegates will be drilled in "Promote", Labour's new digital marketing tool that spreads tailored messages via Facebook.
Humour

All sounding rather earnest so far?
Take heart from Billy Hayes, former leader of the Communication Workers Union, who told Progress magazine recently that older activists were marvelling at "the invention and humour of newer 21st Century socialists".
All one happy family?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jeremy Corbyn meets fans on his summer tour

Only a year ago, Labour MPs tried to oust Mr Corbyn as party leader.
Thanks to the support of members, he held on.
Since Mr Corbyn's surprise general election success, some MPs seem to have softened their stance, in public at least.
But those recent divisions, coupled with Labour's history of strife, do not simply vanish.
And there are several dimensions.
Grassroots members versus the Parliamentary Labour Party.... Blairites versus the Left...
Momentum versus "moderate" MPs.
But how vitriolic will any disagreements be?
In a pre-conference message Mr Corbyn felt moved to ask delegates to debate in a "comradely, respectful and honest way".
The conference will be a test of his skills in keeping divisions in check.
Brexit

All the recent headlines have been about Conservative splits, but the EU is a divisive issue for Labour too.
In fact, Brexit could cause one of the biggest arguments of all at conference.
Labour is getting the Brexit debate out of the way on Monday morning.
Most Labour MPs are Remainers although there are a handful of Leavers.
And more Brexit

So what exactly is Labour's position?
After a period of constructive ambiguity Labour announced last month it would support full participation in the single market and customs union during a "transitional period".
It was hailed as a dramatic policy shift, positioning Labour as the party of "soft Brexit".
But some Labour MPs believe they should be fighting to stay in the EU or at least to remain in the single market after Brexit.
Some support the idea of a referendum on any Brexit deal.
In short, it's unlikely the party will be able to unite behind one policy.
If delegates don't get enough Brexit on the conference floor there are plenty of fringe meetings, including one called: "What Brexit means for music."
Refreshments are provided, thankfully.
Personality politics

Mr Corbyn may profess to shy away from personality politics but his opponents won't.
The Conservatives are trying to frighten each other (and voters) with warnings about Mr Corbyn.
William Hague said this week that the Tories must unite or "Jeremy Corbyn will be the Prime Minister... completely ruining this country".
And if fear doesn't hit home, there's ridicule.
Sir Vince Cable joked that Mr Corbyn's "acolytes are focused on how to maximise the contradictions of capitalism".
Many people will learn about Mr Corbyn via the media.
It seems journalists may no longer have access to the conference floor, close to the action, and will have to watch from the balcony.
Hell hath no fury like a sketch-writer dumped in the cheap seats.
Corbyn's big speech

Image copyright Getty Images/PA Image caption There have been comparisons between Clement Attlee and Jeremy Corbyn

After a wobbly start, Mr Corbyn has grown in confidence as a political front man, getting to grips with an autocue, something he had never had cause to use during his decades on the back benches, and appearing more poised in media interviews and at the weekly bear-pit of Prime Minister's Questions.
His big speech on Wednesday will give him a chance to reach out beyond the party faithful in the hall into the homes of evening news viewers.
His supporters, such as MP Chris Williamson, say Labour will come to recognise Mr Corbyn as the best leader they've ever had - better than the post-war Labour leader Clement Attlee, another unflashy speaker.
But will his message cut through to sofa-bound floating voters?
Policy debates

Image copyright Reuters

We're told the party's election manifesto "For the Many, Not the Few" will be "fleshed out" at conference.
Key pledges include scrapping tuition fees and renationalising the railways.
On tax, Labour would introduce a 45p rate on salaries of over 80,000 and a 50p one for earnings above 123,000.
There would be more free childcare, guaranteed incomes for pensioners, 10,000 new police officers and 3,000 extra firefighers.
Will Mr Corbyn and his frontbench team - including shadow chancellor John McDonnell (above) - be able to flesh out answers to questions about whether there's enough money to pay for his plans?
Tinkering with the party machine

Labour's ruling body - the National Executive Committee - has agreed to Mr Corbyn's plans to hand more power to party members.
At the moment, they've got six representatives on the 35-member NEC.
Mr Corbyn wants to create three further seats for them.
There's an extra seat for the trade unions too.
The proposals require the approval of conference.
Team Corbyn says they are not technicalities but part of a "democratic revolution".
Critics say they signify Mr Corbyn 'tightening his grip on the party'.
Expect to hear a lot of that phrase.
The 'McDonnell amendment'

Jeremy Corbyn is also keen to reduce the amount of influence MPs have in who leads the party.
The current rule is that you only get on the shortlist if you have the backing of 15% of all Labour MPs and MEPs.
Mr Corbyn got on the shortlist by the skin of his teeth in 2015 thanks to some kindly Labour MPs who thought that including Mr Corbyn would widen the debate (It certainly did that).
In previous leadership elections, other left-wing candidates haven't been so lucky.
John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, failed to get on the shortlist twice.
Mr Corbyn wants to change the rules so that a candidate only needs the support of 10% of MPs.
This has become known as the McDonnell amendment.
It could mean other wannabe leaders don't have to rely on a pity vote from moderates.
Who gets to speak from the main stage?
Image copyright Getty Images

In recent years Labour conferences have often been a beauty parade of the party's big names giving set piece speeches in the main hall.
Momentum - Jeremy Corbyn's support group - and others on the left say they want to open it up to "ordinary" party members, back to the pre-New Labour days of conference debating and deciding on party policy.
Decisions about who gets to speak and what is debated are made by the Conference Arrangements Committee and Mr Corbyn apparently wants shorter and fewer set piece speeches.
There had been specualtion that London mayor Sadiq Khan and the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham would not get speaking slots, as "punishment" for their past criticisms of the leader, but The Guardian says Mr Khan will get to speak after the Conference Arrangements Committee "managed to secure him a slot".
But all these decisions could be easily be changed, right up to the last minute.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Nigel Mansell, Nigel Kennedy and Nigel Farage - the last of a dying breed?
Celebrities and sports stars are often credited with influencing parents' choice of baby names - but it seems that politicians rarely have the same effect.
He was barely off the television in 2016 - but in the year of his greatest political triumph, it now seems there was no surge in people wanting to name their baby after Nigel Farage.
Nigel as a baby name has been teetering on the brink of extinction in England and Wales for several years and has now all but disappeared, according to the latest Office for National Statistics figures.
At most there were two Nigels born in 2016 - the ONS doesn't keep the data to tell us whether it was two, one or zero - but we can says for sure that more people in England and Wales named their child Elvis - three - than Nigel last year.
It seems unlikely to be anything personal, or to do with Brexit - there was an increase to 39 in the number of Borises, after all - but instead must just be another casualty of the mysterious forces of fashion that dictate baby names in Britain.
Where are all the Kevins, Trevors, Sharons, Doreens or, for that matter, Brians now?
Why are names like Oliver, William, Olivia and Emily so popular?
Peak Nigel occurred in 1963 - the year before the former UKIP leader was born - when 5,529 babies were given the name.
Like Norman (14 babies in 2016), Clive (3), Trevor (6) and other popular baby boy names of the mid-20th Century, it has slipped steadily from use, and may have to wait a decade or two more for its inevitable revival - when it is no longer seen as a middle-aged chap's name.
If it's any consolation, its decline was not as steep as that experienced by some 1970s favourites.
The first Darren was elected to the House of Commons this year - Labour's Darren Jones.
He might well be the last, with just 55 Darrens registered last year.
Image copyright UK Parliament Image caption The first Darren in Parliament - and the last?
Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
How popular is my name?
Search for your name Boys Girls

You can tell a lot about a politician or a public figure from their first name.
Some are blessed with neutral-sounding names that can be easily adapted to any circumstance; others are not so lucky.
Tony Blair - who has had children named after him in Kosovo and Sierra Leone (we're not sure about Iraq) in honour of his military interventions in those countries - was rarely Anthony, unless he was appearing as a barrister.
David "call me Dave" Cameron was another prime minister with a classless moniker, unlike his posher-sounding Chancellor Gideon (39 babies in 2016), who changed his name to the ever-popular George (5,236) as a teenager.
Image copyright Getty Images

The current crop of party leaders are blessed with solid but rather unfashionable first names, befitting their age and background.
Theresa is on the slide from an already low base - 19 babies shared their name with the prime minister last year, compared with 34 two decade ago - and Jeremy hardly fared better in 2016, with 54 newborn boys sharing the Labour leader's name, compared with 108 in 1996.
Corbyn, though, is on the up as a first name - 18 in 2016 compared with less than three in 1996.
There were slightly more baby Vinces (14) than Lib Dem MPs.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd fares a lot better - there were 1,066 baby Ambers last year.
But although Brits have long named their children after film stars and other celebrities - with the new Star Wars film apparently inspiring some choices in 2016 - politicians have rarely been a source of inspiration.
Few named their children after Winston Churchill in the 1940s, although the name was popular in the Commonwealth.
But one political name has undergone something of a revival in recent years, with 26 children beginning their journey in life last year as Enoch - up from none two decades earlier.
It is not known how many - if any - named their offspring after controversial "rivers of blood" MP Enoch Powell, however.
Image caption Shadow chancellor John McDonnell does not have the support of some of his fellow MPs

The Labour leadership don't simply want to be prepared for the possibility of an early election.
With the recent manoeuvrings within government, they think it's increasingly likely.
And there was a danger that next week's Labour conference could have highlighted internal divisions rather than promoted unity.
Due for discussion was the so called "McDonnell amendment".
Opponents of the shadow chancellor named it after him to highlight how someone as unpopular as he is with his fellow MPs could be on a future leadership ballot if only 5% of parliamentarians nominated him.
Currently, the support of 15% of Labour MPs and MEPs is required.
An 'interim' compromise

So Labour's ruling NEC has agreed a compromise.
The threshold to take part in future leadership elections would be reduced - on an "interim" basis - from 15% to 10% of Labour MPs and MEPs.
Opponents of Jeremy Corbyn don't really see this as a compromise at all.
They believe that a candidate as left-wing as Jeremy Corbyn could well be nominated by 10% of the parliamentary party (and opposed by 90% of existing MPs) and win the contest when the left-wing membership gets its say.
But it's unlikely they will have enough votes to defeat this when the final decision is taken at Labour's conference.
Image copyright PA Image caption Jeremy Corbyn has kept his party on an election footing

Some on the left, however, including leading lights in Momentum, the group that formed out of the first Jeremy Corbyn leadership campaign, see this as too much of a compromise.
They think the left should take an historic opportunity to entrench its power.
But the party leader is moving rather more cautiously.
So what we will see are attempts to tip the balance of power in the party machine more in his favour, without driving critics out.
The make-up of the ruling NEC will be altered, with three more members elected by the largely Corbyn-supporting grassroots.
However, as a sop to opponents, a new union place on the NEC is likely to go to Usdaw - which didn't back his leadership.
Long grass

The more controversial reforms will be "long grassed" until next year as part of a wider review of the party's rules and structures.
Jeremy Corbyn himself will present its remit to the NEC on Tuesday and propose that the former MP Katy Clark - firmly on the party's left but liked and respected more widely - will be in charge of the process.
However, I have been sent the terms of reference for the review, and understand that one of the totems of the left - mandatory reselection - won't be part of its remit.
Image caption The terms of reference of the review will not include mandatory reselection

For many years those who have wanted to see more power in the hands of left-wing members have argued that sitting MPs should have to - in effect - apply for their own job between each election.
They will be disappointed that Jeremy Corbyn doesn't appear to be intent on creating a PLP in his image.
MPs have Theresa May to thank for this.
Her apparent vulnerability means that, practically, this wouldn't be a good time for a Labour leader to declare war on his parliamentary party.
But in truth, Jeremy Corbyn also believes the existing system can be used more effectively to unseat unpopular MPs.
Local constituency parties can re-adopt an MP on the nod but they also have the little-used power to ballot all party members in a particular seat on whether to open up the contest to challengers.
Image copyright PA Image caption A return to the Blairite past looks increasingly unlikely

I am told that another demand by the left to water down Tom Watson's power by creating a second deputy leader post won't be explicitly included in the review, but that the process wouldn't preclude this from being discussed.
So don't expect to see revolutionary changes to Labour's structures today.
Instead, there is likely to be another incremental shift in the balance of power away from MPs and towards both the party leadership and the more left-wing membership.
The changes wouldn't make a return to the Blairite past impossible - but it would be increasingly unlikely.
Richard Angell, the director of Progress - which calls itself Labour's "centrist pressure group" and is seen within the party as a Blairite outfit - is not impressed.
"We are now in a permanent campaign to undermine the role of MPs, marginalise their voice and get them to acquiesce," he says.
"Never before has a review of this kind been conducted from behind the closed doors of the leader's office."
Image copyright PA Image caption One of the party's former leaders wants to see "dangerous ideas" to the fore

It is more than two years since their much-criticised alliance with the Conservatives came to an end.
But there are those who worry the Liberal Democrats are still in something of a post-coalition haze, to coin a phrase having "lost a (ministerial) empire but not yet found a role".
The Brexit vote has, of course, given the party fresh impetus and, with membership numbers rising above 100,000, there is no shortage of new blood at this conference.
Tim Farron's speech - a very personal reflection on how the Lib Dems clawed their way back from the brink of extinction in 2015 under his leadership - was meant to show this is a party with plenty of life in it.
While it would be unusual to expect new policies so soon after an election and with a new leader feeling his way, the conference, so far, has hardly been teeming with new ideas, a state of affairs which led one ex-leader to bemoan the shortage of new thinking and the ceding of big ideas to the left and right of the political spectrum.
Paddy Ashdown's critique of the party in the run-up to the conference and appeal for a "ferment of debate" may have touched a nerve, as it was designed to do, but there are many activists who broadly agree with him.
"We made compromises and we became compromised," says Graham Neale, chair of the Green Liberal Democrats, of his party's five years in government.
"15 years ago we were seen as the green party and synonymous with that.
Since coalition we seem to have lost our way."
Others are more forgiving of the sacrifices the party had to make in government, when it was hugely outnumbered but still often managed to punch above its weight, and believe its leaders have learnt lessons.
Mick Clark, a member from Yeovil, says one of the party's abiding strengths is its willingness to look itself in the mirror.
"Looking at the coalition era, there were positives and negatives.
Any party that does not learn from its own mistakes and those of others is deemed to failure."
'Bold centrism'

He believes it would be a mistake for the Lib Dems to now follow the Conservatives and Labour down the route of what he describes as "emotionally-led" politics.
"Everybody loves hope but when it is false hope it is misleading," he says.
"As a party we do need to be bold, to remain true to our beliefs.
To say you are a bold centrist may sound something like an oxymoron, to say the middle ground is an adventurous place but we are the party of common sense policies."
A recurring theme talking to new members, particularly those who previously supported the Tories, is distaste about cuts to welfare budgets in the past two years and a desire for the Lib Dems to push back harder on issues ranging from housing benefit to disability living allowances.
"Liberal values and the way the world is moving require us to take a more radical view," says Michelle Booth, who joined the party last year and wants the leadership to focus on the most vulnerable in society.
Image caption The Lib Dems should be the champions of a zero-carbon Britain, environmentalists argue

"It is all very well saying centrist moderate but to get to where we want to be and where we need to be, we do need to be a bit more radical and stand up for what counts."
The environment, both in terms of promoting clean energy and protecting biodiversity, is another priority for many.
The Green Liberal Democrats are using the conference to launch a fully-costed plan for a zero-carbon Britain by 2050 which they claim goes well beyond what anyone else is envisaging, including the Greens.
"It means we are going to be more than credible on the environment," says Graham Neale.
"We have to be radical and find ideas that we can introduce into the mainstream."
While excited about the pace of technological change in the renewable sector, he is worried about the Lib Dems' continued support for nuclear power, in particular the "flawed" building of a new multi-billion reactor at Hinkley Point.
"It is so difficult to tie us in to a horizon for more than 20 years.
You saw last week that the strike price of wind is falling like a stone.
I can see why we need energy security but things are changing so quickly."
'Open wounds'

Talk to any Lib Dem about the process of revitalisation and it is hard to escape the shadow of student tuition fees and the impact that U-turn had on young voters - who flocked in their droves to Jeremy Corbyn at the election.
One young party member, from Wantage, in Oxfordshire, is hopeful that Labour will eventually let down young voters over Brexit and other issues but he says the party's tuition fees issue does need to be "put to bed".
"There is definitely a need to keep acknowledging that wounds were opened through the decisions at the start of coalition which were politically necessary but were badly handled," he says.
"But it is not a matter of apologising for ever.
Explain and be done and come out with something strong and new."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Tim Farron said the party had been vindicated time and time again over the years

It is hoped the emergence of a new, younger generation of MPs at the election, and the return of figures like Jo Swinson will broaden the party's appeal, as will its bottom-up, inclusive tradition of policy-making.
"Even though nationally the party might be struggling, you do see a lot of young people coming to conference because they want to be involved in shaping the offer that the party will make," says one member.
"That is important for young folk.
In this generation that we can all tap on our phones and contribute to thinking, a party which says this is your policy arena, you can get involved is really important.
"It is that next generational message, the idea that we are not going to be fighting for political short-termism which is really special about the Lib Dems."
Image copyright PA

Pants to Brexit was one of the more eye-catching chants - complete with props to hand - on show during Sunday's pro-EU march here at the English seaside.
Many of those present were wearing berets sporting the EU flag while one held an image of Edvard Munch's famous picture The Scream with the word Brexit superimposed on it.
Charlotte Morrow, a Lib Dem member from Somerset, said politicians had let the people down and she was alarmed by what she suggested was a "Little England" mentality creeping in over the future of EU citizens living in the UK.
"I don't like the rhetoric.
I don't like what I see.
I don't like that people now feel entitled to say 'leave, you are no longer welcome here.'"
But the mixture of slapstick, cheery defiance and apocalyptic imagery on display at the demo - organised by Dorset for Europe - belied a rather different argument going on nearby about how the UK's exit from the EU can be stopped.
Lib Dem activists overwhelmingly endorsed the leadership's call for the public to have the final say on the final terms of Brexit in the form of what is being dubbed an "exit from Brexit" referendum.
The option of a get-out clause for opponents of Brexit has always been popular among this most pro-European of parties.
It has gained greater traction since the general election result destabilised Theresa May's government and the parliamentary arithmetic of a hung Parliament threw supporters of a soft Brexit a lifeline.
Caron Lindsay, the editor of Lib Dem Voice, tweeted during the debate that it illustrated the unity within the party on opposing Brexit but agreement over the means is slightly less unanimous.
While in a definite minority, those voicing opposition to the idea of another referendum in the conference hall hinted at a wider unease within the party.
Image caption Lib Dems like Karen Lawrance says the party must stick to its beliefs

One member warned it was likely to be "toxic" for the 52% of the electorate who had voted to leave while another described it as akin to "flogging a dead horse" given the widely-held view that Article 50 is an irreversible process.
Mick Taylor, a former general election candidate who spoke against the idea, said afterwards while he acknowledged the "groundswell of opinion" in favour of another referendum and would respect the result, he had reservations.
"The problem with referendums is that they detract from the role of MPs.
The role of MPs is to be elected on behalf of the people they represent, go to Parliament and make decisions.
While the Calderdale activist wants Lib Dems to oppose Brexit "by all democratic means", he said the logic of holding a referendum on the same subject - albeit with a different premise - was principled but could be flawed.
"I don't think it has anything to do with differentiation.
I think it has to do with a genuine belief, which I don't share that having started the process with a plebiscite you need to finish it with one.
"Since Parliament is sovereign, the final decision will ultimately be taken by Parliament anyway.
The only thing that a plebiscite will do is delay a decision being taken."
But elsewhere, Sir Vince Cable's insistence that he is not just seeking a replay of the 2016 vote does find favour.
Image copyright PA Image caption Most Lib Dems applaud Vince Cable for toughening his language on Brexit

"The Lib Dems are united in stopping Brexit, it is just the method being discussed," says Karen Lawrence, from Worcester, who took part in the march.
While she is clear another a referendum won't settle the issue - "I think the country is apart on this issue and will be apart for years and years" - she feels it is an example of the radicalism ex-leader Lord Ashdown has called for in the wake of the underwhelming general election result.
"It is not a second referendum.
It is the first referendum on what the deal actually is," she insists.
"We have to stand by what we believe in.
We are not about doing what is popular for the whole country but do what is right as far as we are concerned."
For many, including Charlotte Morrow, a second referendum is an opportunity to right a wrong and allow 16 and 17-year olds, as well as EU citizens in the UK and all British expats on the continent, to have their say.
"If I thought it (the 2016 referendum) was fair and everyone here thought it was fair, they would be sat at home having their roast dinner today."
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince Cable's problem is crystallised at Prime Minister's Questions in the Commons.
He doesn't get much of a look-in.
Theresa and Jeremy have crossed swords, senior backbenchers on the government and opposition sides have spoken, the SNP's Ian Blackford has had his two questions, and then finally, as the session extends well beyond its once-normal half hour, with MPs drifting from the chambers to bag an early place in the canteen queue, the leader of the Liberal Democrats is called.
A bully pulpit it's not.
A single question at the fag end of an extended PMQs is not a commanding position from which to address the nation.
But, in parliamentary terms, this is as good as it will get for Sir Vince.
With just 12 MPs, his party is no longer entitled to more than a minimal slot at PMQs, and comes well down the pecking order in all the other parliamentary occasions, too.
Worse, MPs seldom see the need to hang around to listen to what it has to say.
Outside Westminster, the same problem is manifest.
Overshadowed

The start of Liberal Democrats' conference week was overshadowed by Boris Johnson's Brexit eruption.
The end of the week will be dominated by Theresa May setting out her vision of Brexit in Florence.
Sir Vince's speech was even blown off 24 hour news by President Trump's appearance at the UN.
That's showbusiness.
So how does a fourth party leader gain that most precious of political commodities - attention?
His predecessor, Tim Farron, never quite managed it, either in the Commons or outside.
A Lib Dem leader, typically, has to spend the first couple of weeks of a general election campaign introducing themselves to voters, who may not even be aware of their existence.
Mr Farron spent those vital days side-tracked into discussing his evangelical Christian views on gay sex.
After that his moment was lost.
Can I commend to Sir Vince a possibly unwelcome role model: David Owen?
Image copyright house of commons Image caption Former leader Tim Farron never quite won the battle for attention inside or outside Parliament

Having refused to join in the SDP's merger with the Liberals, and more recently having backed Brexit, the Doctor is not remembered with affection in Lib Dem circles, but bear with me.
In the mid-1980s, he kept the SDP, with just six MPs, in the national spotlight by sheer force of personality.
He offered a combination of eye-catching ideas and a shameless "anytime, anyplace anywhere" willingness to appear on the media, plus (and this is critical) he always had something interesting to say.
Sir Vince has many of the ingredients necessary to repeat this performance.
Like Dr Owen, he has few visible means of political support - but he does have a level of public recognition as a former cabinet minister, and from his appearance on Strictly.
More important, he has the credentials to speak on the big issue of the day, and be listened to.
In the 1980s, as the Cold War moved towards its end, Dr Owen could speak about the nuclear balance of terror and relations with the Soviet Union.
Post-referendum, Sir Vince can speak, with the authority of a former business secretary, about the implications for industry of the UK's future relations with the EU.
And more than that, as an ex-member of the coalition cabinet, he knows the key players in the Conservative government and can find the pressure points in their internal debate on Brexit.
The parallels don't end there.
With no internal rivals in his party, Sir Vince has considerable freedom of action - so he has a lot of room to be as pungent and as radical as he wants.
He can be a bruiser.
His wounding zinger to then Prime Minister Gordon Brown, noting his transformation "from Stalin to Mr Bean", was one of those rare parliamentary put-downs that did real damage.
Speeches like this one can matter.
Lib Dem insiders believe Nick Clegg's resignation speech in 2015, with its robust defence of liberalism, helped attract thousands of new members.
They hope that if their new leader finds the right words, that could happen again.
Image caption Sir Vince may not appreciate comparison with Lord Owen

Sir Vince's deadpan Yorkshire delivery is probably better suited to one-liners than 10-pagers, and he did indeed offer some effective-looking one-liners.
His speech also offered policy nuggets to groups of voters such as greens, pensioners and internationalists.
But to reach their target audience, he needs an effective social media presence - so one of his key tasks will be to assemble a team capable of putting his message across online.
Was it wise to revisit the coalition and student debt?
Sir Vince worked hard to exorcise the ghosts of the coalition era in general, and the policy U-turn on student tuition fees in particular, but he was the minister who proposed the coalition's tuition fee increase to the Commons, and reminding people of it may simply bring a fading issue back to mind.
His calculation must be that the Lib Dems' electoral rivals will certainly remember, and are bound to throw tuition fees at him.
Plus, some of the Commons constituencies the Lib Dems hope to gain or regain are university seats - hence the section about his work with the National Union of Students to find a way forward on student finance, and hence his proposal to "support all young people in future with an endowment or learning account, which they can use at any stage in life helping to finance further or higher education, either at the post-18 stage or later in life".
He also toyed with replacing the existing loan scheme with some form of graduate tax.
Strategic gamble

The central theme was his opposition to Brexit.
As the Lib Dem USP, it didn't work - much - at the last election.
But Sir Vince is doubling down and continues to offer voters "an exit from Brexit" via a referendum on the final deal with the EU.
He delighted his conference by describing the Brexiteers as "silly public schoolboys reliving their dormitory pillow fights".
And his money quote - "We will be denounced as traitors and saboteurs... but if the definition of sabotage is fighting to protect British jobs, public services, the environment and civil liberties, then I am a proud saboteur," - positions his party to capitalise if the government (or Labour) stumbles or splits over Brexit.
That is the big strategic judgement, or maybe gamble, in this speech, whatever else it has to say about housing, green issues or President Trump.
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince's signature has appeared on a number of Commons amendments to the EU (Withdrawal) Bill from Conservative Remainers and Labour's active pro-EU faction.
I doubt he anticipates a flock of defections from either side - but he has shown he's willing to co-operate across party lines, and in the long term that may widen cracks in Tory and Labour unity.
But it is also telling that there is not much sign of MPs from elsewhere signing Lib Dem amendments at the moment - and if the truth be told, the diminished strength of the Lib Dems would provide a rather fragile lifeboat for any pro-EU Conservative or Labour MPs.
If there is indeed to be an "anti-Brexit people's liberation front", it is a long way from materialising.
Building on his much-mocked comment that he could yet be prime minister, he ended his speech with the hope that his party could once again challenge for a place in government.
For that to happen he also needs luck.
Consistent success in council elections is all very well, but he really needs a run of by-elections in winnable Commons seats to show that the Orange Army is back in the game.
Image copyright AFP

Liberal Democrats are gathering in Bournemouth for their annual conference.
Here's a guide to the event which runs from Saturday to Tuesday.
Setting the scene...
Think back to 2015 when the Liberal Democrats took a hammering at the general election, punished for going into coalition with the Conservatives.
From 57 MPs, they were reduced to a rump of just eight.
Big names - Vince Cable, Ed Davey, Danny Alexander - were voted out.
The Lib Dems lost their status as the third largest party in the Commons - a role seized by the SNP.
Image copyright PA Image caption Sir Ed Davey lost his seat in 2015, but regained it in 2017

After their humiliating defeat the Lib Dems were the butt of jokes, often delivered by the Conservative politicians they'd been partners with for five years.
At conference 2017, the Lib Dems can take some comfort from the fact that the really tough times seem to be behind them.
Things have got better - with membership increasing since the end of the coalition years, a trend that accelerated after last year's EU referendum, thanks to the party's pre-Remain stance.
Women on board

Image copyright PA Image caption Christine Jardine is one of the Lib Dems four female MPs

The Lib Dems got a confidence boost last December when their candidate Sarah Olney won the Richmond Park by election - unseating the Conservative Zac Goldsmith.
Her victory was widely put down to Remain-voting constituents venting their anger over Brexit.
For a party that prides itself on gender equality, it was a source of embarrassment that after the 2015 election the remaining eight Lib Dem MPs were all men.
Thanks to this year's general election, four of their 12 MPs are now women: Wera Hobhouse, Christine Jardine, Layla Moran and Jo Swinson.
With the presence of women MPs on the podium at this year's conference, credibility is restored.
Soul-searching after the snap election

Image copyright AFP Image caption Sarah Olney - who won and lost Richmond Park - is now Sir Vince's chief of staff

It had looked as if the Liberal Democrats might carve out a role as the "go-to" party for the 48% who voted to stay in the EU.
They were understandably optimistic about gaining extra seats at the snap general election in June.
But it did not work out like that.
The Lib Dems only gained four additional seats, taking the number of MPs up to 12.
But their share of the vote actually went down to 7.4% from 7.9% in 2015.
Even the Brexit factor seemed to fade away with Zac Goldsmith winning Richmond Park back from Sarah Olney.
One casualty after the election was Tim Farron, who held his seat as an MP but lost the role of leader he had held since the summer of 2015.
At conference, there will be some soul-searching about how the Lib Dems position themselves.
Having spent five years in national government, it's hard to play the plucky outsider challenging the Establishment.
Time for some big ideas

Image copyright PA Image caption Lord Ashdown has warned members they must "think big" again

Do the Lib Dems really want to be a think-tank for rival parties again?
With British politics looking rather polarised, there might seem to be some empty space in the centre.
Former leader Lord Ashdown thinks it's time for the Lib Dems to produce some more eye-catching policies.
In a pre-conference letter to his party, he told members they were producing "very few new ideas" and must "think big" again.
New leader

Image copyright AFP

The party will be holding this year's conference with a new leader.
Sir Vince was crowned leader in July after no-one else stood for the role.
Aged 74, he brings plenty of experience - from his warnings about risks ahead of the financial crash, to his ministerial jobs in the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition.
And don't forget his appearance on Strictly Come Dancing.
He also showed some nifty footwork to win back the Twickenham seat at this year's election, two years after losing out to a Conservative.
He has appointed Sarah Olney as his chief of staff.
As documented above, she's had a rather lively start to her political career, but as a relatively fresh face might she help with the generating of fresh ideas.
Getting noticed

Image caption There was a time when everyone appeared to agree with a Lib Dem leader

Getting (positive) publicity hasn't been easy for Lib Dem leaders in recent years - but the conference will give Vince Cable a chance to reach out to voters.
He's got a head-start on recent incumbents because quite a few people know who he is.
The challenge for Sir Vince is to stir up some excitement.
Earlier this month he gave a considered speech to the Resolution think-tank on how to reduce inequality.
He called it a "social and economic weakness" in the UK and thinks it's one reason why the UK voted for Brexit.
He promised to make inequality a "theme" of his leadership.
Will he be able to translate that into appealing policies?
But remember when Nick Clegg wowed people at the party leaders' TV debates in 2010?
Sir Vince's speech on the last day of conference (Tuesday) is his big moment.
Will he unveil a dangerous new idea that captures media attention, or have the jokes to cut through on social media?
Brexit, Brexit, Brexit

Image copyright AFP

A big question for the Liberal Democrats is where they stand now on Brexit.
With the wheels for exiting the EU in motion, finding the right stance is trickier than it might appear.
At the general election - when Tim Farron was leader - the party argued for a referendum on any deal reached with the EU - the choice being: accept the deal or stay in the EU.
Vince Cable used to argue against another referendum.
Since becoming leader, he supports it.
Given how divisive Brexit is, the leadership may wish they could put Brexit on the backburner at the conference.
But activists want a bold position and there could be a lively debate on the second day of the conference if a motion to block Brexit altogether gets an airing.
Stephen Crosher is one of the activists moving the motion, which proposes that the Lib Dems urge the government to "reverse the triggering" (to detrigger?)
of Article 50, which set in motion the UK's exit from the EU.
One tactic to avoid attention is to point out other parties' weaknesses.
Sir Vince has tried to capitalise on differences within the Conservative and Labour Party.
At conference, he is likely to continue in this vein, suggesting that the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is, quietly, a hard Brexiteer.
The idea is to try again to lure to the Lib Dems the pro-EU voters who backed Mr Corbyn at the election.
Dissenters

The Lib Dems are not exclusively Hard Remainers so the "reverse Brexit" motion, if debated, would not necessarily get an easy ride.
In a Commons vote in March, the official Lib Dem position was to vote against triggering Article 50.
But two Liberal Democrat MPs - Norman Lamb and Greg Mulholland - voted for Article 50 to be triggered, arguing that the result of the referendum should be respected.
Brexit in many forms

Brexit will appear at many times and in many guises.
After lunch on Saturday there will be a debate about the impact on public services.
A motion tabled by the Lib Dem peer and former MEP Baroness Ludford accuses the Conservatives and Labour of being committed to a "hard Brexit including abandoning membership of the European Single Market".
It also says that more than half of the 10,000 doctors from European Economic Area countries are "considering leaving the UK" because of Brexit - and that applications from EU nurses to work in the NHS has fallen by 96%.
Whacky ideas

It's traditional to look out for what might seem wide of the mainstream ideas being debated at the Lib Dem conference, especially at fringe meetings.
Watch this space.
In the meantime, delegates can let off steam at the official Lib Dem disco on Saturday night or the "Communi-oke".
Key debates at the Liberal Democrats conference:

Saturday, 16 September

09.00-09.05 Opening of Conference by Baroness Brinton

09.25-10.10 Policy motion: Learning to Communicate in English

14.10-15.25 Policy motion: The Impact of Brexit on Public Services

17.50-18.00 Report: Campaign for Gender Balance

Sunday, 17 September

10.00-10.45 Policy motion: Armed Forces Personnel: Recruitment, Retention and Welfare

10.45-12.30 Consultative session: Europe

14.10-15.10 Question and answer session: Leader Sir Vince Cable

15.30-16.45 Policy motion: Safe Building Standards for all Homes

Monday, 18 September

10.00-11.00 Policy motion: Defeating Terrorism, Protecting Liberties 32

11.00-11.20 Speech: Former leader Tim Farron

14.10-15.10 Policy motion: Employment in the 21st Century

15.30-16.30 Policy motion: Encouraging Companies to be Responsible Corporate Citizens

Tuesday, 19 September

09.00-09.35 Policy motion: European Atomic Energy Community

11.10-11.50 Policy motion: Protecting Small Businesses

12.10-12.50 Policy motion: Gun and Knife Crime

14.10-15.30 Leader's Speech: Sir Vince Cable
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Election 2017: Highlights of TV election coverage

An at-a-glance guide to the key points of the UK General Election.
The headlines

The Conservatives have lost their Commons majority - the Tories are now the largest party in a hung Parliament

Theresa May says she will form a government and work with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs, after going to Buckingham Palace to see the Queen.
The PM says she is "sorry" for colleagues who lost their seats.
Jeremy Corbyn says she should quit and Labour wants to attempt a minority government

The Conservatives plus 10 DUP MPs have 328 seats - more than the other parties put together.
A so-called "progressive alliance" between Labour, SNP, Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru and Greens would have 314.
A majority is 326.
There are 262 seats for Labour - up 30 seats; 35 seats for the SNP, a loss of 21 seats; the Lib Dems are up four to 12 seats; Plaid Cymru on four seats; the Greens on one, and none for UKIP

UKIP leader Paul Nuttall has resigned

In Northern Ireland, the SDLP and the UUP have lost all their Westminster MPs after a night of big gains for the DUP and Sinn Fin

The Lib Dems had a mixed night with some former big figures returning - but ex-leader Nick Clegg losing his seat

Leader Tim Farron called on Theresa May to resign

The SNP remains the largest party in Scotland but the Conservatives have won 12 seats from them so far; Labour have won seven; the Lib Dems three

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP is ready to work with others to try to keep the Conservatives out of government and block their Brexit strategy

There is economic uncertainty reflected in the City

Voter turnout is up by 2% to 69% - the highest since 1997.
The vote share is Conservative 42%, Labour 40%, Lib Dems 7%, UKIP 2% and the Greens 2%.
Labour put in a strong showing in Wales, taking back Gower, Cardiff North and Vale of Clwyd from the Conservatives

Follow the latest news at it happens on our live page

Big scalps

Former Lib Dem Leader and one-time deputy PM Nick Clegg lost his Sheffield Hallam seat to Labour's Jared O'Mara

Former SNP leader and former first minister of Scotland Alex Salmond was unseated in Gordon by the Conservatives' Colin Clark on swing of 20%, and the SNP's Westminster leader Angus Robertson also lost to Tory Douglas Ross.
Eight Conservative ministers were among those who lost out - Jane Ellison, Gavin Barwell, Rob Wilson, Ben Gummer, James Wharton, Nicola Blackwood, Simon Kirby and Edward Timpson.
Other notable results

For more results, click here

Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
Find your constituency and candidates Enter a postcode or seat name Start typing to search Search for constituencies

What the parties are saying

Speaking outside Number 10, Theresa May said she intended to form a government which could "provide certainty and lead Britain forward at this critical time for our country".
She gave little detail on how the arrangement with the DUP may work.
DUP leader Arlene Foster confirmed she had spoken to Mrs May and they would speak further to "explore how it may be possible to bring stability to this nation at this time of great challenge".
Jeremy Corbyn said: "People have had quite enough of austerity politics" and Mrs May should "go and make way for a government that is truly representative of this country"

Mr Clegg warned of a "grave gulf" between young and old in the UK and said the next Parliament will preside "over a deeply divided and polarised nation"

Lib Dem leader Tim Farron said: "She called this election expecting a coronation, and took each and every one of us for granted in the most cynical way possible."
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Brexit "is in some trouble" if Jeremy Corbyn forms a coalition and he will "have absolutely no choice" but to come back into British politics

SNP Leader Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP has "won the election in Scotland" but she is disappointed to see losses: "We've got some reflection to do."
Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson: "Indyref 2 is dead in Scotland and Nicola Sturgeon needs to reflect on that."
"I'm afraid we ran a pretty dreadful campaign," said Conservative Anna Soubry who says the prime minister "needs to consider her position".
"I think it will be difficult for her to survive," DUP leader Arlene Foster on Theresa May.
Social media reaction

The hashtag #HungParliament shot to the top of Twitter's list of top UK trends after the general election exit poll predicted that the Conservatives would lose their overall majority.
More than 70,000 messages were posted in under an hour.
Read more here

The Cult of Curtice: Mild-mannered number-cruncher Professor John Curtice is a social media celebrity on a tense election night.
While UKIP's vote share is down, it is still all the rage on social media where the party has been trending all night.
Key video clips

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says the UK needs a period of stability

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn: "I'm very, very proud of the campaign my party has run"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Laura Kuenssberg says the result is a "total political disaster for Theresa May"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption This is the moment the general election exit poll is announced

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nick Clegg: 'There's a huge gulf between young and old'

Analysis

BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg:

The conversations have started not just about whether the Tories will be able to form a government, but whether or not Theresa May can stay in her job.
There is no one prevailing mood inside the Tory party.
As I write, Mrs May is holed up with her advisers inside Tory HQ.
But a former minister Anna Soubry has called for her to "consider her position" - political code for calling for her to resign.
Read more from Laura

John Curtice, Professor of Politics at the University of Strathclyde

This is the third post-war snap election called unexpectedly before a party's term of office had come to an end.
On the two previous occasions in 1970 and February 1974 the PM and the party lost office.
While there is no other conceivable administration in the new parliament other than a Conservative-led one, it remains to be seen whether the PM will retain her position.
However, so long as the Conservatives can reach an accommodation with the DUP they will have a working majority in the House of Commons.
BBC economics editor Kamal Ahmed:

When the general election exit poll was revealed at 10pm, the pound immediately dropped by 2% as investors took a position that a hung parliament was a possible outcome of the general election.
Why would that cause the currency to decline?
Because a hung parliament means that the government's direction of travel would be less certain.
Read more from Kamal

Philip Sim, BBC Scotland political reporter: If Prime Minister Theresa May does not appear to have had a particularly good night, Ruth Davidson, the Tory leader in Scotland, certainly has.
The Scottish Tories have more than doubled their returns in some places where the party was previously unelectable.
Read more from Philip

In pictures

Image copyright AFP Image caption The exit poll projected onto BBC Broadcasting House

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Jeremy Corbyn said he was "humbled" by the size of the vote for him

See more images from the night here

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mrs May said it was now incumbent on the Conservatives to offer "stability"

Image caption Nick Clegg: "Live by the sword, you die by the sword"

Image copyright EPA Image caption Nicola Sturgeon was disappointed by losses but said the SNP remained the biggest party in Scotland
The Conservatives have lost seats in Parliament and no longer enjoy an overall majority, while Labour has exceeded the expectations of pollsters and increased its number of MPs.
But this isn't the whole story...

1.
The Conservatives won 20 seats

Although it was a bad night for Theresa May's party overall, with 33 MPs ejected from Parliament, it actually won seats elsewhere.
The majority of their gains were in Scotland, where the Conservatives performed well against the SNP, unseating the former SNP leader Alex Salmond in Gordon.
The party also took six seats from Labour, and snatched Clacton from UKIP.
2. Who lost seats to Labour?
Labour's six losses were offset by 36 gains - 28 of which were from the Conservatives and two from the Lib Dems - including Nick Clegg's former seat of Sheffield Hallam.
The party also took six Scottish seats from the SNP.
Most of the changes were in Scotland and the north of England

Although the political landscape of Northern Ireland has also shifted dramatically with the UUP and the SDLP losing all of their MPs.
Changed seats All seats Please enable Javascript to view our results map Con

Con Lab

Lab SNP

SNP LD

LD PC

PC UKIP

UKIP Ind

Ind DUP

DUP SDLP

SDLP UUP

UUP SF

SF Green

More maps showing the changes from 2015 to 2017 are here.
The SNP saw some huge majorities disappear

The table below shows the largest majorities in the last general election in 2015 that have been overturned.
Nine of the largest 10 previously belonged to the SNP - a 14,000-vote majority won by the party's former spokesperson on social justice, Eilidh Whiteford, in 2015 has been converted into a 4,000-vote majority for the Conservatives.
Constituency (out of 650 so far) Result 2015 Majority 2017 Majority Banff & Buchan CON GAIN FROM SNP 14339 3693 Coatbridge, Chryston & Bellshill LAB GAIN FROM SNP 11501 1586 Ayr, Carrick & Cumnock CON GAIN FROM SNP 11265 2774 Angus CON GAIN FROM SNP 11230 2645 Stirling CON GAIN FROM SNP 10480 148 Ochil & South Perthshire CON GAIN FROM SNP 10168 3359 Rutherglen & Hamilton West LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9975 265 Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9974 259 Midlothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9859 885 Canterbury LAB GAIN FROM CON 9798 187 Oxford West & Abingdon LD GAIN FROM CON 9582 816 Glasgow North East LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9222 242 Moray CON GAIN FROM SNP 9065 4159 Gordon CON GAIN FROM SNP 8687 2607 Battersea LAB GAIN FROM CON 7938 2416 Kensington LAB GAIN FROM CON 7361 20 Aberdeen South CON GAIN FROM SNP 7230 4752 Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine CON GAIN FROM SNP 7033 7949 East Lothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 6803 3083 Warwick & Leamington LAB GAIN FROM CON 6606 1206 Reading East LAB GAIN FROM CON 6520 3749 Dumfries & Galloway CON GAIN FROM SNP 6514 5643 Foyle SF GAIN FROM SDLP 6046 169 South Down SF GAIN FROM SDLP 5891 2446 Colne Valley LAB GAIN FROM CON 5378 915 Mansfield CON GAIN FROM LAB 5315 1057 Portsmouth South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5241 1554 Stockton South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5046 888 Bristol North West LAB GAIN FROM CON 4944 4761 High Peak LAB GAIN FROM CON 4894 2322 Stroud LAB GAIN FROM CON 4866 687 Enfield Southgate LAB GAIN FROM CON 4753 4355 Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross LD GAIN FROM SNP 3844 2044 Bath LD GAIN FROM CON 3833 5694 Ipswich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3733 831 Renfrewshire East CON GAIN FROM SNP 3718 4712 Crewe & Nantwich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3620 48 Clacton CON GAIN FROM UKIP 3437 15828 Edinburgh West LD GAIN FROM SNP 3210 2988 Ceredigion PC GAIN FROM LD 3067 104 Keighley LAB GAIN FROM CON 3053 249 Leeds North West LAB GAIN FROM LD 2907 4224 Kingston & Surbiton LD GAIN FROM CON 2834 4124 Warrington South LAB GAIN FROM CON 2750 2549 Copeland CON WIN 2564 1695 Stoke-on-Trent South CON GAIN FROM LAB 2539 663 Sheffield Hallam LAB GAIN FROM LD 2353 2125 Middlesbrough South & Cleveland East CON GAIN FROM LAB 2268 1020 Dunbartonshire East LD GAIN FROM SNP 2167 5339 Cardiff North LAB GAIN FROM CON 2137 4174 Twickenham LD GAIN FROM CON 2017 9762 Walsall North CON GAIN FROM LAB 1937 2601 Peterborough LAB GAIN FROM CON 1925 607 Derbyshire North East CON GAIN FROM LAB 1883 2861 Lincoln LAB GAIN FROM CON 1443 1538 Southport CON GAIN FROM LD 1322 2914 Bedford LAB GAIN FROM CON 1097 789 South Antrim DUP GAIN FROM UUP 949 3208 Belfast South DUP GAIN FROM SDLP 906 1996 Weaver Vale LAB GAIN FROM CON 806 3928 Eastbourne LD GAIN FROM CON 733 1609 Brighton Kemptown LAB GAIN FROM CON 690 9868 Fermanagh & South Tyrone SF GAIN FROM UUP 530 875 Plymouth Sutton & Devonport LAB GAIN FROM CON 523 6807 Bury North LAB GAIN FROM CON 378 4375 Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk CON GAIN FROM SNP 328 11060 Vale of Clwyd LAB GAIN FROM CON 237 2379 Croydon Central LAB GAIN FROM CON 165 5652 Derby North LAB GAIN FROM CON 41 2015 Gower LAB GAIN FROM CON 27 3269
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May awaiting her constituency result in the early hours of Friday

The post mortem on how Theresa May managed to lose her majority in Thursday's general election after expecting to secure a landslide victory is well under way.
Here are 10 theories.
First things first.
Did she blow it?
The Conservatives came first in this election with 318 seats, with Labour the next biggest party on 262 seats.
The Conservatives got more votes that anyone else - 42.4% to Labour's 40% - and Theresa May's party got more votes than anyone since the record-breaking total John Major received in 1992.
And yes, that means she got more votes than Tony Blair's New Labour landslide in 1997.
So, you ask, in what sense did she blow it?
Well, she had 331 MPs - more than the 326 needed to have a Commons majority - when she decided to call the election with the aim of increasing her majority.
She also began the campaign with an undisputed opinion-poll lead in double figures and a landslide victory within her grasp.
She ends it having to try to do a deal with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to stay in power, and knowing that, the decision to call a snap election will go down as one of the biggest own goals in British political history.
So how did it come to this?
1) Deciding to call an election

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Reaction from Bristol: 'You're joking.
Why does she need to do it?'
Theresa May had been serenely racking up stunning approval ratings and huge opinion-poll leads.
Her constant refrain was "Brexit meant Brexit" and it seemed a serious, tough, honest and non-flashy politician was what the British people wanted.
Her honeymoon period felt like that of another self-consciously unshowy prime minister who came to power without an election - Gordon Brown.
But unlike Mr Brown in 2007, she did not allow speculation about a snap election to run rife only to blow her reputation by deciding not to call one after all.
She ruled out having an election.
And then she changed her mind.
She insisted she was acting in the national interest but others detected baser motives.
Jeremy Corbyn said: "How can any voter trust what the prime minister says?".
Nicola Sturgeon said it was a naked power grab and a bid to crush all opposition.
The public, like Brenda in Bristol, seemed weary of politics and voting.
2) The wrong type of campaign

Image copyright Getty Images

This was Theresa May's election - the Conservatives were some way off in the distance, if they were visible at all, at the start of the campaign.
But was she the right kind of candidate to be placed front and centre like this?
Katie Perrior, Mrs May's former director of communications thinks not.
Writing in the Times, she said: "If you run a presidential-style campaign with a woman who doesn't like media interviews, then you have to accept that it's better to do them and run the risk that they go badly than look like you are running scared.
Furthermore, if you want to brag that your candidate is a bloody difficult woman, then she has to show some empathy to remind people she is human after all."
3) Dodging the TV debates

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Home Secretary Amber Rudd and senior politicians from six other parties took part in the debate.
With huge poll leads at the start of the campaign it was quickly decided that Mrs May would not take part in anything as risky as a TV debate with her main challenger, Jeremy Corbyn, or risk meeting too many members of the public in big rallies.
That decision backfired when Mr Corbyn decided to take part in a seven-way debate with other party leaders - he did not make a big deal of her absence, but everybody else on the stage did.
The Green Party's Caroline Lucas said: "You don't say it's the most important election of our lifetime and not be bothered to show up."
Mrs May might have performed badly in the debate, but she arguably took a far bigger reputational hit by not taking part, as it opened her up to accusations she was running scared, or that she was complacently assuming victory.
4) Underestimating the opposition

Image copyright Reuters

Sporting history is littered with underdogs triumphing because they wanted to win more than their opponents, or put in more effort.
The same sometimes goes for politics.
In this election Mrs May seemed like she would be happy to say "strong and stable" from dawn until the sun set over the fields of wheat she "naughtily" ran through as a child.
There was little in the way of a positive message to entice floating voters.
Her campaign team did not seem able to conceive of the idea that anyone would take Mr Corbyn seriously.
They underestimated how well his anti-austerity message would go over with voters worn out by years of frozen wages and public spending squeezes.
Many commentators, on the left and right, who had written Jeremy Corbyn off as vote-losing liability have had to eat their words since the election.
Just about everyone underestimated his appeal, once he was given a chance to air his views unmediated by a largely hostile press.
5) Manifesto policies

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Anna Soubry has given a frank assessment of her party's campaign

The turning point of the campaign, according to insiders, was Theresa May's U-turn on social care.
Team May were apparently so confident of victory that they thought they could tackle the looming problem of social care costs - an issue parties scrapping to win elections have generally shied away from.
But within hours the main thing many people knew about the Conservative programme for government was that it included a "dementia tax" that could lead to more people having to sell their homes to pay for care.
The same went for means-testing the winter fuel allowance and ending the "triple lock" that guarantees a minimum 2.5% increase in the state pension.
Mrs May might have got away with the rapid U-turn on social care - something that is almost unheard of the middle of an election campaign - if she had owned up to it but she continued to insist that nothing had changed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May: This is the right way forward

Anna Soubry, an anti-Brexit Tory MP said this was the moment that she lost her "strong and stable" reputation.
Some Conservative MPs have suggested, off the record, that the 2017 manifesto was the worst the party has ever published.
Ms Soubry said it was more a problem of "appalling" presentation - not properly explaining the social care changes, which would actually have benefited many less well-off people - and allowing people to think free school meals for poor children were being axed, when in fact the plan was to end the free lunches for all infants, which benefits the better-off.
6) Not reacting to the Labour surge

Image copyright Reuters

Nick Timothy, pictured, who was forced out as Theresa May's policy adviser after the election result, suggests Team May were not even aware that there was a surge in Labour support as polling day approached.
In his resignation statement, he said this was "because modern campaigning techniques require ever-narrower targeting of specific voters, and we were not talking to the people who decided to vote for Labour".
Instead of pushing their message on the NHS and the energy price cap to get wavering Labour voters on side, they doubled down on what they thought was their strongest suit - Brexit and "strong and stable leadership" in contrast to a "coalition of chaos" under Mr Corbyn.
7) May's personality

Image copyright Getty Images

People knew very little about Theresa May before the campaign started - she had been home secretary for a long time but had not courted publicity like some of her cabinet colleagues.
An introvert, by Westminster standards, who does not like talking about her private feelings, she tended to come across as ill-at-ease on the TV sofa.
Like Hillary Clinton in last year's US elections, she was not a natural on the campaign trail either.
As Daily Mail sketch writer Quentin Letts pointed out at one event, she tended to look a bit miserable, or as he put it, a "glumbucket'.
Mr Corbyn, on the other hand, looked like he was enjoying himself.
At the end of the campaign, Mrs May had to rely on Boris Johnson, a natural political showman, to whip up the crowds.
8) Negativity and the youth vote

Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May spent a lot of time attacking Jeremy Corbyn's credibility and, as Nick Timothy has acknowledged, not enough time setting out her "positive plan for for the future".
There are shades of Clinton here again, who focused heavily on attacking her opponent's fitness for office rather than explaining what she would do with power.
Conservative attacks on Mr Corbyn's anti-terror record will have sounded alarm bells with older readers of Conservative-supporting newspapers.
They may have meant less to anyone under 30, who were more interested in what the Labour leader had to say about their future rather than who he was holding meetings with decades ago.
Labour countered Tory attack ads on Facebook with upbeat messages and celebrity endorsements.
Labour's successful push to get out the youth vote was a decisive factor in some seats, although there is still some debate about the size of the surge in voting among 18 to 24-year-olds.
The Tory campaign was widely criticised for being negative and uninspiring.
9) Fox hunting and 'the same old Tories'

Image copyright EPA Image caption Anti-hunting protesters marched on Downing Street

It may simply have been a repetition of a longstanding Tory policy but Theresa May's vow to hold a free vote on bringing back fox hunting is thought by some to have harmed her efforts to seal the deal with Labour voters flirting with the Conservatives.
It came up a lot on the doorstep, according to some reports, helping to "re-toxify" the Conservative brand among voters in traditional Labour areas, which Mrs May was banking on to win a big majority.
Like the social care U-turn, or the pledge to bring back grammar schools, it may have given anyone flirting with backing the Tories for the first time in their lives a reason not to switch their vote.
10) Events

Theresa May wanted the election to be about Brexit but the terror attacks in Manchester and London changed the course of the campaign.
Suddenly it was all about security and anti-terror policy.
This should have put the former home secretary in a strong position, and her statements on the attacks struck a suitably prime ministerial tone.
Labour's criticism of cuts to police numbers gave them a line of attack against Mrs May - but the pause in campaigning that followed the terrorist incidents resulted in a sombre and strangely off-kilter ending to the election.
Here is a selection of your views:

"Ignoring remain voters - too much focus on "no deal is better than a bad deal" and complaining that Remain voters were "citizens of nowhere" alienated the 48%.
Playing so much to the UKIP vote backfired in many areas of the country.
Evidence for this: the swing to Labour from Tories was much larger in Remain voting areas than Leave voting ones," Sue, York.
"Jeremy Corbyn was reckless and irresponsible in the promises he was making particularly to the youth voters.
Promising to give 'free university' at a cost to the UK of 11.5 Billion a year, is an example of the 'money tree' that pays for all !
Corbyn could afford to be reckless in his election promises because he didn't expect to win or be PM."
Ron, Stoke-on-Trent.
"The Conservatives underestimated the collapse in the number of votes for the UKIP party.
It must have been apparent that these votes would go somewhere and not necessarily all to the Conservative Party.
Clearly some of these went to the Labour Party.
The Labour Party will always have a strong backing in the cities and these extra votes from the UKIP party helped Labour get more seats.
This should have been anticipated and calculated before Mrs May called the election so some of her advisers and backroom staff got it clearly wrong and miscalculated - or was it Mrs May just determined to call the election whatever?," Jeff

"Definitely Fox Hunting swayed me.
I left the Labour Party as a member when JC became leader.
I didn't think he was electable (and he still might not be) and predicted a Labour wipe-out with him at the helm.
But as the election went on I was slowly taken back into the fold by his positive campaign.
I'd always agreed with his policies, just him as a leader I had doubts over.
The more he engaged though the more I cheered, and once the manifestos where published it was game over for the Tories.
But yes, the fox hunting was the initial game changer (as it was announced early on) - and then everything else just fell into place," Ian, Chester.
"I'm surprised that more hasn't been made of the proposed boundary changes, which would have reduced MPs from 650 to 600.
If May had forced these through and then called the election she would have undoubtedly won a majority, as they massively favour the Conservatives.
One report suggested that under the new boundaries Labour could be 10% ahead of the Tories and still not have a majority," Andrew, Loughborough.
"The Tories did not lose their majority over the stance favouring a hard Brexit.
They lost seats because the majority accept that Brexit will happen and all the other issues of economic and social policy were more important issues in the election.
Mrs May needs to ignore the pro Remain Major, Cameron and Clarke who are using the situation to try to reverse their defeat in the Referendum," Ian

"You've laid out some good reasons but as you state, both the Conservative and Labour vote increased...... why?
Because of a huge amount of tactical voting especially driven by social media.
A lot of the "Remainers" had been horrified about the way that she'd embraced a Hard Brexit and even though Labour supported Brexit, they felt that not voting Tory would potentially hinder this outcome.
Labour need to bear this in mind too.
As a lot of people like me "lent" them their vote," Paul, Newcastle-under-Lyme

"Was there any evidence to suggest that tactical voting also played a part in the demise of the Conservative majority?
Were voters were more likely to vote for their second choice party if it meant stopping a Tory candidate from winning their constituency?
Clearly this could have been a case in constituencies where non-contest agreements were forged e.g.
Brighton Pavilion (Caroline Lucas), and in Twickenham where there was an absence of any campaign leaflets from any parties other than Lib Dems and Conservatives," John, London

I am surprised by your list of reasons for the Conservative election results.
For me this is very much about Brexit and Theresa May's stance.
She was a remainer but since being elected has used a rhetoric which concerns much of the UK population.
So this result is a protest against hard Brexit which will damage the UK economy beyond repair.
It is also the young peoples's recognition that their vote matters.
Had they voted in the referendum the result would have been remain, and they are angry and want their voices heard, Louise, Hampshire

"The media, including the BBC, displayed an attitude of sneering contempt towards Jeremy Corbyn ever since he was elected Labour Party leader right up to the recent election campaign.
Even the Guardian only endorsed Corbyn at the last minute, when it sensed which way the tide was running.
This must raise serious questions about how 'free' our media really are, and who plots their editorial course.
Time for another independent enquiry, perhaps?," John, Coventry

"Another nail in the coffin of May's majority is her too-cosy relationship with Trump and particularly her failure to unreservedly condemn him for pulling the US out of the Paris Agreement.
Saying that she was 'disappointed' was nowhere near strong enough," Ron, Cambridgeshire

"It will be a rare day a Conservative calls another election without a 35 point lead in the polls.
No wonder Labour is cambering for another election, Labour would rather enjoy another election in the next six months.
Whereas, as a postman, I would not."
Paul, Lincolnshire

Everyone is tired of austerity, even those who are managing well.
It's interesting how many of the affluent, metropolitan elite voted Labour, even though they were the ones who would be paying the bulk of the extra taxes.
Whether they would have voted the same way if they'd thought he actually stood a chance of winning is a different question.
Paul, London
Autumn sees Britain's political parties gathering by the sea - or in big city conference centres - here's a round-up of this year's, which will be updated as they happen.
Liberal Democrats - 16-19 September in Bournemouth

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Liberal Democrat conference: Sir Vince Cable's full speech

The Liberal Democrats gathered by the seaside having modestly increased their tally of MPs to 12 in the recent general election, following an electoral drubbing in 2015 that left them with just eight.
In his keynote speech to conference, new leader Sir Vince Cable said he could lead the Lib Dems back to power by offering a mix of "hope and realism".
He called for higher taxes on foreign property speculators and second home owners to help tackle inequality.
And he claimed Brexit would be an act of "masochism", leaving the UK poorer.
Labour - 24-27 September in Brighton

Image copyright PA

The Labour Party's annual get-together comes after leader Jeremy Corbyn strengthened his position following the general election, having seen off a 2016 leadership challenge from MP Owen Smith.
Despite some, including MPs in his own party, predicting poll disaster for Labour under Mr Corbyn's leadership, the party gained seats and recorded a 40% share of the national vote in June 2017.
Ahead of this year's conference, Labour's National Executive Committee approved changes to the way leaders are elected.
The threshold for nominations to get on a leadership ballot has been lowered from 15% of MPs and MEPs to 10%.
Mr Corbyn did not have the backing of most Labour MPs as he became leader in 2015 but has won two leadership contests by a landslide due to his strong support among party members.
The changes, which now have to be agreed at the party conference, could make it easier to elect a left-wing successor to Mr Corbyn.
Conservatives - 1-4 October in Manchester

Image copyright PA

The Conservatives continue a trend over recent years for urban - as opposed to seaside - conferences with a return to Manchester.
Prime Minister Theresa May took what seemed a reasonably safe gamble when she called an election earlier this year, with her party well ahead of Labour in the opinion polls.
However, while the Conservatives increased their vote share they lost their majority in Parliament, after a much-criticised campaign.
The government now needs the support of Northern Ireland's 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to be sure of winning Commons votes.
Party members will gather with Mrs May in a weakened position and questions over cabinet unity on Brexit - prompted most recently by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson - dominating the headlines.
UKIP - 29-30 September in Torquay

Image copyright PA

UKIP members meet for a two-day conference which will see the winner of the party's latest leadership election announced.
UKIP's share of the vote in the general election collapsed to just 1.8%, prompting the resignation of then-leader Paul Nuttall.
Since UK voters backed leaving the EU in a referendum in 2016, the party which focused on getting the UK out of the EU has struggled to broaden its appeal.
Former leader Nigel Farage ruled out a return but 11 candidates are vying for the party's top job.
Green Party - 7-10 October in Harrogate

Image copyright Green Party

The Green Party of England and Wales achieved just a 1.6% share of the vote in the general election, though the party's sole MP, Caroline Lucas, retained her seat in Brighton Pavilion with an increased share of the vote.
Ms Lucas is leader of the party alongside Jonathan Bartley in a job-share arrangement, after the two ran for the leadership on a joint ticket.
According to the party's website, there will be a "co-leaders' speech" to conference.
SNP - 8-10 October in Glasgow

Image copyright AFP

After a stunning general election result in 2015 - when the party won 56 out of 59 Scottish seats - the SNP returned 35 MPs in 2017.
It is still the dominant force in Scottish politics and forms a minority government in the Scottish Parliament - but it lost 12 Commons seats to the Conservatives, six seats to Labour and three to the Lib Dems.
Leader Nicola Sturgeon has called for a second referendum on Scottish independence to be held at the end of the Brexit process, although the date of it has been put back in the wake of the general election.
A majority of Scottish voters backed continuing EU membership in 2016 and Ms Sturgeon has said Brexit would mean Scotland leaving the EU "against our will".
Plaid Cymru - 20-21 October in Caernarfon

Image copyright Plaid Cymru

Plaid Cymru gained a seat in the general election, taking their Commons total to four.
The party has 11 seats in the Welsh Assembly - the same number as the Conservatives but behind Labour.
However, Assembly Member Neil McEvoy has been suspended from the Plaid Cymru group following a row over policy on council house sales.
Plaid backs a move by the Labour Welsh government to stop council house sales - but in a Facebook post, Mr McEvoy said right-to-buy was the "one realistic way" many working-class people had of owning their own home.
In an email to party members, leader Leanne Wood said he was "clearly breaching" Plaid's rulebook.
Here is an easy-to-understand guide to Brexit - beginning with the basics, then a look at the negotiations, followed by a selection of answers to questions we've been sent.
What's happening now?
Theresa May is delivering a key speech in Italy on Friday seeking to turbocharge the UK's negotiations with European Union about the terms of its departure.
The key element is expected to be an offer to pay something along the lines of 18bn in return for a two year 'transitional period' in which the UK and EU economies continue to operate pretty much as closely together as they do now, after the official Brexit date of March 2019.
What does Brexit mean?
It is a word that has become used as a shorthand way of saying the UK leaving the EU - merging the words Britain and exit to get Brexit, in a same way as a possible Greek exit from the euro was dubbed Grexit in the past.
Why is Britain leaving the European Union?
A referendum - a vote in which everyone (or nearly everyone) of voting age can take part - was held on Thursday 23 June, 2016, to decide whether the UK should leave or remain in the European Union.
Leave won by 51.9% to 48.1%.
The referendum turnout was 71.8%, with more than 30 million people voting.
Find the result in your area

What was the breakdown across the UK?
England voted for Brexit, by 53.4% to 46.6%.
Wales also voted for Brexit, with Leave getting 52.5% of the vote and Remain 47.5%.
Scotland and Northern Ireland both backed staying in the EU.
Scotland backed Remain by 62% to 38%, while 55.8% in Northern Ireland voted Remain and 44.2% Leave.
See the results in more detail.
What changed in government after the referendum?
Image copyright PA

Britain got a new Prime Minister - Theresa May.
The former home secretary took over from David Cameron, who announced he was resigning on the day he lost the referendum.
Like Mr Cameron, Mrs May was against Britain leaving the EU but she played only a very low-key role in the campaign and was never seen as much of an enthusiast for the EU.
She became PM without facing a full Conservative leadership contest after her key rivals from what had been the Leave side pulled out.
Where does Theresa May stand on Brexit?
Theresa May was against Brexit during the referendum campaign but is now in favour of it because she says it is what the British people want.
Her key message has been that "Brexit means Brexit" and she triggered the two year process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
She set out her negotiating goals in a letter to the EU council president Donald Tusk.
How did the snap election change things?
Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May surprised everyone after the 2017 Easter Bank Holiday by calling an election for 8 June (it had been due in 2020).
She said she wanted to strengthen her hand in Brexit negotiations with European leaders.
She said Labour, the SNP and other opposition parties - and members of the House of Lords - would try to block and frustrate her strategy.
However Mrs May did not increase her party's seats in the Commons and she ended up weakened, having to rely on support from the 10 MPs from Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party.
You can get more detail on the 2017 election here.
What has happened to the UK economy since the Brexit vote?
David Cameron, his Chancellor George Osborne and many other senior figures who wanted to stay in the EU predicted an immediate economic crisis if the UK voted to leave and it is true that the pound slumped the day after the referendum - and remains around 10% lower against the dollar and 15% down against the euro.
But predictions of immediate doom were wrong, with the UK economy estimated to have grown 1.8% in 2016, second only to Germany's 1.9% among the world's G7 leading industrialised nations.
UK growth has slowed so far in 2017, but the economy is still expanding.
Inflation has risen since June 2016 to stand at 2.6%, but unemployment has continued to fall, to stand at a 42 year low of 4.4%.
Annual house price increases have fallen from 9.4% in June 2016 but were still at an inflation-beating 4.7% in the year to May 2017, according to official ONS figures.
Brexit talks are under way

They finally, officially, started on 19 June, 2017.
Here's a picture from that first session:

Image copyright Reuters

The UK and EU negotiating teams are scheduled to meet face-to-face for one week each month.
Their first tasks are trying to get an agreement on the rights of UK and EU citizens after Brexit, reaching a figure for the amount of money the UK will need to pay on leaving, the so-called "divorce bill", and what happens to the Northern Ireland border.
You can find out more about the talks here.
What is the European Union?
The European Union - often known as the EU - is an economic and political partnership involving 28 European countries (click here if you want to see the full list).
It began after World War Two to foster economic co-operation, with the idea that countries which trade together are more likely to avoid going to war with each other.
It has since grown to become a "single market" allowing goods and people to move around, basically as if the member states were one country.
It has its own currency, the euro, which is used by 19 of the member countries, its own parliament and it now sets rules in a wide range of areas - including on the environment, transport, consumer rights and even things such as mobile phone charges.
Click here for a beginners' guide to how the EU works.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How does the European Union work?
What is Article 50?
Article 50 is a plan for any country that wishes to exit the EU.
It was created as part of the Treaty of Lisbon - an agreement signed up to by all EU states which became law in 2009.
Before that treaty, there was no formal mechanism for a country to leave the EU.
It's pretty short - just five paragraphs - which spell out that any EU member state may decide to quit the EU, that it must notify the European Council and negotiate its withdrawal with the EU, that there are two years to reach an agreement - unless everyone agrees to extend it - and that the exiting state cannot take part in EU internal discussions about its departure.
What date will the UK will leave the EU?
For the UK to leave the EU it had to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty which gives the two sides two years to agree the terms of the split.
Theresa May triggered this process on 29 March, meaning the UK is scheduled to leave on Friday, 29 March 2019.
It can be extended if all 28 EU members agree, but at the moment all sides are focusing on that date as being the key one.
What's going to happen to all the EU laws in force in the UK?
The Conservative government has introduced the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill to Parliament.
If passed, it will end the primacy of EU law in the UK.
This "Great Repeal Bill" as it has been called, is supposed to incorporate all EU legislation into UK law in one lump, after which the government will decide over a period of time which parts to keep, change or remove.
The government is facing claims from Remain supporting MPs that it is giving itself sweeping powers to change legislation without proper Parliamentary scrutiny.
Read a full guide to the bill.
What is the Labour Party's position on Brexit?
Labour's position on Brexit was tweaked in mid-August, when the shadow Brexit secretary, Sir Keir Starmer, announced that the party now wanted to keep the UK in the single market and a customs union during a transition that could last for up to four years.
Labour would also accept free movement of people, payments into the EU budget and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice during the transition.
This is a considerably "softer" version of Brexit than the one advocated by the government, but there are still divisions within the party about whether the UK should try to stay in the single market in the longer term.
What do 'soft' and 'hard' Brexit mean?
These terms have increasingly been used as debate focused on the terms of the UK's departure from the EU.
There is no strict definition of either, but they are used to refer to the closeness of the UK's relationship with the EU post-Brexit.
So at one extreme, "hard" Brexit could involve the UK refusing to compromise on issues like the free movement of people even if meant leaving the single market.
At the other end of the scale, a "soft" Brexit might follow a similar path to Norway, which is a member of the single market and has to accept the free movement of people as a result of that.
What is the single market?
The single market is seen by its advocates as the EU's biggest achievement and one of the main reasons it was set up in the first place.
Britain was a member of a free trade area in Europe before it joined what was then known as the common market.
In a free trade area countries can trade with each other without paying tariffs - but it is not a single market because the member states do not have to merge their economies together.
The European Union single market, which was completed in 1992, allows the free movement of goods, services, money and people within the European Union, as if it was a single country.
It is possible to set up a business or take a job anywhere within it.
The idea was to boost trade, create jobs and lower prices.
But it requires common law-making to ensure products are made to the same technical standards and imposes other rules to ensure a "level playing field".
Critics say it generates too many petty regulations and robs members of control over their own affairs.
Mass migration from poorer to richer countries has also raised questions about the free movement rule.
Theresa May has ruled out the UK staying in the single market.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has said continued membership of the single has to be an option in negotiations with Brussels.
Read more: A free trade area v EU single market

What's the difference between the single market and the customs union?
The customs union ensures EU member states all charge the same import duties to countries outside the EU.
It allows member states to trade freely with each other, without burdensome customs checks at borders, but it limits their freedom to strike their own trade deals.
It is different from a free trade area.
In a free trade area no tariffs, taxes or quotas are charged on goods and services moving within the area but members are free to strike their own external trade deals.
The single market is a very different beast - it is not just about the trade in goods.
It allows the free movement of people, money and services as if the EU was a single country.
Who is negotiating Britain's exit from the EU?
Theresa May set up a government department, headed by veteran Conservative MP and Leave campaigner David Davis, to take responsibility for Brexit.
Former defence secretary, Liam Fox, who also campaigned to leave the EU, was given the new job of international trade secretary and Boris Johnson, who was a leader of the official Leave campaign, is foreign secretary.
These three are each set to play roles in negotiations with the EU and seek out new international agreements, although it would be Mrs May, as prime minister, who would have the final say.
Who's who guide to both sides' negotiators.
How long will it take for Britain to leave the EU?
The Article 50 process lasts two years so the intention is for the UK to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
EU law still stands in the UK until it ceases being a member.
But there is currently uncertainty about how final the break will be on that day - a number of UK and EU figures back the idea of having a "transition" period of up to three years to allow a smooth implementation of whatever Brexit deal is negotiated and minimise disruption to businesses and holidaymakers etc.
Why might Brexit take so long?
Unpicking 43 years of treaties and agreements covering thousands of different subjects was never going to be a straightforward task.
It is further complicated by the fact that it has never been done before and negotiators will, to some extent, be making it up as they go along.
The post-Brexit trade deal is likely to be the most complex part of the negotiation because it needs the unanimous approval of more than 30 national and regional parliaments across Europe, some of whom may want to hold referendums.
So why can't the UK just cut all ties in March 2019?
The UK could cut all ties, but Theresa May and others would like to avoid such a "cliff-edge" where current regulations on things like cross-border trade and travel between the UK and the EU ends overnight.
They think it would harm the economy.
What is the focus of negotiations between the UK and EU?
The priority issues in negotiations are:

1) Agreeing what rights EU citizens already in the UK - and UK citizens living in the rest of the EU - will have after Brexit.
2) Agreeing a figure for the amount of money the UK has to pay the rest of the EU "to settle its accounts", when it leaves.
3) Working out what will happen on the border between Northern Ireland, when it is outside the EU, and the Republic of Ireland, which is part of the EU.
The EU says it wants to make decent progress on these three issues before beginning talks about what the UK's relations with the EU will be like after Brexit.
Mrs May set out her negotiating priorities in the letter officially triggering the process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
Here's a guide to the key points.
How are the talks going?
There have been agreements on some technical points, but the chief EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, has said there had been no decisive progress on any of the main issues.
The UK's Brexit Secretary, David Davis, insists progress has been made.
The main sticking point at the moment is money - and the size of the bill the UK will pay to cover its outstanding obligations when it leaves.
The UK wants this to be as low as possible.
All the other countries in the EU want it to be as high as possible.
Because when the UK leaves, there will be a hole in the EU budget and they will have to cover the shortfall.
The UK government has published a series of papers setting out its position on issues such as future customs arrangements, and on the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Government policy is now that the UK will leave the single market and the customs union on the day of Brexit, but that it will try to replicate existing customs arrangements during a time-limited transition period.
What happens if there is no deal with the EU?
Prime Minister Theresa May says leaving the EU with no deal whatsoever would be better than signing the UK up to a bad one.
Without an agreement on trade, the UK would have to operate under World Trade Organisation rules, which could mean customs checks and tariffs on goods as well as longer border check for travellers.
There are also questions about what would happen to Britain's position as global financial centre and the land border between the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
There is also concern that Brits living abroad in the EU could lose residency rights and access to free emergency health care.
Here is a full explanation of what 'no deal' could mean

What happens to EU citizens living in the UK?
It has yet to be agreed.
All EU nationals lawfully resident in the UK for at least five years will be able to apply for "settled status" and be able to bring over spouses and children, under a 15-page proposal unveiled by Theresa May.
Mrs May says she wants to give reassurance and certainty to the 3.2 million EU citizens in the UK - as well as citizens of the three EEA countries and Switzerland.
But any deal on their future legal status and rights must be reciprocal and also give certainty to the 1.2 million British expats living on the continent after the UK leaves the EU - expected to be on 29 March 2019, she says.
Michel Barnier, who is leading the Brexit negotiations for the EU, said the UK's proposals did not go far enough and he wanted the same level of protection citizens currently have under EU law.
He has demanded more clarity and ambition from the UK government.
The key points of the UK's proposals are:

Those granted settled status will be able to live, work, study and claim benefits just as they can now

The cut-off date for eligibility is undecided but will be between 29 March 2017 and 29 March 2019

Family members of EU citizens living abroad will be able to return and apply for settled status

EU nationals in the UK for less than five years at the specified date will be able to continue living and working in the UK

Once resident for five years, they can apply for settled status

Those arriving after the cut-off point will be able to stay temporarily

But there should be "no expectation" they will be granted permanent residence

A period of "blanket residence permission" may apply to give officials time to process applications to stay in the UK

The Home Office will no longer require evidence that EU citizens who weren't working held "comprehensive sickness insurance"

Labour has said it would guarantee the rights of of EU citizens living in the UK to stay there on "day one" of a Labour government.
EU nationals with a right to permanent residence, which is granted after they have lived in the UK for five years, should not see their rights affected after Brexit.
What happens to UK citizens working in the EU?
A lot depends on the kind of deal the UK agrees with the EU.
If the government opted to impose work permit restrictions on EU nationals, then other countries could reciprocate, meaning Britons would have to apply for visas to work.
What about EU nationals who want to work in the UK

Any EU citizen already living and working in the UK will be able to carry on working and living in the UK after Brexit.
The current plan is that even after Brexit, people from the EU will be able to move to work in the UK during a "transition" phase of up to three years.
However they will have to register.
A permanent proposal for post-Brexit immigration is not likely to be known for a few months yet, although it is widely expected that there will be a work permit system along the lines of that for non-EU nationals.
What does the fall in the value of the pound mean for prices in the shops?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Shoppers will need to keep a close eye on how much they are spending

People travelling overseas from the UK have found their pounds are buying fewer euros or dollars after the Brexit vote.
Even if the pound regains some of its value, currency experts expect it in the longer term to remain at least 10% below where it was when the referendum happened.
This means exports should get a boost as UK goods will be cheaper, but imported goods will get more expensive - some price rises for food, clothing and homeware goods have been seen.
The latest UK inflation figures have the rate at 2.6%, above the target level, but not out of kilter with recent years.
Will immigration be cut?
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has said one of the main messages she has taken from the Leave vote is that the British people want to see a reduction in immigration.
She has said this will be a focus of Brexit negotiations as she remains committed to getting net migration - the difference between the numbers entering and leaving the country - down to a "sustainable" level, which she defines as being below 100,000 a year.
The rate of increase in the size of Britain's population has slowed significantly since the Brexit vote.
This has largely been driven by an increase in emigration from the UK by citizens of Poland and the other East and Central European countries.
There were still 246,000 more people coming to live in the UK than leaving in the year to March 2017, according to the latest estimates - some way above the government's target of 100,000.
Could there be a second referendum?
It seems highly unlikely.
Both the Conservatives and the Labour Party have ruled out another referendum, arguing that it would be an undemocratic breach of trust with the British people who clearly voted to Leave.
Will MPs get a vote on the Brexit deal?
Theresa May has promised there will be a Commons and Lords vote to approve whatever deal the UK and the rest of the EU agree at the end of the two year process.
This vote is currently proposed as a "take it or leave it" one.
Labour wants the vote to have the option of sending the UK team back to renegotiate.
It is worth mentioning that any deal also has to be agreed by the European Parliament - with British MEPs getting a chance to vote on it there.
Will I need a visa to travel to the EU?
The UK government wants to keep visa-free travel to the UK for EU visitors after Brexit and it is hoping this will be reciprocated, meaning UK citizens will continue to be able to visit EU countries for short periods without seeking official permission to travel.
If visitors from EU countries wanted to work, study or settle in the UK they would have to apply for permission under the proposals.
No agreement has been reached yet, however.
If it is decided that EU citizens will need visas to come to the UK in the future, then UK citizens will need visas to travel to the EU.
Image copyright Reuters

Will I still be able to use my passport?
It is a British document - there is no such thing as an EU passport, so your passport will stay the same.
In theory, the government could, if it wanted, decide to change the colour, which is currently standardised for EU countries, says the BBC's Europe correspondent, Chris Morris.
Has any other member state ever left the EU?
No nation state has ever left the EU.
But Greenland, one of Denmark's overseas territories, held a referendum in 1982, after gaining a greater degree of self government, and voted by 52% to 48% to leave, which it duly did after a period of negotiation.
The BBC's Carolyn Quinn visited Greenland to find out how they did it.
What does this mean for Scotland?
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Nicola Sturgeon says a new independence referendum in Scotland is likely

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said in the wake of the Leave result that it was "democratically unacceptable" that Scotland faced being taken out of the EU when it voted to Remain.
Ms Sturgeon has officially asked for permission for a second referendum to be held.
She had wanted the vote to be held between the autumn of 2018 and spring 2019, but after losing seats at the 2017 general election she has put her plans on hold with no referendum likely until 2021.
Theresa May has said a second referendum should not be held during the Brexit process.
What does it mean for Northern Ireland?
The land border between Northern Ireland and EU member the Republic of Ireland is a key part of the Brexit talks.
There is currently a common travel area between the UK and the Republic.
Like Scotland, Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU in last year's referendum.
The result in Northern Ireland was 56% for Remain and 44% for Leave.
The UK government has published a paper setting out its vision for a post-Brexit border.
It wants to avoid returning to a "hard border" - that means no physical infrastructure, such as customs posts.
There would be no CCTV cameras or number plate recognition technology at the border, or set back from it.
Instead, the UK government is arguing for a wide-ranging exemption under which small and medium-sized businesses will not have to comply with any new customs tariffs.
If the proposals are accepted, customs officials envisage using a mix of technology and physical checks to monitor the compliance of bigger businesses engaged in international trade.
Critics say the proposals lack credible detail, with Labour deriding the plans for the border as "a fantasy frontier".
Sinn Fein, which was part of the ruling coalition in the Northern Ireland Assembly before it was suspended, has called for a referendum on leaving the UK and joining the Republic of Ireland as soon as possible.
The Conservatives have rejected Sinn Fein's call, saying there was no evidence opinion had shifted in favour of a united Ireland.
How much has Brexit cost so far and how much will it cost by the end?
There is much debate about the long-term costs and benefits to the UK economy of Brexit - but what we do know for certain is that the EU wants the UK to settle any outstanding bills before it leaves.
There have been no official estimates published of the size of the bill, which covers things like pension payments to EU officials, the cost of relocating London-based EU agencies and outstanding EU budget commitments.
Various figures ranging from 50bn (44bn) to 100bn (88bn) euros have been bandied about but although the UK has agreed to meet its financial obligations, Brexit secretary David Davis has said: "We will not be paying 100bn."
The UK could leave without any Brexit "divorce bill" deal but that would probably mean everyone ending up in court.
If compromise can be achieved, and if payment of the bill were to be spread over many years, the amounts involved may not be that significant economically.
How will pensions, savings, investments and mortgages be affected?
During the referendum campaign, David Cameron said the so-called "triple lock" for state pensions would be threatened by a UK exit.
This is the agreement by which pensions increase by at least the level of earnings, inflation or 2.5% every year - whichever is the highest.
Theresa May had proposed ditching the 2.5% part of the lock in the party's election manifesto, but as part of the post-election deal with the DUP the triple lock was again guaranteed.
There was an early post-referendum cut in interest rates, which has helped keep mortgage and other borrowing rates low.
There are few signs yet that rising inflation have worried the Bank of England enough to consider raising interest rates.
But if that happened it would make mortgages and loans more expensive to repay - but would be good news for savers.
Will duty-free sales on Europe journeys return?
Image copyright Thinkstock

Journalists and writers on social media have greeted the reintroduction of duty-free sales as an "upside" or "silver lining" of Brexit.
As with most Brexit consequences, whether this will happen depends on how negotiations with the EU play out - whether the "customs union" agreement between Britain and the EU is ended or continued.
Will EHIC cards still be valid?
Image copyright Thinkstock

If you are already living in another EU country on the day the UK leaves the bloc, your EHIC card - which entitles travellers to state-provided medical help for any condition or injury that requires urgent treatment, in any other country within the EU, as well as several non-EU countries - will continue to work.
After that date, for EU citizens wishing to travel to the UK or UK citizens wishing to travel to the EU, it is unclear about what will happen because no deal has yet been reached.
Read more here.
Will cars need new number plates?
Probably not, says BBC Europe correspondent Chris Morris, because there's no EU-wide law on vehicle registration or car number places, and the EU flag symbol is a voluntary identifier and not compulsory.
The DVLA says there has been no discussion about what would happen to plates with the flag if the UK voted to leave.
Could MPs block an EU exit?
Could the necessary legislation pass the Commons, given that a lot of MPs in the current Parliament - all SNP and Lib Dems, nearly all Labour and many Conservatives - were in favour of staying?
The referendum result is not legally binding - Parliament still has to pass the laws that will get Britain out of the 28 nation bloc, starting with the repeal of the 1972 European Communities Act.
The withdrawal agreement also has to be ratified by Parliament - the House of Lords and/or the Commons could vote against ratification, according to a House of Commons library report.
So in theory they could block the UK's EU exit.
But in practice that is seen as very unlikely given that a majority of people voted for Brexit in the referendum.
Will leaving the EU mean we don't have to abide by the European Court of Human Rights?
The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg is not a European Union institution.
It was set up by the Council of Europe, which has 47 members including Russia and Ukraine.
So quitting the EU will not exempt the UK from its decisions.
The Conservatives are committed to sticking with the Human Rights Act which requires UK courts to treat the ECHR as setting legal precedents for the UK during the Brexit process.
There have been longstanding plans to repeal the act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights.
What about the European Court of Justice?
The Court of Justice of the European Union - to give it its full name - is the EU's highest legal authority.
It is based in Luxembourg.
It is an entirely different thing to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).
It is the ECHR not the ECJ that has often upset British politicians by making it harder, for example, to deport terrorist suspects.
The ECJ interprets and enforces the rules of the single market, settling disputes between member countries over issues like free movement and trade.
It is at the centre of pretty much everything the EU does.
Prime Minister Theresa May has vowed that Britain will not be under the "direct" jurisdiction of the ECJ after Brexit.
But the UK government has not ruled out remaining under its jurisdiction during the Brexit transition period that is planned after March 2019.
After that, there will need to be a new mechanism for settling disputes between the UK and the EU but what form that take has yet to be decided.
There has been talk of an ombudsman, or some other third party, being appointed to settle disagreements.
The UK has set out some ideas in a position paper, which was criticised for being too "vague".
The EU is insisting that its citizens in the UK should continue to enjoy the legal protection of the ECJ even after Brexit, guaranteeing their right to work and access to benefits among other things.
This is a major sticking point in the negotiations, with the UK saying EU citizens living in the UK should be subject to British law only.
Will the UK be able to rejoin the EU in the future?
BBC Europe editor Katya Adler says the UK would have to start from scratch with no rebate, and enter accession talks with the EU.
Every member state would have to agree to the UK re-joining.
But she says with elections looming elsewhere in Europe, other leaders might not be generous towards any UK demands.
New members are required to adopt the euro as their currency, once they meet the relevant criteria, although the UK could try to negotiate an opt-out.
Who wanted the UK to leave the EU?
The UK Independence Party, which received nearly four million votes - 13% of those cast - in the 2015 general election, but who saw their vote collapse to about a quarter of that at this year's election, has campaigned for many years for Britain's exit from the EU.
They were joined in their call during the referendum campaign by about half the Conservative Party's MPs, including Boris Johnson and five members of the then Cabinet.
A handful of Labour MPs and Northern Ireland party the DUP were also in favour of leaving.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to leave?
They said Britain was being held back by the EU, which they said imposed too many rules on business and charged billions of pounds a year in membership fees for little in return.
They also wanted the UK to make all of its own laws again, rather than being created through shared decision making with other EU nations.
Immigration was also a big issue for Brexit supporters, They wanted Britain to take back full control of its borders and reduce the number of people coming here to live and/or work.
One of the main principles of EU membership is "free movement", which means you don't need to get a visa to go and live in another EU country.
The Leave campaign also objected to the idea of "ever closer union" between EU member states and what they see as moves towards the creation of a "United States of Europe".
Who wanted the UK to stay in the EU?
Then Prime Minister David Cameron was the leading voice in the Remain campaign, after reaching an agreement with other European Union leaders that would have changed the terms of Britain's membership had the country voted to stay in.
He said the deal would give Britain "special" status and help sort out some of the things British people said they didn't like about the EU, like high levels of immigration - but critics said the deal would make little difference.
Sixteen members of Mr Cameron's Cabinet, including the woman who would replace him as PM, Theresa May, also backed staying in.
The Conservative Party was split on the issue and officially remained neutral in the campaign.
The Labour Party, Scottish National Party, Plaid Cymru, the Green Party and the Liberal Democrats were all in favour of staying in.
The then US president Barack Obama also wanted Britain to remain in the EU, as did the leaders of other EU nations such as France and Germany.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to stay?
Those campaigning for Britain to stay in the EU said it got a big boost from membership - it makes selling things to other EU countries easier and, they argued, the flow of immigrants, most of whom are young and keen to work, fuels economic growth and helps pay for public services.
They also said Britain's status in the world would be damaged by leaving and that we are more secure as part of the 28 nation club, rather than going it alone.
What about businesses?
Big business - with a few exceptions - tended to be in favour of Britain staying in the EU because it makes it easier for them to move money, people and products around the world.
Given the crucial role of London as a financial centre, there's interest in how many jobs may be lost to other hubs in the EU.
Some UK exporters say they've had increased orders or enquiries because of the fall in the value of the pound.
Others are less optimistic, fearing products for the European market may have to be made at plants in the EU.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Boris Johnson was one of the most prominent Leave campaigners

Who led the rival sides in the campaign?
Britain Stronger in Europe - the main cross-party group campaigning for Britain to remain in the EU was headed by former Marks and Spencer chairman Lord Rose.
It was backed by key figures from the Conservative Party, including Prime Minister David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne, most Labour MPs, including party leader Jeremy Corbyn and Alan Johnson, who ran the Labour In for Britain campaign, the Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru, the Alliance party and the SDLP in Northern Ireland, and the Green Party.
Who funded the campaign: Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to remain : The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
: The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Vote Leave - A cross-party campaign that has the backing of senior Conservatives such as Michael Gove and Boris Johnson plus a handful of Labour MPs, including Gisela Stuart and Graham Stringer, and UKIP's Douglas Carswell and Suzanne Evans, and the DUP in Northern Ireland.
Former Tory chancellor Lord Lawson and SDP founder Lord Owen were also involved.
It had a string of affiliated groups such as Farmers for Britain, Muslims for Britain and Out and Proud, a gay anti-EU group, aimed at building support in different communities.
Who funded the campaign: Vote Leave raised 2.78m.
Its largest supporter was businessman Patrick Barbour, who gave 500,000.
Former Conservative Party treasurer Peter Cruddas gave a 350,000 donation and construction mogul Terence Adams handed over 300,000.
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to leave: UKIP leader Nigel Farage was not part of Vote Leave.
His party ran its own campaign.
The Trade Union and Socialist Coalition also ran its own out campaign.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Will the EU still use English?
Yes, says BBC Europe editor Katya Adler.
There will still be 27 other EU states in the bloc, and others wanting to join in the future, and the common language tends to be English - "much to France's chagrin", she says.
Will Brexit harm product safety?
Probably not, is the answer.
It would depend on whether or not the UK decided to get rid of current safety standards.
Even if that happened any company wanting to export to the EU would have to comply with its safety rules, and it's hard to imagine a company would want to produce two batches of the same products.
Here are a selection of questions sent in - you can ask yours via the form at the end of this page

Which MPs were for staying and which for leaving?
The good news for Edward, from Cambridge, who asked this question, is we have been working on exactly such a list.
Click here for the latest version.
How much does the UK contribute to the EU and how much do we get in return?
In answer to this query from Nancy from Hornchurch - the UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out.
Only France and Germany contribute more.
In 2014/15, Poland was the largest beneficiary, followed by Hungary and Greece.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out

The UK also gets an annual rebate that was negotiated by Margaret Thatcher and money back, in the form of regional development grants and payments to farmers, which added up to 4.6bn in 2014/15.
According to the latest Treasury figures, the UK's net contribution for 2014/15 was 8.8bn - nearly double what it was in 2009/10.
The National Audit Office, using a different formula which takes into account EU money paid directly to private sector companies and universities to fund research, and measured over the EU's financial year, shows the UK's net contribution for 2014 was 5.7bn.
Read more number crunching from Reality Check.
If I retire to Spain or another EU country will my healthcare costs still be covered?
David, from East Sussex, is worried about what will happen to his retirement plans.
This is one of those issues where it is not possible to say definitively what would happen.
At the moment, the large British expat community in Spain gets free access to Spanish GPs and their hospital treatment is paid for by the NHS.
After they become permanent residents Spain pays for their hospital treatment.
In some other EU countries such as France expats of working age are expected to pay the same healthcare costs as locals but once they reach retirement age their medical bills are paid by the NHS.
If Britain remains in the single market, or the European Economic Area as it is known, it might be able to continue with this arrangement, according to a House of Commons library research note.
If Britain has to negotiate trade deals with individual member states, it may opt to continue paying for expats' healthcare through the NHS or decide that they would have to cover their own costs if they continue to live abroad, if the country where they live declines to do so.
What will happen to protected species?
Dee, from Launceston, wanted to know what would happen to EU laws covering protected species such as bats in the event of Britain leaving the EU.
The answer is that they would remain in place, initially at least.
After the Leave vote, the government will probably review all EU-derived laws in the two years leading up to the official exit date to see which ones to keep or scrap.
The status of Special Areas of Conservation and Special Protection Areas, which are designated by the EU, would be reviewed to see what alternative protections could be applied.
The same process would apply to European Protected Species legislation, which relate to bats and their habitats.
The government would want to avoid a legislative vacuum caused by the repeal of EU laws before new UK laws are in place - it would also continue to abide by other international agreements covering environmental protection.
How much money will the UK save through changes to migrant child benefits and welfare payments?
Martin, from Poole, in Dorset, wanted to know what taxpayers would have got back from the benefit curbs negotiated by David Cameron in Brussels.
We don't exactly know because the details were never worked out.
HM Revenue and Customs suggested about 20,000 EU nationals receive child benefit payments in respect of 34,000 children in their country of origin at an estimated cost of about 30m.
But the total saving would have been significantly less than that because Mr Cameron did not get the blanket ban he wanted.
Instead, payments would have been linked to the cost of living in the countries where the children live.
David Cameron said as many as 40% of EU migrant families who come to Britain could lose an average of 6,000 a year of in-work benefits when his "emergency brake" was applied.
The DWP estimated between 128,700 and 155,100 people would be affected.
But the cuts would have been phased in.
New arrivals would not have got tax credits and other in-work benefits straight away but would have gradually gained access to them over a four year period at a rate that had not been decided.
The plan will never be implemented now.
Will we be barred from the Eurovision Song Contest?
Image copyright BBC/Guy Levy Image caption To participate in the Eurovision Song Contest countries need to be a member of the European Broadcasting Union, which is independent of the EU

Sophie from Peterborough, who asks the question, need not worry.
We have consulted Alasdair Rendall, president of the UK Eurovision fan club, who says: "All participating countries must be a member of the European Broadcasting Union.
The EBU - which is totally independent of the EU - includes countries both inside and outside of the EU, and also includes countries such as Israel that are outside of Europe.
Indeed the UK started participating in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1957, 16 years before joining the then EEC."
What will happen to pet passports?
The answer to Alan Rippington's question, the European Commission says, is that pet passports will, like everything else, form part of the negotiations.
The UK introduced the pet passport scheme in 2000, replacing the previous quarantine laws.
It means you and your dog, cat or ferret can travel between the UK and the EU (and other participating countries) as long as it has a passport, a microchip and has been vaccinated against rabies.
Of course, until the UK actually leaves the EU, the scheme continues as normal.
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: "The UK has a long history of world-leading animal welfare and biosecurity standards, which we are committed to safeguarding and improving, securing the best deal for Britain as we leave the EU."
Has Brexit made house prices fall?
Image copyright PA

So far, the answer is no.
But there has been anecdotal evidence of house prices falling at the top of the market in Central London and the annual increase in the price of property has fallen from 9.4% at the time of the referendum to 4.9% a year later.
What is the 'red tape' that opponents of the EU complain about?
Ged, from Liverpool, suspects "red tape" is a euphemism for employment rights and environmental protection.
According to the Open Europe think tank, four of the top five most costly EU regulations are either employment or environment-related.
The UK renewable energy strategy, which the think-tank says costs 4.7bn a year, tops the list.
The working time directive (4.2bn a year) - which limits the working week to 48 hours - and the temporary agency workers directive (2.1bn a year), giving temporary staff many of the same rights as permanent ones - are also on the list.
Most of the EU-derived laws on the UK's statute books will be copied across into UK law so that businesses can continue to function on the day Britain leaves the EU, in March 2019.
Future governments will then be able to amend or scrap them.
Brexit may also generate "red tape" of its own - if the UK leaves the single market and the customs union, businesses could face more paperwork as they cross borders into EU countries.
Will Britain be party to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership?
Ste, in Bolton, asked about this.
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership - or TTIP - currently under negotiation between the EU and United States would create the biggest free trade area the world has ever seen.
Cheerleaders for TTIP, including former PM David Cameron, believed it could make American imports cheaper and boost British exports to the US to the tune of 10bn a year.
But many on the left, including Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, fear it will shift more power to multinational corporations, undermine public services, wreck food standards and threaten basic rights.
US President Donald Trump is not a fan of the TTIP agreement, which means it is now seen as unlikely to be agreed - but whatever happens, when the UK quits the EU it will not be part of TTIP and will have to negotiate its own trade deal with the US.
What impact will leaving the EU have on the NHS?
Paddy, from Widnes, wanted to know how leaving the EU will affect the number of doctors we have and impact the NHS.
This became an issue in the referendum debate after the Leave campaign claimed the money Britain sends to the EU, which it claimed was 350m a week, could be spent on the NHS instead.
The BBC's Reality Check team looked into this claim.
Before the vote Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt warned that leaving the EU would lead to budget cuts and an exodus of overseas doctors and nurses.
The Leave campaign dismissed his intervention as "scaremongering" and insisted that EU membership fees could be spent on domestic services like the NHS.
Since the referendum spending on the NHS has continued at the same level as planned.
EU citizens working for the NHS are expected to get the right to stay in the UK, although details on EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens elsewhere in the EU are yet to be finalised (see earlier answer).
Sally Miller bought a house in Spain nine years ago and plans to retire there in the next five years.
She asked how Brexit will affect this.
Image copyright Getty Images

The BBC's Kevin Connolly says:

The issue of free movement - the rights of EU citizens to live and work in the UK - was a huge issue in the Brexit referendum of course, and will be a big part of the exit negotiations.
We've heard quite a bit from the British side already with the government saying that securing the status and rights of EU nationals in the UK and UK nationals in the EU is one of the government's earliest priorities, and specifically that it is looking for a reciprocal deal.
So you might feel the mood music is encouraging but all we can say for sure is that, while there are no guarantees yet, it will be a big part of the Brexit negotiations to come.
Jonathan Eaton is a Briton living in the Netherlands with his wife, who is Dutch.
He asks what rights to benefits and housing he will have if he has to return to the UK.
Image copyright Getty Images

BBC assistant political editor Norman Smith says:

The short answer is there is no easy access to benefits.
As it stands at the moment, Brexit aside, you will have to pass what's known as a habitual residence test which was introduced in 1994 and applies to British citizens just as EU citizens.
The rules have been tightened up which means for some benefits, if you have been out of the country you can't even think about applying for the test for several months.
For example, when it comes to jobseeker's allowance, you cannot even take the test to apply for those benefits for three months.
And that was done to stop EU citizens coming here and just getting on benefits straight away.
After three months, you can take the test which looks at your English language skills, what sort of efforts you made to find work before coming to the UK.
It also considers how strong a tie you have to the UK, whether you have property or family here and what your intentions are in terms of staying and working, or returning.
But once you have taken the test, if you pass it then you should be eligible to apply for a range of benefits, as long as you meet the usual requirements in terms of income and showing you are looking for work.
That is likely to continue when we move fully on to Universal Credit.
The one sort of unknown in the whole system is what happens with Brexit negotiations, in terms of guaranteeing the rights of British nationals abroad.
And we simply don't know what that will involve and whether in any way that might impact on how soon you can apply for benefits when you come back to Britain.
Will I have to buy a new passport and driving licence, and will my rights to use them freely across Europe be taken away from me after Brexit, asks Francis Lee.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

At the moment UK passports carry the words European Union and British driving licences have the blue square with yellow flags of the EU.
That will presumably change after Brexit but it seems likely that the change will be phased in so that you'll simply get documents with the new design when the old ones expire.
That's what happened, I seem to remember, when the UK joined the EU.
Anything else would be expensive and risk flooding the system, after all.
The right to use them freely is an interesting question.
When we talk about restrictions on freedom of movement we generally mean the freedom to live and work in another country.
If Britain poses restrictions on the EU in that respect then it can expect some kind of response.
But in terms of tourism there are plenty of non-EU countries whose citizens can visit the UK for up to 90 days without a visa.
And, as part of the Brexit negotiations, you'd expect similar arrangements to be discussed for the UK.
Both sides need each others' tourists and, after all, if you can drive a car in the United States on a UK licence then it doesn't seem fanciful to assume that you'll be able to do the same in Europe in future.
It is very clear that the PM and the government want to leave the tyranny of the European Court of Justice.
Why has leaving the European Court of Human Rights (an organisation far more hated than the ECJ) been ignored, asks Barry Fryer.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

Two different courts here of course, so two different bits of politics.
Crucially, the European Court of Human Rights is not an EU institution and that's why discussions about leaving it have not formed a key part of the Brexit debate.
The European Court of Justice - the ECJ - is one of the primary institutions of the European Union and administers EU law.
So, while it might have a role in supervising a future trade deal, part of the goal of Brexit was to remove the UK from the ECJ's jurisdiction.
The European Court of Human Rights which, as Barry points out, can be even more controversial, is a body set up not by the EU but by member states of the Council of Europe, a separate institution which contains countries that aren't EU members.
It's this court which has produced rulings which have been controversial in the UK, including blocking the extradition of Abu Qatada and establishing the right of serving prisoners to vote in elections - and leaving the EU won't change anything here.
Adrian Wallis runs a small electronics company and wants to know about export tariffs after Brexit, and what they'd mean for his business.
Kevin Connolly says:

As long as Britain has been in the EU we haven't really talked much about tariffs.
That's because all trade within the European Economic Area is tariff-free.
On top of that the EU has trade agreements with 52 other countries as well.
After Brexit, Britain is going to have to negotiate new deals all on its own.
That's both a problem and an opportunity.
For example you can use tariffs against foreign imports to protect businesses you care about, as the EU does with agricultural produce, but you do then run the risk of retaliation from your trading partners.
The key body in all of this is the World Trade Organisation and at the moment the UK is only a member via its membership of the EU.
Image copyright Thinkstock

One bit of good news is that the UK will automatically become a member in its own right as soon as it leaves the EU.
That matters because in the period when the UK is negotiating a new trade deal with the EU, and that could take years, trade would be conducted under WTO rules.
At the moment, for non-food items, that implies an average tariff of about 2.3%.
But suppose the EU were to impose a 10% tariff on UK car imports, for example.
Well, then the UK could impose the same tariff on German and French cars.
In theory, an economist would say that creates a situation where everyone has an incentive to sort out a better deal for their consumers.
The snag is that these things take years, if not decades.
They tend to be done on a country-by-country and sector-by-sector basis.
So if Adrian is waiting to find out the implications for his business, then I'm afraid he's going to have to be patient.
Maybe very, very patient.
What impact will leaving the European Union have on the UK's long term political influence in Europe, asks Peter Hoare.
Norman Smith says:

There are basically two views on what will happen in terms of clout when outside the EU.
View one is that the UK projects power and influence in the world, working through organisations such as the EU and that on our own it'll be a much diminished force.
View two is that unencumbered by the other 27 members, the UK can get on with things and start adopting a much more independent, self-confident, assertive role on the world stage.
My take is that not much is probably going to change.
I say that because the UK'll still be a member of significant organisations such as the UN and Nato, and will still be co-operating with EU partners.
For example, there will still be close ties on defence with the French.
The UK will still be the same old Britain, will still have significant military force, will still be a wealthy country and will still be a nuclear power, so I don't think people will suddenly think the UK's an entirely different country.
Are other countries likely to leave the EU and if so could we start a new free trade area, asks David John.
Kevin Connolly says:

Funnily enough, I was discussing this question just the other day with a French politician, a conservative and a real Europhile, and he said he thought if there was a free vote in France tomorrow, as the right wing National Front would like, that the French would vote to leave.
But generally speaking I can't see much prospect of a tidal wave of insurrectionist, exitism sweeping the continent.
When a country like Ireland has a spat with the EU about tax, for example, it does annoy Irish politicians, but most mainstream leaders in the Europe have grown up with the idea that the EU has brought peace and prosperity for decades.
Image copyright Getty Images

Lots of them see plenty that irritates them about the European Union, but they mainly argue that the benefits hugely outweigh the irritations.
And in countries where you do find Euroscepticism, such as Poland and Hungary, there is also a healthy awareness that there are huge financial benefits to membership.
As for the future, we will see.
If the UK were to get a fantastic Brexit deal then maybe others would be tempted to go.
But the truth is, lots of European politicians want the EU to be tough with Britain precisely to stop other countries from following it through the door.
As to Britain forming its own free trade area, I think it seems an awfully long shot and on balance it is unlikely, not least because there are not that many free countries around available to recruit into another free trade area.
Britain could perhaps join the Free Trade Association along with Norway, Lichtenstein and Switzerland.
But of course it would be joining under existing rules, so the likeliest future for a post-Brexit UK, I think, is a future where it tries to do the best deal possible with the EU and then looks around for other free trade deals.
But that would fall short of creating a free trade area based on the UK itself.
What will happen to the borders in Gibraltar and Northern Ireland, asks Nigel May.
Kevin Connolly says:

I think the question of what is going to happen to borders after Brexit is one of the most difficult of the lot.
Since 1985 when Spain joined the EU, it has basically been prevented from closing the border with Gibraltar as a way of applying pressure to the British territory.
In fact, 12,000 Spanish people cross into the territory to work every day and the area of Spain around Gibraltar is a pretty depressed area so they are important jobs.
On the other hand, the Spanish have talked openly about this being an opportunity to get Gibraltar back.
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo, its minister of foreign affairs, said in September the UK's vote to leave the EU was "a unique historical opportunity in more than three hundred years to get Gibraltar back".
But at a minimum, as things stand, it looks to me as though they could certainly re-impose border controls if they chose to.
Image copyright Getty Images

The situation with Ireland's border is more complex.
For those of us for whom Northern Ireland is home, the total disappearance of military check points on the border is one of the most tangible daily reminders of the end of the Troubles and no one wants a border like that back.
But, when the day comes when Ireland is in the EU and the UK is not, then the Irish border of course is also going to be the UK's land border with the European Union.
Conservative leader Theresa May has said we don't see a return to the borders of the past, but the reality is that if Britain leaves the common customs area, then presumably some sort of checks are going to be necessary on that border.
And if the UK wants to stop Polish or Romanian migrant workers using Dublin airport as a back door into the UK, then it is going to have to do something about that too.
The UK has published a paper setting out its preferred options.
Of course, what it will all mean for towns and villages like Belleek and Belcoo in County Fermanagh, which more or less straddle the border, is hard to imagine.
How will access to healthcare change for expats living in the EU, asks Veronique Bradley, who lives in Italy.
Kevin Connolly says:

Healthcare is one of those issues that remains relatively simple as long as the UK remains in the EU.
It is just part of a range of citizens' rights that apply across the entire union.
After Brexit, I suppose there will be two possibilities.
The first and easiest would be that the negotiators come up with a reciprocal deal that keeps the current arrangements, or something a bit like them, in place.
If they don't, the situation will depend on the individual country where you live.
For the Bradleys in Italy, for example, residents from non-EU countries, and that will soon include the Brits, will have to finalise their residency status, acquire an Italian identity card and then apply for an Italian health insurance card.
If they visit the UK at the moment, access to the NHS for non-resident Brits is not straightforward unless you have a European health insurance card.
The right to treatment is based on residency, not on your tax status.
So, even if you live abroad and pay some British tax on a buy-to-let property for instance, you might find yourself getting a bill for any NHS treatment you end up getting while you are back in the UK.
What will happen to EU nationals who lived and worked in the UK and now receive a British state pension, asks Peter Barz, a German citizen living in the UK.
Norman Smith says:

If you are an EU national and you get a British state pension, nothing much should change, because the state pension is dependent not on where you come from, but on how long you have paid National Insurance contributions in the UK.
So it doesn't matter whether you come from Lithuania or Latvia or Transylvania or Timbuktu, what counts is how much you have paid in terms of National Insurance contributions.
There is one wrinkle though and that is that you have to have paid in for at least 10 years.
Image copyright Getty Images

Under the current rules, if you are an EU citizen and haven't paid in for 10 years, you can point to any contributions you have made in your native country and say, "I paid in there", and that will count.
That works for EU countries and another 16 countries with which the UK has social security agreements.
Once we have left the EU, you will no longer be able to do that unless we negotiate new reciprocal agreements.
If we don't then potentially, if you have paid in fewer than than 10 years' worth of National Insurance contributions, you will not get a British state pension.
Is it possible to be both an EU citizen and not an EU citizen, asks Declan O'Neill, who holds an Irish passport.
Kevin Connolly says:

I should probably declare some sort of interest here as a dual Irish and British national myself.
Of course, anyone born in Northern Ireland has an absolute right to carry both passports.
Declan might be happy to know that this is one of the few questions where I can't see a downside as long as you are happy and comfortable carrying both passports.
Image copyright Getty Images

The Irish document means you continue to enjoy the benefits of EU citizenship, and the British passport will give you full rights in the UK at the same time.
Call it one of the clear joys of coming from Northern Ireland, alongside the rolling hills, rugged coastline and enjoyable breaks between the showers.
All you have to do is remember to carry the Irish passport when you are joining the EU citizens-only queue at the airport in future.
Is there a get-out clause for Article 50, asks Gillian Coates.
Norman Smith says:

I think the honest answer is you would have to be a legal eagle to answer this.
But my take on it is that legally it looks like once we trigger Article 50 we are locked in, and that is certainly how the European Parliament reads it.
And there is a view that if we were in this two-year process after triggering Article 50 and we wanted to get out of it, then ultimately that would be a decision for the European Court of Justice.
Image copyright Thinkstock

However, in the real world I think it is likely to be rather different, whatever the legal protocol.
I think the truth is, if we were trundling along and decided it was all going to be catastrophic and we have got to pull up the handbrake pretty sharpish, a lot of other EU countries would be probably be laughing at us, but I think at the same time they would probably be quite pleased we weren't going.
So I think the short answer is: legally, it doesn't look so good if you want to get out of it, but politically, it probably can be done with the support of other European leaders.
Eric Degerland asks when UK passports are going to change.
Kevin Connolly says:

This takes us to the heart of an issue that lots of people really care about.
It will be a real and palpable sign of Brexit when there is a new UK passport without the words "European Union" on the front cover.
Sadly, the short answer is we don't really know when the change will come about.
Image copyright Getty Images

But we can say that the cheapest thing for the government to do would be to phase in the new passports as people's old ones expire.
So if you're looking forward to getting back that blue hard-back passport we had in the old days, you may have a long time to wait.
The BBC's Reality Check team answered some of your questions about Theresa May's plans for EU citizens living in the UK.
Will Irish citizens be exempt from this five-year residency requirement, and continue to be afforded equal treatment with UK nationals?
Yes, Irish citizens residing in the UK will not need to apply for settled status to protect their entitlements as the UK government is committed to protecting the Common Travel Area arrangements.
Would EU citizens still be able to move to the UK in the next two years until March 2019?
Yes, they would.
The UK is a member of the EU until it withdraws, so the freedom of movement rules will apply until then.
Why shouldn't British courts have full jurisdiction over the rights of EU citizens living in the UK?
Wasn't that the whole point of Brexit?
The UK government says the European Court of Justice will not have jurisdiction over EU citizens' rights.
The EU demands that it does.
This is an important sticking point in the Brexit negotiations.
How can a lifetime stay be guaranteed?
Could a future government change the law?
Once the UK leaves the EU, any future government will in principle be able to propose amendments to the rules and the UK Parliament would decide on the new law.
I plan to retire to France within the next two years and buy a property.
Will this be possible after Brexit?
You can buy property and retire anywhere in the world, subject to the rules of the country you are retiring in.
So, you'll be able to do that but we don't know what your exact rights will be until the UK and EU conclude the citizens' rights negotiations.
I'm an EU national living in the UK but my wife is from outside the EU.
Is her status going to change?
Your wife, as a family member of an eligible EU citizen who has been resident in the UK before we leave the EU, will also be eligible to apply for settled status with you, provided that she too meets the settlement criteria and has been in a genuine relationship with you while resident in the UK.
Theresa May has formed her new government after the Conservatives lost their majority in the general election.
The prime minister's room for manoeuvre in the reshuffle was limited when her party was left with 318 MPs and Labour had 262.
Here's what we know so far.
The list will be updated as new appointments are made.
Prime Minister - Theresa May

Image copyright Reuters

Theresa May stays as prime minister despite not achieving the mandate for Brexit she had called the election for.
The UK's second female PM took up the role after David Cameron resigned in the wake of the EU referendum result.
She had previously been home secretary for six years.
Theresa May: Full profile

Election 2017: Key points at-a-glance

First Secretary of State - Damian Green

Image copyright AFP

Damian Green has been promoted to a new role the prime minister did not have in her first cabinet - that of first secretary of state.
As the same time he also replaces Ben Gummer as minister for the Cabinet Office after Mr Gummer lost his seat in the election.
The move effectively makes the former work and pensions secretary, a friend and ally of Theresa May, her second in command.
It could see Mr Green standing in for Mrs May at PMQs when she is not available.
The role - which was previously held by George Osborne and, under Labour, Peter Mandelson - gives Mr Green seniority over other cabinet ministers.
Chancellor of the Exchequer - Philip Hammond

Image copyright PA

Philip Hammond remains as chancellor of the exchequer.
He was foreign secretary under David Cameron from 2014 to 2016, having previously served as defence secretary and transport secretary.
Mr Hammond, 61, is seen at Westminster as the ultimate safe pair of hands steering Britain's economy through the post-Brexit period ahead.
Sometimes mocked as "box office Phil" for what some see as his dull delivery, he forged a reputation in the shadow Treasury team as the Tories' public spending "axeman".
Foreign Secretary - Boris Johnson

Image copyright AFP

No change at the Foreign Office as Boris Johnson keeps his job.
Despite hints from some of the newspapers that Mr Johnson, 52, may turn his hand to trying to lead the party, he has categorically dismissed such claims.
Mr Johnson said that while the public would be wondering about the future of the current government, Mrs May had got the biggest Conservative mandate anyone had achieved for decades.
"I'm going to be backing her, and absolutely everybody I'm talking to is going to be backing her as well."
Home Secretary - Amber Rudd

Image copyright Reuters

Amber Rudd remains as home secretary despite only narrowly holding her seat as MP for Hastings and Rye.
During the election campaign, she stood in for the PM in the BBC's televised debate in May.
Ms Rudd was previously energy and climate change secretary, a position she held for just one year.
The former investment banker, venture capitalist and financial journalist, aged 53, decided to enter politics in her 40s in order to get "a grip on her life".
Secretary of State for Exiting the EU - David Davis

Image copyright Reuters

David Davis keeps his job of secretary of state for exiting the European Union - or "Brexit secretary".
The role was created in July to take the lead in negotiating the UK's exit from the EU.
A veteran Eurosceptic, he has previously held the positions of Conservative party chairman and shadow deputy prime minister.
Between 2003 and 2008, he was the shadow home secretary under both Michael Howard and David Cameron.
Mr Davis, 68, lost to David Cameron in the 2005 Tory leadership contest.
Defence Secretary - Michael Fallon

Image copyright AFP

Michael Fallon has kept his job at the Ministry of Defence - a position the 65-year-old has held since 2014.
He was Conservative MP for Darlington from 1983 to 1992 - initially during Margaret Thatcher's time in Downing Street - and after leaving Parliament was later re-elected as MP for Sevenoaks in 1997.
A former Conservative Party deputy chairman, Mr Fallon has previously served as energy and business minister, and before that secretary of state for business and enterprise.
Secretary of State for International Trade - Liam Fox

Image copyright AFP

Liam Fox, 55, continues as the secretary of state for international trade.
He was made secretary of state for defence in 2010 but resigned in 2011 over allegations he had given a close friend, lobbyist Adam Werritty, access to the Ministry of Defence and allowed him to join official trips overseas.
Mr Fox stood in the leadership race against Theresa May but was eliminated in the first ballot after winning the support of just 16 MPs.
He told reporters he was "delighted" to keep the job he has held since July last year.
"It's now time for the whole of the Conservative party to rally behind the prime minister and get a government in the national interest."
Justice Secretary - David Lidington

Image copyright PA

Former Leader of the House of Commons David Lidington gets the job of justice secretary, replacing Liz Truss.
He had been Europe Minister since 2010 but moved across to aid the smooth running of the Commons in 2016.
The Cambridge history graduate and father-of-four has been MP for Aylesbury since 1992.
He previously worked for BP and mining firm Rio Tinto.
Leader of the House of Lords - Baroness Evans

Image copyright PA

Baroness Evans of Bowes Park keeps her job as the leader of the House of Lords.
When appointed in 2016, it was her first ministerial role since being ennobled by David Cameron in 2014.
She attended London's Henrietta Barnett School and Cambridge University before becoming deputy director of the Conservative research department, deputy director of the Policy Exchange think-tank and chief operating officer of the New Schools Network - the organisation which ran Michael Gove's free schools programme.
Health Secretary - Jeremy Hunt

Image copyright Reuters

Jeremy Hunt remains in his post despite the problems within the NHS.
He took over the health portfolio following a cabinet reshuffle in 2012, and at the time described the appointment as the "biggest privilege of my life".
But in a tweet he admitted there were "challenges ahead, but also huge opportunities to make our NHS even better".
Last year, Mr Hunt was locked in a battle with the British Medical Association over a new contract for junior doctors, which led to a series of strikes.
Education Secretary - Justine Greening

Image copyright PA

Justine Greening has kept her roles as education secretary and minister for women and equalities.
She is part of the most diverse Parliament yet as she openly defines herself as a lesbian.
At London Pride in 2016, the 48-year-old announced in a tweet she was in a same-sex relationship, saying "I campaigned for Stronger In but sometimes you're better off out!".
Ms Greening replaced Nicky Morgan at education in 2016, leaving her international development secretary post, which she was promoted to in 2011.
She has been MP for Putney since 2005.
Transport Secretary - Chris Grayling

Image copyright Reuters

Chris Grayling remains as transport secretary in Theresa May's cabinet.
The former Leader of the House has been dealing with Southern Rail's disrupted services, the question of Heathrow's third runway and the high speed rail link, HS2.
He also served as shadow transport secretary from December 2005 to 2007.
Culture Secretary - Karen Bradley

Image copyright Getty Images

Karen Bradley has kept her role as Culture, Media and Sport Secretary.
She had been working with Theresa May as a Home Office minister since 2014.
She was first elected MP for Staffordshire Moorlands in May 2010.
Environment Secretary - Michael Gove

Image copyright EPA

Michael Gove has made a comeback, with the prime minister bringing him back into cabinet and appointing him environment secretary.
In the 2016 reshuffle he was sacked as justice secretary and before that he served under David Cameron as education secretary and chief whip in the Tory-Lib Dem coalition.
Despite campaigning alongside Boris Johnson for Brexit, he withdrew his support for Mr Johnson to be Conservative leader and prime minister, choosing instead to stand himself.
He was eliminated in the final round of voting by MPs, coming third.
Mr Gove's surprise move to stand for the leadership effectively dashed his colleague's hopes of winning and prompted Mr Johnson's withdrawal from the contest.
Work and Pensions Secretary - David Gauke

Image copyright AFP

A sideways step for David Gauke, with the PM appointing him as the new work and pensions secretary.
He was previously the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, who attends cabinet but does not have a ministerial role.
Mr Gauke has been the MP for Hertfordshire South West since 2005.
He is a qualified solicitor and worked for a leading City firm until he was elected.
Communities Secretary - Sajid Javid

Image copyright AFP

Sajid Javid keeps his job as secretary of the department for communities and local government.
He held this position in 2014 before being appointed to business secretary a year later.
A former managing director of Deutsche Bank, Mr Javid has been MP for Bromsgrove in Worcestershire since 2010.
He stood on a "joint ticket" with Stephen Crabb for the leadership election, hoping to be chancellor if Mr Crabb had become PM.
Northern Ireland Secretary - James Brokenshire

Image copyright PA

James Brokenshire continues as the Northern Ireland Secretary.
He previously worked with the PM at the Home Office, where he was immigration minister.
From 2011 to 2015, he served as security minister at the Home Office with responsibility for domestic national security and counter-terrorism.
This included supporting the home secretary with oversight of the work of MI5 and the national police counter-terrorism network.
Mr Brokenshire's responsibilities also included the government's counter-terrorism strategy and he was part of the prime minister's "extremism taskforce".
He also led negotiations with the Jordanian government to secure the deportation of the radical cleric Abu Qatada.
Welsh Secretary - Alun Cairns

Image copyright PA

Alun Cairns, MP for the Vale of Glamorgan, remains in his cabinet role as secretary of state for Wales.
The 46-year-old, who was born in Swansea and is a graduate of the University of Wales, Newport, was elected in 2010.
He worked in banking for a decade before his election to the Welsh Assembly.
Scottish Secretary - David Mundell

Image copyright Reuters

David Mundell will continue as secretary of state for Scotland.
He is one of 13 Scottish Conservatives to be in Parliament after this snap election.
Former prime minister David Cameron first appointed Mr Mundell to the post when he held his Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale seat for the third consecutive election in 2015.
In January 2015, Mr Mundell became the first openly-gay Conservative cabinet secretary.
Conservative Party chairman and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster - Patrick McLoughlin

Image copyright AFP

Patrick McLoughlin remains as the Conservative Party chairman and chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
He left his role as transport secretary in 2016 but has been an MP since 1986.
The former miner also served as chief whip after being appointed to the role in David Cameron's first cabinet.
Business and Energy Secretary - Greg Clark

Image copyright PA

Greg Clark keeps his job as secretary of state of business, energy and industrial strategy.
The role, when it was created by Labour's Gordon Brown, was originally called the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Last year, it was merged into the new department and lost the "climate change" part of its name.
Environmentalists immediately expressed concern that the reshaping of departments showed the government was downgrading climate change as a priority.
International Development Secretary - Priti Patel

Image copyright Reuters

Priti Patel remains as International Development Secretary.
She was promoted from her role as employment minister, which she held for a year, in 2016.
Ms Patel became MP for Witham in 2010 and joined the front bench as a Treasury minister in 2014.
She is no stranger to controversy, having previously advocated bringing back the death penalty and was accused of "divide and rule politics" during the referendum campaign for claiming that "biased" immigration policy prevents curry chefs from outside the EU from working in the UK.
On her appointment, she immediately faced calls to guarantee the UK's legal commitment to spending 0.7% of GDP on overseas aid.
In other appointments:
Video

Labour has committed to taking back control of some privatised public services when it returns to power.
Shadow chancellor John McDonnell told the party conference: " I want people to have no doubt - rail, water, energy, Royal Mail - we are taking them back."
Do you like your Brexit hard or soft?
Will the UK have egg on their face in the Brexit negotiations with the European Union?
Video

In her conference speech, Emily Thornberry mocked the foreign secretary, claiming he was not happy with some of the "broken promises of the Leave campaign".
The shadow foreign secretary got a big cheer from the Brighton crowd when she said: "I know that Boris doesn't like paternity tests, but maybe we need one for Brexit."
Clegg's 'sense of foreboding' over Brexit

The former deputy prime minister says he fears the UK is "asking for the impossible" in wanting to retain access to the EU's single market while not abiding by its rules.
Video

Brexit is the defining political issue of our time, and it is currently causing the biggest headache for the government.
But Labour's position, or some might say lack of one, on some of the big questions about life after the EU will also come into focus.
30 MPs along with other high-profile figures from the party have signed a letter urging Jeremy Corbyn to commit to staying in the single market and the customs union after Brexit.
Elizabeth Glinka has been taking a look.
Video

A Labour government would bring "existing PFI contracts back in-house", the shadow chancellor has said.
John McDonnell told his party conference it would go further than its existing pledge to allow no new private finance initiative (PFI) deals to fund public services, and was now looking at those already in place.
Former Rep. Anthony Weiner rose to fame with an impassioned speech in Congress in 2010, only to be taken down by a scandal that involved "sexting" multiple women for years.
The former New York Democratic congressman was sentenced to 21 months in prison Monday on federal charges of sending sexually explicit messages to a teenage girl.
Weiner, who openly wept as the judge read the sentence, will have to surrender to a yet to be determined prison facility on Nov. 6.
He will also have to register as a sex offender.
A 15-year-old girl in North Carolina told the Daily Mail last year that she and Weiner exchanged explicit messages for months.
She claimed that he asked her to film herself undressing at one point.
Prior to sentencing, Weiner agreed to not appeal any sentence between 21 and 27 months in prison.
He faced up to 10 years in prison.
From his start as a politician and marrying political staffer Huma Abedin, to the first reports of his "sexting" scandal, here's a look at Weiner's time in the spotlight.
July 2010:

Weiner and Abedin, who met in 2001, got married in New York.
Former President Bill Clinton officiated the ceremony.
That same month, Weiner, who was a Democratic representative at the time, gave a moving speech on the House floor after a bill to provide aid to 9/11 emergency responders failed.
Weiner gained notoriety and soon started becoming a known name in the political world.
May 2011:

The first photo of the scandal: a picture of Weiner in his boxer brief with a bulging crotch was posted on his Twitter account with about 40,000 followers.
Weiner first claimed his Twitter was hacked.
Abedin was secretly pregnant with their son at the time.
June 2011:

Weiner held a tearful news conference on June 6, fessing up to the tweet.
"To be clear, the picture was of me, and I sent it," Weiner said.
Weiner announced he would be taking a leave of absence from Congress on June 11.
A spokeswoman said Weiner was taking the time to "seek professional treatment to focus on becoming a better husband and healthier person."
Five days later, he officially resigned from Congress.
He held a news conference in Brooklyn, New York and apologized for his actions and the embarrassment he may have caused.
December 2011:

Abedin gives birth to their son, Jordan Zain Weiner.
May 2013:

After being out of the public eye for nearly two years, Weiner announced he was running for mayor of New York City.
In the video announcement, Weiner, Abedin and their son appear to be a happy family, putting the scandal behind them.
"Look, Ive made some big mistakes and I know Ive let a lot of people down," Weiner said in the video.
"I'm running for mayor because I've been fighting for the middle class and those struggling to make it for my entire life.
And I hope I get a second chance to work for you," he added.
"We love this city," Abedin said.
"And no one will work harder to make it better than Anthony."
July 2013:

A website published screenshots of alleged conversations that contained explicit photos between Weiner and another woman.
Weiner, with Abedin by his side, held a news conference on July 23 where he admitted to the sexting.
Despite the revelation, Abedin stood by her husband's side.
"What I want to say is I love him, I have forgiven him, I believe in him, and as I have said from the beginning, we are moving forward," Abedin said.
September 2013:

Weiner lost the mayoral primary, landing in fifth place.
Bill de Blasio went on to win the Democratic nomination and the election.
May 2016:

The documentary "Weiner" opened in theaters.
The film documents Weiner's rollercoaster career in politics and highlighted the scandal.
Abedin, at the time, was one of Hillary Clinton's top campaign aides for the 2016 presidential election.
August 2016:

The New York Post published a story about more explicit texts the disgraced politician sent starting in 2015.
One of the photos showed Weiner, in his boxer briefs, in bed with his toddler son by his side.
The next day, Abedin announced the couple was separating.
"After a long and painful consideration and work on my marriage, I have made the decision to separate from my husband," Abedin said in a statement.
September 2016:

The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the New York Police department announced they were opening an investigation into Weiner after a 15-year-old girl told the Daily Mail the former politician sent her lewd messages starting in January 2016.
The exchange continued for months.
October 2016:

The FBI said it was reopening its investigation into the private email server of then Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
The FBI discovered the emails while looking into Weiner's laptop during the investigation into the sexting case.
May 2017:

Weiner appeared in federal court in Manhattan on May 19 and pleaded guilty to a charge of transmitting sexual material to a minor.
"I have a sickness, but I do not have an excuse," Weiner tearfully said during his apology in court.
The judge told him he would have to register as a sex offender.
Weiner agreed to not appeal any sentence between 21 and 27 months in prison.
On the same day, Abedin reportedly filed for divorce, nine months after announcing their separation.
September 2017

Weiners lawyers argued that he should be spared from prison in a Manhattan federal court.
His lawyers referenced letters that attest to his character, including one by Abedin.
With Anthony, I have repeatedly found myself in circumstances I never imagined.
I am devastated by Anthonys actions, and I understand he must face their consequences, she said.
His lawyers referenced Anthonys operatic self-destruction, describing his crime as the final act  born of deep sickness.
But they also blamed the girl who Weiner conversed with, saying that she had a goal to affect last years presidential election as Abedin worked for Clinton.
Weiners lawyers also argued that he never purposefully sought out teenagers on the internet and didnt engage in predatory behaviors.
He responded to the victims request for sexually explicit messages not because she was a teenager but in spite of it, the lawyers said.
The couple also asked a judge for privacy in their separate divorce proceedings.
While their lawyers met with state Supreme Court Justice Michael L. Katz, Weiner and Abedin chatted casually, according to the Associated Press.
Kaitlyn Schallhorn and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Disgraced former Rep. Anthony Weiner was sentenced Monday to 21 months in prison, facing the most severe penalty yet in connection with the sexting scandal that drove the New York Democrat out of Congress, ruined his marriage and became a late issue in the 2016 presidential race.
U.S. District Judge Denise L. Cote issued the sentence in federal court in New York.
This is a serious crime that deserves serious punishment, Cote said in a statement.
The former lawmaker's sexting habits entered criminal territory with his illicit contact with a 15-year-old girl.
Weiner, 53, had pleaded guilty in May to sending sexually explicit texts to the girl across state lines.
Weiner agreed not to appeal any sentence between 21 and 27 months in prison.
Weiner openly wept in court on Monday as the judge announced the sentence.
In addition to the prison term, he was sentenced to three years of supervised release, given a $10,000 fine, and required to forfeit his iPhone.
Weiner must surrender on Nov. 6 to a yet-to-be determined prison facility.
Weiner read from a prepared statement for several minutes, describing himself as an addict and calling his crime rock bottom.
He said he has a disease, but it is not an excuse.
The disgraced politician earlier had apologized in court to the teenage victim, blaming his own destructive impulses.
Weiner also was forced to register as a sex offender.
Anthony Weiner, a former Congressman and candidate for Mayor, asked a girl who he knew to be 15 years old to display her naked body and engage in sexually explicit behavior for him online.
Justice demands that this type of conduct be prosecuted and punished with time in prison, Acting Manhattan U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim said in a statement Monday.
Today, Anthony Weiner received a just sentence that was appropriate for his crime.
Weiner said last week that he was undergoing treatment and is profoundly sorry for subjecting the minor to what his lawyers call his deep sickness.
Weiner's treatments include individual therapy once a week, group therapy once a week, 12-step meetings four to five times a week, and weekend intensives every four to six months.
Prosecutors said, however, that he has promised in the past that hes reformed.
Throughout the trial, defense lawyers had portrayed the girl as an aggressor, saying she wanted to generate material for a book and possibly influence the presidential election.
ANTHONY WEINER SCANDALS: FROM POLITICS TO SEXTING CASES

I have compulsively sought attention from women who contacted me on social media, and I engaged with many of them in both sexual and non-sexual conversation, Weiner said in a prepared statement in May.
These destructive impulses brought great devastation to my family and friends, and destroyed my lifes dream of public service.
Weiner apologized to his now-estranged wife, longtime Clinton aide Huma Abedin, and his family, after his admission of guilt.
I have a sickness, but I do not have an excuse, Weiner said.
Abedin filed for divorce just hours after Weiner pleaded guilty in May.
The FBI began investigating Weiner in September 2016 after a 15-year-old girl in North Carolina told a tabloid news site that she and the former politician had exchanged lewd messages for several months, and accused him of asking her to undress on camera.
This relationship was hardly the first that caused public embarrassment for Weiner and his family.
In 2011, Weiner resigned from Congress after an errant tweet exposed his sexting habits.
He later ran for New York City mayor, but was unsuccessful.
But the criminal investigation into his relationship with the minor infamously intersected with the 2016 presidential election, when agents acquired Weiners electronic devices and uncovered a new batch of emails between Hillary Clinton and Abedin.
The discovery led the FBI to revisit the investigation into Clintons use of a private email server while conducting official government business while secretary of state.
Clinton has cited this as a factor in her 2016 presidential defeat, and most recently, recalled the series of events in her new book, What Happened.
Fox News' Tamara Gitt and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
When voters in Virginia head to the polls this November, theyll be casting their ballots the old-fashioned way.
The states Board of Elections decided earlier this month to de-certify the widely used Direct-Recording Electronic (DRE) voting machines ahead of the gubernatorial election  prompting counties and cities to replace their touchscreen machines with those that produce a paper trail.
Virginia is not alone.
Several states are now considering a return to old-fashioned paper ballots or a reinforced paper trail so results can be verified, amid concerns over hacking attempts in last years presidential race as well as longstanding cybersecurity worries about touchscreen machines.
Our No.
1 priority is to make sure that Virginia elections are carried out in a secure and fair manner, James Alcorn, chairman of the State Board of Elections, said in a statement, calling the move necessary to ensure the integrity of Virginias elections.
The Virginia decision was linked in part to vulnerabilities exposed during a July 2017 hackathon.
At the annual DefCon Conference in Las Vegas, hackers were able to breach the security of over 30 different types of voting machines.
One hacker reportedly boasted of being able to breach the systems in as little as 90 minutes.
HACKERS EASILY BUST INTO VOTING MACHINES, IN CONFERENCE CHALLENGE

A chief concern with Virginias machines was that they leave no paper trail, making voting discrepancies nearly impossible to prove.
Virginia was already planning to move away from the touchscreens, but will now accelerate the shift to optical-scan ballots, in which voters fill out a paper ballot to be deposited and recorded in an electronic system.
A paper trail will ensure officials can verify election results if necessary in the fall.
The security of the election process is always of paramount importance.
The Department is continually vigilant on matters related to security of voting equipment used in Virginia, state Commissioner of Elections Edgardo Corts said in a statement.
Right now, a patchwork of different voting systems is in place across the country  typically, optical-scan ballots that are filled out and scanned; the DRE systems like touchscreen machines; or some combination of the two.
According to the Pew Research Center, almost half of registered voters live in places that only use optical-scan systems, but nearly 30 percent live in places that use only DRE systems.
The majority of those do not leave any paper trail that can be used for hard-copy recounts.
Earlier this week, the Rhode Island General Assembly also approved a bill requiring the state to perform an audit of paper ballots after an election.
The legislation was introduced by state Sen. James C. Sheehan and state Rep. Edith Ajello, both Democrats, in conjunction with the advocacy group Common Cause.
John Marion, executive director of Common Cause Rhode Island, told Fox News that this legislation grew out of a 2013 effort to introduce a pilot program of election auditing that did not pass.
It was reignited, however, after improperly programmed voting machines led to inaccurate results on a North Kingstown, R.I., ballot question during the 2016 election.
Though the issue was fixed, the decision was made to introduce legislation for mandatory auditing.
We think it will both be a good practice for the state to undertake and to verify that the machines we are using are counting the ballots correctly and in turn that will enhance peoples confidence that when they cast their vote that their vote is actually counting, Marion said.
Marion noted that while Rhode Island actually moved to include paper ballots in 1998, they have been behind in adopting an audit system.
The bill, which is headed to the governors desk, would allow for audits to start as early as the 2018 election, with a mandated start date of 2020.
Meanwhile, an effort in Georgia is underway to bring back a paper trail for ballots, something that was phased out in the state back in 2002, according to the Atlanta Journal Constitution.
Paper-ballot voting is not a foolproof system, either, as seen in the 2000 election between George W. Bush and Al Gore.
During the Florida recount, the infamous hanging chads -- incomplete and indistinguishable holes punched on the states butterfly ballot -- caused so much uncertainty the recount eventually made its way to the Supreme Court, where the election was decided.
The Secret Service says it arrested someone near the White House on Sunday for possessing firearms.
In a statement Monday, the agency says officers were approached by an individual at 17th Street NW and Pennsylvania Avenue at about 7:15 a.m. Sunday.
The location is the Old Executive Office Building, part of the White House grounds.
The Secret Service says the person was arrested for possessing "several firearms."
It provided no further details.
President Trump stepped up his Twitter criticism of the NFL on Monday morning, while praising NASCAR and its fans for not disrespecting our Country -- as the president's feud with the sports world took yet another turn.
Unlike many NFL players who locked arms, kneeled or even stayed in their locker rooms during the national anthem, NASCAR drivers did not protest "The Star-Spangled Banner" during their Cup Series race in New Hampshire this weekend.
So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans.
They wont put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag they said it loud and clear!
Trump tweeted Monday morning.
Richard Petty, a former NASCAR driver and now team owner, told the Associated Press on Sunday that he wouldnt accept any protest from his drivers.
Anybody that wont stand up for the anthem ought to be out of the country, Petty said.
Period.
Another owner, Richard Childress, said that his team members should respect the country we live in.
A NASCAR team executive said that the league currently has no policy on the issue of protesting the National Anthem, as it had never come up for them in the past.
STEELERS COACH MIKE TOMLIN RAPS ALEJANDRO VILLANEUVA FOR STANDING FOR NATIONAL ANTHEM

Trump contrasted that response Monday with the widespread protests in the NFL, which took off after the president seemed to take a shot during a political speech last week at Colin Kaepernick's anthem-kneeling.
Many people booed the players who kneeled yesterday (which was a small percentage of total).
These are fans who demand respect for our Flag!
Trump tweeted Monday.
More than 100 NFL players from teams across the country kneeled or locked arms after Trump slammed such protesters, calling for their suspension or firing should they show disrespect for the flag.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast, Trump tweeted Sunday morning ahead of the games.
Fire or suspend!
The feud began on Friday during the presidents rally in Alabama, when he first called for players to be fired if they disrespected the flag.
SEAHAWKS, TITANS, STEELERS STAY IN LOCKER ROOMS DURING NATIONAL ANTHEM AS MORE PLAYERS PROTEST

Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say get that son of a b off the field right now?
Hes fired!
Hes fired!
Trump said to the crowd Friday evening, drawing criticism from NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our community, Goodell said.
The controversy over standing for the national anthem began during last season, when former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Kaepernick refused to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" to protest police brutality against the African-American community.
Kaepernick is currently a free agent and has yet to be drafted to a team.
The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and national anthem.
NFL must respect this!
Trump tweeted Monday morning, but moments later, pivoted to important agenda items for his administration.
The White House never looked more beautiful than it did returning last night, Trump said.
Important meetings taking place today.
Big tax cuts & reform.
The Trump administration hopes to notch legislative victories in the coming days -- with a controversial ObamaCare overhaul possibly coming to the Senate floor this week, and tax reform on the horizon.
The president's NASCAR praise, however, could be short-lived.
Dale Earnhardt Jr. tweeted Monday: "All Americans R granted rights 2 peaceful protests ... Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable-JFK."
Fox News' Katherine Lam contributed to this report.
Republicans' attempt this week to repeal and replace ObamaCare in the Senate is supposed to be their last shot.
Maybe.
The effort looks bleak right now as the Senate careens toward a Sept. 30 deadline to try to rip out the 2010 health care law and replace it with a plan engineered by GOP Sens.
Lindsey Graham, South Carolina, and Bill Cassidy, Louisiana.
They retooled their blueprint over the weekend by bolstering funding for Alaska and Maine to court the states respective GOP senators, Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins, who each have expressed skepticism about the bill but arent hard noes yet.
The legislation largely sends health care dollars to states as block grants, permitting states to use the money as they see fit.
Its doubtful the Senate will this week have a complete analysis of the legislation from the Congressional Budget Office.
Graham-Cassidy supporters argue the nonpartisan CBO already scored many provisions in their legislation -- just not together.
However, some partial analysis is expected Monday that could merely be a letter about the bill without tables and detailed dissection.
Supporters will argue thats enough economic-impact analysis to hold a full vote before the Sept. 30 deadline to pass the bill with a simple, 51-vote majority.
Critics argue the process is too incomplete to vote on such major legislation.
Then there is the math.
The Senate breakdown is 52 Republicans and 48 senators who caucus with the Democrats.
GOP Sens.
Rand Paul, Kentucky, and John McCain, Arizona, said last week that they wont vote for the bill.
That meant the bill was on life support with a potential maximum of 50 GOP yeas.
The thought was that Vice President Pence could break a possible tie.
Then Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, on Sunday announced his opposition.
They dont have my vote, said Cruz, who suggested fellow Republican Sen. Mike Lee will also vote no.
Excluding Murkowski, Collins and Lee, there are 51 nays on the bill.
Thats makes the bill an immovable object unless something dramatic changes.
Expect GOP leaders and White House officials to administer a full-court press this week as the parliamentary carriage carting the health care bill turns into a pumpkin at 11:59:59 p.m.
ET on Sept. 30.
Heres where things get tricky.
With only 52 Senate Republicans, GOP leaders knew they didnt have a chance of neutering a Democratic filibuster on any repeal and replace effort.
Under most conditions, it takes 60 yeas to shut off a filibuster.
But once a year, the Senate can sidestep filibuster rules and consider legislation under a process called budget reconciliation.
Budget reconciliation limits debate to 20 hours and requires only 51 votes to pass a bill.
Budget reconciliation packages are ostensibly good for only one fiscal year.
The governments fiscal year runs out Saturday night, or Sept. 30, and so does the reconciliation measure for health care.
Thus, this weeks health care sprint.
Its unclear whether Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., would forge ahead this week with the Graham-Cassidy plan as a major amendment to the budget reconciliation effort the Senate debated in July.
Debate time on this particular reconciliation package expired, though senators could agree to some limited debate if everyone is on board.
Endless amendments -- in addition to Graham/Cassidy -- are in order.
That could launch a vote-a-rama in the Senate.
A vote-a-rama is where the Senate votes for hours on end on a lengthy slate of amendments during budget reconciliation.
Democrats could try to clog the works with so many amendments that the clock expires Saturday night.
Democrats could also submit amendments so lengthy that it takes the Senate clerks hours to orally read each one before the chamber.
In reality, the deadline here is sometime late on Sept. 28 or in the wee hours of Sept. 29.
The holiest day in Judaism -- Yom Kippur -- begins at sundown on Sept. 29 and runs until after sundown on Sept. 30.
Jewish senators wont be available for Senate work during that period.
Still, House and Senate Republicans could always craft a budget reconciliation package for tax reform with provisions that also allow for a repeal and replacement of ObamaCare.
After all, tax reform is next in line and a budget reconciliation vehicle is essential for that goal, too.
Such a ploy would mean that Sept. 30 isnt the absolute deadline for repealing and replacing ObamaCare.
If the future of the health care bill is cloudy in the Senate, its even murkier in the House.
Lets say for a moment the Senate does approve Graham-Cassidy.
The House and Senate arent in alignment as both bodies adopted different health care bills.
That means if the Senate package returns to the House, the House could be stuck with a take-it-or-leave-it proposition.
The House narrowly approved its own version of health care in May.
Graham-Cassidy is a different animal.
Would Californias 14 House Republicans vote yea?
How about GOPers from New York, New Jersey or Ohio?
Graham says House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., was confident his members would muscle through the Senates health care bill.
But that could require a Herculean effort.
Its possible the House may change a Senate-approved bill.
An altered bill must return to the Senate.
Any changes to the Senate bill by the House would be subject to a filibuster.
An amended bill would require 60 votes to halt a filibuster.
Thats never going to happen under these circumstances.
But if this bill has any chance of becoming law, House Republicans will likely have to accept whatever the Senate sends over.
Oregon's two Democratic senators are blocking one of President Trump's judicial nominees with claims that a "longstanding" state tradition mandating that nominees be chosen from their "judicial selection committee" was violated, but the tradition they cite has never applied to picks for the U.S.
Circuit Court, according to records viewed by the Washington Free Beacon.
Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley alerted the White House that they would be blocking the nomination of Oregon native Ryan Bounds for a seat on the U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
Bounds is currently serving as assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Oregon.
"We cannot return a blue slip on any judicial nominee that has not been approved by our bipartisan judicial selection committee," the senators wrote in a letter to the White House referencing the informal "blue slip" process by which senators are able to block nominations of judges from their home state.
"We have a long history of organizing a committee charged with thoroughly vetting applicants from the Oregon legal community," the senators wrote.
"We do not intend to return our blue slips for Ryan Bounds or any other nominee that has not been selected through our judicial selection process."
Though Wyden and Merkley refer to this selection process as a "longstanding" tradition, records show that nominees for the U.S.
Circuit Court such as Bounds have never been selected in this fashion.
Bounds is nominated to fill a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit vacated by Oregon Judge Diarmuid OScannlain, who notified former President Obama that he was assuming senior status on the court last September.
Click for more from The Washington Free Beacon.
Admit it: Wouldnt you rather have Donald Trump hurling verbal grenades at football and basketball stars than a guy with nuclear weapons?
Im not minimizing the seriousness of the controversy.
But Trump has an acute sense of when its in his interest to fight the culture warand at least this is a war fought with words, not nukes.
On Friday afternoon, the hot political story in Washington was John McCain all but killing the Senates third and final attempt to redo ObamaCare.
That would have been the buzziest Sunday show topic.
So Trump went in for the kick.
On Friday night in Alabama, the president called an audible.
He went after Colin Kaepernick (though not be name), the quarterback who mounted a racial protest by refusing to stand for the national anthem and is now out of work.
Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He is fired.
Hes fired!
What makes this a divisive form of playing offense is that Trump seems to be saying that peaceful protest is not just unacceptable, but a justification for losing your job.
But politically, Trump is tapping into popular resentment, especially among his base, toward multi-millionaire football players who seem ungrateful and, by dissing the anthem, unpatriotic.
Shortly before I went on the air yesterday, a number of Baltimore and Jacksonville players took a knee during the anthem in an early-morning game in London.
During the show, the Pittsburgh Steelers announced they wouldnt be on the field during the anthem.
Taking a knee has now become the all-purpose symbol of protest against TrumpStevie Wonder joined inmeaning non-sports celebrities can get a headline for doing so.
Trump, who owned a franchise in the defunct USFL, drew a penalty flag from Roger Goodell.
The NFL commissioner said that divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players.
Even Patriots owner Robert Kraft, a pal of the president, issued a statement expressing deep disappointment.
In his slam against the NBA, Trump announced that he was disinviting Steph Curry of the champion Golden State Warriors from visiting the White House.
This happened after the all-star guard said he wasnt sure he wanted to go.
The Warriors said yesterday the whole team would blow off the White House visit.
And Trumps targets have a big platform.
Currys rival, LeBron James, hit back in a tweet actually calling the president u bum, drawing 1.4 million likesand posted an accompanying video.
Trumps detractors in the media quickly branded his attack as racial.
Trumps Racial Crusade Against the Black Athlete, a HuffPost headline blared.
CNNs Chris Cillizza said he is playing with racial animus.
The argument here is that Trump went after Kaepernick, Curry and ESPN host Jemele Hill, all African-Americans.
But its worth remembering that Hill started the fight by denouncing Trump as a white supremacist, while Curry drew first blood by saying he had doubts about visiting a White House occupied by Trump.
The president clearly struck the first blow against NFL protestors like Kaepernick.
As usual, Trump uses over-the-top language (in this case SOB) to drive the debate.
And the media love nothing more than a story that combines Donald Trump, politics, sports and race.
It engages not just the political players but sports pages, sports radio, ESPN and every local outlet covering the local team.
I do think its sad that a ritual like a league champion visiting the White House has gotten swallowed up by politics.
But then, thats pretty much life in a polarized country where everyones always trying to score.
The authors of the Graham-Cassidy health care bill on Sunday appeared to make a last-minute effort to revive the GOP push to repeal and replace ObamaCare with a bill that gives more control to states through block grants.
The New York Times reported late Sunday that the revised bill would provide additional funding for an unnamed high-spending low-density statelikely Alaska.
Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R- AK., is one of the Republican holdouts and has said she is evaluating the bill and how it would affect her state.
Funds would also reportedly be increased for Maine.
Sen. Susan Collins, R- Maine, told CBS on Sunday that It is hard for me to envision getting to yes on this bill because my concerns are so fundamental.
Collins cited the bill's cuts in the Medicaid program for low-income people and the likelihood that it would result in many losing health coverage and paying higher premiums.
The new health care bill would undo central components of ObamaCare and replace it with block grants -- or federal funds -- to the states.
The bill would allow states to set their own coverage requirements, allow insurers to boost prices on people with serious medical conditions, end President Obama's mandates that most Americans buy insurance and that companies offer coverage to workers, and cut and reshape Medicaid.
Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., one of the bills co-authors, reportedly circulated a chart Sunday that showed Alaska receiving 3 percent more funding and Maine receiving 43 percent more.
The chart said the legislation's grants would provide 14 percent more for Arizona than under Obama's law, 4 percent more for Kentucky and 49 percent more for Texas.
Republicans were adding $14.5 billion to the measure for states, according to documents obtained late Sunday by The Associated Press.
The numbers are misleading, partly because they omit GOP Medicaid cuts from clamping per-person spending caps on the program, said Matt House, spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.
In a statement, Schumer said the measure would "throw our health insurance system into chaos."
Reuters reported that the Senate Finance Committee is set to hold a hearing Monday in an attempt to try and show Democrats are wrong in their criticism.
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office is also expected to produce a preliminary analysis of the bill's impact on budget deficits.
White House legislative liaison Marc Short and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., the other co-author of the bill, said Republicans would press ahead with a vote this week.
A vote must occur this week for Republicans to prevail with their narrow Senate majority.
Next Sunday, protections expire against a Democratic filibuster, bill-killing delays that Republicans lack the votes to overcome.
President Trump seemed to distance himself from the showdown, saying his "primary focus" was his party's drive to cut taxes.
"I don't know what they're doing," Trump told reporters about the bill's GOP opponents as he prepared to fly back to Washington after a weekend at his New Jersey golf club.
"But you know what?
Eventually we'll win, whether it's now or later."
Two GOP senators, Rand Paul of Kentucky and John McCain of Arizona, have already said they oppose the legislation.
All Democrats will vote against it.
Sen. Ted Cruz said that "right now" he doesn't back it.
"No" votes from three of the 52 GOP senators would kill the party's effort to deliver on its perennial vow to repeal "Obamacare" and would reprise the party's politically jarring failure to accomplish that this summer.
Cruz said he doesn't think fellow conservative Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, backs the GOP bill.
Lee spokesman Conn Carroll said Lee wants "technical changes" but hasn't finalized his position.
Paul said even though the bill transforms federal health care dollars into block grants states would control, the GOP bill left too much of that spending intact.
"Block granting Obamacare doesn't make it go away," Paul said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., in an interview Sunday said he is more energetic than ever while he undergoes treatment for an aggressive cancer.
McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee who made headlines after recently speaking out against the new GOP health bill, was diagnosed in July with a brain cancer.
He told "60 Minutes" that at the time of his diagnosis in July, he was driving back home to his ranch just outside of Sedona, Arizona.
He received a call from his doctor.
The doctor told him he has to come back to the Mayo Clinic in Phoenix.
McCain said it was Friday, and hed rather head back on Monday.
But the doctor said, No, you have to come now.
Its very serious.
I kept saying to them, "Tell it to me straight."
"Well, there's always this.
There's always that."
You know, and-- and I said, "I can take it.
Just tell me."
And then they were more forthcoming, he said.
According to the American Brain Tumor Association, more than 12,000 people a year are diagnosed with glioblastoma, a particularly aggressive type of tumor.
The American Cancer Society puts the five-year survival rate for patients over 55 at about 4 percent.
The prognosis is very, very serious, McCain said.
Some say three percent, some say 14 percent.
Its a very poor prognosis.
So, I just said, I understand, now were going to do what we can, get the best doctors we can find, and do the best we can.
And, at the same time, celebrate with gratitude a life well-lived.
he continued, "I am more energetic and more engaged as a result of this because I know Ive got to do everything I can to serve this country while I can."
He went on, I have feelings sometimes of fear of what happens, but as soon as I get that, I say, Wait a minute  youve been around a long time, old man.
Youve had a great life and a great experience.
I want when I leave, that the ceremony is at the Naval Academy and we just have a couple of people that stand up and say, This guy, he served his country.'
North Korea's foreign minister on Monday accused President Donald Trump of declaring war, saying that gives the rogue regime the right to shoot down U.S. strategic bombers.
Pyongyang could target planes even when they are not flying in North Korean airspace, Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York.
"The whole world should clearly remember it was the U.S. who first declared war on our country," he said.
"Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country," he added.
On Saturday, American bombers flew in international airspace east of North Korea in a symbolic show of military force.
The comments come amid an escalation of rhetoric between Pyongyang and Washington as the international community tries to end North Korean nuclear and missile programs.
Trump's first appearance at the United Nations General Assembly last week prompted a string of harsh warnings and threats.
It culminated Saturday in Trump saying the North Korean regime "won't be around much longer" if Ri "echoes thoughts" of dictator Kim Jong Un, who Trump maligned as "Little Rocket Man."
On Monday, Ri claimed that comment was a declaration of war.
Ri also inflamed tensions following Trump's defiant remarks to the U.N. last week.
On Saturday, he called Trump "President Evil" and claimed that economic sanctions will not deter Pyongyang's pursuit of nuclear weapons and a "balance of power with the U.S."

Trump on Tuesday said the U.S. would have "no choice but to totally destroy North Korea" if it is forced to defend itself or its allies.
The president and his top advisors have repeatedly said they could take military action in response to a string of missile tests, but prefer a diplomatic resolution.
Reuters contributed to this report
Former Rep. Anthony Weiner was sentenced Monday to 21 months in prison for sexting with a 15-year-old girl in a case that rocked Hillary Clinton's campaign for the White House in the closing days of the race and may have cost her the presidency.
Weiner, 53, dropped his head into his hand and wept as the sentence was announced by Judge Denise Cote.
He must surrender to prison officials by Nov. 6.
The sentencing completed the sordid downfall of the New York Democrat, whose penchant for exchanging lewd messages and photos with young women online destroyed his career in Congress in 2011, doomed his bid for mayor of New York in 2013, wrecked his marriage to Clinton's closest aide, Huma Abedin, and became entangled in the 2016 presidential campaign.
Admitting "I have a sickness, but I do not have an excuse," Weiner pleaded guilty in May to transferring obscene material to a minor, punishable by up to 10 years in prison, for illicit contact with a North Carolina teenager.
He sought to be spared from prison, tearfully telling Cote on Monday that he was "a very sick man for a very long time."
Weiner, weeping as he read from a written statement on a page he held in front of him, called his crime his "rock bottom."
Prosecutors said he sent her porn and got her to take her clothes off and touch herself on Skype.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Amanda Kramer on Monday urged Cote to give Weiner a significant prison sentence to end his "tragic cycle" of sexting.
The FBI was investigating Weiner's contact with the high school student when it came across emails on his laptop between Abedin and Clinton, prompting then-FBI Director James Comey to announce in late October 2016 that he was reopening the probe of Clinton's use of a private computer server.
Two days before Election Day, the FBI announced there was nothing new in the emails.
But Clinton has blamed Comey's handling of the episode more than any other factor for her loss to Donald Trump.
In a recent NBC interview, she called the FBI director's intervention "the determining factor" in her defeat.
Weiner's lawyers had argued in court papers that he was undergoing treatment and was profoundly sorry for subjecting the girl to his "deep sickness."
They also portrayed her as an instigator, saying she wanted to generate material for a book and possibly influence the presidential election.
Prosecutors responded by arguing the victim's motives were irrelevant to the punishment and said Weiner's habit of getting caught sexting "suggests a dangerous level of denial and lack of self-control."
Weiner, wearing his wedding ring, seemed pensive just before Monday's hearing began.
His parents were in the courtroom but not his wife.
He and Abedin are currently going through divorce proceedings.
Weiner's behavior in all its lurid detail  including his online alias "Carlos Danger" and a selfie of his bulging underwear  turned him and his last name into an irresistible punchline for late-night comics and mortified his wife again and again.
The couple, who have a 5-year-old, are getting divorced.
In her new memoir, "What Happened," Clinton revealed that Weiner's wife "looked stricken" and burst into tears upon learning her husband had triggered Comey's "October surprise."
"This man is going to be the death of me," Abedin was quoted as saying.
Billionaire investor Mark Cuban said Monday that President Donald Trump should read a book instead of tweeting scorn at NFL players who protest during the playing of the national anthem.
"The president is not going to apologize.
Are you kidding me?"
Cuban said on CNBC.
"Instead of getting on his phone and tweeting, just read a book.
You know, just chill," the owner of the NBA's Dallas Mavericks added in a "Squawk on the Street" interview.
"I know that's crazy to say about our president."
High-profile sports figures said Trump should apologize for calling protesting NFL players "son of a bitch" at a rally in Alabama on Friday.
In the interview Monday, Cuban said Trump should have said nothing about NFL players protesting during the national anthem.
He also said the league has always been involved in politics at some level.
Cuban supported Democrat Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election.
Cuban has criticized Trump over issues and Trump has blasted Cuban likewise.
The uproar started when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last season to protest the treatment of African-Americans in the United States.
He is no longer in the NFL.
Mark Cuban: Trump should have said nothing about national anthem protests in NFL 1 Hour Ago | 02:00

Mark Cuban, owner of the NBA's Dallas Mavericks, told CNBC on Monday that President Donald Trump should have said nothing about NFL players protesting during the national anthem.
"Why even comment before you know what you're talking about?"
the billionaire investor said in an interview on "Squawk on the Street."
Cuban said the NFL has always been involved in politics at some level.
Trump's criticism on Twitter of players who kneel during the national anthem sparked angry protests around the NFL on Sunday.
The president on Sunday told reporters the protests were "very disrespectful to the flag," and that owners should do something about them.
He also insisted his position was "not about race," even as much of the criticism directed at him carried racial overtones.
"Just because you have a Twitter account doesn't mean you have to use it," Cuban said.
"Just because you can say something, doesn't mean you should."
When asked whether he thinks the president is going to apologize, Cuban said: "The president is not going to apologize.
Are you kidding me?
The president should read a book."
"If he dishes it out, he's got to be able to take it," Cuban added.
Cuban, who supported Democrat Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election, has criticized Trump over issues and Trump has blasted Cuban likewise.
Trump on Sunday called for fans to demonstrate their own form of protest  by boycotting NFL games unless the league fires players who kneel during the national anthem.
"This is nothing new.
We want to listen to the players' feedback," Cuban said.
"The only thing that's changed now is the president is getting involved."
Cuban said he has always tried to be open with players about what their feelings are and how they want to participate in the community.
The firestorm started when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last season to protest the treatment of African-Americans in the United States.
He is no longer in the NFL.
Confidence among America's small-business owners has slipped since April, according to the latest CNBC/SurveyMonkey Small Business Survey, released Monday.
The survey revealed the attitudes of 2,282 small-business owners nationwide across a wide spectrum of industries.
The survey's Small Business Confidence Index fell from 60 in the second quarter to 57 in the third quarter.
The index is calculated on a scale from 0100 and is based on the responses to eight survey questions.
A zero indicates no confidence, and a score of 100 indicates perfect confidence.
An index value of 57 means that business owners on the whole are more optimistic than they are pessimistic about the direction their business will head over the next 12 months.
The slight dip in confidence is the result of sharp decreases in the number of small-business owners who are optimistic about the impact of changes in tax, trade, regulatory and immigration policy over the next 12 months.
Robert Johnson, BET founder and former owner of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets, told CNBC on Monday he supports an athlete's right to protest.
"I would be locking arms with the players to show that the players are united in what they are trying to do," Johnson said on "Squawk Box."
President Donald Trump's criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem sparked angry protests around the NFL on Sunday.
"From the standpoint of an owner of a team or a leader of a country, you've got to recognize that you have a lot of stakeholders.
And you try to find that bond that brings them together," said Johnson, a Democrat and founder and chairman of The RLJ Cos.
When asked to elaborate, he said a player protesting is not going to destroy a company or a team.
Trump called for fans to demonstrate their own form of protest  by boycotting NFL games unless the league fires players who kneel during the national anthem.
Johnson said the country has become "so toxic" on cultural issues, and protests have become "so complex."
"If we keep looking at everything that symbolizes unity in America, that's something that we can all rally behind or believe in.
If we keep tearing that down, piece by piece because you think the [Confederate] statue should stay up, I think it should come down, you think you should kneel, I think you should stand up and support the flag.
The country begins to lose their fabric that's tied us together," he said.
"I don't know how we move a political country forward when everything is so divisive."
Johnson said the best statement of all about the protests was by New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees: "About how he can see the right of people to protest but at the same time the flag has real, true meaning to an American," Johnson said.
Johnson has said he has known Trump for years.
Last year, Johnson met with the then president-elect and said he believes the president wants to work with African-Americans and all Americans to boost the economy.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
It appeared no drivers, crew or other team members protested during the national anthem Sunday prior to a race at New Hampshire Motorspeedway.
Several team owners and executives had said they wouldn't want anyone in their organizations to protest.
Richard Childress, who was Dale Earnhardt's longtime team owner, said of protesting: "It'll get you a ride on a Greyhound bus."
Childress said he told his team that "anybody that works for me should respect the country we live in.
So many people gave their lives for it.
This is America."
Hall of Fame driver Richard Petty's sentiments took it a step further, saying: "Anybody that don't stand up for the anthem oughta be out of the country.
Period.
What got 'em where they're at?
The United States."
When asked if a protester at Richard Petty Motorsports would be fired, he said, "You're right."
Another team owner, Chip Ganassi, said he supports Pittsburgh Steelers coach Mike Tomlin's comments.
Tomlin said before the Steelers played on Sunday that players would remain in the locker room and that "we're not going to let divisive times or divisive individuals affect our agenda."
Team owner Joe Gibbs, who won three Super Bowls as coach of the Washington Redskins, said of the anthem that, "so much has been sacrificed for our country and our flag.
It's a big deal for us to honor America."
"I'm proud of the way we've represented ourselves, and I'm proud of this sport, too," Gibbs said after JGR driver Kyle Busch won at New Hampshire.
"I think this sport has a certain way they look at things.
I really appreciate that."
NASCAR said 2016 champion Jimmie Johnson had not been invited to the White House for recognition as he had in the past, but that it necessarily wasn't out of the ordinary because of the change in office.
Flickering hopes to repeal Obamacare this year rest on a simple Republican argument: By the virtues of federalism, states will do it better than Washington.
That's how Sens.
Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy tout their plan to shrink Obamacare spending by $215 billion in 2026 and distribute the reduced amount to states through health-care block grants.
Even with less federal cash, the sponsors say, states can improve health care through greater efficiency and appreciation for the needs of their residents.
The problem, according to experts on state government, is there's no reason to believe it will work out that way.
Evidence doesn't back up the prospect of large efficiency gains.
And in significant parts of the country, states have shown themselves unwilling or unable to implement the level of services Obamacare calls for.
"It would be very difficult for many states to be able to do that," said Christine Todd Whitman, the former New Jersey governor and Cabinet member under President George W. Bush.
The current governor, her fellow Republican Chris Christie, opposes Graham-Cassidy on grounds that the projected the loss of $4 billion in federal funds would be "too injurious" to New Jersey.
Other states that would lose money are also not counting on their superior management to make up the difference.
Republican governors such as John Kasich of Ohio, Bill Walker of Alaska and Susana Martinez of New Mexico have broken party ranks to oppose the bill.
"It's going to be impossible for the states to make up the shortfall with greater efficiencies," concludes Donald Kettl, a professor of public policy at the University of Maryland.
He points to 2016 data on Medicare, which is administered by the federal government, and Medicaid, administered by the states.
Their rates of improper payments  11 percent and 10.48 percent, respectively  were nearly the same.
By design, the Graham-Cassidy block grant formula takes money from states that have shown greater commitment and capacity to improve health care by expanding their Medicaid programs and signing up more people to state-level Obamacare marketplaces.
It redistributes the money to states that have shown less commitment and capacity, without prescribing how they have to use it.
That design represents the marriage of partisanship to philosophy.
States gaining money are mostly governed by the GOP, which favors a smaller government role in health care and other forms of public assistance.
For decades, the United States has moved to narrow disparities among states in top-priority services and protections.
On health care, it began with the establishment of Medicare and Medicaid in the 1960s, and continued more recently with the Children's Health Insurance Program program and Obamacare.
Similar shifts toward uniform federal protections took place in other realms, such as the safeguards of the Clean Air Act of 1963, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
The nation decided, as Kettl puts it, that "If we wait for the states, we're never going to get there."
If Graham-Cassidy were enacted, big differences among state political cultures would widen state-by-state differences in the quality of health services, predicts Richard Nathan, a leading authority on federalism at the Rockefeller Institute of Government.
At a time when information technology gives Americans increasingly common national experiences in commerce and culture, Nathan calls such a move "incomprehensible."
"It is, to me, incredible that this is being seriously considered," said Nathan, who advised Republican President Richard Nixon as a top budget aide.
He advocates both near-term stabilization of existing Obamacare marketplaces and longer-term tax policy shifts to reduce health costs nationally.
Whitman cites public opposition to an Obamacare repeal as a sign her party "would be wise" to accept the federal government's health-care role.
She wants Congress to set aside the Graham-Cassidy proposal and resume bipartisan talks on improving marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act.
"On any issue this big and this complex, it needs to have everybody at the table," Whitman said.
"It would make for much better legislation."
Most economists expect Congress to send a tax reform package to the White House by next year, according to the latest survey from NABE, which questioned some 2,500 economists from large businesses, financial firms, trade groups, academic institutions and consulting firms.
But Trump's 3 percent growth target is unrealistic, according to the NABE survey.
Respondents expect that, after slowing through the rest of this year, GDP growth will level off next year, with inflation gradually rising to 2 percent and the unemployment rate falling to 4.1 percent by the end of 2018.
The survey was conducted during the period when Hurricane Harvey produced extensive damage to the Houston area, and before Hurricane Irma made landfall in Florida.
The Trump administration's 3 percent growth target is more than just a campaign aspiration.
Last week, Senate Republicans said they were closing in on a compromise tax reform package that could cut revenues by as much as $2 trillion over the next 10 years.
To satisfy deficit hawks, who are loathe to add to the nation's $20 trillion debt, proponents of the plan are counting on faster economic growth to make up for the revenue shortfall from cutting individual and corporate tax rates.
Much of the debate over any tax reform plan will rest on models used to generate estimates of the long-term costs to the government and impact on the economy.
Central to the issue is a process known as "dynamic scoring," which attempts to estimate the impact of tax cuts on economic growth, and then capture that impact in the overall revenue forecast.
That means the method used to estimate the revenue and economic impact will be critical to the political success of any plan.
But unless the economy achieves the hoped-for 3 percent growth, it's unlikely that tax cuts will produce enough revenue to avoid creating additional federal debt.
In addition to tax reform, the economists are expecting Congress and the White House to enact by next year a package of infrastructure spending, a proposal that won bipartisan support in last year's election but has seen little progress on Capitol Hill.
An Axios national political reporter said Monday he'd be "truly stunned" if President Donald Trump appointed top economic aide Gary Cohn as the next Fed chairman.
"One thing I can confirm is that Donald Trump has said to a least one official, who has no economic expertise whatsoever, that they have a better chance of being Fed chair than Gary Cohn," said Australian journalist Jonathan Swan, a well-sourced veteran of the Washington scene.
In an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box," Swan provided a caveat: Trump is known to change his mind.
"To be fair, that was a couple weeks ago when [Trump] was really angry with him.
So you always need to factor in the goal-post changing," he said.
"But I'd be truly stunned if Trump is seriously considering give this job to Gary Cohn."
Cohn crossed Trump in August when he criticized the president in a Financial Times interview for his response to the violence at a neo-Nazi rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Cohn, who is Jewish, told the FT at the time the administration "must do better" in condemning neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
Speculation had swirled for months around whether Cohn, formerly the No.
2 executive at Goldman Sachs, could be a leading candidate to replace Fed Chair Janet Yellen when her term expires early next year.
But other recent reports, in addition to Swan's account, have indicated that Cohn would not be the pick and Yellen might be reappointed despite Trump's past criticism on the campaign trail that she was politically motivated to keep interest rates low to burnish the economic record of then-President Barack Obama.
Before joining Axios, which launched in January by the co-founders of Politico, Swan was national political reporter for The Hill.
Reuters contributed to this report.
The acute security flare-up on the Korean Peninsula will show whether an acceptable modus vivendi can be found between Washington and Beijing.
The two nuclear-armed countries are pointing at each other their most lethal strategic weapons while trying to resolve the legacy of an inconclusive war they fought, with the help of their allies, on behalf of the South and North Koreas from June 1950 to an armistice in July 1953.
The immediate causes of hostilities have changed, but the fundamental reasons for the U.S.-China confrontation along the 38th Parallel North remain the same.
China wants the U.S. out of South Korea  indeed out of Asia, as was constantly repeated during American intelligence gathering and freedom of navigation maneuvers around China's contested maritime borders.
More recently, China has become hugely worried about American missile shield installations in South Korea and Japan.
Beijing claims that the shield is compromising its security, hinting even that its nuclear arsenal could be paralyzed.
Beijing's alarm level will also go up another notch as Seoul got Washington's agreement to deploy American strategic military assets in South Korea.
And here is the deal: Washington wants China to help in forcing North Korea to immediately and verifiably give up its nuclear weapons and their delivery vehicles with debilitating economic sanctions.
President Donald Trump tweeted Sunday evening that Alaska, Arizona, Maine and Kentucky would be big winners under the Graham-Cassidy bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, pointedly mentioning states of four senators who have either said they are against or are leaning against the bill.
It would appear that the president was referring to funding revisions in Sunday's draft of the bill, a copy of which was obtained by CNBC.
The amendments would improve funding for the four states whose senators have opposed the legislation, specifically benefiting low-density population states such as Alaska and Maine.
Another provision would allow Native Americans who obtained health coverage under the Affordable Care Act's Medicaid expansion to retain coverage under traditional Medicaid.
As a result of the revisions, Alaska would see $1.4 billion more in federal Medicaid funding between 2020-2026, or a 3 percent increase compared with Obamacare over the period, according to a worksheet reportedly prepared by Trump administration health officials.
Under the original bill, Alaska stood to lose roughly $2 billion.
The three other states would also gain.
Arizona would gain $4.2 billion under the new draft calculations, roughly 14 percent, compared with a loss of $19 billion under the original plan.
Maine stood to lose $2 billion between 2020-2027, but under the revised draft would gain nearly $1.5 billion.
Kentucky would go from losing roughly $11 billion compared with Obamacare, to gaining $1.1 billion or 4 percent.
Obama personally warned Mark Zuckerberg after the election about the extent of fake news on Facebook 2 Hours Ago | 01:04

Former president Barack Obama personally warned Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg in a post-2016 election meeting to check the spread of fake news on the site, but he was told there was no easy fix, according to Washington Post report on Sunday.
The Nov. 19 meeting reportedly took place in Lima, Peru, at a gathering of world leaders two months before Donald Trump's inauguration.
The meeting followed Zuckerberg saying that the idea fake news driven by Russian-linked operatives on the site could have an major impact on voting was "crazy."
President Donald Trump's son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, used a personal email account to communicate with White House colleagues, Kushner's attorney confirmed Sunday.
Kushner's lawyer, Abbe Lowell, said that Kushner sent or returned fewer than 100 emails to colleagues in the White House from that account in the first eight months of the Trump administration.
Lowell added that all non-personal emails were forwarded to Kushner's official address.
"Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business.
Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account," Lowell said in a statement.
She added that those emails were "usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal, rather than his White House, address."
The news was first reported by Politico, which said Kushner used his private account  set up during the transition last December  alongside his official White House email account.
He traded emails with senior White House officials, outside advisers and others about media coverage, event planning and other subjects, Politico reported, citing sources familiar with the correspondence.
Politico said that people who have exchanged emails with Kushner on his personal account since Trump took office in January included former chief of staff Reince Priebus, former chief strategist Steve Bannon, National Economic Council director Gary Cohn and spokesman Josh Raffel.
There is no indication that Kushner had shared any sensitive or classified material on his private account, according to Politico.
Use of personal emails to conduct official business had dogged much of Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential run, and was a key talking point for Trump's campaign.
As secretary of state, Clinton admittedly sent and received thousands of emails on her personal email account, using a server at her suburban New York home.
That led to probes from the FBI to determine if the emails contained sensitive information.
President Donald Trump on Sunday slapped new travel restrictions on citizens from North Korea, Venezuela and Chad, expanding to eight the list of countries covered by his original travel bans that have been derided by critics and challenged in court.
Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen and Somalia were left on the list of affected countries in a new proclamation issued by the president.
Restrictions on citizens from Sudan were lifted.
The measures help fulfill a campaign promise Trump made to tighten U.S. immigration procedures and align with his "America First" foreign policy vision.
Unlike the president's original bans, which had time limits, this one is open-ended.
"Making America Safe is my number one priority.
We will not admit those into our country we cannot safely vet," the president said in a tweet shortly after the proclamation was released.
Iraqi citizens will not be subject to travel prohibitions but will face enhanced scrutiny or vetting.
The current ban, enacted in March, was set to expire on Sunday evening.
The new restrictions are slated to take effect on Oct. 18 and resulted from a review after Trump's original travel bans sparked international outrage and legal challenges.
The addition of North Korea and Venezuela broadens the restrictions from the original, mostly Muslim-majority list.
An administration official, briefing reporters on a conference call, acknowledged that the number of North Koreans now traveling to the United States was very low.
Rights group Amnesty International USA condemned the measures.
"Just because the original ban was especially outrageous does not mean we should stand for yet another version of government-sanctioned discrimination," it said in a statement.
"It is senseless and cruel to ban whole nationalities of people who are often fleeing the very same violence that the U.S. government wishes to keep out.
This must not be normalized."
The American Civil Liberties Union said in a statement the addition of North Korea and Venezuela "doesn't obfuscate the real fact that the administration's order is still a Muslim ban."
The White House portrayed the restrictions as consequences for countries that did not meet new requirements for vetting of immigrants and issuing of visas.
Those requirements were shared in July with foreign governments, which had 50 days to make improvements if needed, the White House said.
A number of countries made improvements by enhancing the security of travel documents or the reporting of passports that were lost or stolen.
Others did not, sparking the restrictions.
The announcement came as the U.S. Supreme Court prepares to hear oral arguments on Oct. 10 over the legality of Trump's previous travel ban, including whether it discriminated against Muslims.
Barely a day after bashing two prominent athletes for their outspoken social stances, President Donald Trump on Sunday called for fans to demonstrate their own form of protest  by boycotting NFL games unless the league fires players who kneel during the national anthem.
Trump's message came through loud and clear in an early morning Twitter post: "Fire or suspend!"
using language that was less salty than what he uttered at a Friday night rally in Alabama, but no less pointed.
Speaking to reporters later in the day, Trump said the protests were 'very disrespectful to the flag," and that owners should do something about them.
He insisted that his position was "not about race," even as much of the criticism directed at him carried racial overtones.
All around the NFL on Sunday, however, the responses to Trump's stance came in rapid succession and surprising uniformity  and put teams that are usually rivals squarely in the same camp.
For league owners and executives, some of whom donated to Trump's bid for the presidency, the rebuke of his stance was unmistakable, and momentarily closed the emotional gulf that frequently separates the NFL's brass from the athletes who take the field every week.
In Alabama on Friday, Trump used colorful language to demand that NFL owners banish on-field protests, which many took as a veiled reference to Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who started the on-field kneeling.
On Saturday, Trump took aim at Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry for refusing an invitation to the White House.
On Sunday, New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft declared himself "deeply disappointed by [Trump's] tone," adding that "our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal."
Kraft is one of Trump's prominent backers and a personal friend who donated $1 million to his 2016 campaign, according to FEC data.
Trump told reporters on Sunday that the on-field activism was "very disrespectful to country.
I like Bob [Kraft] very much.
He gave me a football ring, I want him to do what he wants to do."
That said, "We have great country with great people [that] should be treated with respect," Trump added.
Stan Kroenke, the chairman and owner of the Los Angeles Rams, said that while the team believed the national anthem was "a pillar of this country," it would back the displays of free speech being expressed peacefully on field.
"We will continue to support our players' freedom to peacefully express themselves and the meaningful efforts they make to bring about positive change in our country," Kroenke added.
Not all of the response to the mass protest was favorable.
Derek Wolfe, a defensive end for the Denver Broncos, called the kneeling "disrespectful to the ones who sacrificed their lives and its maybe the wrong platform."
He called America "the greatest country in the world," and pointedly asked the protesters: "If you don't think we are the greatest country in the world and you reside here, then why do you stay?"
Still left unclear was how the divisions would impact what the NFL prizes above all else: Its multi-billion dollar brand and television ratings, which have taken a dive since the season began three weeks ago.
While some fans have protested Kaepernick's inability to find a new team, other viewers are clearly dismayed by how political activism has begun to overshadow the game itself.
The show of solidarity came early, as dozens of players Jacksonville Jaguars and Baltimore Ravens, both of whom were playing an exhibition game in London, refused to stand while the song played.
Shad Khan, the Jaguars owner who was also a Trump donor, locked arms with his players and blasted the president's "divisive and contentious remarks" in a statement.
"Our team and the National Football League reflects our nation, with diversity coming in many forms  race, faith, our views and our goals," Khan said.
"We have a lot of work to do, and we can do it, but the comments by the president make it harder."
A delegation of U.S. elected officials is headed to Washington D.C. to urge the federal government to give Puerto Rico the same level of assistance and urgency that it gave to help Texas and Florida in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
"This is going to be a long hard road for Puerto Rico and this is a situation that will require billions of dollars in assistance," New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo said at a press conference on Sunday at New York's Javits Center, "and that will have to be done by the federal government."
The Democratic governor, who served as Housing and Urban Development Secretary under former President Bill Clinton, also used the occasion to take aim at the political protests that have divided the nation at the start of the NFL's season.
"Instead of arguing with football players," Cuomo said, whose name has been mentioned as a possible 2020 presidential contender.
"Put the politics aside and focus on the Americans that are in desperate need.
And those are the people in Puerto Rico."
He added: "We will speak with one voiceand the message is simple, Puerto Rico needs help, it needs federal help, and it needs it now."
The congressional delegation will include New York Congressional Democrats, Reps. Nydia Velazquez and Jos Serrano, who were both present at Sunday's conference.
"This is a massive disaster that requires a massive respose, especially from the Federal government," Velazquez said.
Velazquez, who on Friday traveled with Cuomo to Puerto Rico on a relief flight to deliver essential supplies, also gave an account of just how severe the damage is on the ground.
"We are exasperatied, we are frustrated because still we haven't been able to connect," she said.
The congresswoman said she was still unable to reach her brothers and sisters on the island, due to the severe damages of the island's communications system.
Overall, 95.6 percent of cell sites are out of service on the island after Hurricane Maria hit, with 18 out of the 78 total counties having 100 percent of their cellular services out, according to the most recent Federal Communications Status Report.
About two dozen players, including Baltimore Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs and Jacksonville Jaguars running back Leonard Fournette, took a knee during the playing of the national anthem before the start of the teams' game at Wembley Stadium on Sunday.
Other players on one knee during the performance included Ravens linebacker C.J.
Mosley, wide receiver Mike Wallace and safety Lardarius Webb as well as Jaguars linebacker Dante Fowler, defensive tackle Calais Campbell, defensive end Yannick Ngakoue and cornerback Jalen Ramsey.
Players on both teams and Jaguars owner Shad Khan, who were not kneeling, remained locked arm-in-arm throughout the playing of the national anthem and "God Save The Queen," the national anthem of Britain.
No players were kneeling during the playing of the British national anthem.
President Donald Trump had a suggestion on Saturday for National Football League owners whose players decide to take a knee during the national anthem: fire them.
North Korea said on Saturday targeting the U.S. mainland with its rockets was inevitable after "Mr.
Evil President" Donald Trump called Pyongyang's leader "rocket man", further escalating rhetoric over the North's nuclear weapons and missile programs.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho's remarks to the United Nations General Assembly came hours after U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer bombers escorted by fighters flew in international airspace over waters east of North Korea, in a show of force the Pentagon said showed the range of military options available to Trump.
Ri's speech capped a week of rising tensions between Washington and Pyongyang, with Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un trading insults.
Trump called Kim a "madman" on Friday, a day after Kim dubbed him a "mentally deranged U.S.
dotard."
On Saturday, the mudslinging continued with Ri calling Trump "a mentally deranged person full of megalomania and complacency" who is trying to turn the United Nations into a "gangsters' nest".
Ri said Trump himself was on a "suicide mission" after the U.S. president had said Kim was on such a mission.
"'President Evil' is holding the seat of the U.S. President," Ri said, warning that Pyongyang was ready to defend itself if the United States showed any sign of conducting a "decapitating operation on our headquarters or military attack against our country."
"Now we are finally only a few steps away from the final gate of completion of the state nuclear force," Ri told the annual gathering of world leaders.
He said sanctions would have no effect on Pyongyang's resolve to develop its nuclear weapons, with the ultimate goal being "balance of power with the U.S."

Trump announced new U.S. sanctions on Thursday that he said allow targeting of companies and institutions that finance and facilitate trade with North Korea.
Earlier this month the U.N. Security Council unanimously adopted its ninth round of sanctions on Pyongyang to counter its nuclear and ballistic missiles programs.
The U.S. bombers' flight was the farthest north of the demilitarized zone separating North and South Korea that any U.S. fighter jet or bomber has flown in the 21st century, the Pentagon said.
"This mission is a demonstration of U.S. resolve and a clear message that the President has many military options to defeat any threat," said Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White.
"We are prepared to use the full range of military capabilities to defend the U.S. homeland and our allies."
North Korea has launched dozens of missiles this year, several flying over Japan, as it accelerates its program aimed at enabling it to target the United States with a nuclear-tipped missile.
Earlier on Saturday, U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer bombers escorted by fighter jets flew in international airspace over waters east of North Korea.
The Pentagon said the maneuver was a show of force that demonstrated the range of military options available to the president.
The flight, which was disclosed shortly before North Korea's foreign minister was due to address the United Nations, was the farthest north of the demilitarized zone separating North and South Korea that any U.S. fighter jet or bomber has flown in the 21st century, the Pentagon said.
"This mission is a demonstration of U.S. resolve and a clear message that the President has many military options to defeat any threat," said Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White, calling North Korea's weapons program "a grave threat."
"We are prepared to use the full range of military capabilities to defend the U.S. homeland and our allies," White said.
Although the Warriors have not yet received a formal invitation to the White House, Trump's post on Twitter came just a day after NBA All-Star Stephen Curry ruled out accepting it.
Back in February, Curry burned Trump after the CEO of UnderArmour said having a pro-business president was an "asset" for the country.
Traditionally, championship-winning sports teams are asked to visit 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue for a photo-op with the president.
In a series of early morning Twitter posts on Saturday, Trump called a visit to the White House "a great honor," and admonished Curry for his resistance.
It wasn't immediately clear whether the president was rescinding the invite for the entire Golden State Warriors team, or Curry specifically.
However, the Warriors released a statement in response, saying the team accepted that Trump "has made it clear that we are not invited.
We're disappointed that we did not have an opportunity during this process to share our views or have open dialogue on issues impacting our communities that we felt would be important to raise."
Yet the verbal jousting rose to a new level after Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James called Trump a "bum" on Twitter, effectively supporting the man who vanquished him in the NBA Finals.
During the 2106 election, James campaigned for former Democratic contender Hillary Clinton in Ohio.
Houston Rockets point guard Chris Paul also took to Twitter to lash out at Trump, telling him to "stay in [his] lane."
Separately, former Los Angeles Laker Kobe Bryant also weighed in by saying the president was creating "division and anger."
President Donald Trump on Saturday upbraided Arizona Senator John McCain for disappointing the voters of his state, saying the senator 'let Arizona down' by opposing the GOP's latest effort to reform health care, imperiling the Republicans' drive to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
For the second time in two months, The 2008 Republican nominee dealt a fatal blow to his party's attempt to fix Obamacare.
In a statement on Friday, McCain said that he could not, "in good conscience," vote for the proposal known as Graham-Cassidy  despite the legislation being sponsored by South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, one of McCain's closest Senate allies.
In a dramatic late-night vote in July, McCain  who has cultivated a reputation as a "maverick" with an independent streak  voted no on a similar attempt by the GOP to reform health care.
On Twitter, Trump blasted McCain for his refusal to vote for the bill, saying he "never had any intention" of voting for Graham-Cassidy, adding that he "let Arizona down" by opposing it.
The proposal has also been criticized by the Medicaid directors in all 50 states, who issued a joint letter this week that said Graham-Cassidy would place a massive financial burden on the states.
The bill passage hinged on support from four undecided Republicans.
Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said she is leaning toward voting no on Graham-Cassidy.
Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul has already expressed his opposition to the bill, which he said didn't fully repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Trump, however, praised Paul on Saturday, predicting he would ultimately back an effort "for the good of the party."
--CNBC's Christina Wilkie contributed to this report.
Iran has successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 km (1,200 miles) which it displayed at a military parade on Friday, state media reported on Saturday.
The test-firing of the Khorramshahr missile, which Iran said could carry several warheads, is likely to raise concerns in Washington.
State broadcaster IRIB carried footage of the missile test without giving its time and location, including video from an on-board camera which it said showed the detachment of the cone that carries multiple warheads.
"You are seeing images of the successful test of the Khorramshahr ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 km, the latest missile of our country," state television said.
"This is the third Iranian missile with a range of 2,000 km," it added.
The Khorramshahr missile was first displayed at a military parade on Friday, where President Hassan Rouhani said Iran would strengthen its missile capabilities without seeking any country's permission.
At the U.N. General Assembly on Tuesday, Trump said Iran was building its missile capability and accused it of exporting violence to Yemen, Syria and other parts of the Middle East.
He also criticised the 2015 pact that the United States and other world powers struck with Iran under which Tehran agreed to restrict its nuclear programme in return for relief from economic sanctions.
The United States has imposed unilateral sanctions against Iran, saying Tehran's ballistic missile tests violated a U.N. resolution that endorsed the nuclear deal and called on Tehran not to undertake activities related to ballistic missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons.
Iran denies its missile development breaches the resolution, saying the missiles are not designed to carry nuclear weapons.
I knew the big Mark Zuckerberg speech was coming.
It always does.
Scandals involving Facebook tend to follow a well-worn pattern: Throughout the social network's short history, when the company has felt pummeled by users or lawmakers or shareholders over one of the dozens of controversies that have plagued its rise, there comes a moment when the clamor reaches a fever pitch.
You begin to wonder why on earth they aren't doing more.
Can't they see how deep they are in it?
Just then, Mr. Zuckerberg will issue a blog post, and these days, a live video, too  as he did on Thursday, in a short address on Facebook's role in Russia's interference of last year's presidential election.
To a cynic, this week's message, like others Mr. Zuckerberg has issued, might sound like puffery.
After all, he and his top lieutenants  especially Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer  are as meticulous in stewarding their own image as they are in managing a sprawling multibillion-dollar corporation.
Mr. Zuckerberg, in particular, has come to see his own role in guiding Facebook's community, and the trust the community places in him, as crucial to the fate of the corporation.
So when the heat from American lawmakers regarding ads placed by Russian trolls on Facebook began to rise, Mr. Zuckerberg had no option to ignore it; he had to say something.
But these messages aren't just show.
Inside Facebook, Mr. Zuckerberg's exhortations carry the weight of God.
That's why the detailed plan he offered to address election meddling is a very big deal.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And what's noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebook's considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
What's more, Mr. Zuckerberg's initial reaction to the question of Facebook's role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
"Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea," he said at a tech conference days after last year's presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebook's history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebook's central tenet of transparency and openness: "Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you," he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: "It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections," he said in his address on Thursday.
"But if that's what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion."
This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social network's future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the company's old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebook's mobile apps working perfectly became the company's top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
"Mobile is everyone's job," Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebook's mobile apps.
Soon, Facebook's mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebook's advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandberg's leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebook's main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebook's effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, there's a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the company's might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the world's most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
SEC doesn't even know how bad this hack is: Cybersecurity expert 7:22 PM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 03:08

A global investor group on Friday called for an independent investigation into a cyber breach at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and urged the regulator to delay new data-gathering rules until it could assure investors that its computer systems were secure.
Wall Street's top regulator came under fire on Thursday after admitting hackers had breached its database of corporate announcements in 2016 and might have used it for insider trading.
The Investment Company Institute (ICI), which represents over 95 million U.S. shareholders, wants the SEC to clear up concerns about its cyber defenses before requiring funds to submit monthly performance data to the regulator, Paul Schott Stevens, the group's chief executive, told Reuters in a phone interview.
"What the SEC breach now makes very clear is precisely what we were concerned about - that market-sensitive information of that nature can be exploited to the disadvantage of millions and millions of investors," Stevens said.
ICI, whose members hold $20 trillion plus in assets, has raised concerns about how the SEC safeguarded industry data it gathers since 2015.
"I'm certain there will be a full inquiry by the Government of Accountability Office  and there should be, so we understand exactly what happened here," Stevens said.
In a July report, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), a congressional watchdog, criticized the SEC for failing to fully protect its computer networks from cyber attacks and recommended a slew of improvements.
Some of recommendations it had made in previous reports had still not been implemented, it noted.
Former SEC Chair Mary Jo White, in office when the hack occurred, told Reuters in 2016 that cyber security posed the biggest risk to the U.S. financial system.
Her successor, Jay Clayton, uncovered the full extent of the hack after launching a review of the SEC's cyber security standards earlier this year.
"Some recommendations the GAO made haven't yet been implemented.
There's obviously a failure here of some kind.
That's why we're so glad Chairman Clayton has moved to address this," said Stevens.
The SEC declined to comment.
New reporting rules which start to come into force in December would require funds for the first time to confidentially file complete monthly portfolio holdings with the SEC, data which the ICI has said could easily be used for insider trading if obtained by hackers.
"Until that information security environment has been established, funds should continue to collect data quarterly, not monthly information, as quarterly data is not nearly as sensitive," said Stevens.
The SEC disclosure came two weeks after credit-reporting company Equifax said a breach had exposed sensitive personal of data up to 143 million U.S. customers.
This followed last years cyber attack on SWIFT, the global bank messaging system.
Stevens said rules governing the disclosure of such breaches should be tighter for both public and private organizations.
"That disclosure obligation fixes the mind on need to fix the breach in the first instance."
The U.S. government just notified 21 states of Russian election hacking 7:30 PM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 00:42

The federal government on Friday told election officials in 21 states that hackers targeted their systems last year, although in most cases the systems were not breached.
The government told The Associated Press last year that more than 20 states were targeted by hackers believed to be Russian agents before the 2016 elections.
But for many states, the calls Friday from the Department of Homeland Security were the first official confirmation of whether their states were on the list.
The AP contacted every state election office on Friday.
While not all of them responded immediately, those that said they were targeted were Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin.
The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide details about what had been sought.
But election officials in three states said Friday the attempts could be linked to Russia.
The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the state's systems were targeted by "Russian government cyber actors."
Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states, the targeting was preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.
The targets included voter registration systems but not vote tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks but most were unsuccessful.
Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter systems.
Colorado said the hacking wasn't quite a breach.
"It's really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would break into your computer," said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado secretary of state's office.
"It's not an attack.
I wouldn't call it a probe.
It's not a breach, it's not a penetration."
The disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel probes whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between Russia and associates of Donald Trump.
Trump, a Republican who defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax.
He says Russian President Vladimir Putin "vehemently denied" the conclusions of American intelligence agencies.
A bipartisan solution to health-care reform likely isn't a viable option, policy expert Spencer Perlman told CNBC on Friday.
The latest GOP Obamacare repeal plan took a hit on Friday after Sen. John McCain said he "cannot in good conscience vote" for it.
He said he believes Republicans and Democrats can do better working together.
"At this point I'm pretty dubious," Perlman, director of health-care research at Veda Partners, said in an interview with "Closing Bell."
"There's just so much bad blood.
This is an issue that has really just divided the parties for so long.
Republicans, their entire brand is predicated at this point on the slogan of repeal and replace," he said.
McCain's opposition dealt a significant blow to the proposal, known as the Graham-Cassidy bill.
He was one of four Republican senators who had been undecided.
McCain said he cannot vote for the bill without knowing how it will affect premiums, how much it will cost, and how many people it would help or hurt.
Perlman said he was surprised by McCain's decision, given how the senator is best friends with one of the bill's authors, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-SC.
Plus, the Arizona governor and Arizona's Republican junior senator, Jeff Flake, came out in support of the legislation, he noted.
"It's pretty obvious he recognizes he probably will not have to face voters again and he's going with what he thinks is best for him and his constituents," he said.
Sen. Lamar Alexander, R- Tenn., and Sen. Patty Murray, D-Washington, had been working to reach a bipartisan agreement to stabilize Obamacare insurance markets.
Earlier this week, Alexander said in a statement that the two "have worked hard and in good faith, but have not found the necessary consensus among Republicans and Democrats to put a bill in the Senate leaders' hands that could be enacted."
CNBC's Christina Wilkie and Reuters contributed to this report.
Health insurance and hospital stocks surged on Friday afternoon after Republican Sen. John McCain said he could not "in good conscience" vote for the Graham-Cassidy bill to repeal Obamacare.
"I would consider supporting legislation similar to that offered by my friends Senators Graham and Cassidy were it the product of extensive hearings, debate and amendment.
But that has not been the case," McCain, of Arizona, said in a statement.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Bill Cassidy, R-La., co-sponsored the legislation.
Shares of Medicaid insurer Molina Health, which had been lower on the session, jumped more than 4 percent, while shares of rival Centene rose more than 2.5 percent.
Among hospitals, Tenet Healthcare shares surged 3 percent, while HCA, Community Health and LifePoint Health all rose more than 1 percent.
The health insurance lobby, America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), strongly opposes the latest GOP effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, arguing that it would create tremendous instability in the individual insurance market and Medicaid plan markets.
The bill would shift funding for Obamacare individual tax credits and Medicaid expansion to a block grant system, requiring states to establish their own individual market rules and Medicaid spending plans, starting two years from now.
"It would be very chaotic in the market and extremely challenging for states to be able to set up a new market system for 2020," said Matthew Eyles, AHIP chief operating officer for policy and regulatory affairs.
"To essentially convert the (Medicaid) expansion and individual market into a block grant, and at the same time put in an entirely new funding system through Medicaid ... it's not the right policy," Eyles said.
"It's very difficult to do all at once."
The budgetary reconciliation rules that would allow Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act by a simple majority vote expire at the end of the month.
But before that, on Sept. 27, insurers face a deadline to sign contracts committing to private coverage on the insurance market exchanges.
So far, despite the eleventh-hour uncertainty, insurers seem committed to offering coverage on the exchanges for next year  with big premium increases built in.
Earlier this month Anthem said it would re-enter the Virginia exchange market after a local insurance carrier pulled out leaving more than 60 counties without coverage.
"To work pretty proactively with state regulators to make sure nobody is left without access to coverage, you've got to give them credit," said Sabrina Corlette, research professor at the Center on Health Insurance reform at Georgetown University, but "this is short-term."
Without congressional action to address uncertainty over funding for Obamacare cost-reduction subsidies for low-income enrollees and without new guidance on whether the Trump administration will enforce the individual mandate to buy insurance, it's not clear how long insurers will stay in the exchanges.
"Every carrier that agreed to come into a bare county, they basically said, 'This is it.
We will step up  but all bets are off for 2019,'" Corlette said.
Insurers had been hoping that a bipartisan bill proposed by Sens.
Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., and Patty Murray, D-Wash., to provide near-term funding to stabilize the individual exchange market could be revived in time for 2018 enrollment.
"Senators Alexander and Murray have been negotiating in good faith to fix some of the problems with Obamacare.
But I fear that the prospect of one last attempt at a strictly Republican bill has left the impression that their efforts cannot succeed.
I hope they will resume their work should this last attempt at a partisan solution fail," said McCain.
But the clock is running on a bipartisan fix.
Open enrollment for the individual market begins on Nov. 1.
Insurers say some of the price increases of up to 20 percent for unfunded cost-sharing reductions could still be rolled back and adjusted on the exchanges through mid-October, if necessary.
Despite Friday's gains, the S&P 500 Managed Health Care Index fell for the third straight week, with Aetna as the biggest decliner, down 5.74 percent for the week.
Republican senators faced a major new hurdle Friday in their efforts to overhaul the nation's health-care system when Arizona Sen. John McCain issued a statement that he could not "in good conscience" support the latest measure.
McCain's lack of support left Republicans with no room for further defections from other GOP senators who joined McCain in July in voting down the last attempt to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, including Maine Sen. Susan Collins and Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski.
The latest Senate bill, which faces a Sept. 30 deadline to win 50 votes, faces strong opposition from Democrats, who have said it will raise the cost of health insurance and leave millions of American families without coverage.
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., on Friday said he "cannot in good conscience vote" for the latest GOP Obamacare repeal plan.
McCain is one of four Republican senators who have been undecided on the proposal, known as the Graham-Cassidy bill, and his opposition dealt the bill's chances a significant blow.
Health care stocks jumped on the news.
In a statement, McCain said his opposition stemmed in large part from how rapidly the bill, nicknamed for Republican Sens.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, was being pushed through the Senate in order to meet a September 30 procedural deadline.
McCain said he cannot vote for the bill without knowing how it will affect premiums, how much it will cost, and how many people it would help or hurt.
"Without a full CBO score, which won't be available by the end of the month, we won't have reliable answers to any of those questions."
he said.
McCain also noted that, in theory, the bill could be a good piece of legislation.
"I would consider supporting legislation similar to that offered by my friends Senators Graham and Cassidy were it the product of extensive hearings, debate and amendment.
But that has not been the case," he said.
Also on Friday, Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said she is leaning toward voting no on Graham-Cassidy.
Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul has already expressed his opposition to the bill, which he said didn't fully repeal the Affordable Care Act.
The bill would not pass if Collins, McCain and Paul voted against it.
Republicans have until Sept. 30 to pass a health care bill with a simple majority.
After that, they will need 60 votes, a nearly impossible threshold to meet as Democrats have been united in opposition to the Republican Obamacare repeal efforts.
The fourth undecided vote is Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, who has expressed her concerns about the bill to fellow senators.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has pledged to bring Graham-Cassidy to the floor for a vote before the end of the month.
McCain's decision to oppose Graham-Cassidy also has a personal component: Graham is the Arizona lawmaker's best friend in the Senate, and many in Washington mistakenly believed that this decades-long friendship would help to sway McCain's vote.
Shortly after McCain released his statement Friday, Graham publicly reassured his friend that there were no hard feelings.
The White House was not so forgiving.
"A vote against Graham Cassidy is a vote to save Obamacare," said Vice President Mike Pence, speaking in his home state of Indiana.
"This is not going to be easy," he said of the faltering repeal effort.
"But let me be clear.
The Republican majority in Congress was not elected to save Obamacare, they were elected to repeal and replace it.
So it's time for every member of the Republican majority to keep their word to the American people."
The remarks seemed to point squarely at McCain, but the Trump administration has good reason to worry.
McCain's opposition significantly reduced the likelihood that Graham-Cassidy will garner enough votes to pass.
And this slimmer chance of success could prompt other senators who've supported the bill so far to flip their yes votes to nays.
Later Friday, White House director of legislative affairs Marc Short responded to McCain's statement, saying that Republicans will continue to push for success in repealing Obamacare.
"At this point, we're only two votes away.
We'll continue working to get the votes of Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowksi," Short said.
When asked if there could potentially be a deal sweetener for Alaska, Short said "there isn't such a thing in this bill."
He also said it was too soon to talk about a bipartisan effort.
Two senators to watch on this front are Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Mike Lee, R-Utah, both of whom have previously expressed concerns that Graham-Cassidy doesn't go far enough toward fully repealing Obamacare.
Now that there's blood in the water, conservatives like Cruz and Lee could decide that voting "no" on Graham-Cassidy will burnish their credentials with conservative voters more than voting yes on an imperfect bill that ultimately collapses.
If Republicans fail to repeal or replace the Affordable Care Act, they will effectively break a promise that GOP lawmakers have been making to voters ever since Obamacare was first signed into law in 2010.
President Donald Trump campaigned on repealing and replacing the law, as well.
The Trump administration is pointing to Indiana as a model for its ambitious plan to reform the nation's tax code, touting the Hoosier State's economic success as evidence that reducing rates can spur growth.
Vice President Mike Pence is visiting the state Friday and is expected to make the case for tax reform at a manufacturing incubator outside Indianapolis.
As governor of Indiana, Pence signed into law the biggest tax cuts in the state's history  a $3.5 billion package that slashed state income taxes, lowered the corporate rate and eliminated the inheritance tax.
Indiana's economy has since performed better than the national average, with GDP growth reaching more than 4 percent in 2014 before leveling off.
"I think that Gov.
Pence is well-positioned to talk again on tax reform for the country because of his personal experience," Indiana Republican Party Chairman Kyle Hupfer said.
"He's not going out and telling the American people, you know, something that might happen or could happen.
He's going to be able to tell people what actually has happened in Indiana."
The state GOP said that President Donald Trump also will travel to Indiana next week.
The administration is expected to release with Republican leadership an updated framework for its tax plan on Wednesday, according to two sources familiar with the timing.
The proposal will likely rely heavily on robust growth projections to offset the cost of dramatic tax cuts, a practice known as dynamic scoring that is hotly debated among economists.
But Republicans argue that Indiana is proof that the numbers can work.
Pence campaigned for governor on an aggressive plan to cut taxes, which he argued would, in turn, unleash economic growth.
In 2013, the year he took office, he reduced the state's flat income tax rate by 5 percent, from 3.4 percent to 3.23 percent.
He followed up in 2014 with legislation that gradually lowered the corporate rate from 6.5 percent to 4.9 percent.
Republicans say that has helped drive an economic boom in Indiana that has outpaced the broader national recovery.
The state unemployment rate in Indiana is just 3.5 percent, one of the lowest in the country and nearly a percentage point beneath the U.S. average.
"The objective of tax reform here in Indiana  has proved to be true," said Justin Stevens, Indiana state director for Americans for Prosperity, a group tied to the billionaire Koch brothers that were ardent backers of Pence's agenda.
But skeptics argue that the connection between Indiana's tax cuts and subsequent economic growth is thin.
A 2015 paper by the Tax Policy Center found that cuts to top income tax rates have no significant impact on state economies, instead suggesting growth may be more closely linked to property tax revenues.
"That's not to say there aren't reasons to cut taxes," said Richard Auxier, a research associate at the Tax Policy Center.
"But to argue there is an A-to-B relationship that taxes were cut and the economy boomed is not true and a little misleading."
In addition, critics say, the White House tax plan bears little resemblance to Pence's work in Indiana: Those cuts were primarily focused on households, while the White House proposal would provide bigger rate reductions to businesses.
As governor, Pence was also forced to balance the state's budget and maintained a deep pool of reserves.
Independent analysis of the White House tax plan finds it would likely cost trillions of dollars.
On Capitol Hill, Republicans also appear willing to lower taxes even if it means adding to the deficit.
"Instead of targeting relief to the middle class and really focusing on making our businesses more competitive, this is all about giving big breaks to the wealthiest Americans," Democratic Rep. Scott Peters of California said.
"It's time to stop pretending that tax cuts for the wealthy somehow pay for themselves.
They just don't."
Indiana is also a key political battleground for 2018.
The state's Democratic senator, Joe Donnelly, is among the red-state lawmakers facing a tough re-election next year, and the Trump administration has been ramping up the pressure on him to support the Republican tax proposal.
Donnelly is slated to join Pence during his visit Friday.
He has not endorsed the White House plan yet and is pushing his own bill to penalize companies that outsource jobs.
"I believe that any reform effort should include policies that will create new jobs, protect existing jobs, and benefit middle class and working families," Donnelly said in a statement.
"That is what I've discussed with President Trump, and I'm pleased he has been supportive of my proposals."
For Mr. Trump, whose efforts on health care, infrastructure improvements and tax reform are gaining little steam, the new order is a third attempt to make good on his campaign promise to respond to terrorist threats by tightening entry at the nations borders.
In December 2015, he called for a complete ban on travel to the United States by Muslims until our countrys representatives can figure out what the hell is going on, though he later denied that he had sought a religious test on travel.
Officials described the new order as a much more targeted effort than the presidents earlier one.
Each of the countries will be under its own set of travel restrictions, though in most cases citizens of the countries will be unable to emigrate to the United States permanently and most will be barred from coming to work, study or vacation in America.
Iran, for example, will still be able to send its citizens on student exchanges, though such visitors will be subject to enhanced screening.
Certain government officials of Venezuela and their families will be barred from visiting the United States.
Somalis will no longer be allowed to emigrate to the United States, but may visit with extra screening.
Administration officials said that the new rules would not apply to legal permanent residents of the United States, and that visitors who currently hold valid visas from the countries listed will not have their visas revoked.
That means that students already in the United States can finish their studies and employees of businesses in the United States who are from the targeted countries may stay for as long as their existing visas remain valid.
People whose visas expire will be subject to the travel ban, officials said.
People seeking access to the United States as refugees are not covered by the proclamation, officials said.
Entry of refugees is currently limited by the presidents original travel ban, and officials said the administration was preparing new rules for refugees that should be announced within days.
Reaction to the presidents announcement was swift, as some critics of the original travel ban expressed similar concerns about the presidents latest effort to bar potential terrorists and criminals.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Six of President Trumps targeted countries are Muslim.
The fact that Trump has added North Korea  with few visitors to the U.S.  and a few government officials from Venezuela doesnt obfuscate the real fact that the administrations order is still a Muslim ban, said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
President Trumps original sin of targeting Muslims cannot be cured by throwing other countries onto his enemies list, Mr. Romero said.
But administration officials  who have long rejected the characterization of the presidents travel restrictions as a Muslim ban,  noted that the latest effort also applies to non-Muslim countries and was based on a rigorous evaluation of each countrys security capabilities.
One official who briefed reporters on Sunday evening insisted that the presidents travel restrictions were never, ever, ever based on race, religion or creed.
In a statement released by the White House, Mr. Trump defended the new proclamation, saying that we cannot afford to continue the failed policies of the past, which present an unacceptable danger to our country.
My highest obligation is to ensure the safety and security of the American people, and in issuing this new travel order, I am fulfilling that sacred obligation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The presidents announcement comes after the administration conducted what it described as an in-depth, worldwide, 90-day review of the security measures in place in other countries to prevent terrorists or criminals from entering the United States by applying to emigrate or to visit with a tourist, work or education visa.
Mr. Trump called for the review  and a temporary ban on travel from several majority-Muslim countries  just days after being inaugurated.
But a fierce legal challenge to the travel ban delayed the security assessment until the summer.
Officials said last week that most nations already met new, minimum standards for identifying and screening potential travelers and sharing investigative information with law enforcement agencies in the United States.
Some nations that initially fell short of those standards agreed to implement changes to avoid travel restrictions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But several countries either failed to meet those standards or flatly refused, officials said.
Homeland Security officials recommended to Mr. Trump in a report last week that he impose the new travel restrictions on the residents of those countries.
The presidents 15-page proclamation accepted the recommendations, spelling them out in detail.
The proclamation imposes the most severe restrictions on Syria and North Korea, which Mr. Trump says fail to cooperate with the United States in any respect.
All citizens from those countries will be denied visas to enter the United States once the proclamation goes into effect.
Most citizens of Chad, Libya and Yemen will be blocked from emigrating to or visiting the United States because the countries do not have the technical capability to identify and screen their travelers, and in many cases have terrorist networks in their countries, officials said.
Officials said Somalia did, barely, meet the security standards set by the United States, but will still be subject to a ban on emigration and heightened scrutiny for travel because it is a safe haven for terrorists.
Officials said that Iran was uncooperative and would be subject to a broad travel ban, but Mr. Trump made an exception for student and exchange visas.
In Venezuela, Mr. Trump restricted only the travel of government officials and their families, writing in the proclamation that the ban was focused on that group because they were responsible for the identified inadequacies in sharing information about travelers.
Mr. Trumps original travel ban prevented all travel from citizens of seven countries: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.
Iraq was later removed from a second version of the travel ban in March after American officials said it had improved its ability to screen passengers and share information with the United States.
In the new security review, Sudan was deemed to meet the security standards and was removed from the list of countries with travel restrictions.
Homeland Security officials had described the previous ban as a temporary pause on travel from certain countries to allow for the review of security measures.
By contrast, the new travel restrictions will be in place indefinitely, officials said.
The United States will consider lifting the restrictions on those countries affected only if they meet the new minimum standards, they said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The presidents announcement could have a dramatic impact on the legal challenge to the previous travel ban, which is under consideration by the Supreme Court after the administration appealed lower court rulings that said the ban was unconstitutional and a breach of Mr. Trumps authority.
Oral arguments in the case are scheduled for Oct. 10, but legal experts said that parts of the case could be moot because of the presidents decision to end that travel ban.
Other parts of the case, including restrictions on refugees coming into the United States, were not affected by Sundays announcement.
A spokeswoman for the Justice Department said Sunday that the solicitor general would be submitting an update to the Supreme Court about the latest travel restrictions on Sunday evening.
The spokeswoman said the administration would continue to defend the presidents lawful authority to issue his executive order.
But lawyers who filed challenges to the presidents previous travel ban left open the possibility that they would also challenge the new restrictions.
This is an apparent effort to paper over the original sin of the Muslim ban, especially when just last week Trump said he wanted a larger, tougher, more specific ban, Mr. Romero said.
The original travel ban was met with angry denunciations from civil rights activists and others who said the president was violating the Constitution by specifically targeting Muslims.
They also criticized Mr. Trumps administration for abruptly imposing the ban, causing confusion at airports as visitors were turned away by border agents who had not been briefed on the new policy.
Administration officials said on Friday that the new policy was the result of months of deliberation that included the State Department, the Department of Homeland Security, the White House and other agencies involved in security and the border.
The Trump credo seems to be so many people to attack, so little time, said Peter Wehner, a former strategic adviser to President George W. Bush and now a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.
Garry Wills, a historian who has studied other presidents, said, No one else fires off omnidirectional personal insults in such fire-wheel fashion.
The exceptions seem to be President Vladimir V. Putin in Russia and white supremacists in Charlottesville, Va.
I dont think his intention is to be divisive, said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax Media and a friend of Mr. Trumps.
He wants to be viewed as strong but also someone who speaks the truth as he sees it and not afraid what the establishment says about it.
He enjoys a fight and a challenge, so that may play into some of this.
My own view, he added, is that he should adapt Floyd Mayweathers boxing style  hold most of his punches for big opportunities, and tire out your opponents for a win in later rounds.
Intentional or not, many of his most divisive comments charge directly into one of the most delicate issues in American life, race, whether it be his attacks on illegal immigrants, his both sides equivocation after the racial violence in Charlottesville or now his blasts at African-American football and basketball stars like Mr. Curry, the Golden State Warriors player who said he did not want to visit the White House for a traditional champions ceremony.
Speaking with reporters before boarding Air Force One on Sunday, Mr. Trump insisted race was not the issue.
This has nothing to do with race, he said.
I never said anything about race.
This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
To his supporters, Mr. Trumps approach does not necessarily seem polarizing so much as animating.
In an us-and-them world, he is speaking to a part of the country that has long felt ostracized by those who seem to have everything, whether it be Washington politicians or high-paid sports stars.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These attacks sound divisive to the people outside that us  and Trumps us is a lot smaller than most presidents  but not to those inside it, said Nicole Hemmer, a scholar of conservatism and social movements at the University of Virginias Miller Center.
Theres a larger politics of grievance at work, she added, and the bases desire for Trump to be tough and combative is one seen in other presidents, if less often and openly.
Richard M. Nixon appealed to the silent majority, and Bill Clinton castigated an African-American rap star named Sister Souljah to reach out to disaffected white voters who had fled the Democratic Party.
Mr. Wehner, however, said Mr. Trump seemed to draw a kind of psychic energy from conflict.
Weve never had a president who so relishes producing animosity and hate among Americans, and who does it so consistently, so gleefully and so intentionally, he said.
And when there are no obvious targets, he added, Mr. Trump goes in search of them.
He seems to have a psychological need to keep everyone around him on edge and at each others throats.
Open appeals to division, while increasingly common on the campaign trail, have been rarer in the modern White House.
Ronald Reagan presented a sunny optimistic view of America as a shining city on a hill.
The first George Bush called for a kinder, gentler America.
Mr. Clinton vowed to repair the breach of partisanship.
The younger Mr. Bush promised to be a uniter, not a divider.
Barack Obama declared that we are not a collection of red states and blue states; we are the United States of America.
None of them fully lived up to those ideals, and at times each of them appealed to division in the conduct of his presidency or campaigns.
The elder Mr. Bushs election was remembered for the racially charged debate over the furloughed murderer Willie Horton.
The younger Mr. Bushs critics complained that he impugned their patriotism for criticizing his national security policies, while Mr. Obamas opponents complained that he regularly questioned their motives and talked down to them.
In 2015, Gallup found that the second Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama were the most polarizing presidents in modern times, as measured by the gap between how Republicans and Democrats saw them.
At that point, Mr. Obama held six of the top 10 years of that polarization index and Mr. Bush the other four.
But neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Obama overtly aspired to division on a routine basis.
A Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 66 percent of Americans believe Mr. Trump has done more to divide the country than unite it; at their peaks, no more than 55 percent said that about Mr. Obama or Mr. Bush.
Mr. Trump seems unbothered by that and in that sense may be a president who suits his era better than his predecessors.
He is a divisive president for a divisive time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We know previous presidents pursued political strategies that exploited racial divisions in our country, said Ellen Fitzpatrick, a history professor at the University of New Hampshire.
We know Nixon had his enemies list.
But the public whipping up of this sentiment in mass campaign-style rallies with the crass language Trump used in Huntsville has no precedent I am aware of.
H. W. Brands, a biographer of Reagan and other presidents at the University of Texas at Austin, said other presidents were tactically divisive.
Andrew Jackson pilloried the moneyed classes, while Theodore Roosevelt inveighed against the malefactors of great wealth.
Franklin D. Roosevelt blamed the stock market crash on the money changers and said he welcomed their hatred of him.
Trumps divisiveness looks different, Mr. Brands said.
It appears more impulsive and more a matter of simply stirring the pot.
It makes sense from the perspective of one who has long sought to attract media attention.
There doesnt seem to be any larger purpose.
I really cant see what he hopes to win by taking on the N.F.L.
Veterans of diplomacy and national security and specialists on North Korea fear that, whatever their intended result, Mr. Trumps increasingly bellicose threats and public insults of the famously thin-skinned Mr. Kim could cause the United States to careen into a nuclear confrontation driven by personal animosity and bravado.
It does matter, because you dont want to get to a situation where North Korea fundamentally miscalculates that an attack is coming, said Sue Mi Terry, a former intelligence and National Security Council specialist who is now a senior adviser for Korea at Bower Group Asia.
It could lead us to stumble into a war that nobody wants.
And while his bombast may be a thrill to Mr. Trumps core supporters, there is evidence that the broader American public does not trust the president to deal with North Korea, and is deeply opposed to the kind of pre-emptive military strike he has seemed eager to threaten.
A new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 37 percent of adults trust Mr. Trump a great deal or a good amount to responsibly handle the situation with North Korea, while 42 percent trust him not at all.
By contrast, 72 percent trust American military leaders, who have largely avoided combative language on North Korea even as they have said publicly that a military option is possible.
Two-thirds of respondents opposed launching a pre-emptive attack against North Korea, while about three-quarters supported using tougher economic sanctions on Pyongyang as a way of pressuring the country to surrender its nuclear arsenal.
Some senior administration officials acknowledge privately that Mr. Trumps rhetoric on North Korea is not helpful, although they question whether it will alter the discussion, given how far Mr. Kim has come in his quest to develop a nuclear weapon that could reach the United States.
The three current and retired generals advising Mr. Trump  Jim Mattis, the defense secretary; Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, his national security adviser; and John F. Kelly, his chief of staff  as well as Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, have all chosen their words on North Korea more carefully, emphasizing the role of diplomacy and the grave stakes of any military confrontation.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

All three of the generals fully realize the carnage that would result from a war on the Korean Peninsula, James G. Stavridis, the former NATO commander and current dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, said on Sunday.
Knowing each of them personally, I am certain they are counseling operational caution, measured public commentary and building a coalition approach to dealing with Kim Jong-un, Mr. Stavridis, a retired admiral, said in an email.
But controlling President Trump seems incredibly difficult.
Lets hope they are not engaged in mission impossible, because the stakes are so high.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Christopher R. Hill, a former ambassador to South Korea who served Republican and Democratic presidents, argued that the comments could badly undercut Mr. Trumps ability to find a peaceful solution to the dispute, playing into Mr. Kims characterization of the United States as an evil nation bent on North Koreas destruction and relieving pressure on the Chinese to do more to curb Pyongyang.
The comments give the world the sense that he is increasingly unhinged and unreliable, said Mr. Hill, the dean of the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver.
Mr. Hill, who as envoy to South Korea under George W. Bush was the last American to hold formal talks with the government in Pyongyang, said he and Condoleezza Rice, then the secretary of state, routinely advised Mr. Bush to avoid the personal invectives, because they never help.
My sense from four years of those talks is that getting personal is not helpful, Mr. Hill said.
Who could be telling Trump otherwise?
Yet current and former senior officials said it was clear that Mr. Trump would continue his brinkmanship, particularly his belligerent tweets, no matter what his advisers do or say.
One former administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal policy workings, said nobody, including Mr. Kelly, could control the presidents social media utterances, despite what his military advisers thought about them.
The tweets most likely have forced Mr. Mattis and Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as well as other national security officials, to spend a significant amount of time on the phone reassuring counterparts about Mr. Trumps intentions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Last week, Mr. Trump coined his mocking nickname for Mr. Kim on Twitter and insisted on including it in his maiden speech to the United Nations General Assembly.
Rocket Man, he said, is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime, which may leave the United States no choice than to totally destroy North Korea.
The speech drew audible gasps from the diplomats and national security officials in the General Assembly hall, as well as an angry response from Mr. Kim himself, who called Mr. Trump a mentally deranged U.S. dotard.
A few days later, a capacity crowd at the Von Braun Center in Huntsville delighted in Mr. Trumps warlike language, cheering as he renewed his threats and added a dig at Mr. Kims stature.
He should have been handled a long time ago, Mr. Trump said, but Im going to handle it because we have to handle it: Little Rocket Man.
Im sure hes listening, because he watches every word, Mr. Trump added.
Hes watching us like he never watched anybody before, that I can tell you.
The president appeared to be right about that.
On Saturday, Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho of North Korea said in a speech at the United Nations that the presidents threats were making our rockets visit to the entire U.S. mainland inevitable all the more.
That is what appeared to have prompted the nighttime tweet from Mr. Trump, who spent the weekend at his Bedminster, N.J., golf resort.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, Mr. Trump wrote of Mr. Ri, they wont be around much longer!
Ms. Terry said such menacing talk could put Mr. Trump into a box.
Trump is limiting our own options by behaving and speaking like this, because now we either have to act, which really is unthinkable, or were going to look like a paper tiger because we cant act, she said.
Internationally, we look foolish, and now he has made it extremely personal, so Kim Jong-un cannot back down.
Its reckless.
Some of Mr. Trumps allies argue that his behavior is strategic, a way of telegraphing to North Korea  and to its primary patron, China  that the United States is taking a tougher line under this administration.
There may be wisdom, they argue, in spurring fear and confusion in the mind of a leader who frequently relies on both.
Were dealing with somebody that well figure out, Mr. Trump said at the rally on Friday.
He may be smart, he may be strategic  and he may be totally crazy.
President Trump authorized the airstrikes based on the recommendation of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, an administration official said on Sunday.
The Africa Command statement noted that the strikes, which military officials said separately were carried out by armed Reaper drones flying from a base in Sicily, were conducted in coordination with the government of Prime Minister Fayez Serraj of Libya.
Reda Eissa, a spokesman for the coalition of militias backed by Mr. Serrajs Government of National Accord, said he had no information about Fridays airstrikes.
He referred queries to the governments defense ministry, which did not respond to requests for comment.
Libya analysts said the area where the strikes took place is controlled by another major power broker in Libyas fractious political landscape, Gen. Khalifa Haftar, a former Libyan Army officer who was a major figure in the 2011 rebellion against the former Libyan dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
The American airstrikes come at a particularly chaotic moment for Libya.
In the east, General Haftar has strengthened his position, receiving a stream of Western ministers, including the British foreign secretary, Boris Johnson.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Elsewhere, the Italian government has struck deals with smuggling militias to cut human trafficking to Europe.
The capital, Tripoli, has seen sporadic violence as rival groups, including the United Nations-backed unity government, jostle for supremacy.
The American strikes took place in a desert region south of the oil crescent, where key ports changed hands between rival groups several times last spring.
The strikes are the logical consequence to the change of the tactics of I.S., said Col. Wolfgang Pusztai, a former Austrian defense attach to Libya who follows the country closely, referring to the Islamic State.
This is to keep the pressure on them, as none of the Libyans considers the fight against I.S.
as a priority.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Wednesday, in the latest attempt to revive Libyas stuttering peace efforts, the United Nations envoy Ghassan Salam said he would seek to renegotiate a national political agreement signed in Morocco in December 2015.
That announcement, at the United Nations in New York, acknowledged the chronic weakness of the unity government, which has dismally failed to assert its authority beyond Tripoli, yet retains the backing of the international community.
Mr. Salam said the United Nations was ready to facilitate a security dialogue with Libyas many armed factions with a view to drawing them into the political process.
American military officials said on Sunday that Fridays strikes were conducted under Obama-era rules designed to protect civilians outside active war zones, like Iraq and Afghanistan.
Those rules  called the Presidential Policy Guidance, or P.P.G.
are in the process of being replaced by the Trump administration to streamline the process for approving drone strikes and commando raids in areas outside traditional war zones, including Yemen, Somalia and Libya.
Issued by Mr. Obama in 2013, those rules require near certainty that a bombing will kill no civilians, and the target must pose a threat to Americans  not just to American interests.
The new procedures awaiting Mr. Trumps approval would lay the groundwork for expanding possible counterterrorism missions in countries where Islamic militants are active but the United States has not previously tried to kill or capture them.
For the more than 500 other airstrikes in Libya this year and last year, the Obama White House authorized an exemption to its rules and effectively made Libya a fourth combat zone, along with Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan.
It was not immediately clear why the Trump administration did not temporarily turn back on the exemption from the Obama-era rules.
Photo

WASHINGTON  President Trump praised Nascar drivers early Monday morning for not protesting the national anthem on Sunday, continuing his weekend tweet storm against the N.F.L.
over the leagues refusal to punish players who knelt or sat during The Star-Spangled Banner.
There appeared to be no protests during the national anthem at a Nascar race on Sunday.
And Mr. Trump took to Twitter to praise drivers and supporters.
Mr. Trump on Sunday called on fans to boycott professional football games until the league did something to stop players from protesting during The Star-Spangled Banner, which is traditionally performed or played at the beginning of athletic events.
The presidents request, however, appeared to empower professional football players and team owners, prompting more protests during the anthem at games throughout the day.
Mr. Trumps decision to take sides on this issue was the latest example of the presidents proclivity for divisiveness.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Friday, the president used an expletive when he referred to players who protest the national anthem by kneeling or sitting  a trend that started last season to protest racial and social injustice.
Mr. Trump was speaking to Republican supporters during a rally for Senator Luther Strange, of Alabama, who is facing a runoff primary election on Tuesday.
The swift punishment by Olympic officials served as a warning to others, the article said.
The action obviously tempered the behavior of Negro American athletes who were involved in victory ceremonies today.
In accepting their medals for their one, two, three sweep of the 400-meter run, Lee Evans, Larry James and Ron Freeman wore black berets, but in no way conducted themselves in a manner to incur official wrath.
Photo

1972: Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett are barred from the Olympics

Four years after the 1968 controversy, a new one arose.
The track athletes Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett, who were also both black, took the podium in Munich, at a time when officials feared a repeat of the Mexico City gesture.
The Timess 2010 obituary for Mr. Collett said that as the anthem was played, the pair did not face the flag.
They stood casually, hands on hips, their jackets unzipped, The Times reported.
They chatted and fidgeted.
The obituary added: When the anthem ended and they climbed off the stand, the crowd booed.
Matthews twirled his medal and Collett gave a black power salute.
The two men were barred from Olympic competition by the International Olympic Committee, an action that The Times described in an editorial as an authoritarian decree.
The editorial continued, Unquestionably, the slouching, defiant posture of the two black athletes did no credit to either, but the persistence they had shown in training up to perfection pitch demonstrated that they had no lack of the Olympic ethic.
1973: Fans on Long Island boo college athletes

Fans at a college track meet at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island went from agitated to furious in January 1973 when at least one athlete lay on the ground during the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the music played, at least one runner from Eastern Michigan University continued to warm up on the floor, The Times reported.
Another athlete, wearing an Adelphi uniform, was also observed reclining on the ground.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Several fans began shouting, the article said, and after the anthem, most of the 8,551 spectators joined in the booing.
The article continued: Some chanted Throw them out!
Others shouted racial epithets at the athletes, who were black.
Photo

Later, the Eastern Michigan runner would say: I was just stretching out, preparing for my race.
I didnt mean any protest, and Im sorry I caused such a commotion.
But the booing continued, and some officials threatened to walk off the floor if Eastern Michigan was allowed to compete.
The team was disqualified.
The Times quoted Bob Parks, the Eastern Michigan coach, who is white and wears his hair very closely cropped, as saying: Im as conservative as anyone around.
I stand and sing for the anthem.
I think the kids should stand, too, and Im going to give them hell.
But why disqualify the whole team?
Parks said he was surprised by the reaction of the crowd.
At our place, when they play The Star-Spangled Banner at basketball games, a lot of the black students dont stand, he said.
I guess things are different here.
1973: Madison Square Garden drops the anthem, then reverses its decision

Amid growing controversy over whether it should be played at sports events, a front-page article in The Times on Jan. 16, 1973, reported, the national anthem has been dropped from the Olympic Invitational track and field meet at Madison Square Garden.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times quoted the meets director as saying that playing the anthem was not obligatory because its purpose and relevance to sports events has never been established.
A day later, the front page told a different story: Garden to Hear Anthem at Track Meet, After All.
The reversal came after the United States Olympic Committee was deluged with irate calls from all over the country, The Times reported.
Photo

1996: The N.B.A.
suspends Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf

In March 1996, the National Basketball Association suspended Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets for his refusal to stand during the national anthem.
Mr. Abdul-Rauf, who converted to Islam in 1991, said he did not believe in standing for any nationalistic ideology.
The real problem, according to an editorial in The Times, was not the wisdom or accuracy of Mr. Abdul-Raufs view that the flag is a symbol of oppression, or that Islamic teachings require that he not stand for the anthem.
It was the N.B.A.s blindness to the fact that trying to force participation in a patriotic exercise undermines democratic values.
The allure of elite commandos parachuting in to tackle "mission impossible" began with two operations -- one a huge success and the other a massive failure.
Jed Shugerman, a law professor at Fordham, wrote a blog post urging Mr. Tillman to issue a correction.
One might expect, Professor Shugerman wrote, that when a brief before a court contains significant factual errors or misleading interpretations of evidence, the authors of that brief will offer to correct their briefs or retract the sections if they are no longer supported by the evidence.
In another blog post, Brianne J. Gorod, a lawyer with the Constitutional Accountability Center, which represents lawmakers suing Mr. Trump, said Mr. Tillmans account was not accurate, not even remotely so.
Five legal historians, including Professor Shugerman, filed their own friend-of-the-court brief.
They said Mr. Tillmans had incorrectly described the evidence in a footnote in his brief.
Mr. Tillman took none of this lightly.
In a sworn statement last week, he repeated his original position.
I stand entirely behind the above footnote: behind every sentence, every phrase, every word and every syllable, he wrote.
I made no mistake, intentional or inadvertent.
I retract nothing, and I do not intend to retract anything.
Mr. Tillman, who is represented by Josh Blackman, an energetic law professor and litigator, rounded up declarations from experts in founding-era documents and on Hamilton.
They agreed that the document said to contradict Mr. Tillmans account was not signed by Hamilton and was prepared after his death.
I asked Mr. Tillmans critics for their reactions.
Professor Shugerman responded with a public and personal apology.
I am satisfied that Tillman and Blackman have provided support for their perspective on these documents, he wrote on his blog.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I was wrong to suggest that Tillman misused sources, and I was wrong to question his credibility, Professor Shugerman wrote.
Tillman is a diligent, creative, intelligent and learned scholar who deserved more respect than the way I handled these exchanges.
Im sincerely sorry for any trouble or hardship I caused for Mr. Tillman and his family.
Professor Shugermans fellow historians  John Mikhail, Jack Rakove, Gautham Rao and Simon Stern  said they were still studying the matter.
Ms. Gorod did not offer a direct response.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
While there is a fascinating academic discussion to be had about the provenance of these particular documents, and that specific discussion will surely continue, its ultimately immaterial to whats going on in the courts because at the end of the day, it is clear that the foreign emoluments clause applies to the president, she said in statement.
Even the Department of Justice agrees.
She is right that the cases are very unlikely to turn on Mr. Tillmans arguments.
All of the parties, including Mr. Trumps lawyers, agree that the foreign emoluments clause applies to the president.
The Justice Department instead argued that Mr. Trump had not violated the clause because he had taken no money in exchange for his official actions.
Mr. Tillman said the clause does not apply to the president in the first place, pointing to a 1793 document submitted by Hamilton, who was the secretary of the Treasury.
The Senate had asked him to list every person holding any civil office or employment under the United States.
That language tracks but is a little broader than what is in the emoluments clause, which was not the subject of the request.
In Hamiltons response, which the editors of his papers say he signed, he did not list the president or any other elected official.
That is some evidence, though more than a little indirect, about what one of the framers of the Constitution thought about how broadly the emoluments clause swept.
In his brief, Mr. Tillman noted but discounted a contrary piece of evidence.
An entirely different document (but bearing a similar name), he wrote, did include the president.
It was undated, not signed by Hamilton and was drafted by an unknown Senate functionary.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Tillmans critics said that second document was the crucial one, adding that it bore both a date and Hamiltons signature.
In court papers Mr. Tillman sought to file last week, he argued that the second document was a scriveners copy  the antebellum equivalent of a photocopy  which was not signed by Hamilton.
Indeed, Mr. Tillman said, internal evidence in the second document indicated that it was drafted long after Hamiltons death in 1804.
Judge George B. Daniels of the Federal District Court in Manhattan promptly rejected Mr. Tillmans request to file more papers, which, after all, concerned an issue that is not disputed between the parties.
Mr. Tillmans plea, though, was probably addressed to an audience wider than a single judge.
It has yielded a gracious apology, and it has demonstrated a couple of things.
The lawsuits are bitterly contested because they are important.
And, whatever the value of using indirect evidence to interpret the Constitution, the demands of historical research and vigorous legal advocacy can tug in different directions.
But in a stunning operation that began late on July 3, 1976, Israeli commandos swooped in.
They killed the hijackers and dozens of Ugandan soldiers, gathered the hostages and flew them to safety.
The raid was carried out with near perfection, though it cost the lives of four hostages and of the commando leader, Lt. Col. Yonatan Netanyahu, the older brother of the current Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu.
A new era in counterterrorism had dawned.
Joshua Shani, a retired Israeli brigadier general, was there, having flown the first C-130 Hercules cargo plane to land at Entebbe.
He told Retro Report: It was like the whole world say, Wow, they have chutzpah, these guys.
They are damn good.
They were so good that the United States tried something similar in April 1980 to end a hostage crisis in Iran that traumatized this country.
Fifty-two United States diplomats and other citizens had been taken captive five months earlier under a new Iranian theocracy hostile to America.
From the get-go, this rescue mission, code-named Eagle Claw, would not be an easy assignment for a Delta Force commando unit still in its infancy.
The only difference between this and the Alamo is Davy Crockett didnt have to fight his way in, said Mr. Ishimoto, who was an intelligence officer on the Delta Force raid.
Almost everything that could have gone wrong did.
Two American helicopters were disabled by severe dust storms over Iran.
Separately, a third one broke down.
Still another crashed into a tanker aircraft; eight servicemen were killed.
It was a disaster that left America humiliated  and left the hostages stuck for nine more months.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But failure can be a powerful teacher.
Eagle Claw was.
What emerged within a few years was a well-trained, disciplined force of special operators groomed for counterterrorism, hostage rescue and other demanding missions.
The force today is perhaps 10 times as big as it was in 1980, when its numbers, Mr. Ishimoto said, were between 6,000 and 8,000.
As for successes, one need look no further than the 2011 SEALs raid on a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, where the Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was found and killed.
With Americans weary of war without end since Sept. 11, 2001, President Obama withdrew most conventional soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan.
At the same time, he turned the Joint Special Operations Command into a dray horse.
Its members are just about everywhere: Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Syria, Somalia, Pakistan, you name it.
Their impact can be deadly.
But their footprint is lighter, and less costly, than that of a fully decked-out Army operation.
This commando force plainly appeals to Mr. Trump, who has shown scant faith in soft power, the use of diplomacy and humanitarian example to win friends and influence nations.
His budget proposals have included many billions more for the Defense Department and billions less for the State Department and the Agency for International Development.
In his first half-year in office, military special operators were sent on about five times as many lethal missions in what for the United States are non-battlefield countries  Yemen, Pakistan and Somalia  as there had been during Mr. Obamas final six months.
Relying on them so heavily has a price.
Though they make up roughly 5 percent of the total armed forces, they have accounted for at least half of the nations combat deaths since 2015.
The risks were evident mere days into the Trump presidency when a member of the SEALs was killed on a flawed night mission in Yemen that also left more than a dozen civilians dead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its easy to romanticize commandos.
Just ask any Hollywood director.
But they are not supermen.
Even Israeli forces have lost their post-Entebbe glow, with blemished missions in Lebanon and Gaza that led to their own men and innocent civilians being killed.
Some military experts worry that even though the American teams also have chutzpah and are damn good, they are being asked to do too much too often.
These guys truly are amazing warriors, Russell D. Howard, a retired brigadier general who was a special forces commander, told The Cipher Brief, a website focused on security issues.
But theyre more than that.
Theyre smart, flexible, adaptable and unafraid.
The problem, General Howard said, is that the guys are still deployed all the time.
These guys are a national treasure, he said.
In my day, it cost an average of $1 million to train a special forces soldier.
Now it probably costs closer to $1.5 million, and you dont waste that asset.
You use them judiciously when you really need them.
Photo

Jared Kushner, President Trumps son-in-law and a White House senior adviser, has used his personal email account to conduct official government business, his lawyer acknowledged on Sunday.
The lawyer, Abbe Lowell, said that Mr. Kushner, using the personal account, had received or sent fewer than a hundred emails involving his White House colleagues over the first seven months of the administration.
Mr. Lowell said the emails were all forwarded to Mr. Kushners official account, creating a record.
The use of the personal account was first reported by Politico.
Mr. Kushner is not the only official in the Trump White House who has been found to have used private email or text messaging for government business, a situation that has raised questions about the administrations preservation of records.
But Mr. Kushner is the person closest to the president to have his personal email use become public.
As a candidate, Mr. Trump aggressively attacked Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, for her use of private email while she was secretary of state.
Some of Mr. Trumps allies outside the White House are urging him to press for a prosecution of Mrs. Clinton, even though an F.B.I.
investigation into her handling of classified information has been closed.
At Mr. Trumps rallies, his supporters still break into cheers of lock her up!
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a statement, Mr. Lowell said: Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business.
Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account.
Photo

Nigel Farage, the right-wing British politician and outspoken supporter of President Trump, plans to campaign in Alabama on Monday against the presidents preferred candidate in a crucial Republican Senate runoff.
Mr. Farages endorsement of Roy Moore, a former State Supreme Court justice who leads in the polls before the election on Tuesday, lines up another anti-establishment voice in opposition to Mr. Trump.
He plans to speak at a rally for Mr. Moore that will also include Stephen K. Bannon, the former chief strategist to Mr. Trump.
Im honored to have the endorsement of Brexit leader @Nigel_Farage, wholl join us in Fairhope on Monday, Mr. Moore said on Twitter.
Photo

Mr. Farage, the former U.K.
Independence Party leader who helped lead the Brexit movement, campaigned for Mr. Trump in the presidential election and was the first foreign politician to meet with him after he won.
As president-elect, Mr. Trump suggested that Britain appoint Mr. Farage as its ambassador to the United States, an idea that was quickly dismissed by the British government.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Alabama race to fill the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions pits Mr. Moore, an evangelical favorite, against Luther Strange, who has the support of Mr. Trump and Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader.
Strange was appointed to the Senate this year after Mr.
Sessions left.
Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trumps spokeswoman, said in an email that Mrs. Trump had been delayed in hiring a policy director because she was working to ensure that the person is a good fit for the entire team.
Mrs. Trump, 47, is far from the first person in the role to take time adjusting to the unwritten rules and expectations.
Her predecessor, Michelle Obama, was less than enthused about life in the East Wing.
Such spousal melancholy dates back to the countrys infancy: Louisa Adams, the London-born wife of President John Quincy Adams, spent much of her time in the White House in the 1820s depressed and binge-eating chocolates, according to historical accounts.
Things havent gotten that bad for Mrs. Trump.
At the opening ceremony of the Invictus Games, the Slovenian-born first lady cheered for stars and stripes in an arena filled with maple leaf flags.
The celebration, complete with dancing children and giant puppets, had a lighter air than her speech to the United Nations on Wednesday, in which she warned about the dangers to children posed by cyberbullying and drugs.
We must turn our focus right now to the message and content they are exposed to on a daily basis through social media, Mrs. Trump said to a luncheon group, the bullying, the experience online and in person and the growing global epidemic of drug addiction and drug overdose.
With her East Wing lacking policy muscle, Mrs. Trump has joined West Wing-led initiatives, including plans to combat the opioid crisis.
She continues to receive briefings from the Federal Emergency Management Agency on hurricane relief, Ms. Grisham said.
Photo

While Mrs. Trump has flouted some norms by, for instance, wearing stiletto heels while traveling to a hurricane disaster zone, she has brought some conventionality to a White House that often eschews it.
In August, Mrs. Trump condemned the violence at a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., even as her husband made equivocal statements about the racists who were involved.
As Mrs. Trump picks up speed, she has brought a friend and adviser closer to the formal operations of the East Wing.
Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, a former director of events at Vogue who worked on the inaugural committee, is now consulting for the first ladys office, the White House confirmed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Wolkoff, who had previously advised Mrs. Trump on everything from event planning to wardrobe choices, helped prepare Mrs. Trumps United Nations speech, along with others, according to Ms. Grisham.
While there certainly is an adjustment period, that is to be expected, Ms. Grisham said of Mrs. Trump.
She is staying true to herself and knows exactly what she wants to achieve as first lady.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
She is not one to seek out attention or photo ops, Ms. Grisham added.
She is focused on being a mom, wife, and serving the American people.
Anita McBride, who served as Laura Bushs chief of staff, said it would take time before Mrs. Trump might be ready to introduce a full-fledged plan to the public.
Ms. McBride said it took Mrs. Obama over a year to roll out Lets Move!, her signature program to prevent childhood obesity.
Mrs. Bush, she said, took about that much time organizing the first National Book Festival.
This is the period of time where you do see a number of first ladies in recent history really begin to roll out their interests, Ms. McBride said.
There is some regularity to the timing of what she is doing.
Ms. McBride, who attended a dinner that the first lady hosted for the White House Historical Association at the White House this month, said Mrs. Trump was embracing some of the more traditional expectations that accompany living in the White House, and had grown to appreciate the potential power of her platform over time.
Still, Ms. McBride said, given the presidents penchant for taunting tweets, the first lady is likely to face an uphill climb on combating cyberbullying.
I do think she will need to be prepared for not being taken seriously in this because of some of the language and rhetoric that comes from her husband, Ms. McBride said.
Youre not going to win everybody over.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whether or not her initiatives at home have a lasting effect, Mrs. Trump, who speaks multiple languages, is proving to be an asset on the world stage.
She has accompanied Mr. Trump on his trips abroad, serving as a buffer in awkward handshake encounters with world leaders, and notably eliciting a smile from a sullen-looking Pope Francis.
Patti Solis Doyle, a Democratic strategist who was an aide to Hillary Clinton when she was first lady, sees Mrs. Trumps travels as helpful to Mr. Trumps image.
I think, she said, that Melanias husband needs a little good will around the world.
The risks associated with smuggling children into the U.S. present a constant humanitarian threat, ICE officials said in a statement.
The sponsors who have placed children directly into harms way by entrusting them to violent criminal organizations will be held accountable for their role in these conspiracies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Some children reported being raped or held hostage by smugglers for more money.
Others have been abandoned by smugglers as they try to cross the border.
Immigration advocates called the new enforcement policy a heartless way to try to reduce smuggling.
It's extremely cruel when you started shutting down refugee applicants and rescinding protections for children brought to the country at a young age, to send this kind of message to parents trying to get their kids to safety, said Chris Rickerd, policy counsel with the American Civil Liberties Union in Washington.
Smuggling cases are among the most challenging to prove, and the biggest hurdle is identifying witnesses, who are likely to be undocumented and unwilling to help, according to Michael J. Wynne, who spent 12 years as an assistant United States attorney in the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas.
Targeting parents for re-entering the country illegally, rather than trying to go after them for smuggling, presents prosecutors with a higher likelihood of success.
Its a throwdown case, he said.
Youre going to prosecute the crime where you get the biggest bang for your buck.
Officials in ICEs Homeland Security Investigations division have been told to look for cases that can be brought to United States attorneys for possible prosecution, according to people familiar with the enforcement effort.
Because prosecutions for illegal re-entry carry a five-year statute of limitations, ICE special agents are also looking to see if they can prosecute relatives of unaccompanied children for other immigration-related crimes, such as giving false statements, according to people familiar with the effort.
Convictions for illegal re-entry are politically popular among immigration restrictionists.
According to Justice Department data analyzed by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a nonprofit research group at Syracuse University, illegal re-entry made up the bulk of prosecutions for illegal immigration for the last five years.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Trump administration has made no secret of its plans to go after parents living in the country illegally who bring in their children.
Photo

Earlier this year, administration officials said that the thousands of children who arrived each year as unaccompanied minors would no longer be protected against deportation, reversing an Obama administration policy.
John F. Kelly, then the Homeland Security secretary and now the White House chief of staff, wrote a memo in February saying parents would be subject to criminal prosecution if they had paid human traffickers to bring children across the border.
The children, who turn themselves in to the Border Patrol, are handed over to the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Refugee Resettlement.
The office will either place the children in a shelter or release them to a family member.
Immigration officials said most of the unaccompanied children apprehended at the border were eventually turned over to a family member, most often a parent, already living in the United States.
Homeland Security officials acknowledge that many of the children are fleeing violence in their home country, but they say that paying smugglers to transport them to the border endangers the children.
Interviews with immigration officials and court documents show numerous examples of children being exploited by smuggling organizations.
Mexican authorities reported in July that they had rescued 147 Central American migrants, including 48 children, found abandoned in the wilderness in Veracruz State after a truck carrying them crashed.
And officials said that some of the money paid to smugglers found its way into the hands of drug cartels.
In recent years, drug smuggling organizations have diversified their activities and now get a substantial portion of their revenue from human smuggling, officials said.
The drug trafficking organizations charge smugglers to cross through their territory.
In some cases, the cartels abduct the migrants and hold them for ransom from parents in the United States or family back home.
If the money is not paid on time, the migrants, including children, are beaten or even killed, according to Border Patrol agents and Homeland Security Investigations officials who have investigated the cases.
Two weeks ago, prosecutors in McAllen, Tex., sentenced the leader of one group to more than 30 years in prison for abducting a group of people who were in the country illegally and were being held at a stash house.
The group was held at gunpoint, and their families were told to pay $2,000 to free them.
After the families paid, the group was then turned over to other smugglers, who also demanded money for their release.
Even those who make it across the border face dangers, officials said.
In July, the police in San Antonio, responding to a call from a local Walmart, found dozens of undocumented immigrants inside a semitrailer parked in heat of more than 100 degrees.
Ten of the 39 people found in or near the truck died, and others were hospitalized, some with brain damage.
Among those found alive in the truck were two school-age children.
As marriage has declined, though, childbearing has not, which means that more children are living in families without two parents and the resources they bring.
The sharpest distinction in American family life is between people with a bachelors or not, said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins and author of Labors Love Lost: The Rise and Fall of the Working-Class Family in America.
Just over half of adolescents in poor and working-class homes live with both their biological parents, compared with 77 percent in middle- and upper-class homes, according to the research brief, by W. Bradford Wilcox and Wendy Wang of the Institute for Family Studies.
Thirty-six percent of children born to a working-class mother are born out of wedlock, versus 13 percent of those born to middle- and upper-class mothers.
The research brief defined working class as adults with a family income between the 20th and 50th percentiles, with high school diplomas but not college degrees.
Poor is defined as those below the 20th percentile without college degrees, and the middle and upper class as those above the 50th percentile with college degrees.
Americans across the income spectrum still highly value marriage, sociologists have found.
But while it used to be a marker of adulthood, now it is something more wait to do until the other pieces of adulthood are in place  especially financial stability.
For people with less education and lower earnings, that might never happen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

College graduates are more likely to plot their lives methodically  vetting people they date until theyre sure they want to move in with them, and using birth control to delay childbirth until their careers are underway.
Less educated people are more likely to move in with boyfriends or girlfriends in a matter of months, and to get pregnant at a younger age and before marriage.
This can make financial and family stability harder to achieve later on.
It starts with moving into relationships quickly, for economic exigency reasons as opposed to relationship reasons, Ms. Sassler said.
Then struggling with making ends meet and trying to manage this with a partner just elevates the challenges.
Evidence shows that the struggles of men without college degrees in recent years have led to a decline in marriage.
It has been particularly acute in regions where well-paying jobs in male-dominated fields have disappeared because of automation and trade.
In a working paper published in July, three economists studied how the decline in manufacturing jobs from 1990 to 2014, across industries and regions, contributed to the rapid, simultaneous decline of traditional household structures.
Labor market changes made men less marriageable, they concluded.
There were fewer available men, because unemployment was associated with a rise in incarceration or mortality from drugs and alcohol.
The men who were left were less desirable, because they lacked income and were more likely to drink to excess or use drugs.
Researchers found a corresponding increase in births to unmarried mothers.
The decline in marriage was not offset by more couples living together.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A bad economy lowers the cost of having bad values  substance abuse, engaging in crime, not looking for a job right away, said Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, who wrote the paper with David Autor of M.I.T.
and David Dorn of the University of Zurich.
Never-married adults cite financial instability as a major reason for being single, especially those who are low-income or under 30, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.
Most men feel its important for a husband to be a financial provider, especially men without college degrees, according to another new Pew survey.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Women, meanwhile, have learned from watching a generation of divorce that they need to be able to support themselves.
And many working-class women arent interested in taking responsibility for a man without a job.
They say, If hes not offering money or assets, why make it legal?
said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and the author with Naomi Cahn of Marriage Markets: How Inequality Is Remaking the American Family.
While researchers say its stability, not a marriage license, that matters for children, American couples who live together but dont marry are generally less likely to stay committed.
When thinking about how to make families more stable, researchers debate whether the decline in marriage is an economic issue or a cultural one.
Those on the left usually say its economic  and could be reversed if there were more and better jobs for men without college degrees.
Those on the right are more likely to say its because of a deterioration of cultural values.
In reality, economics and culture both play a role, and influence each other, social scientists say.
When well-paying jobs became scarce for less educated men, they became less likely to marry.
As a result, the culture changed: Marriage was no longer the norm, and out-of-wedlock childbirth was accepted.
Even if jobs returned, an increase in marriage wouldnt necessarily immediately follow.
Economists often downplay cultural factors, Mr. Hanson said.
We think about marriage in a laboratory setting, and ignore the role of churches and bowling leagues and community organizations, he said.
When you have job decline in a big way, that fabric unravels.
So even if you bring the jobs back, once the damage is done, it might take a while to repair.
If economics and culture are linked, then policy ideas aimed at creating more stability for children would ideally address both.
Social scientists suggest more routes to good jobs, like through community colleges or apprenticeships.
More affordable housing for young people would help, so they dont move in together simply from economic necessity.
Inexpensive and accessible contraception would help, too.
Some have suggested expanding the child tax credit, and removing the marriage penalty for benefits like the earned-income tax credit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Changing culture is harder: Government marriage promotion programs havent worked well, for example.
Yet its clear from research that if relationships progressed more slowly, and childbirth came later, families would be more stable.
People with college degrees seem to operate with more of a long-term perspective, social scientists say.
They are more likely to take on family responsibilities slowly, and they often benefit from parental resources to do so  like help paying for education, birth control or rent to live on their own.
In turn, the young adults prioritize waiting to have children until they are more able to give their children similar opportunities.
The cultural reinforcement, people relying on contraception and abortion, reinforces a norm, that you dont have the kid with the wrong guy, Ms. Carbone said.
Mr. Wilcox suggests a bigger emphasis in high schools and pop culture on whats known as the success sequence: degree, job, marriage, baby.
The idea is that if people follow that sequence, their odds of landing in poverty are much lower, he said.
But for the insurer, unless it is getting a discount or a rebate from the manufacturer, the cost is about $130 minus the co-payment.
Wyeth is by no means alone in this tactic.
GlaxoSmithKline, Abbott Laboratories, Sanofi, Novartis, Roche, Pfizer and many other drug manufacturers also offer coupon cards online for their brand-name products that compete with generics.
Such coupons are not new.
But from 2007 to 2010, brand-name drugs with coupons grew as a share of retail drug spending, to 54 percent from 26 percent.
The figure may well be even higher today, according to Leemore Dafny, an economist at Harvard Business School.
Though such coupons assist patients, they do nothing for insurers, for whom generics are still a better deal.
And thats the problem.
By encouraging patients to switch from generic to brand drugs, coupons effectively impose higher costs on insurers.
That ends up increasing premiums, and not for any particularly good reason.
Generic drugs are generally regarded as equivalent to their corresponding brand products and are 80 percent cheaper, on average.
This is precisely why plans impose much higher cost-sharing for brand-name drugs than their generic equivalent.
Doing so can help keep premiums down without harming patients.
Perhaps in response, Americans are using more generics.
In 2006, 90 percent of prescriptions that were filled were for a generic equivalent to a brand-name drug, when such a generic was available.
In 2012, that number had increased to 95 percent.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The circumvention of insurance plan designs by these coupons has long been suspected to contribute to drug spending and premium growth.
A recent study examining data from 2007 through 2010 and published in The American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, puts some numbers to the phenomenon.
Co-pay coupons increase use of brand drugs for which generics are available by 60 percent and spending by as much as 4.6 percent.
Coupons raise spending in two ways, said Ms. Dafny, an author of the study.
In addition to making more expensive brand drugs more attractive to consumers, it allows manufacturers to raise brand prices.
For example, the $4 cost with the coupon holds the consumers prices fixed at a low level.
That allows the manufacturer to raise the overall price without losing sales.
This raises spending, too, but for the insurer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In total, the coupons for drugs with generic competition are responsible for several billion dollars of additional drug spending per year, according to the study, which was also written by Christopher Ody with Northwesterns Kellogg School of Management and Matthew Schmitt with the U.C.L.A.
Anderson School of Management.
The coupons do so, by and large, without expanding the number of people using medications, just by switching which product they purchase  brand or generic.
Drug manufacturers also offer coupons for drugs without generic competition, but they were not the focus of the study.
If drug coupons are problematic for insurers and drive up premiums, why dont insurers reject them?
They say they cant ban them because they cant tell when a coupon is being redeemed at the pharmacy counter, Ms. Dafny said.
But public payers ban them, after all, and their enrollees pick up prescriptions at the same pharmacies.
Medicare, for example, bans their use.
But enforcement is incomplete, and by one estimate 6 percent of Medicare enrollees use coupons anyway.
And Massachusetts has passed laws that ban co-pay coupons for brand drugs with generic equivalents.
The likelier explanation, Ms. Dafny says, is that denying consumers access to coupons would cause a backlash.
In the short term, out-of pocket-prices would rise for the few: the consumers relying upon them.
But in the long term, encouraging consumers to use generic drugs when available  which is what insurers are trying to do  would reduce drug spending and premiums for everyone.
Buried in the Affordable Care Act is a provision that could help promote all of these goals.
That provision allows states to waive nearly all of the rules about how they run their insurance marketplaces under Obamacare, if they can prove that their replacement plan would offer similarly comprehensive insurance to just as many people, at the same or lower cost.
An older, related program allows states to make modifications to their Medicaid program that dont cost the federal government more money, if the states adhere to various guidelines.
The Obamacare program, known as the state innovation waiver, was set up to kick in this year.
And, so far, it appears that only a handful of states wish to refashion the Obamacare status quo.
Two states have put waivers into effect.
Hawaii used one to do away with Obamacares small-business insurance marketplace.
Alaska established a special fund to pay medical bills of patients who needed very expensive care, lowering the premiums on the market.
Several other states have applied for waivers of various sorts, and these are undergoing federal review.
Why havent more states come forward?
One reason is that coming up with a brand-new health care system is hard, and not every state may be interested in doing it.
Another is that states have complained that the Obamacare application rules are too strict and onerous.
The rules require states to pass legislation endorsing a state plan, to undergo a six-month review, and to adhere to tests to make sure that the new plan will protect the people who are helped by Obamacare.
States have also said that it can be hard to make related reforms to both the marketplace and Medicaid programs, since they must undergo separate reviews for their budgetary effects.
Photo

But in recent hearings, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions has been discussing options to address state requests, and ease the process.
The committees chairman, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, has been pushing for changes that would make it easier for states to try new policy approaches.
And Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking member, was willing to make some concessions in exchange for a promise to fund insurance subsidies caught up in a court fight.
The Alexander-Murray negotiations were shelved as the Graham-Cassidy bill picked up steam, but they could begin again.
In his statement, Mr. McCain mentioned the Alexander-Murray negotiations as an avenue for bipartisan reform and said, I hope they will resume.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The idea of the innovation waiver originally came from the Democrats.
Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon wrote the provision because he wanted states to have more options.
An expanded innovation program might lead to more experiments from the left  something approaching a single-payer system from a state like Vermont, say  as well as those from the right.
But making it easier for states to receive waivers could be a way for Republican senators to give states more flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There were, of course, many other features of the Republican bill that could not be easily replicated by waiver.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have redistributed a big pool of federal funding among states.
And it would have changed the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, putting spending on poor children, disabled Americans and many people living in nursing homes on a strict diet.
Any bipartisan deal would require the votes of at least eight Democrats, which makes drastic changes to the current rules unrealistic.
But there remain opportunities for state experimentation.
The Trump administration has signaled that it is eager to help promote state flexibility.
Tom Price, the secretary of health and human services, wrote to governors in March, urging them to apply.
Not every state has felt its proposals were welcomed with enthusiasm so far.
If a top Republican concern is about the rigid structure of Obamacare, and states really want to build their own systems, there are still avenues to move in the direction Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy have sketched.
But while they might achieve many of the same policy goals, those efforts are likely to be cast as Obamacare revisions, not replacements.
But those two top contenders combine for lower than 50 percent odds in our expert survey  meaning that our panelists thought there was a better-than-even chance that the appointment will be one of many contenders with individually modest but collectively high chances of rising to the top of the presidents list.
Compared with PredictIt, an online marketplace based on news events, our experts saw slightly lower odds for either of them.
On Thursday afternoon, trading on PredictIt implied 30 percent odds for Ms. Yellen and 28 percent for Mr. Warsh.
Using our expert survey  and comments from some of the participants in it  heres a guide to President Trumps options as he makes perhaps the single most consequential economic decision of his first year in office.
Yellen reappointment: continuity and bipartisanship

Theres a tradition of reappointing Fed chairmen who were originally appointed by a member of the opposite party.
President Obama did so with Ben Bernanke; Bill Clinton with Alan Greenspan; and Ronald Reagan with Paul Volcker.
That tradition has helped keep the Fed, with its vast power over the economy and financial system, insulated a bit from politics, but President Trump has no obligation to follow it.
The case for renominating Ms. Yellen is straightforward.
She has presided over four years of steady economic expansion and rising financial markets.
She moved cautiously toward raising interest rates even though the economy seemed to be approaching full employment.
By contrast, some more conservative contenders for the job have indicated they want to raise rates more quickly, which could endanger the economy as President Trump approaches midterm elections in 2018 and a potential re-election battle in 2020.
After criticizing her during his campaign, President Trump has had some kind words for her, saying in July that he liked her and that shes done a good job.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, as President Trump dabbles in making deals with Democrats, reappointing Ms. Yellen could serve as an expression of good faith to Democratic senators.
As administration officials focus on tax legislation and other priorities on Capitol Hill, it might be helpful to them to nominate someone who might sail through confirmation, rather than demand a bruising, time-consuming battle.
Shes a known quantity, and there is less risk of disrupting the financial markets if the president renominates Dr. Yellen, said Brian Gardner, managing director of Washington Research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and one of the panelists.
Although President Trump is unorthodox in many ways, every president wants calm financial markets.
The case against Ms. Yellen is similarly straightforward: She is a liberal economist in a government dominated by conservatives.
She is a cerebral academic serving during the presidency of a bombastic businessman.
And she is a staunch defender of the work the Fed and other bank regulators have done to try to limit risk in the financial system  including in a high-profile speech last month  amid an administration focused on deregulation.
Kevin Warsh: well connected, but with baggage

Our experts consensus was that Mr. Warsh has slightly better odds than Ms. Yellen.
He was a Fed governor from 2006 to 2011, and was a member of Mr. Bernankes inner circle in shaping the Feds extraordinary (and often extraordinarily unpopular) actions to battle the global financial crisis.
He is well connected in conservative political circles and is now a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.
Before joining the Fed, where he was the youngest governor in the institutions history, he worked in the George W. Bush White House and at Morgan Stanley.
He has a law degree, but no advanced degree in economics.
Mr. Warsh has been a skeptic of the Feds efforts to boost the economy through quantitative easing and has advocated raising interest rates more quickly.
He also has a regulatory philosophy more in line with the administrations.
The Race to Be the Next Fed Chairman Appears to Be Wide Open Experts surveyed by The Times believe that Kevin Warsh and Janet Yellen stand the best shot at being appointed to lead the central bank, but combine for less than a 50 percent chance.
EXPERT CONSENSUS PREDICTIT Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22% Expert Consensus PredictIt Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22%

Another factor that might weigh in Mr. Warshs favor with the president?
Mr. Warshs father-in-law is Ronald Lauder, of the Este Lauder cosmetics fortune, a major Republican donor with longstanding ties to Mr. Trump.
If Mr. Warsh is nominated, expect significant blowback during the confirmation process from Democrats, who are likely to accuse the 47-year-old Mr. Warsh of being underqualified, of being responsible for the 2008 bank bailouts and inclined to regulate banks too lightly now, and of being too overtly political for the traditionally nonpartisan Fed chairmanship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whatever happened to Gary Cohn?
Not long ago, Gary Cohn, the head of the White House National Economic Council, looked like the leading candidate to be the next Fed chairman.
In late July, his odds were 46 percent on PredictIt.
But now our panel puts those odds at 12 percent, and PredictIts odds were about the same.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A former No.
2 at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Cohn has been reported to have swung out of favor with Mr. Trump after criticizing his response to racially motivated violence in Charlottesville, Va.
But there were some reasons to be skeptical of Mr. Cohns appointment to the Fed chairmanship even before that.
Mr. Cohn has a hard-charging style that would be an unusual fit for an agency that is run more like an academic department.
The last businessman to become Fed chairman, G. William Miller, was appointed by President Jimmy Carter and lasted only 18 months in the job.
And given his rsum, Mr. Cohns nomination would surely set off a heated confirmation battle.
Democrats would be eager to criticize the administration for naming a recent top executive at Goldman Sachs to be the nations most powerful financial regulator.
Some populist Republicans might join them.
Still, given the way people move in and out of Mr. Trumps favor, and his preference for appointees with business experience, a Cohn appointment cant be ruled out.
The other contenders

The expert consensus is that there is about a one-in-three chance collectively for the other possible nominees, even as each of them individually is viewed as having single-digit odds.
Foremost among them are several of the names we would probably be hearing about if a conventional Republican president were in the White House.
John B. Taylor is a respected economist at Stanford who worked in the George W. Bush administration and has been an influential voice among congressional Republicans who want to see the Fed bound by stricter rules governing its actions.
Glenn Hubbard was a top economic adviser to Mr. Bush who is dean of Columbia Business School.
Larry Lindsey was another top adviser to Mr. Bush and a former Fed governor with an economics doctorate from Harvard.
Our panels consensus odds for the three were 8, 7 and 6 percent, respectively.
Their doctorates and affiliations with top universities may actually be downsides in an administration that has shown disdain for academic expertise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another intriguing possibility is Jerome Powell, known as Jay, a current Fed governor who served in the George H.W.
Bush Treasury Department and was a partner at the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm.
If Mr. Trump wanted a nominee who would probably maintain continuity with current Fed policy but was more conservative and business-minded than Ms. Yellen, Mr. Powell would be a below-the-radar option.
The panel rates his odds of ending up in the job at 5 percent.
A range of other names has emerged in various reports, including the F.D.I.C.
vice chairman Thomas Hoenig and John Allison, the former chief executive of BB&T bank, but our panel assigns them only long-shot odds.
The surprise factor

Mr. Trump loves a surprise.
In his search for a secretary of state, for example, he considered numerous prominent options before going with Exxons chief executive, Rex Tillerson, a bit of an out-of-left-field choice.
As he focuses on the choice for Fed chief, a similar pattern could reappear, and a less conventional choice could emerge.
Thats why the consensus of our panel is that theres a 10 percent chance the nominee is not on this list at all.
Then again, in another appointment that has some similarities to the Fed chairmanship, the selection of a Supreme Court nominee, Mr. Trump went with a respected conservative jurist in Neil Gorsuch.
As Mr. Trump starts focusing on the Fed chief decision in the months ahead, that may be the biggest decision of them all: whether to look at conventional qualifications, or go with a surprise.
Either way, with Ms. Yellens term coming to a close and a crowded calendar of Senate business that could stand in the way of a confirmation vote, the clock is ticking.
ABOUT OUR PANEL: The odds listed here are based on a survey of 11 savvy observers of the Fed and economic policy making who were asked to offer a probability on each of the potential nominees listed.
Their probabilities were to add to 100 percent, including the odds on rest of field, or another nominee emerging.
Those odds were then averaged to create a consensus probability of each selection.
The participants were: Shehriyar Antia of Macro Insight Group; Tony Fratto of Hamilton Place Strategies; Brian Gardner of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods; Krishna Guha of Evercore I.S.I.
; Roberto Perli of Cornerstone Macro; Douglas Rediker of International Capital Strategies; Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute; Phillip Swagel of the University of Maryland; Diane Swonk of DS Economics; Eric Winograd of AllianceBernstein; and Mark Zandi of Moodys Analytics.
Republican voters were roughly 40 points more likely than Republican elites to believe that controlling illegal immigration should be a top priority of American foreign policy (61 percent to 20 percent).
They were less likely to support the resettlement of Syrian refuges to the United States (27 percent to 71 percent).
And they were more likely to believe that immigrants and refuges entering the United States are a critical threat to the nation (55 percent to 16 percent).
Similar differences exist on issues of trade, globalization and Social Security.
These patterns help explain how Mr. Trump emerged as a viable candidate and eventual winner of the G.O.P.
nomination in 2016.
He went where Republican voters were, signaling this with his exhortations about building a wall and banning the entry of all Muslims, for example.
His candidacy was helped by the fact that other contenders wouldnt echo him to compete for those votes explicitly.
Photo

The survey patterns also suggest an upside for President Trump regarding his meetings and agreements with Democratic leaders.
He will be more in line with Republican elites on those topics  the type who routinely win support from a plurality of Republican voters.
Perhaps more important, protecting the children known as Dreamers (the beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program) is not seen by the public as the same as other immigration issues.
Most people  including many Republican voters  believe that once people have lived in the country for years, held a job, learned English, and are willing to pay back taxes, they should be able to stay.
Whether President Trumps recent moves are politically nave or shrewd turns on how worried he is about losing support among the Republican voters whom he courted specifically over illegal immigration, and whether these voters think that an agreement on DACA portends a broader softening on border control.
His base has stuck by him through many unimaginable episodes: Mr. Trump himself described their loyalty by saying that he could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldnt lose voters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He might be right.
Gabriel Lenz, a University of California, Berkeley, political scientist, has written a book about what happens among voters when leaders change positions on issues.
The book is titled Follow the Leader?
which gives you a hint of how things turn out.
On most issues, when candidates change their minds, supporters will mimic the change instead of abandoning the candidates.
As the book description says, In many cases, citizens first pick a politician and then adopt that politicians policy views.
But President Trump might also be wrong about this.
Using similar methods to Mr. Lenzs, Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California, Irvine, has conducted research on long-held predispositions, like views about people who are different from you.
Mr. Tesler found that voters are less likely to change those kinds of positions to follow their party leaders.
Candidates who change their minds on straightforward policy issues like the tax rate are likely to see their voters change their minds on those issues.
The same is not true for topics drawing on racial or ethnic attitudes.
Mr. Trump regularly changes his mind on all sorts of things, so if his voters dont come along, he could always return to his earlier position to court them.
He has done it before on immigration.
After the 2012 presidential election, Mr. Trump criticized the Republican Party for its loss and warned that the party would continue to lose presidential elections if it comes across as meanspirited and unwelcoming toward people of color.
He went on to compliment the Democrats on immigration  not on their policies, but on their tone.
They didnt have a policy, he said, but what they did have going for them is that they were not meanspirited about it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What they were is they were kind, he added.
Mr. Trumps tone three years later was much less kind than the party line in 2012.
He even criticized a Republican primary opponent, Jeb Bush, for saying that illegal border crossings were motivated by an act of love and commitment to family.
Now, hes testing the deep affection of his base once again by seemingly going back to a kinder approach on immigration.
The language of the bill provides them with a nearly unlimited range of policy options to use the money in the service of providing health care access, and no templates or fallback options.
Republican governors from 15 states have endorsed the bill, saying that adequately funded, flexible block grants to the states are the last, best hope to finally repeal and replace Obamacare.
States could use the money in any number of ways: state insurance programs, subsidies for private insurance, direct payments to health providers, high-risk pools or more.
They would be free to preserve the central consumer protections created by Obamacare, or to decide to allow insurers to limit benefits or charge higher prices to sicker customers than healthier ones.
The challenges would fall into two major categories.
First, states would need to make political choices about what they want their system to look like.
Next, they would need to submit applications, hire contractors and build new systems to run them.
Neither would be easy.
The bill would make health care an active, high-stakes political debate in all 50 states.
Under Obamacare, states had limited, rather binary policy choices, and even those were hard for state governments to make quickly.
States had to decide whether to run their own insurance marketplaces or to let the federal government do it for them.
After a Supreme Court ruling in 2012, they had a choice about whether to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more childless adults, or to stick with their prior programs.
Many states took longer than two years to answer even those comparatively simple questions.
Photo

Consider, for example, a state like Virginia, where a Democrat sits in the governors office but Republicans run the legislature.
Political consensus might prove elusive.
Fights could erupt even among more politically homogeneous states that support Obamacare.
One house of the California legislature recently voted to adopt a single-payer health care system.
The flexibility presented by the bill might open a heated debate about whether to adopt such an approach  or build something more like the Affordable Care Act, which is currently working well there.
There are also the challenges of state legislative calendars: Texas legislature, for example, is not scheduled to convene until 2019.
In some ways, a clean slate is much more complicated than very discrete decisions, said Larry Levitt, an executive vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health research group.
Mr. Levitt described the challenges facing states under this legislation as formidable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In contrast with an earlier bill from Mr. Cassidy, which offered a default option for uncertain states, there is no backup plan in the bill.
The Obamacare coverage programs would disappear everywhere in 2020, and any state unable to make a plan and submit an application would be ineligible for the new grant funding.
If a state succeeds in obtaining the funding but doesnt have a functioning new system on Jan. 1, 2020, consumers and markets would be thrown into chaos.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the bills block grant formula, Mississippi would be one of the biggest winners, eligible for substantially more health care money than it gets now.
Still, Mike Chaney, the states insurance commissioner, said that he was wary about the change.
Which evil do you like better, the one you know or the one you dont know?
Mr. Chaney said.
There are better ways to do this.
Once states choose a policy approach, they would need to bring it to life.
If they adopt a government-run approach, in which people can enroll in a single public health plan, they will need to develop the parameters for that program and put it out to bid.
If they select something similar to Obamacare  some sort of insurance market with income-based subsidies  they will need technology systems that allow them to verify peoples eligibility and income, and link state assistance with their insurance purchases.
Most states have lengthy contracting processes, in which they must request proposals and review multiple bids before signing up vendors.
Those deals would need to be in place before any software building begins.
The Obama administration had nearly four years to develop and build its enrollment system, HealthCare.gov, which barely functioned at the outset.
Peter Lee, the executive director of the California marketplace, Covered California, which is considered one of the countrys most successful, said that his system was barely finished in time, and he had the ability to call up local technology C.E.O.s for advice.
Andy Slavitt, who joined the Obama administration in 2014 to help rebuild the ailing HealthCare.gov, and is strongly opposed to the Republican bill, said it would be close to impossible for most states to build meaningful systems for providing health insurance on such a timeline.
This is a fantasy document developed without the benefit of talking to people who have actually had to operationalize these things before, he said.
Passage of the bill would set off a state rush for help from the limited group of contractors who have built big systems.
Mike Leavitt, a Republican who was Secretary of Health and Human Services under George W. Bush, and a governor of Utah, now runs a consulting firm that helps states build and manage exchanges.
He said he supported the general idea of giving states more power.
He was optimistic that some states could adopt out-of-the-box systems within two years, but probably not all.
There are different levels of complexity involved in states, and theres different levels of capacity, and theres different levels of experience, he said.
Many experts I spoke with were confident that most states would find some way to get the federal money, given how big the stakes were.
They were less sure about whether states would be able to use it in a way that would provide health coverage quickly to the people currently served by Obamacare.
The metaphor I think about is its saying, Were going to continue having a freeway full of fast-moving cars, but were going to remove the lane line and the speed limits and say we hope things work out,  Mr. Lee said.
The bill is structured as a sort of slow-motion repeal of the health laws main coverage programs.
Though the bill establishes the new state block grant program for a decade, all of the programs money expires after 2026.
That makes it different from the Obamacare overhaul bill passed by the House and a previous bill considered by the Senate, which would have made modifications and cuts to those programs, but preserved them in perpetuity.
The expiration of the health laws programs alone would probably mean that about 23 million fewer Americans would have health coverage, if compared with current law, according to an estimate the Congressional Budget Office made in regard to a previous repeal bill.
In the meantime, analysts say, the individual insurance markets could face enormous changes.
The legislation rolls back popular consumer protections in Obamacare, leaving each state to decide what minimum benefits must be covered or if customers with pre-existing illnesses should be protected from higher prices.
Not every state would drop these provisions, but several might.
One of the few Obamacare requirements that would remain is to allow children to stay on their parents insurance policies until age 26.
The budget office has said it does not have time to analyze the full effects of the bill before the Senate hopes to consider it, though it will provide some overall estimates of its effects on the federal deficit.
While a floor vote is not certain yet, Republicans are racing against the clock.
They are considering the bill under special budget rules that allow them to pass it with a simple majority of votes in the Senate.
That opportunity expires when the fiscal year ends at the end of Sept. 30.
The legislation also does little to stabilize the individual market from now until when the states would have to administer new health programs in 2020.
Insurers are sharply raising their prices for 2018 because lawmakers have not committed to funding the so-called cost-sharing subsidies that help insurers reduce deductibles and co-payments for low-income customers.
The bill does not fix this problem.
The legislation also eliminates the tax penalty that people who refuse coverage face  the individual mandate  which could discourage insurance enrollment among healthier people, who are critical to making the program work.
Insurance companies, some of which are only reluctantly staying in the market, may think twice about whether they need to remain while the alternatives are being worked out.
This mix of policies during the two-year transition period is similar to that imagined in earlier Republican bills.
The budget office said that such an environment would cause insurance prices to spike by 20 percent and about 15 million fewer Americans to have health coverage in 2019.
The block-grant formula would affect who is covered, by shifting money to states with the greatest number of low-income residents and away from states that have tried to provide more of their middle-income citizens with insurance.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recent analysis from the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that, by 2026, blue states with low numbers of uninsured residents, including New York and Massachusetts, would experience substantial reductions in federal funding.
Poorer states with high uninsured rates, like Texas and Mississippi, would see increases.
Many of the states that make out better financially could have obtained more Obamacare funding if they had chosen to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more low-income residents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The bills formula shifts around the current pot of money based on how many residents in each state are close to the poverty line, and also seeks to equalize payments, regardless of differences in the price of medical care in different regions.
It redistributes from higher income to lowest income, said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at Avalere Health.
It also redistributes among the states.
Like several earlier Republican health bills, this one would also change the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, which even before Obamacares expansion to poor adults in many states covered tens of millions of vulnerable Americans, including poor children, older Americans in nursing homes, adults with disabilities, and many pregnant women.
The program currently pays for 49 percent of all births and 64 percent of all nursing home residents bills.
The Graham-Cassidy bill moves funding for the Medicaid expansion population into the state block grant.
It would also convert the rest of the program from an open-ended commitment of paying a share of those peoples medical bills to a capped allotment for each person every year, set to grow by a fixed amount.
Independent analysts have said that the change would cause substantial shifts in financial responsibility to states, ultimately leading to reductions in benefits or in the number of Americans covered by Medicaid over time.
Most Americans receive insurance through their employers, and they, too, would probably see changes under this bill.
The legislation would eliminate Obamacares penalties for employers that decline to offer their workers affordable coverage.
The changes to benefit rules in some states could, through a complicated interplay of law and regulation, allow insurers to impose annual or lifetime limits on coverage for some people covered under employer plans.
More than half of plans had such limits before they were barred by the Affordable Care Act.
With all these changes in the Cassidy-Graham bill, the states might have considerable difficulty coming up with plans of their own by 2020, when the current system of covering their residents under Medicaid and the health laws insurance market would end.
Youve only got two years to figure all of this out, said Robert Laszewski, an industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. You need a comprehensive plan to phase Obamacare out to something that replaces it.
But the bill faces substantial challenges, both political and procedural.
Here are three reasons the effort may not succeed  and one very important reason it might.
Photo

1) Rand Paul is a hard no, which makes the math difficult.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has been making a big point of how he dislikes this bill and wont vote for it.
He said so in a series of tweets on Monday.
Then he held a news conference, saying he was immovable.
Without his vote, Senate leadership can afford to lose only one more.
Senator John McCain of Arizona has offered mixed messages on the bill, and suggested on Monday that he was not yet endorsing the bill but might eventually.
So far, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Senator Susan Collins of Maine have voted against every previous repeal attempt.
They even voted against opening debate on the process that permitted consideration of the Graham-Cassidy option.
If Mr. Paul holds firm, one of those two will need to change her mind.
Its possible that Mr. Paul will switch sides, but hes made it hard for himself to do so.
Ms. Murkowski and Ms. Collins have said nothing about their intentions.
But both raised objections about cuts to Medicaid in the earlier bill, and the new bill contains similar reductions.
The bills funding formula also appears to be unkind to both Alaska and Maine.
2) Theres a huge redistribution of money between states in the bills formula.
Losers include states with must-get senators.
The legislation sets up a complex formula for who gets what chunk of federal health care spending.
The formula is devised to equalize spending among states.
Currently, some states spend much more on Medicaid and the exchanges than others, either because they cover more people or because their systems are more generous or expensive.
That redistribution of money means that some states would come out as big winners, but others would absorb big reductions.
Mr. Cassidy has pointed out that more than a third of Affordable Care Act spending goes to four states: California, New York, Massachusetts and Maryland.
Thats roughly true.
These are populous states that expanded their Medicaid programs and tend to have costly health care systems.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But its not just big, blue states that would lose out.
According to estimates from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank, Alaska, Arizona, Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, for example, would end up with less money by the end of a decade.
Those states all contain Republican senators who have expressed some unease with earlier versions of Obamacare repeal, and they might wish to keep the bill off the floor to avoid a tough vote that would pit their broad political commitments to repeal against the more parochial concerns of their constituents.
(Similar concerns might also crop up in the House, where a final vote would eventually need to be held.)
Over the long term, every state would lose money under the proposal.
The big block grants would expire altogether in 2027.
3) The timing is tight, and the bill still has a long way to go, leaving little room for error.
Republicans are trying to pass the bill using a special budget procedure called reconciliation.
That process allows them to pass the bill without needing any Democratic support, but it comes with a number of rules.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the reconciliation process, the bill requires an estimate of costs from the Congressional Budget Office.
The office indicated that it would offer an initial assessment by early next week, but could not provide detailed estimates about what would happen to insurance coverage or premiums for several weeks.
The score could discourage some senators from supporting the bill; an incomplete assessment might discourage others.
The bill will also need to be reviewed by the Senates parliamentarian to ensure that its provisions adhere to rules for the budget process.
Some provisions, including restrictions on funding for abortion providers and the new option of work requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries, could run afoul of the rules and be scrubbed out in the Byrd Bath.
Any funding formula changes made to the bill to please reluctant senators could slow things down.
The parliamentarian has said that the Senate process needs to be wrapped up by the end of the month.
That means that the bill needs a score, a Byrd Bath rules review and a vote in the Senate by the end of Saturday, Sept. 30.
Then the legislation would need to go back to the House, where, after midnight of that day, it could not be changed again, only voted up or down.
1) But Obamacare repeal is a core promise for Republicans.
Republicans have been running on a promise to repeal Obamacare since 2010, and this bill appears to be their last chance to achieve that goal in the foreseeable future.
Though they could initiate a new budget process to try again with health care, the president and congressional leadership want to use the process instead to pass tax reform.
Many members of Congress (and their staffs) are weary of the recent health care fight, which has been bruising and has yielded little political upside.
But even for lawmakers with doubts about this particular piece of legislation, the prospect of a win on an issue dear to their base  not to mention getting President Trump to stop jeering that they are wasting time and couldnt get it done  could be a powerful motivating force.
To better understand one of the most heated American policy debates, we conducted a small tournament to explore the idea of what makes a great health care system, and which nation might do it best.
A panel of judges chose between Germany, Switzerland, France, Britain, Canada, Australia, the United States and Singapore.
We hope that readers will consider this to be merely the beginning of a discussion, not the end.
In fact, we look forward to writing articles in which we answer reader questions and ask other experts with different views to weigh in.
Wed like to hear from you.
Have you experienced a health care system outside the United States?
Tell us its best or worst feature.
And what advice would you give Americans?
Photo

The Bernie Sanders Medicare for All plan promises rapid, sweeping change to the American health care system, with the elimination of all private insurance and the creation of a costly new government insurance program that will cover everyone and nearly every medical service.
But deep in its back pages is a more modest fallback plan.
The bill, introduced this week, has attracted the endorsement of 15 Democratic senators, including several of the partys most ambitious liberals.
But many more Democrats this week said theyd like to pursue more limited steps to expand health insurance coverage and the governments role in the system.
It turns out that the Sanders bill also has provisions along those lines.
Taken together, the bill encapsulates much of the coming Democratic debate about the direction of health care.
In the statements of the bills co-sponsors, one can detect an openness to less transformational approaches to health reform.
This bill is aspirational, and Im hopeful that it can serve as a starting point for where we need to go as a country, Senator Al Franken of Minnesota wrote in a Facebook post.
He described the bill as a marker and one way to achieve universal coverage.
Parts of the Sanders bill help establish a road map for what some other strategies might look like.
The provisions are tucked into Title X of the bill and describe the four-year transition between current policy and the Sanders bills goal of a Medicare-for-all system.
During that interim, some younger Americans would be able to buy access to the traditional Medicare program, which is now mainly for those 65 and up.
The provisions would also establish an option for Americans to buy access to a Medicare-like government plan that would be sold on the Obamacare exchanges.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Medicare buy-in section comes from Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, who has introduced the provision as a stand-alone bill.
Notably, that 13-percentage-point advantage is biased by the fact that people more inclined to like Mr. Trump  older, white, heterosexual Christian men  happen to be overrepresented in manufacturing jobs.
The Trump manufacturing advantage shrinks to just three percentage points after taking into account demographic factors (race, age, gender, sexuality, religion and educational attainment) and becomes entirely insignificant after including attitudes about racism.
Trump voters are far more likely to disagree with statements like I am angry that racism exists and White people in the U.S. have certain advantages because of the color of their skin.
Manufacturing sector exposure is among the least important factors in predicting Trump support.
Trumps Small Edge With Manufacturing Workers After taking into account demographic variables, geographic variables and attitudes about race, much of the difference between manufacturing workers and those in other sectors disappears.
No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2 No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2

In fact, Gallup survey data from August shows that American adults who approve of the way Mr. Trump is handling the presidency are actually less worried than other Americans about how trade competition will affect their job.
Just 6 percent of employed adults who approve of Mr. Trump say they are worried about their job going overseas, compared with 11 percent who disapprove.
Nor is technology a big concern.
Only 9 percent of Trump supporters are worried that their job will become obsolete as a result of technology compared with 15 percent of those who dont approve of the president.
Likewise, exposure to trade competition played no apparent role in persuading Obama voters to switch to Mr. Trump.
People who voted for President Obama in 2012 accounted for about 12 percent of all Trump voters, but again, these voters were not disproportionately involved in the manufacturing sector, either nationally or in swing states.
Around 8.7 percent of Trump voters who also voted for Mr. Obama in 2012 work in manufacturing, compared with 9.5 percent of Trump voters who voted for Mitt Romney.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exposure to trade is even less important for far-right voters in Europe than it is for Trump voters.
Using data from the European Social Survey, I find that working in manufacturing raises the probability of voting for a far-right party in the most recent election by less than one percentage point, using no demographic control variables.
Adding the same controls as above  religion, race, age, education, gender  eliminates even that small effect.
As in the United States, European far-right voters were far more likely to express concerns about immigration and race, saying, for example, that they are discriminated against, or that being white should be an important factor in determining whether foreigners are allowed to migrate.
By contrast, voters reporting positive interactions with people from other races were much less likely to be far-right voters.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

None of this is to say that economics is unimportant to nationalist voting.
Both Trump voters and European far-right voters are distinguished by their strong dissatisfaction with the present state of the national economy, even controlling for demographic factors and attitudes on race and immigration.
Likewise, both groups are more likely to report that their family income situation is either difficult (for European far-right voters) or has gotten worse in the last four years (for Trump voters), even though family income is no lower for either group of voters.
In fact, its significantly higher for the average Trump voter.
This is consistent with previous Gallup research showing that Trump supporters seem to need a much larger financial cushion than those who view him unfavorably in order to feel good about their finances, perhaps because of their fears over the future of the country.
Trumps Advantage With People Who Said the Economy Was Getting Worse Voters who said the national economy had gotten worse or much worse over the past year were much more likely to vote for Mr. Trump, even after adjusting for demographic and other variables.
No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26 No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26

Even if nationalist voters are not direct victims of trade, many might still oppose it out of a belief  however mistaken  that cooperation with foreigners must come at the expense of their fellow citizens.
While this view has historically been advanced by anticapitalist academics, it has seen new life among white nationalists on the right.
Voters on the far right and left have many valid grievances about the failure of conventional parties to create a fair, vibrant economy.
I have written a report published by Gallup and the U.S. Council on Competitiveness that elite, domestically focused business interests have set up barriers to competition, driving up their own incomes and the prices paid by consumers and taxpayers.
The anti-trade story may be diverting attention from those and other economic problems that seem to have helped nationalist candidates gain support from people who might not otherwise gravitate toward chauvinistic views.
That doesnt mean they have the same party loyalty of older left-of-center generations.
Theyre more likely to register as independent.
The young were nearly three times as likely as voters over 30 to vote for a third-party candidate last November.
About one in 10 voted for the Green Party candidate, Jill Stein, or the Libertarian candidate, Gary Johnson, or another candidate or write-in option.
This could be a reflection of the fact that many young Americans had their first glimpse of national politics during the hotly contested ideological battle between Bernie Sanders and Mrs. Clinton in the 2016 Democratic primary election.
Young millennials  and Im one of them  have experienced Democratic Party infighting practically since their political life began.
The infighting has continued in recent months: Should Democrats allow anti-abortion candidates?
Is single-payer insurance the one true path forward for health care?
Should the party make its main priority courting working-class whites?
As important as it would be for Democrats to unite and to keep left-of-center voters from straying, it would be even more helpful to win Republican converts.
A recent report from Pew Research Center found that 23 percent of young Americans who identified as Republican or independent-leaning-Republican switched to identifying as Democrat or independent-leaning-Democrat from 2015 to 2017.
The same report estimated that just 9 percent of young Democrats or those who lean Democratic switched to the G.O.P.
My analysis of survey data from the 2010-2014 C.C.E.S.
panel survey finds that these recent levels of Republican-to-Democrat switching are around 11 percentage points higher than past levels.
The 2016 C.C.E.S.
data corroborates this story, showing that about 75 percent of young Republicans voted for Donald J. Trump  about 20 points lower than the level of Republican voters older than 30.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That all sounds promising for Democrats.
But you might have noticed something in November 2016: This trend wasnt enough to produce a victory for Mrs. Clinton.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The turnout among those 18 to 29 was just 43 percent in 2016, compared with 60 percent for the entire electorate.
And in recent midterm elections, they have voted at rates no higher than 21 percent, which is less than the 36 percent overall average.
If those turnout patterns hold true in the 2018 midterms, young millennials will cast a measly 10 percent of total ballots.
So even if the Democrats do add 25 percent of young Republicans to their ranks, it will amount only to roughly 3 percent of the electorate in 2018.
What may be more important than the level at which young Republicans are switching parties are their reasons for doing so.
The Pew Research Center report found that 84 percent of the Republicans-turned-Democrats (regardless of age) disapproved of President Trump.
Fifty-four percent strongly disapproved.
A recent poll conducted by Gallup found approval of Mr. Trump among millennials to be near 23 percent.
This would equate to a decline of 10 percentage points since Inauguration Day, slightly outpacing the nine-point decline among all Americans.
Not only is the president an unpopular figure with young Americans, but he has been also been growing more unpopular over time.
Could President Trump be turning away the young in such a way that it could cause the Republican Party long-lasting harm?
Millennials tend to have more fluid partisanship, maybe because they havent cemented political attachments yet.
But theres evidence that your early political years are your most formative: Once you settle on a party, you tend to stick with it.
Another hope for Democrats is that the young have been activated by the Trump presidency, and there is some evidence of this.
They could match the rise in turnout in the highly publicized special election in Georgias Sixth Congressional District in the spring.
Voters 18 to 29 represented 10.6 percent of the electorate in that contest, up from 6 percent in the 2014 midterms.
(The Democrat, Jon Ossoff, still lost.)
Photo

Photo

Across the Atlantic, too, there are clues that young people are more politically active, after being stunned by the Brexit vote.
Sixty-four percent of voters 18 to 24 turned out in the 2017 British elections, an increase of 16 percentage points since the most recent contest in 2015.
Whats more, that age group supported the leader of the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn, a socialist, by 20 points more than it did in 2015.
But Democrats still shouldnt count on the young to rescue them in 2018 or 2020.
The 2020 election is supposed to be the first presidential race in which millennials outnumber baby boomers.
The 2016 turnout numbers, however, offer a stark reminder: Boomers, who lean Republican, turned out to vote at a rate 23 percentage points higher than that of millennials.
And in the 2014 midterms, they outnumbered the millennial electorate by a factor of three.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Unless that changes, boomers, though they may be outnumbered by millennials, may continue to decide their future.
Mr. Sanders says that the transition to the Medicare program would achieve several goals: It would ensure universal coverage, it would improve the affordability of health care for many Americans and it would save the country money.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whether it can achieve that third goal depends a great deal on how the new Medicare-for-all system would be managed, and the Sanders plan leaves a lot of those details unclear for now.
Covering everyone would not, by itself, make the health care system in the United States as inexpensive as those of other nations with universal health care systems.
That sort of cost control would require its own set of policies and difficult choices.
In his news conference introducing the bill on Wednesday, Mr. Sanders focused his ire on insurance and drug companies, two profitable sectors of the health care system.
But insurance and drug company profits dont make up the bulk of Americas health care spending.
Single-payer advocates argue that the simplicity of a single, government payer would reduce paperwork and office staff, and that is almost certainly true.
But most spending in the health care system is on medical care from doctors and hospitals  and squeezing savings there may be harder.
To get savings from those areas might require reducing doctors pay or hospitals numbers of medical professionals.
It could require eliminating some medical treatments that are currently offered.
Even cutting spending on pharmaceuticals would have ripple effects, potentially limiting access to new or expensive treatments, or reducing investment in new technologies.
The bill specifies that Medicare would be run with an annual budget, leaving government officials to decide how to make the countrys medical spending conform to such totals every year.
It also says that the government should evaluate the effectiveness of different medical treatments.
Such a system has precedent: Several countries, including Canada and Britain, establish health care budgets that must be met and assess the value of medical services to determine what should be covered.
But such budgets and limits have been politically toxic in the United States, where politicians have been reluctant to say that the government should restrict care.
The Affordable Care Act established a theoretical limit on spending per Medicare beneficiary, establishing a board that would reduce costs if a cap were met.
But that board, assailed as a death panel, has never been called upon to make such choices, for no members have ever been nominated to it.
Mr. Sanders sells the bill as a broad expansion of care, by ensuring that all Americans have similar, broad benefits and little financial exposure to medical bills.
At Wednesdays event, he stood flanked by several prominent Democratic co-sponsors and medical providers who offered testimonials about how a Medicare-for-all plan would improve access to needed health care.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The plan increases the generosity of Medicare substantially.
It adds coverage for dentistry, optometry and audiology care, not part of the traditional program.
It also eliminates premiums, deductibles and most co-payments for medical care, which are significant costs for many people.
The size of the Medicare budget is also unspecified.
In part, thats because the Sanders bill does not establish a funding mechanism for its planned overhauls.
In a separate white paper, Mr. Sanderss office spells out some possible revenue sources, including increases to payroll taxes, and to high-end income taxes and some corporate taxes.
But those funding streams, politically risky in their own right, would need to be debated and measured before the realistic scale of the Medicare-for-all budget would be clear.
This different Medicare would face the push and pull of expanded reach and fixed means: one that would tend to increase the cost to the government for care, and one devised to reduce it.
Just what sort of Medicare program results would depend on the government that runs it.
Theres an argument to be made that we should cut back on his activities or make him go to bed earlier so that he gets more sleep.
Teens arent wired for that, though.
They want to go to bed later and sleep later.
Its not the activities that prevent them from getting enough sleep  its the school start times that require them to wake up so early.
More than 90 percent of high schools and more than 80 percent of middle schools start before 8:30 a.m.
Some argue that delaying school start times would just cause teenagers to stay up later.
Research doesnt support that idea.
A systematic review published a year ago examined how school start delays affect students sleep and other outcomes.
Six studies, two of which were randomized controlled trials, showed that delaying the start of school from 25 to 60 minutes corresponded with increased sleep time of 25 to 77 minutes per week night.
In other words, when students were allowed to sleep later in the morning, they still went to bed at the same time, and got more sleep.
Photo

There are costs to pushing back the start times of schools, of course.
Our local school system, like many others, uses the same buses for elementary, middle and high school.
Not wanting to start elementary school too early, it starts high school earlier to save money on transportation.
Other costs to delaying start times come after school, when later school end times result in later after-school activities.
These can interfere with parents work schedules and run into evening hours, when it gets dark and additional lighting might be necessary.
A Brookings Institution policy brief investigated the trade-offs between costs and benefits of pushing back the start times of high school in 2011.
It estimated that increased transportation costs would most likely be about $150 per student per year.
But more sleep has been shown to lead to higher academic achievement.
They found that the added academic benefit of later start times would be equivalent to about two additional months of schooling, which they calculated would add about $17,500 to a students earnings over the course of a lifetime.
Thus, the benefits outweighed the costs.
This was a reasonably simple analysis, though, and it did not persuade many schools to change.
A recent analysis by the RAND Corporation goes much further.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Marco Hafner, Martin Stepanek and Wendy Troxel conducted analyses to determine the economic implication of a universal shift of middle and high school start times to 8:30 a.m. at the earliest.
This study was stronger than the Brookings one in a number of ways.
It examined each state individually, because moving to 8:30 would be a bigger change for some than for others.
It also looked at changes year by year to see how costs and benefits accrued over time.
It examined downstream effects, like car accidents, which can affect lifetime productivity.
And it considered multiplier effects, as changes to the lives of individual students might affect others over time.
They found that delaying school start times to 8:30 or later would contribute $83 billion to the economy within a decade.
The gains were seen through decreased car crash mortality and increased student lifetime earnings.
Since it would take at least a year for any students affected by changes in start times to enter the labor market, there would be no gains in the first year.
Costs, however, would accrue immediately.
These included about $150 per student per year in transportation costs and $110,000 per school costs in upfront infrastructure upgrades.
Even so, by the second year, the benefits outweighed the costs.
By 10 years, the benefits were almost double the costs; by 15 years, they were almost triple.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wed be remiss if we didnt acknowledge other potential costs not included in this calculation, including parental difficulty in adapting to later school start times.
But even in a model where the per-student, per-year cost was increased to $500, which would compensate most parents for delays, and where the upfront per school cost was increased to $330,000, the economic benefits to society would still outweigh the costs in the long run.
Further, its important to understand that these benefits may actually be underestimates.
The researchers were careful to model only outcomes for which they had empirical data from sleep duration, such as car crashes and academic performance.
They didnt model other real, but quantifiably unknown, benefits, like improvements in rates of depression, suicide and obesity, or the overall effects on health.
Some schools are beginning to take this seriously, but not enough.
When it comes to start times, the growing evidence shows that forcing adolescents to get up so early isnt just a bad health decision; its a bad economic one, too.
But this is a weak foundation on which to base a conclusion that Medicaid is driving the opioid epidemic.
Responding to these facts when they were first noted, a Department of Health and Human Services statement said, Correlation does not necessarily prove causation, and additional research is required before any conclusions can be made.
In a post on the Health Affairs blog, Andrew Goodman-Bacon, an economist at Vanderbilt, and Emma Sandoe, a Ph.D. student in health policy and political analysis at Harvard, recommend that, to understand the opioid epidemic and Medicaids role better, we should look much further back than 2013.
For example, OxyContin prescriptions for noncancer pain grew by a factor of almost 10 between 1997 and 2002, long before the A.C.A.
was signed into law.
Drug-related mortality rates doubled between 1999 and 2013, the year before most states expanded Medicaid.
Further, while it is true that drug-related deaths have grown more rapidly in expansion states than in other states, that more rapid growth started in 2010, before the A.C.A.
expansion.
This suggests that causes other than Medicaid are more likely.
Given the timing of these findings, there is little evidence to support the claim that Medicaid expansion caused the increase in opioid-related deaths, Ms. Sandoe said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Yes, Medicaid could still be playing a role, but as with all correlations, its important to consider both directions of causality.
Its possible that states experiencing larger growth in drug deaths might have been more eager to expand Medicaid programs.
After all, Medicaid also provides financial support for drug abuse treatment.
One study found that prescriptions for medications that treat opioid addiction increased by 43 percent in Medicaid expansion states, relative to states that did not expand their programs.
When Gov.
John Kasich, a Republican, talks about why hes happy that Ohio expanded the Medicaid program, he often cites the opioid crisis in his state.
Craig Garthwaite, a Republican labor economist of Northwestern Universitys Kellogg School of Management, said: Its not that there isnt a single case of an individual insured by Medicaid developing an opioid habit or illicitly obtaining drugs.
But the evidence to date doesnt suggest that this is the net effect.
Another way to test the Medicaid-opioid connection is to examine a dose response.
States with higher levels of uninsurance saw greater coverage gains through Medicaid.
If more Medicaid causes more opioid death, then states that added more Medicaid beneficiaries should see greater increases than states with smaller coverage expansions.
But Mr. Goodman-Bacon and Ms. Sandoe show that the opposite holds.
Counties in states with historically higher levels of uninsurance (and therefore greater subsequent growth in Medicaid) had lower growth in drug-related death rates from 2010 to 2015.
This relationship holds within expansion and nonexpansion states separately.
Or course, drug-related deaths include those from prescription opioids as well as those from black-market drugs (like heroin and fentanyl).
Medicaid directly enhances access only to the former.
This makes it hard to identify the role of Medicaid in the opioid crisis definitively, which is all the more reason to be cautious about suggesting the program is fueling it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The really sad thing here is that these numerical arguments have the veneer of seriousness, and as a result, they can drive really bad policy, Mr. Garthwaite said.
Providing health care through insurance means providing access to both its benefits and harms.
No one seems concerned that the increased access to health care that private insurance provides might lead more people to take opioids  only that Medicaid could.
Its also interesting to note that no one makes assertions that increased coverage, even increased Medicaid coverage, probably leads to more deaths by medical errors.
We should not look at harms in isolation.
Even if Medicaid does enhance access to prescription opioids, thereby playing a role in their misuse, that is far from the only thing the program does.
Medicaid provides many other benefits, about which weve written, including increased access to substance use disorder treatment.
To use a theoretical Medicaid-opioid connection (for which the evidence is weak anyway) to justify scaling back Medicaid ignores the larger picture  that it is a crucial aspect of our safety net, providing access to health care and financial protection that many low-income Americans could not otherwise obtain.
If you see more and more members of Congress saying, I support single-payer, it is because now they know it is not as politically risky as it used to be, Mr. Sanders said in an interview.
Youre not being an outcast.
Youre not being a fringe member of Congress.
If polling shows that a strong majority of Democrats support single-payer, what is the problem with coming on board?
But the road to single payer may be treacherous.
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has described the Affordable Care Act as part of a slippery slope to government-run health care.
Anthony Wright, the executive director of Health Access California, a consumer advocacy group that favors single-payer, says the journey to such a system is instead more like climbing a mountain.
We may decide the view is fine here, he said.
And it will be tough to get to the summit.
The talking points about single-payer are clear and appealing to many progressives.
They promise a system that covers everyone and is cheaper, simpler and less profit-oriented.
But the details matter.
While it is true, as advocates often mention, that much of the world has some form of universal health care, there is wide variation in how those systems work.
Nearly any single-payer plan would require substantial disruptions in the current health care system, upending the insurance arrangements of the 156 million Americans who get their coverage from work, changing the way doctors, hospitals and drug companies are paid, and shifting more health care spending onto the government ledger.
Such a proposal would reshuffle the winners and losers in our current system.
Photo

Democrats are overwhelmingly for something that sounds like an all-government or significantly government-run system, said Robert Blendon, a health policy professor at Harvard who studies public opinion.
At this stage, most people that are saying that dont know what the it is.
The Republican slogan repeal and replace had some popularity, too, particularly with the Republican base.
The United States health care system is expensive and full of dysfunctions, making it susceptible to anti-establishment critiques.
But when Republicans took control of the government this year, they found themselves unable to coalesce around a single health care plan.
Various options, which government analysts said would have resulted in at least 20 million fewer Americans with health insurance, were deeply unpopular with the public.
Repeal and replace went from a very popular idea, getting rid of Obamacare, to a real proposal with winners and losers and trade-offs, said Drew Altman, the president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health policy research group.
Mr. Altman said that Democrats were benefiting from that shift now, as the defenders of the status quo.
A splashy new health care proposal, with its own winners and losers and trade-offs, could reverse that political momentum, he said.
If they immediately switch the focus to their own sweeping health care plan, they could lose that opportunity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Still, the recent momentum suggests that single-payer may become a standard position for a certain type of liberal candidate.
Joe Trippi, a Democratic campaign strategist, compared the issue to earlier opposition to the Iraq war.
Its not proven yet that you could take the country there, but I think Democrats would respond more to a nominee who wants to take the country there than one who is half-loafing it, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For now, the top Democrats in Congress have yet to embrace a single-payer bill.
Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, has emphasized the need to shore up the Affordable Care Act.
Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader, said that single-payer was one of many options under study.
Their hesitance may reflect the challenging politics of the issue, despite the recent increase in support.
The polls suggest that many voters may be more taken with the single-payer slogan than with the nuts and bolts.
A recent survey by Kaiser found that initial support of 55 percent for single-payer dropped by about a third when supporters were told of criticisms that it might increase their taxes, give the government too much control over health care or eliminate the Affordable Care Act.
Each of those critiques would probably be made prominently by Republican opponents of the policy.
Leaders of liberal states saw support for the idea erode as they confronted those political realities.
In Vermont, the framework of a single-payer system passed the state legislature in 2011, only to be abandoned after experts estimated the system would require the state to double its tax revenue.
A single-payer referendum in Colorado was voted down last year, 79 percent to 21 percent.
And a recent California single-payer bill was shelved after steep cost projections, though a commission is continuing to explore options.
Those results have some advocates of universal coverage worried that a push for single-payer could undermine efforts to make health coverage more expansive through smaller steps.
Incrementalism is not a four-letter word, said Ron Pollack, the chairman emeritus of Families USA, a group that pushed hard for the Affordable Care Act, who outlined his views in a recent essay on Vox.com.
Single-payer advocates say that support will build as lawmakers engage in more serious discussion and policy making.
Mr. Sanderss bill is expected to be more comprehensive than past proposals.
This thing is getting really serious, said Mr. Conyers, who has watched support for his bill build over time.
People in the Senate are saying thoughtful things and are looking at it from more than a philosophical or theoretical point of view  theyre looking at how we get it right here in America as soon as possible.
But some advocates who have worked in the trenches are less sanguine.
Andy Slavitt, who ran the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the Obama administration, has thrown himself into health care advocacy since the election.
But he worries that the quick shift among his peers on single-payer could backfire.
That could be the Democrats version of the thing that they promised to do for seven years and couldnt do, he said.
