(Editors Note: Please be advised that paragraph seven contains language which some readers may find offensive.)
By James Oliphant and Valerie Volcovici

SOMERSET, N.J.,/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - NFL teams staged a show of solidarity with protesting players before Sundays games by kneeling, linking arms or staying off the field during the U.S. national anthem, defying President Donald Trumps call for owners to fire those who refuse to stand.
Along the sidelines of National Football League games across the country and in London, coaches, support staff and even some owners joined team members in a silent response to Trumps weekend denunciation of players who kneel during the anthem as unpatriotic.
In a gesture initiated last season by then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, several NFL players have routinely taken one knee during the playing of the anthem.
It is intended to call attention to what the protesting players see as a pattern of racism in the treatment of African-Americans by U.S. police.
In Detroit, several members of the Lions knelt while singer Rico Lavelle dropped to one knee and pumped a fist in the air at the end of his performance of the Star-Spangled Banner.
In Philadelphia, city police officers joined with Eagles and New York Giants players and Eagles team owner Jeffrey Lurie to link arms during the anthem in a sign of solidarity.
While some Americans are sympathetic to the protesters, others see the refusal to stand as a sign of disrespect for the flag and for members of the military who have sacrificed or died in defending the country.
Trump rekindled the controversy on Friday at an Alabama political rally in which he suggested any protesting player was a son of a bitch and urged owners to dismiss them on the spot, reprising his reality-show catch phrase: Youre fired.
The theme could play well with Trumps conservative base at a time when the Republican president is grappling with North Koreas nuclear threats, an investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and a healthcare struggle in Congress.
POLITICAL DIVISIONS

Related Coverage Trump presses NFL over protest dispute, praises NASCAR

But Trumps stance appeared to galvanize players, teams and the league to assert what they see as a right to express their political convictions freely.
It also highlighted the deep political rift that Trumps election has exposed across many segments of American society.
New England Patriots Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Kraft, who has dined with Trump and whom the president considers a friend, criticized Trump on Sunday and defended players right to protest.
I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the president on Friday, Kraft said in a statement.
He said players had a right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner they feel is most impactful.
Despite a strong rebuke of his remarks by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and the players union on Saturday, the president did not back down on Sunday, calling on fans to boycott the league if it would not discipline protesting players.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast, Trump wrote on Twitter.
Fire or suspend!
In another tweet, Trump, who spent the weekend at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, said that the league should back fans who are upset about the protests.
NFL Football - Jacksonville Jaguars vs Baltimore Ravens - NFL International Series - Wembley Stadium, London, Britain - September 24, 2017 Jacksonville Jaguars players kneel during the U.S. national anthem before the match Action Images via Reuters/Andrew Boyers

In Chicago, Trumps feud was the main topic of conversation at the South Loop Club sports bar.
This is a First Amendment issue and the president is supposed to uphold that right, said Sam Cunningham, 55, who was watching the Pittsburgh-Chicago game with his wife.
He should know better than anyone that to fire someone because of their opinion is not right.
One patron at a sports bar in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Trump supporter Tim Kull, 67, said: Do it on your time, not when you are wearing that uniform.
GESTURE BY TOM BRADY

In Foxboro, Massachusetts, more than a dozen players and coaches on the Super Bowl champion Patriots knelt or linked arms, including quarterback Tom Brady, whom Trump name-dropped as a friend on the campaign trail.
Brady placed one hand on his chest and used the other to link arms with his teammates.
Slideshow (29 Images)

Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shad Khan linked arms with team players in solidarity at the game against the Baltimore Ravens in Londons Wembley Stadium.
Khan donated $1 million to the Trump inauguration fund.
Robert McNair, chairman of the Houston Texans, said Trumps comments were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now.
McNair also donated $1 million to Trump.
Other teams decided to stay off the field during the anthem.
Before the Seattle Seahawks game against the Tennessee Titans in Nashville, neither team came out until after the pre-game ceremony.
Except for a single player, the Pittsburgh Steelers remained off the field in Chicago before their game against the Bears to avoid playing politics, head coach Mike Tomlin said.
The team was roundly booed by the home crowd when it finally emerged.
The demonstrations along the sidelines ahead of Sundays early game triggered a fresh round of tweets by the president.
Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
he wrote.
NBA PLAYERS RESPOND

National Basketball Association players also struck back against comments by the president on Saturday after Trump clashed with one of the biggest stars in the league, Stephen Curry.
Then on Saturday evening, Oakland As rookie Bruce Maxwell became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel for the national anthem in protest.
In a Twitter message, Trump rescinded a White House invitation to Curry, who had said he would vote against the planned visit by the NBA champion Golden State Warriors.
Curry told a news conference in Oakland, California: Its beneath the leader of a country to go that route.
In a tweet on Sunday, Trump said the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey team, which won the Stanley Cup, accepted his invitation to the White House.
Great team!
he wrote.
FILE PHOTO: The display model of a AM-RB 001 ahead of the 2017 Canadian International Autoshow where Aston Martin and Red Bull Racing reveal the $3 million Aston Martin AM-RB 001 hypercar in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, February 15, 2017.
REUTERS/Peter Power

LONDON (Reuters) - Aston Martin will become Red Bulls Formula One title partner next season in a move that will raise the British marques track profile against commercial sportscar rivals Ferrari and McLaren.
The former world champions will be known officially as Aston Martin Red Bull Racing.
Title partnership is the next logical step for our innovation partnership with Red Bull Racing, Aston Martin president and chief executive Andy Palmer said in a statement on Monday.
We are enjoying the global brand awareness that a revitalised Formula One provides.
Red Bull and Aston Martin, the glamorous 104-year-old marque whose road cars have become associated with fictional British secret agent James Bond, have an existing technical relationship.
Red Bull designer Adrian Newey, whose cars won four successive drivers and constructors titles between 2010-13, has been heavily involved in Aston Martins Valkyrie hypercar which will be delivered to customers in 2019.
The team, whose cars currently carry some Aston Martin branding, are powered by Renault engines branded as Tag Heuer.
Australian Daniel Ricciardo and Dutch teenager Max Verstappen are the current drivers.
The sports engine regulations are changing after 2020, with calls for a simpler and cheaper power unit than the current 1.6 liter V6 turbo hybrid and that could be of interest to Aston Martin.
We are not about to enter an engine war with no restrictions in cost or dynamometer (testing) hours but we believe that if the FIA can create the right environment we would be interested in getting involved, Palmer said.
Both parties are to set up a new advanced performance center at the teams Milton Keynes factory in central England, working on road car and Formula One technology.
Red Bull said 110 new jobs would be created, with the center housing Aston Martin design and engineering staff working on future sports cars from the two companies.
The teams previous title partner from 2013 to 2015 was Nissan-owned luxury car brand Infiniti, now with Renault.
Aston Martin is owned mainly by Kuwaiti and Italian investors, with Mercedes-Benz owner Daimler holding a five percent stake, and is seeking to boost its share of U.S. markets.
It reported its first half-yearly profit in almost a decade last month and expects full-year volumes to rise by around a third to roughly 5,000 cars.
FILE PHOTO: Sep 23, 2017; Atlanta, GA, USA; Hideki Matsuyama plays his shot from the fourth tee during the third round of the Tour Championship golf tournament at East Lake Golf Club.
Mandatory Credit: Butch Dill-USA TODAY Sports

(Reuters) - The International team has little choice but to embrace the role of underdog as it takes on a formidable United States side at the Presidents Cup starting on Thursday.
On paper, the Americans should be far too strong at Liberty National in New Jersey for a global team lacking the depth of its opponent.
The American players have an average world ranking of 15.5, compared to 31.5 for the Internationals, a team comprised of players from outside of Europe and the United States.
All 12 American players are ranked in the top 30 globally, led by world number one and two Dustin Johnson and Jordan Spieth.
The International team, an eclectic mix of players, has only two ranked in the top 10, Japanese number three Hideki Matsuyama and Australian number seven Jason Day.
I think the International side needs a spark, said former PGA Tour player Brandel Chamblee, now a Golf Channel analyst.
They need to find something that makes them collectively better than they are individually.
On paper the U.S. side is so demonstrably better in every single facet.
The world ranking, theyre more than twice as good.
Theyre twice the ball-strikers the International side is, and by far more than twice the putters.
So they (the Internationals) have a lot of hurdles.
Add the U.S. advantage of being the host country and one can make the case for a potential blowout.
FILE PHOTO: Sep 24, 2017; Atlanta, GA, USA; Jason Day looks over the 15th green during the final round of the Tour Championship golf tournament at East Lake Golf Club.
Mandatory Credit: Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports

The Americans are 9-1-1 since the event was created in 1994, including a perfect 6-0-0 at home.
Only two of those six competitions were close, the Americans holding a cumulative 31-point advantage -- 114 1/2 - 83 1/2.
So what can the Internationals do?
Captain Nick Price, who returns this year for his third time at the helm, made one step in the right direction when he successfully lobbied the PGA Tour two years ago to reduce the number of matches from 34 to 30 for the event in South Korea.
This allowed the International team to hide its weaker bench, and the move almost worked, with the Americans squeaking home by one point.
If I were Nick Price Id be talking about what a year this has been in terms of upsets, said Chamblee, citing Donald Trumps victory in the U.S. presidential election, Britains vote to leave the European Union, and South Korean Kim Si-woos victory at the Players Championship.
Marc Leishman could be the spark this International side needs, continued Chamblee, referring to the Australian who won the BMW Championship a week ago.
Australian and South Africans have traditionally comprised the backbone of the team, and this year will be no exception, with the two countries having three players each in the 12-man line-up, along with one player from Japan, South Korea, India, Canada, Argentina and Venezuela.
But the Internationals have not been able to post the victories that the Europeans routinely have over their American rivals in the Ryder Cup.
The freedom with which the U.S. team has played the Presidents Cup compared to the Ryder Cup has been glaring to me, said former world number one David Duval, who played on three U.S. Presidents Cup teams.
Added Chamblee: On paper, this might be one of the best teams ever assembled in terms of talent.
Sep 21, 2017; London, England, United Kingdom; General overall view of neon NFL Shield logo at Niketown London prior to the NFL International Series game between the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars.
Mandatory Credit: Kirby Lee-USA TODAY Sports

NEW YORK (Reuters) - NBCs ratings for the National Football League game between the Oakland Raiders and the Washington Redskins on Sunday night were slightly down from a popular week three match-up last season, although it was not known if this was linked to a controversy over NFL player protests during the U.S. national anthem.
NBC said 11.6 percent of households tuned into the game, down from 12.9 percent who viewed the Chicago Bears and Dallas Cowboys in last seasons week three.
The Dallas Cowboys are traditionally a popular draw for football fans.
NBC said 20 percent of households watching TV at the time viewed the game, down from 21 percent for last years Bears and Cowboys game.
This weeks game also posted lower initial ratings than weeks one and two, NBC said.
NFL teams staged a show of solidarity with protesting players before Sundays games by kneeling, linking arms or staying off the field during the national anthem, defying President Donald Trumps call for team owners to fire those who refuse to stand.
NBCs ratings numbers do not include digital and live streaming.
CBS said its overall game coverage on Sunday averaged 11.9 percent of households that tuned in, up 4 percent from last years week three coverage.
Final viewership data is expected later on Monday.
In a gesture initiated last season by then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, several NFL players have routinely taken one knee during the playing of the anthem.
It is intended to call attention to what the protesting players see as a pattern of racism against African-Americans by police, but Trump has strongly criticized the action.
At a political rally on Friday, he suggested any protesting player was a son of a bitch and urged team owners to dismiss them on the spot.
Trump has also charged that NFL games have been losing fans, saying in a Twitter post on Sunday that attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.
Sep 24, 2017; Atlanta, GA, USA; Justin Thomas reacts to his putt on the 15th green during the final round of the Tour Championship golf tournament at East Lake Golf Club.
Mandatory Credit: Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports

(Reuters) - American Justin Thomas lost the battle but won the war, earning the $10 million bonus as FedExCup champion on Sunday despite falling short of the tournament victory at the season-ending Tour Championship.
Finishing second behind surprise winner Xander Schauffele at East Lake in Atlanta, 24-year-old Thomas overtook countryman Jordan Spieth to top the standings for the PGA Tours season-long points race.
Thomas, who won five times this season and claimed his first major at the PGA Championship, carded a closing 66 to lose by a stroke to rookie Schauffele, who birdied the final hole for a 68 and finished at 12-under-par 268.
Its a really weird day, getting asked what its like to win the FedExCup because as a competitor youre mad you didnt win the tournament, Thomas said in a greenside presentation.
What an unbelievable honor this is, the fact that you can win something over the course of an entire year.
I played really well all season and it was nice to play well in some playoff events finally and have it all pay off.
It was a gruelling day for sure and nerve-racking.
Xander is a deserving champion (of the Tour Championship) and Im glad to walk away with this (FedExCup).
Thomas started the 2016-17 season last October with a victory on the other side of the world in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, before adding two wins in Hawaii, the PGA Championship in North Carolina and the Dell Technologies Championship in Massachusetts.
Sep 24, 2017; Atlanta, GA, USA; Justin Thomas plays his shot from the ninth tee during the final round of the Tour Championship golf tournament at East Lake Golf Club.
Mandatory Credit: Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports

He credited his hot form to an improved short game, the result, he said, of hard work.
Thomas also won the PGA of America Player of the Year, which is based on a points system for tournament wins, official prize-money and scoring averages.
Spieth, the 2015 FedExCup champion, had a chance to lift the trophy for the second time in three years, but a tie for seventh at East Lake was not enough to stave off Thomas.
Slideshow (2 Images)

He finished second in the standings, collecting a $3 million consolation prize, while Schauffele jumped to third and picked up a $2 million bonus on top of his Tour Championship prize money of $1,575,000.
This was my worst putting week of the year, unfortunately, but what a great season it was, said Spieth, who won three times including his third major title at the British Open.
(Thomas) obviously is very well deserved to win the FedExCup this year.
It is rightfully so given his season.
The progression that he has made this year into becoming such a tremendous closer has been phenomenal to watch.
Thomas and Spieth will team up on the United States team against an underdog International side at the Presidents Cup in New York starting on Thursday.
Im very pleased with the way 2017 has gone and we have a chance to cap it off next week in New York, Spieth said.
FILE PHOTO: The water tank of The Walt Disney Co Studios is pictured in Burbank, California February 5, 2014.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni/File Photo

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Walt Disney Co (DIS.N) has threatened to pull its programming from the fourth largest U.S. cable distributor, Altice USA, if the two parties cannot reach a deal before the end of the month, the cable company said on Sunday.
New York-based Altice (ATUS.N), which is owned by a European conglomerate and is better known as Optimum, said Disney had asked it for hundreds of millions of dollars in new fees to be able to continue carrying ESPN and ABC, even as ratings suffer.
The two parties have been working on a new contract to replace the one that expires at the end of the month, and Walt Disney has warned customers that its channels will go dark on Oct. 1 if a new deal is not worked out, according to media reports.
We are always working hard to negotiate carriage agreements that reflect the best interest of all our customers.
We want to carry ESPN and its sister networks, including ABC and Disney, at a reasonable rate and have already offered an increase in retransmission fees and sports programming costs, Altice said in a statement emailed to Reuters on Sunday.
The majority of Altices customers live in New Jersey, New York, Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania.
The company has said it had an obligation to warn customers about the loss of programming and disagreed with Altices characterization of the fee increase, according to media reports.
Our contract with Altice is due to expire soon, so we have a responsibility to make our viewers aware of the potential loss of our programming, a Disney spokeswoman said in a statement.
We remain fully committed to reaching a deal and are hopeful we can do so.
Disputes between cable companies and media groups over the cost of carrying channels are common, but the dispute marks the first time a cable company has pushed back at increased fees for ESPN, the most popular sports network.
The typical customer pays $160 or more each month for service to Altice, she said.
Altice charges its customers $34, which is more than 15 times the amount Disney is seeking for the markets most watched station, WABC, she added.
Altice said the request for exorbitant fee increases came even as viewership had been declining and that Disney now wanted to force customers who do not receive ESPN to pay for it anyway.
High fees are to blame for rising cable bills, Altice said, adding that ESPN was already the most expensive basic cable channel in history.
ESPN carries live sports, such as Monday Night Football, and is believed to be less exposed to the cord-cutting culture that has left cable providers losing customers.
Sep 24, 2017; Milwaukee, WI, USA; Chicago Cubs pitcher Jose Quintana (62) is hugged by third baseman Kris Bryant (17) after pitching a complete game shutout to beat the Milwaukee Brewers at Miller Park.
Benny Sieu-USA TODAY Sports

(The Sports Xchange) - Highlights of Sundays Major League Baseball games:

Cubs 5, Brewers 0

Jose Quintana struck out 10 in a three-hitter game as the Chicago Cubs moved closer to clinching the National League Central by beating the Milwaukee Brewers 5-0 on Sunday.
Ben Zobrist hit a two-run homer for the defending World Series champions, who have a magic number of two to clinch.
Milwaukee starter Chase Anderson allowed three runs on seven hits in 6 1/3 innings.
Diamondbacks 3, Marlins 2

J.D.
Martinez singled with two outs in the ninth inning and Arizona edged Miami to clinch its first playoff spot since 2011.
Chris Herrmann homered for Arizona, which holds the first National League wild-card spot.
Giancarlo Stanton increased his RBI total to 126, moving into a tie with Colorados Nolan Arenado for the major league lead.
Angels 7, Astros 5

Brandon Phillips and Justin Upton homered and drove in two runs apiece, and Luis Valbuena also had two RBIs in Los Angeles win over Houston.
The Angels remain 4 1/2 games behind the Minnesota Twins for the second American League wild-card slot.
In the seventh, Valbuena drove one to the wall in right-center for a two-run double, breaking a tie and giving the Angels the 6-4 lead.
Twins 10, Tigers 4

Eduardo Escobar hit a three-run homer and drove in four runs as Minnesota rolled over Detroit.
Jorge Polanco also homered and Joe Mauer drove in two runs as Minnesota moved within four games of the New York Yankees for the first AL wild card.
Ian Kinsler hit a two-run homer for Detroit, which dropped its seventh straight.
Red Sox 5, Reds 4

Mookie Betts hit a three-run double in the eighth inning and scored on a single by Rafael Devers as Boston beat Cincinnati.
Betts helped the Red Sox lower their magic number for clinching the American League East to four.
The Red Sox moved five games ahead of the Yankees.
Billy Hamilton stole his 59th base for the Reds, who blew a four-run lead.
Blue Jays 9, Yankees 5

Russell Martin doubled twice and drove in three runs as Toronto beat New York.
Teoscar Hernandez homered and Jose Bautista singled twice for the Blue Jays.
Aaron Judge hit his league-leading 47th and 48th homers of the season for New York, bringing him within one of matching Mark McGwires rookie record.
Rockies 8, Padres 4

Pat Valaika and Charlie Blackmon homered as Colorado inched closer to the second National League wild card by beating San Diego.
Colorado holds a two-game lead over the Milwaukee Brewers and a 2 1/2 game edge over the St. Louis Cardinals.
Wil Myers and Yangervis Solarte homered for the Padres.
Indians 4, Mariners 2

Sep 24, 2017; Phoenix, AZ, USA; Arizona Diamondbacks right fielder J.D.
Martinez (28) hits a walk off RBI single against the Miami Marlins at Chase Field.
Rick Scuteri-USA TODAY Sports

Corey Kluber struck out 10 in seven innings as Cleveland beat Seattle.
Kluber allowed two unearned runs and upped his record to 18-4.
He is tied with the Dodgers Clayton Kershaw for the major league lead in victories.
Jose Ramirez hit his 29th homer as Cleveland won for the 29th time in 31 games.
Ben Gamel homered for Seattle.
Dodgers 3, Giants 1

Clayton Kershaw allowed a run in eight innings as Los Angeles beat San Francisco.
Kershaw gave up eight hits and struck out six while throwing 70 of 93 pitches for strikes.
Yasmani Grandal hit a two-run homer for the Dodgers.
Mac Williamson homered for the Giants.
Athletics 8, Rangers 1

Khris Davis hit his 41st home run of the season, Jharel Cotton allowed one hit over five shutout innings as Oakland routed Texas.
The As won their season-high seventh straight game overall and defeated Texas at the Coliseum for the eighth straight time, matching their franchise high.
Sep 24, 2017; Houston, TX, USA; Los Angeles Angels second baseman Brandon Phillips (4) hits a home run during the fourth inning against the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park.
Troy Taormina-USA TODAY Sports

Nomar Mazara hit his 20th home run of the season, ending the Rangers season-worst, 21-inning scoreless streak.
Nationals 3, Mets 2

Max Scherzer outdueled Jacob deGrom in a matchup of aces as Washington edged New York.
Scherzer allowed one run on three hits in six innings to go along with 10 strikeouts.
DeGrom allowed three runs (two earned) on five hits while striking out 11 in six innings.
Trea Turner hit a two-run homer for Washington.
Brandon Nimmo homered for the Mets.
White Sox 8, Royals 1

Avisail Garcia homered and drove in three runs as Chicago blasted Kansas City.
Kevan Smith also homered while Lucas Giolito allowed one run in seven innings.
Lorenzo Cain homered for Kansas City.
Royals starter Ian Kennedy allowed five runs and seven hits in 5 1/3 innings.
Pirates 4, Cardinals 1

Starling Marte hit a two-run homer as Pittsburgh defeated St. Louis.
Jordan Luplow homered and tripled for the Pirates, and Jameson Taillon allowed one run in five innings.
Matt Carpenter homered for the Cardinals.
Orioles 9, Rays 4

J.J. Hardy and Chance Sisco hit two-run homers as Baltimore knocked off Tampa Bay.
Hardy hit the tiebreaking homer in the fourth inning while Sisco homered in the sixth.
Chris Archer dropped his fifth consecutive decision, allowing six runs and eight hits in 3 2/3 innings as Tampa Bay moved to the verge of officially being eliminated from the wild-card race.
Phillies 2, Braves 0

Nick Pivetta allowed five hits in six innings as Philadelphia blanked Atlanta.
Maikel Franco hit his 21st homer for Philadelphia.
Atlantas Luiz Gohara allowed one run on five hits in seven innings.
Sep 24, 2017; Atlanta, GA, USA; Justin Thomas hoists the trophy after winning the FedEx Cup with Xander Schauffele holding Calamity Jane a replica of Bobby Jones putter after winning the Tour Championship golf tournament at East Lake Golf Club.
Mandatory Credit: Butch Dill-USA TODAY Sports

(Reuters) - PGA Tour rookie Xander Schauffele secured an upset victory at the Tour Championship on Sunday when he edged fellow American Justin Thomas by one stroke in Atlanta.
Schauffele almost blew his chance at glory when his two-foot foot birdie putt at the par-five 18th caught the left edge of the hole at East Lake.
But the ball finally disappeared after circling the cup, leaving Schauffele with a wide smile of relief on his face.
My hands were shaking so much, I was so nervous, world number 66 Schauffele said at the victory presentation.
I was very embarrassed.
I dont want to win with a huge all-round lip-in.
Schauffele carded a closing 68 to finish at 12-under-par 268, while Thomas shot 66 to claim second-place on 11 under.
The performance clinched for Thomas the FedExCup, and a $10 million bonus, awarded to the winner of the season-long points race.
Thomas overtook Jordan Spieth, who started the Tour Championship as points leader.
Spieth finished equal seventh in the tournament and slipped to second in the FedExCup standings.
He received a $3 million consolation prize, while Schauffele finished third in the standings.
Sep 24, 2017; Atlanta, GA, USA; Justin Thomas hoists the trophy after winning the FedEx Cup following the Tour Championship golf tournament at East Lake Golf Club.
Mandatory Credit: Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports

It was a fairytale finish to the season for 23-year-old Schauffele, who barely qualified for the 30-man Tour Championship field.
Its been a wild ride.
I weaseled my way in, he said as his father Stefan looked on.
Stefan was a promising German decathlete whose international dreams were dashed when he suffered a serious eye injury in a car crash.
Slideshow (6 Images)

He subsequently moved to the United States and married a woman from Taiwan, the couple settling in southern California.
Im so happy hes here and I can share it with him, Schauffele said of his father.
Schauffele broke out of a tight five-way battle, after five players had been bunched within one stroke on the back nine.
He made a fine up-and-down par save at the penultimate hole after a deft chip to remain tied with Thomas, before another precise chip at the par-five 18th set up his winning putt.
Russell Henley (65) shot the days best score to tie for third with fellow American Kevin Kisner (70) at 10-under, while Englishman Paul Casey finished another shot back.
Overnight leader Casey (73) did not make a birdie until the final hole.
Tennis - Laver Cup - 3rd Day - Prague, Czech Republic - September 24, 2017 - Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal of team Europe celebrate after winning the match.
REUTERS/David W Cerny

PRAGUE (Reuters) - Roger Federer won the inaugural Laver Cup for Team Europe on Sunday, beating back a fierce challenge from players from the rest of the world to claim the trophy in a dramatic final match of the weekend.
Despite cruising through the first two days, the Europeans needed the last match to finalize the victory and show the dominance expected from a team featuring five of the worlds top seven players.
Federer delivered in a tight 4-6 7-6(6) 11-9 win over world number 20 Nick Kyrgios, with the Australian pushing to the final point as he sought a win that would have forced an overtime doubles match to decide the tournament.
But Kyrgios squandered a chance at match point and then smashed the ball into the net to end the battle, spurring Federers European team mates, led by top-ranked Rafael Nadal, to leap off the bench and embrace the Swiss at the net.
I was ready to go.
I had to be.
That is what a team member does.
The boys played fantastic all weekend but we knew it could change very quickly on Sunday, Federer said.
I was looking at getting ready maybe for doubles at the end...
But I got it done.
Related Coverage Inaugural Laver Cup serves up a hit with fans and players

An earlier victory from big-hitting German Alexander Zverev also helped fight off the last-day comeback from Team World, which entered the day 9-3 down after dropping six of the first eight matches.
With matches worth three points on Sunday - versus two on Saturday and one on Friday - the group battled back with Americans John Isner and Jack Sock downing Croatian Marin Cilic and Czech Tomas Berdych, who was playing in front of the hometown crowd at Pragues O2 Arena.
The American duo limited the hard-serving Europeans to three aces in a 7-6(5) 7-6(6) victory.
Tennis - Laver Cup - 3rd Day - Prague, Czech Republic - September 24, 2017 - Roger Federer of team Europe celebrates after winning the match.
REUTERS/David W Cerny

Zverev, the youngest player in the top 10 at age 20, then faced Team Worlds highest ranked player at number 16, Sam Querrey.
He broke the Americans serve midway through the first set and never looked back en route to a 6-4 6-4 win.
GIANT KILLER

That left Nadal to face Isner, winless in six career meetings with the Spaniard.
But the world number 17 rattled Nadal from the beginning and delivered a barrage of 23 aces and several forceful winners and drop shots.
Slideshow (3 Images)

I walked to the court like I had absolutely nothing to lose and I just went for it, Isner said.
Federer then played hero, battling back after dropping the first set to Kyrgios who had looked to keep Isners giant-killing momentum going.
The Laver Cup, named after Australian tennis hero Rod Laver, has won plaudits from the players.
Matches were close despite fears they would be little more than an exhibition.
Federer and Nadal, the games top two players who split this seasons four grand slams, teamed up on Saturday, putting aside a long-running rivalry to play doubles competitively for the first time, giving fans an eagerly anticipated treat.
With next years play moving to Chicago, a John McEnroe-captained Team World will look to bounce back against Bjorn Borgs Team Europe.
We were so, so close to pulling this off, McEnroe said.
A woman walks into the head office of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) in Montreal, Quebec, Canada November 9, 2015.
REUTERS/Christinne Muschi/File Photo

(Reuters) - The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) will begin an audit of Russias anti-doping program this week as it prepares to make a recommendation on whether to reinstate the Russian agency, the organization said on Sunday.
RUSADA has been suspended by WADA since a report published in November 2015, led by Canadian law professor Richard McLaren, found evidence of state-sponsored doping and accused it of systematically violating anti-doping regulations.
Russian authorities deny there was a state-backed doping program, but have pledged to follow international recommendations to get the suspension lifted.
WADAs compliance review committee will hold a special meeting on Oct. 24 to hear a report on the audit, the anti-doping agency said in a statement after its executive board met in Paris.
The review committee will then make a recommendation to WADAs board meeting in November on whether to reinstate RUSADA.
The Russian agency last month appointed a new director general as part of Moscows push to rehabilitate its tarnished sporting image and overturn a ban on most of its track-and-field athletes competing internationally.
The executive committee, which heard a report on Russias progress, again emphasized RUSADA must fulfil a roadmap it developed with WADA and Russian officials before any recommendation on reinstatement can be made.
This includes Russia publicly accepting the outcomes of the McLaren investigation into the countrys doping violations and providing access to stored urine samples in the Moscow laboratory.
More than a dozen national anti-doping agencies have called for Russia to be banned from the 2018 winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, but WADA President Craig Reedie has criticized the agencies, saying the request was not helpful.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
(Published 4 hours ago)

They may be friends, but New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is speaking out against President Donald Trump's comments regarding National Football League players kneeling during the national anthem.
Brady, who linked arms with his teammates in a display of unity ahead of the Patriots' match-up with the Houston Texans on Sunday, told WEEI's Kirk & Callahan that he disagreed with the president's "divisive" comments.
Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive," Brady said on Monday.
"Like I said, I just want to support my teammates.
I am never one to say, 'Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.'
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust."
He also said he heard the boos from fans in Gillette Stadium as about 16 Patriots players participated in the protest during the anthem.
"I think everyone has the right to do whatever they want to do," Brady said.
"If you don't agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
It's part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about."
Trump and Brady's friendship has been well-publicized in the past, including Brady telling the media he considers the real estate mogul turned president a close friend.
About 200 NFL players either kneeled down, linked arms or protested in some form on Sunday, days after Trump's controversial speech in Alabama that called for NFL owners to fire those who "disrespect our flag."
Only about six players kneeled during "The Star-Spangled Banner" last week.
Kneeling during the national anthem is a practice that began last season with then San Francisco 49er Colin Kaepernick kneeling to protest the treatment of African-Americans by police.
Kaepernick is now a free agent.
Patriots team owner Robert Kraft, another longtime friend of Trump, also spoke out over the weekend against the president's comments, saying he was "disappointed."
"Our players are intelligent, thoughtful and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful," he said in a statement on Sunday.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
Jets and Giants players locked arms at their respective games in a show of solidarity with NFL players across the country.
Katherine Creag reports.
(Published 6 hours ago)

What to Know President Trump sparked outrage after he said NFL players who kneel during the national anthem should be fired

In response, players from across the country, including from the Giants and Jets, showed support for the protests during games Sunday

The Jets and Giants released statements showing solidarity with the players

Jets and Giants players locked arms at their respective games Sunday in a show of solidarity with NFL players across the country, dozens of whom demonstrated during the national anthem following inflammatory comments this weekend from President Trump.
At the Jets home opener, players from the Jets and Miami Dolphins both interlocked arms and knelt during the playing of the national anthem.
Members of the Giants and Philadelphia Eagles also locked arms at their game.
Some fans raised their fists to show support.
Giants co-owners John Mara and Steve Tisch released a joint statement Saturday, saying they take issue with Trumps statement.
Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive.
We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society, the statement read.
NFL Players Link Arms After Trump's Comments

President Trump's criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem sparked a mass increase in such protests around the NFL.
Ida Siegal reports.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

Jets officials came under criticism after they were initially silent following the presidents remarks.
In a statement, New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer said hes been a Jets fan all his life, but through all the seasons, what has disappointed me the most has been the last 36 hours and ownerships failure to condemn President Trumps hateful words.
Im shocked ownership would fail to reject hate from this White House, Stringer said in the statement.
On Sunday afternoon, Jets Chairman and CEO Christopher Johnson released a statement accompanied by photos of him locking arms with players.
It was an honor and a privilege to stand arm-in-arm unified with our players during todays National Anthem.
We are very proud of our players and their strong commitment to work in our community to make a positive, constructive, and unifying impact, the statement read.
NFL players, coaches, owners and executives have used the anthems to show solidarity in the wake of comments Trump made about players who kneel during the anthem.
The president said those players should be fired and that football fans should boycott the NFL if the protests continue.
Trump NFL Remarks Spark Tidal Wave of Protest

More than 100 NFL players across the country knelt in protest Sunday following President Trump's controversial comments about NFL players who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
Ken Buffa reports.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

Trumps initial remarks came at a rally Friday night, when he said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Somebody get that son-of-a-b---- off the field right now, out!
Hes fired.
A handful of NFL players have refused to stand during the anthem to protest several issues, including police brutality.
But that number ballooned Sunday following the presidents two-day weekend rant that continued Saturday with the president rescinding a White House invitation for the NBA champion Golden State Warriors over star Stephen Curry's critical comments of him.
The movement started more than a year ago when former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand during the national anthem as a protest to police treatment of racial minorities.
This season, no team has signed him, and some supporters believe NFL owners are avoiding him because of the controversy.
Those who have followed the drama unfolding this weekend between the president and athletes expressed varying views of the protests.
"I am an American, number one, and I understand where that feeling comes from," said Stephanie Deperna, of Albany.
"But at the same time, being a minority, I understand the feeling on the other side too."
"The stand-down, should it be illegal?
But you should have respect for your country.
Support your brother," Joseph Fasolina, of Plainview, said.
Protesters Rally Outside Giants-Eagles Game

People "took a knee" outside Lincoln Financial Field to show support for protesting players and to condemn comments President Trump made this weekend, including remarks that kneeling players should be fired.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

Others were simply taken aback by Trump's attacks on players and his calls for an NFL boycott.
"I was shocked.
That's not something you'd think you'd hear from the president," said Larry Reviera, of Brooklyn.
And some wanted to steer clear of the conversation altogether.
"Football and politics should stay on opposite ends," said New Rochelle resident Steve Stone.
As he left his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, for Washington, D.C., on Sunday, Trump addressed criticism his comments are inflaming racial tensions.
"This has nothing to do with race," he said.
"I've never said anything about race.
This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag."
Meanwhile, some NASCAR team owners including Richard Childress and Richard Petty sided with Trump, saying they would fire any employee who didn't stand for the anthem.
NFL players knelt, linked arms and protested in other ways during the national anthem on Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017, after days of criticism from President Donald Trump.
The protests began with players from the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars, who were playing in London, kneeling as the national anthem played before kickoff.
Before the games, Trump criticized the NFL on Twitter, calling for fans to boycott the league if players protest and saying, "many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S."

Take a look at which players from which team took a stand, or didn't, against Trump's comments.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
Bruce Maxwell of the Oakland Athletics discusses why he chose to become the first MLB player to take a knee during the playing of the national anthem.
Oakland Athletics' catcher Bruce Maxwell on Saturday took a knee during the playing of the national anthem, marking the first time a Major League Baseball player has performed such an act.
Footage captured before Oakland's contest against the Texas Rangers featured Maxwell, the son of an Army officer, drop to one knee and hold his hat against his heart while teammate Mark Canha lowered his hand on Maxwell's shoulder.
Maxwell's decision comes on the heels of President Donald Trump suggesting that NFL owners should fire any player who chooses to kneel for the national anthem.
Players across the NFL have been taking a knee, sitting or hoisting their fists into the air during the anthem ever since former San Francisco 49ers' quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand for the anthem last fall in protest of racial injustice and unfair policing.
"The only platform right now that seems to be getting people's attention is athletes kneeling during the anthem, so I'm doing my part in doing that in baseball," Maxwell said after the game.
Bob Melvin, the manager of the A's, said Maxwell addressed the team before Saturday's contest and let them know about his plans to drop to one knee.
Melvin said some members of the squad had questions but added that Maxwell handled the situation "really well" and the team felt "comfortable" when all was said and done.
Khris Davis, a left fielder for the A's, applauded Maxwell for bravely following through.
"I thought it was very courageous," Davis said.
"I respect his decision."
Maxwell, who admitted that taking a knee for the national anthem was "one of the hardest things I've ever had to do," is not worried about the expected backlash coming his way.
"The end of the matter is, when people voice their opinions and it ruffles some feathers a little bit, then negativity always comes through, but at the same time, that's what's needed to make a change," he said.
Maxwell was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, while his father was stationed there in the Army.
He later moved to Alabama, where he attended high school and college.
Maxwell's agent, Matt Sosnick, told The Associated Press that "the Maxwells' love and appreciation for our country is indisputable."
"Bruce has made it clear that he is taking a stand about what he perceives as racial injustices in this country, and his personal disappointment with President Trump's response to a number of professional athletes' totally peaceful, non-violent protests.
"Bruce has shared with both me and his teammates that his feelings have nothing to do with a lack of patriotism or a hatred of any man, but rather everything to do with equality for men, women and children regardless of race or religion."
Maxwell took to Twitter earlier Saturday and wrote, "Don't be surprised if you start seeing athletes kneeling in other sports now!!
Comments like that coming from our president.
"Inequality is being displayed bigger than ever right now as our president shows that freeedom (sic) of protest and speech is not allowed..," Maxwell wrote in another tweet.
Minutes before Maxwell put his plan into action, the A's issued a statement of backing.
"The Oakland A's pride ourselves on being inclusive," the statement read.
"We respect and support all of our players' constitutional rights and freedom of expression."
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has "a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games" but that "we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
Colin Kaepernick's mother has nothing but pride for her son's form of protest, despite President Donald Trump's critique of it.
At a rally in Alabama Friday night Trump said NFL owners should fire players who kneel, as Kaepernick did throughout the 2016 season, during the anthem and fans should consider walking out in protest

"Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Trump said.
Replying to a tweet about a news article about Trump's comments, Kaepernick's mother Teresa Kaepernick said: "Guess that makes me a proud b----!"
Robber Injured During Hold Up Suing Good Samaritan

An armed robber injured when a Good Samaritan stepped in to stop his hold-up of a California Starbucks is now planning to sue over the injuries he sustained.
KSEE's Connie Tran reports.
(Published Friday, Sept. 22, 2017)

She was not the only one who spoke out against Trump.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, along with the NFL players' union, said Trump's comments are "divisive."
Many of the NFL players also joined in criticizing Trump.
Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman tweeted: "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
Kaepernick's sideline protests became a national topic last year when said that he will not stand up "to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color."
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

France has become the first nation participating in the 2018 Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, to express doubts about going, given the ongoing tensions with North Korea, Reuters reported.
If the nuclear crisis deepens and "our security cannot be assured, the French Olympics team will stay at home," French Sports Minister Laura Flessel said Thursday on French radio.
But "we're not there yet," she added.
The games are being held in February just 50 miles from the heavily armed demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, currently trading threats  also involving the United States  after the north's recent nuclear and missile tests.
"Safety and security is one of the most important aspects of Games preparations," a spokesman for the organizing committee told Reuters in a statement.
Here's the Olympic Torch Relay Route to Pyeongchang
The question of the day at New York Giants practice Saturday remained: Will Odell Beckham, Jr. play Monday night against the Detroit Lions?
The three-time Pro Bowl wide receiver is hobbled by a high ankle sprain suffered in the second preseason game against the Cleveland Browns.
He missed last Sunday's 19-3 loss to the Dallas Cowboys and was questionable on the team's injury report Saturday.
His participation in the light practice session was once again limited, like it was all week.
Coach Ben McAdoo addressed the situation before Saturday's workout, but did not shed any light whether the star pass catcher would be able to play.
"We'll see how it goes," McAdoo said.
"We'll get in there and do a little bit of work (Saturday).
Then tomorrow, we'll go in and have our launch day.
We'll take a look at him tomorrow and see how it goes.
"It's a medical decision.
We're just seeing his level of confidence and where he is sticking his foot in the ground.
Communication is a two-way street.
It's visual and verbal."
McAdoo was asked if he would consider using Beckham if he wasn't 100 percent physically.
"That's tough to say," McAdoo said.
"The biggest thing is you don't want to put a player out there that is going to do any harm to himself or injure himself any more than he is.
It is an injury.
It's a tough injury.
He's fighting through it and doing everything he can to get back, but we're going to be smart with him.
We're going to do what's best for the player."
Earlier in the week, Beckham called his injury a "six-to-eight week thing."
The injury took place four weeks ago.
"As bad as I wanted to play (last Sunday night in Dallas), it just wasn't there," Beckham said after practice Thursday.
"As much as I was trying my hardest to get out there, it just wasn't enough time.
If it's hurting, the doctors are going to hold you.
I want to play that bad.
I'm working my best to get to 100 (percent), so once I do get there, there won't be any more problems.
At the moment, we just don't know.
We're just kind of day to day.
It's getting better, so we're going in the right direction."
When asked Thursday if he could play Monday night, Beckham replied, "I can't tell you that right now, but I'm trying my hardest, that's for sure.
I'm looking forward to it.
Prime-time game on Monday night, you want to be in it."
Beckham also said he doesn't want to reinjure the ankle and have a setback.
"You can set yourself back for another five to six weeks," Beckham said.
"I don't have that luxury right now.
So it's a matter of getting to a point where you know you're confident, where you can go and you don't have to worry about it.
Until that moment comes, we're being smart with it and staying on top of it."
Starting cornerback Janoris Jenkins, who practiced Saturday after dealing with hand and ankle injuries, knows how important Beckham is to the Giants' fortunes.
"I think it gives them (the Lions) a sign of relief," Jenkins said.
"At the end of the day, it's about being healthy when you're on the field.
Until then, we're just going to play great defense.
Hopefully the offense will come along with or without Odell.
We're going to control what we can control."
Defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul agreed that the Giants are a different team with Beckham.
"Odell is a special person," Pierre-Paul said.
"He's the best wide receiver in the league.
At the same time, we have to do what we have to do if he can't go.
If Odell can't go, he can't go.
Only Odell knows if he can go.
I feel like anybody with a special talent like that lifts up the whole team.
You can't look towards one guy to lift up a team.
We can't depend on one guy, otherwise you'll never find yourself in the same place.
Odell is a special kind of player and hopefully he is able to go, but if he's not, the next guy has to step up.
That's basically what it is."
Meanwhile, starting middle linebacker B.J.
Goodson didn't practice.
The second-year pro, who made 18 tackles in the loss to Dallas, left Friday's practice with a lower leg injury.
Goodson is questionable along with Beckham and reserve offensive lineman D.J.
Fluker (shin).
The listing of the Goodson injury seemed to come out of nowhere Saturday morning.
"It's something that has been bothering him over the last couple of days," McAdoo said.
"The injury happened (Friday).
It got sore as practice went on, so we pulled him out."
Linebacker Keenan Robinson was ruled out of Monday's game as he goes through the concussion protocol.
Starting right tackle Bobby Hart's sprained ankle improved enough to have Hart taken off the official NFL injury report.
Hart practiced fully Saturday, as did defensive tackle Jay Bromley (knee), cornerback Jenkins (hand, ankle) and wide receiver Tavarres King (ankle).
McAdoo believes his team will be ready for its home opener Monday night.
"We had a great week of practice," the second-year head coach said.
"(Friday) was a tremendous day.
Our tempo was good and the energy was good.
We had some physicality and we had some things to clean up like we always do after practice."
Philadelphia Eagles running back Darren Sproles tore an ACL and broke an arm on the same play Sunday, sources told ESPN's Chris Mortensen and Adam Schefter.
Sproles is having surgery on his arm Monday and will require surgery on his knee, sources said.
His season is over.
He was injured in the first half against the New York Giants following an awkward plant and hit from safety Darian Thompson.
Trainers were originally looking at Sproles' knee, but he was able to walk off under his own power, holding his right arm in obvious pain as he headed indoors.
Replays showed that Thompson's foot inadvertently hit Sproles on the arm.
The 34-year-old running back held a key role in the Eagles rotation.
LeGarrette Blount and Wendell Smallwood received the bulk of the carries in his absence Sunday.
Sproles rushed for 61 yards this season on 15 carries.
He also had seven receptions for 73 yards.
ESPN's Tim McManus contributed to this report.
Dallas Mavericks players will get the chance to weigh in on the divisive comments made by President Donald Trump and their feelings on the United States.
The effort is being encouraged by Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, who said it would offer a clear message to fans on where the players stand.
"If they would want to have, as a team, their feelings aired on our JumboTron before a game rather than trying to make a point through a secondary action, whether it's taking knees, joining arms, whatever it may be, let's just say what's on our mind and just be clear to fans what we think," Cuban told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Monday, "and if we can take it from there and start a discussion in our community, then that's a good thing."
The Mavericks are one of several teams holding their media day on Monday.
Questions about Trump's comments about standing for the national anthem are likely to be pervasive.
Detroit Pistons owner Tom Gores released a statement early Monday that did not specifically mention Trump but says "America's most treasured values include equality and diversity, and the right to effect change through peaceful expression and thoughtful debate."
Gores also said he will support the Pistons players and their right to thoughtfully raise awareness to various causes.
Cuban has been an outspoken critic of Trump since the president started his campaign, including tweets that have questioned Trump's policies and character.
He also has teased possible presidential and vice presidential runs, though he has made no formal effort to pursue office.
In his comments to CNBC, Cuban said Trump needs to be able to take the blowback to his rhetoric.
"If he's going to dish it out, he's got to be able to take it," Cuban said.
"I don't expect him to apologize, but if this is the new presidency, where our president wants to mix it up, and obviously he does, whether it's North Korea -- God help us -- or sports or me or public figures or anybody, then this is the new reality we live in, and that makes him fair game."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Miss any of the Week 3 NFL action?
Don't worry, we've got you covered.
Here are gambling recaps from all of the games, including the closing spread, total and which team won and covered.
Closing lines from Westgate Las Vegas SuperBook.
Thursday

Los Angeles Rams (-3) at San Francisco 49ers

In a surprisingly high-scoring game full of big plays, the Rams never trailed and led 34-20 entering the fourth quarter.
But the 49ers made two big plays on special teams in the fourth quarter -- creating a fumble on a kickoff return and recovering an onside kick to lead a late comeback.
Carlos Hyde's 1-yard touchdown run with 2:13 to play cut the Rams' lead to 41-39, but a potential tying two-point conversion failed.
The 49ers recovered the ensuing onside kick, but were unable to mount a drive to get into position for a potential go-ahead field goal.
Final score: Los Angeles 41, San Francisco 39

ATS winner: San Francisco

Total: Over 40.5

Sunday

Baltimore Ravens (-3) vs. Jacksonville Jaguars at London

In a stunning performance, the Jaguars jumped out a 23-0 halftime lead and put away the Ravens with back-to-back touchdowns to open the third quarter.
Jacksonville outgained the Ravens 410-186.
Baltimore quarterback Joe Flacco completed 8 of 18 passes for 28 yards with no touchdowns and two interceptions.
Jacksonville quarterback Blake Bortles completed 20 of 31 passes for 244 yards with four touchdowns.
Leading 37-0 late in the third quarter, Jacksonville ran a successful fake punt that set up a short touchdown run by rookie running back Leonard Fournette to push the game over the total.
All five Jaguars games in London have gone over the total.
Final score: Jacksonville 44, Baltimore 7

ATS winner: Jacksonville

Total: Over 38

Atlanta Falcons (-3) at Detroit Lions

Down by four with 2:23 left in the fourth quarter, Detroit quarterback Matthew Stafford engineered an 11-play, 88-yard drive to the Atlanta 1-yard line.
He hit Golden Tate at the goal line on a play initially ruled a touchdown with less than 10 seconds to play.
After review, officials overturned the play.
Even worse for Detroit bettors, rules called for a 10-second runoff, which ended the game with the Lions at the goal line.
Final score:?Atlanta 30, Detroit 26

ATS winner:?Atlanta

Total: Over 51

Cleveland Browns (-1) at Indianapolis Colts

The Browns were favored on the road for the first time since the 2015 season, but fell behind 28-7 and never fully recovered.
Colts quarterback Jacoby Brissett ran for two touchdowns and threw a 61-yard touchdown pass to T.Y.
Hilton to fuel Indianapolis' hot start.
Cleveland rookie QB DeShone Kizer accounted for three touchdowns in the second half, including an 11-yard touchdown pass to Kenny Britt and a 1-yard touchdown run with 2:04 to play that cut the Colts' lead to 31-28.
Final score:?Indianapolis 31, Cleveland 28

ATS winner:?Indianapolis

Total: Over 51

Pittsburgh Steelers (-7) at Chicago Bears

The Bears never trailed and answered a Pittsburgh field goal in overtime with a touchdown run by Jordan Howard, who had a big game.
Chicago's winning drive was highlighted by a long run by rookie running back Tarik Cohen, which was followed by two back-to-back big plays by Howard.
Howard finished with 138 yards on 23 carries with two touchdowns.
Cohen added 78 yards on the ground, bolstering a 220-yard rushing performance by the Bears.
An hour before kickoff, MGM vice president of race and sports Jay Rood told ESPN that an outright Bears win would produce the largest win of any of the early games.
Final score: Chicago 23, Pittsburgh 17?
ATS winner: Chicago

Total: Under 43.5

Miami Dolphins (-5.5) at New York Jets

The Jets got an efficient performance from quarterback Josh McCown (18-23, 233 yards, 1 TD), and the defense forced three turnovers in a relatively easy division win.
The Jets led 20-6 heading into halftime.
Miami managed just 225 yards.
Quarterback Jay Cutler had 220 yards passing with a touchdown and an interception, and the Dolphins rushed for just 30 yards.
Final score: New York 20, Miami 6

ATS winner: New York

Total: Under?43

Denver Broncos (-3.5) at Buffalo Bills

This was the biggest decision of the early kickoffs for multiple Las Vegas sportsbooks.
CG Technology told ESPN that the largest bet it took Sunday morning was a $100,000 bet on the Broncos -3 (-120).
Denver was on more parlay wagers than any other team at Caesars Palace books.
The Bills delivered for the house, scoring the game's last 13 points and picking off Denver's Trevor Siemian twice en route to handing the Broncos their first loss.
Buffalo quarterback Tyrod Taylor was an efficient 20-of-26 for 213 yards and two touchdowns.
Bills kicker Steven Hauschka made three field goals, including two from over 50 yards and a 27-yarder with 3:14 left in the fourth quarter to push the game over the total.
Final score: Buffalo 26, Denver 16

ATS winner: Buffalo

Total: Over 39.5

Houston Texans at New England Patriots (-13.5)

Tom Brady capped an eight-play, 75-yard drive with a 25-yard touchdown pass to Brandin Cooks in the final minute, helping the Patriots pull out a back-and-forth thriller at home.
Brady threw for 378 yards and five touchdowns in the win.
Texans rookie quarterback Deshaun Watson completed 22 of 33 passes for 301 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions.
New England had won and covered in eight of its past nine games as a double-digit favorite, but never led by more than eight points Sunday.
Final score: New England 36, Houston 33

ATS winner: Houston

Total: Over 44.5

New Orleans Saints at Carolina Panthers (-5.5)

The Panthers had not allowed a touchdown in their first two games but surrendered four TDs to a balanced New Orleans offense.
Drew Brees threw three touchdown passes, and rookie running back Alvin Kamara broke off a sealing fourth-quarter touchdown run that pushed the game over the total.
The Saints' defense intercepted Carolina quarterback Cam Newton three times.
Final score: New Orleans 34, Carolina 13

ATS winner: New Orleans

Total: Over 46.5

Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Minnesota Vikings (PK)

The Buccaneers were small favorites throughout the week, but line-moving money drove the line down to a pick 'em right before kickoff.
The late money backed the right side.
With starter Sam Bradford out injured, Vikings backup quarterback Case Keenum threw three touchdown passes, and the Minnesota defense picked off Jameis Winston three times in the win.
Keenum opened the second half with a 59-yard touchdown to Stefon Diggs to put the Vikings in command leading 28-3.
Final score: Minnesota 34, Tampa Bay 17

ATS winner: Minnesota

Total: Over 41

New York Giants at Philadelphia Eagles (-5)

The Eagles took a 14-0 lead into the fourth quarter before things got very interesting.
Eli Manning three threw touchdowns passes in the fourth quarter -- two to Odell Beckham Jr. -- and Aldrick Rosas made a 41-yard field goal that gave the Giants a 24-21 lead with 3:08 to play.
Eagles kicker Jake Elliott made two field goals in the final minutes, including a game-winning 61-yard kick as time expired, giving the Eagles a late victory, but falling short of covering the spread.
Final score: Philadelphia 27, New York Giants 24

ATS winner: New York

Total: Over 42.5

Cincinnati Bengals at Green Bay Packers (-7)

The spread was never really in doubt in this one, as Cincinnati built a 21-7 halftime lead, including a rare pick-six of Aaron Rodgers.
Green Bay scored 10 fourth-quarter points, including a 3-yard TD pass to Jordy Nelson with 17 seconds left, to send the game into overtime.
Rodgers got the Bengals to jump offside on a third down and the resulting 72-yard pass set the Packers up for the winning field goal, which also sent the game over the total.
Final score: Green Bay 27, Cincinnati 24

ATS winner: Cincinnati

Total: Over 48

Kansas City Chiefs (-3) at Los Angeles Chargers

Philip Rivers had three first-half interceptions, as this game was close throughout.
Kansas City built leads of 14-0 and 17-10, which was the score at half.
A scoreless second half was filled with missed opportunities for Los Angeles, until Kareem Hunt's 69-yard TD run put the game away late in the fourth quarter.
The total was never challenged.
Final score: Kansas City 24, Los Angeles 10

ATS winner: Kansas City

Total: Under 48

Seattle Seahawks at Tennessee Titans (-2)

After a low-scoring first half (Tennessee led 9-7), a shootout broke out between two stout defenses.
The Titans scored three unanswered TDs in the third quarter to build a 30-14 lead, and recovered a late onside kick to seal the win.
Russell Wilson started slow, but threw for 373 yards and four TDs in defeat.
Final score: Tennessee 33, Seattle 27

ATS winner: Tennessee

Total: Over 41

Oakland Raiders (-3.5) at Washington Redskins

Simply put: This game wasn't even as close as the final score would suggest.
Derek Carr threw an interception on his first pass, and the Redskins dominated throughout.
Washington was up 14-0 at half and 21-7 after three quarters.
Sportsbooks were very happy with this decision, as yet another home 'dog covered on Sunday.
Final score: Washington 27, Oakland 10

ATS winner: Washington

Total: Under 53.5
CHICAGO -- In a sign of solidarity, the Pittsburgh Steelers stayed in the locker room during the national anthem before Sunday's game with the Chicago Bears.
Players for the Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans did the same before their game.
An NFL official told ESPN NFL Insider Adam Schefter that no fines are being considered for those players who stayed in the locker room during the anthem.
As the anthem began at Soldier Field, several Steelers coaches were on the sideline, including head coach Mike Tomlin, while the players were not present.
Offensive coordinator Todd Haley, offensive line coach Mike Munchak and running backs coach James Saxon also were spotted.
Players took the field within a few seconds of the anthem's end, just after fireworks launched; quarterback Ben Roethlisberger?was one of the first players out of the tunnel.
Left tackle Alejandro Villanueva, an Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, was seen on the CBS broadcast at the edge of the tunnel during the anthem, with his hand over his heart.
Roethlisberger made it a point of emphasis after the Steelers' 23-17 overtime loss to the Bears to say that the team's decision was a unified one and that he has the "utmost respect" for "our troops and those that serve this country."
Defensive end Cam Heyward was asked after Sunday's game what went into Villanueva being outside of the tunnel while everyone else inside.
"I don't want to go into that, but we support our guy Al," Heyward said.
"He feels he had to do it.
This guy served our country, and we thank him for it."
In Nashville, the Seahawks and Titans both issued statements saying their players were united in their actions.
"As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem," the Seahawks' statement said.
"We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
We remain committed in continuing to work towards equality and justice for all."
Seahawks general manager John Schneider said in a pregame radio interview that coach Pete Carroll met with a few players individually Saturday prior to a "pretty emotional" meeting by the entire team later that night.
The Seahawks walked onto the field after the anthem with players locking arms.
"We showed we have power as people, and that's what we were doing today.
I think that it was super impressive," Seahawks defensive lineman Michael Bennett said after the Seahawks' 33-27 loss.
Dozens of more players protested before the Raiders- Redskins game, the final one of the day and not far from the White House in Landover, Maryland.
All but a handful of Raiders sat on their bench, and seven Redskins took a knee while their teammates stood arm-in-arm along with owner Dan Snyder and president Bruce Allen.
Raiders coach Jack Del Rio said the team wanted to stay in the locker room during the anthem, but because of the timing of prime-time games, they could not because they would have missed the coin toss and would have been penalized.
Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman said the decision to stay in the locker room came after "a long process, a lot of discussions happened, and we took everyone's input."
"As a team, we wanted to do our best to not ostracize our guys, any of our individuals, allow them to feel welcomed and not make them uncomfortable," Sherman said.
"That's the worst thing you can do as a teammate is put your teammate in an uncomfortable position.
We don't go out, the whole team doesn't come out, then it's easier for him to defend himself and say it's a team decision.
'I just did what the team did.'
You're a good teammate, perfect.
"But if you get out there and you ask a guy to kneel or sit going against his values, going against his family, you know you put him in weird spots," Sherman added.
"We never want to do that.
We think that we did a good job getting our message out and trying not to distract from it."
The Titans took a similar approach with their statement.
"As a team, we wanted to be unified in our actions today.
The players jointly decided this was the best course of action.
Our commitment to the military and our community is resolute, and the absence of our team for the national anthem shouldn't be misconstrued as unpatriotic."
The Steelers coach told CBS' Jamie Erdahl before the game that the team wanted to "remove ourselves from the circumstance" and meant no disrespect.
"We're not going to play politics," Tomlin said.
"We're football players, we're football coaches.
We're not participating in the anthem today -- not to be disrespectful to the anthem but to remove ourselves from the circumstance.
"People shouldn't have to choose.
If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldn't be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldn't be separated from his teammate who chooses not to."
The Steelers did not protest the anthem last year and had stayed relatively neutral on the national discussion, but President Donald Trump's verbal attack on NFL players who protest appears to have changed things.
Team president Art Rooney II released a statement regarding the pregame protest.
Several Steelers leaders, including defensive end?
Cameron Heyward, linebacker James Harrison and others, were involved in the discussion about Sunday's protest, one team source said.
Those discussions took hold Saturday as the team traveled to Chicago and got situated at the team hotel.
"We will not be divided by this," Tomlin said after the game.
"We've got a group of men in there that come from different socioeconomic backgrounds, races, creeds, ethnicities, religions and so forth.
That's football.
That's a lot of team sports.
But because of our position, we get drug into bulls---, to be quite honest with you.
Some have opinions; some don't.
We wanted to protect those who don't, and we wanted to protect those who do."
Raiders coach Jack Del Rio said the team wanted to stay in the locker room for the anthem before Sunday night's game against the Redskins, but because of the timing of prime-time games, it would have missed the coin toss and been penalized.
Most of the Raiders remained seated or took a knee during the anthem, including the entire offensive line, which is the lone all-black starting unit in the NFL, and the defensive line.
?Others stood with interlocked arms, as did Del Rio, and quarterback Derek Carr appeared to pray while looking skyward and standing.
ESPN's Brady Henderson and Cameron Wolfe contributed to this report.
The Latest on President Donald Trump's criticism of athletes (all times local):

11:20 a.m.

NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart is firing back at President Donald Trump for attacking players who kneel during the national anthem.
He says their protests against racial inequality and police brutality are "real locker room talk."
It was an apparent reference to Trump being caught on tape talking with "Access Hollywood" host Billy Bush about kissing, groping and trying to have sex with women.
Trump later dismissed his remarks made in the 2005 video, which emerged a month before the November election, as "locker room talk."
Many NFL players on Sunday locked arms with their teammates  some standing, others kneeling  in a show of solidarity.
"Everyone should know, including the president, this is what real locker room talk is," Lockhart said Monday during a conference call.
He said: "We don't seek to get into political debates or relish being in the middle of it, but extraordinary statements from our clubs and owners demonstrate just how deeply we believe in our players and in our game."
7:45 a.m.

President Donald Trump says his criticism of football players who kneel during the national anthem "has nothing to do with race."
The president says on Twitter on Monday that the issue is "about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!"
The president tweeted that many people "booed the players who kneeled yesterday (which was a small percentage of total).
These are fans who demand respect for our Flag!"
He also points with pride to NASCAR supporters, writing, "They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!"
About football 200 players decided to stand, kneel or raise their fists during the national anthem at NFL games on Sunday in response to Trump's calls for players to be fired.
5:05 a.m.

President Donald Trump has created drama over the last three days by criticizing activist athletes.
He's drawn criticism for saying football players who kneel during the national anthem should be fired.
The conflict peaked Sunday with Trump's remarks that had the effect of uniting a newly minted coalition including a growing number of players and coaches, as well as some owners who have backed the president.
Trump told reporters in New Jersey that kneeling was "very disrespectful to our flag and to our country" and "owners should do something."
Trump pushed back against the suggestion that his critique could inflame racial tensions, arguing: "I never said anything about race."
President Donald Trump is indulging in his favorite kind of drama  personal, aggressive, culturally volatile and entirely of his own making.
And his feud with the NFL shows no signs of abating, with the president tweeting early Monday morning: "The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!"
Trump's spat with athletes comes as the president prepares to sell a tax overhaul plan and revive health care legislation  his party's top legislative priorities.
But instead of publicly prioritizing policy and courting votes, the provocateur president spent three days attacking the NFL players who kneel during the national anthem to protest police brutality.
On Friday night, during a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired, he's fired."
Trump also rescinded a White House invitation for basketball player Stephen Curry, a star player on the NBA champion Golden State Warriors.
The president's words sparked a massive show of defiance this weekend, with more than 200 NFL players protesting by choosing not to stand for the national anthem and many coaches locking arms with the players.
Speaking to reporters on Sunday night in New Jersey, Trump said players and coaches locking arms was a display of "solidarity" that he approved of.
But he pushed back against the suggestion that his critique could inflame racial tensions, arguing: "I never said anything about race."
New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, a longtime supporter of Trump, said Sunday he was "deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the president."
He added that there is "nothing more divisive than politics" and said he supported players' "right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful."
Trump shrugged off the comments, saying: "he's a good friend of mine and I want him to do what he wants to do."
As NFL criticism rolled in, Trump supporters argued the president was not targeting African-Americans, but simply expressing patriotism.
"It's a perfect example of where the president gets it right," said Christopher Ruddy, the CEO of Newsmax and a longtime Trump friend, who said team officials and the news media were not in line with much of the country.
"It's a win for him at the end of the day."
Some allied groups were quick to take action.
The pro-Trump political non-profit America First Policies released a Facebook ad with the tagline "Turn off the NFL."
But critics of the president said Trump's comments have a lot to do with race.
Former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick initiated the protests last year to bring attention to police brutality against minorities.
"It just amazes me with everything else going on in this world, especially involving the U.S., that's what you're concerned about, my man?
You're the leader of the free world and this is what you're talking about?"
said Dolphins safety Michael Thomas.
"So, as a man, as a father, as an African-American man, as somebody in the NFL and one of those 'sons of bitches,' yeah, I took it personally."
Trump has had a history of engaging in racially fraught battles, from his promotion of the false story that the nation's first black president, Barack Obama was not born in the United States, to his campaign proposal to temporarily ban Muslims from the United States.
He drew condemnation last month for saying "both sides" were to blame for violence between white supremacists and their opposing demonstrators during clashes in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Top administration officials backed the president on Sunday talk shows, saying he just wanted players to show patriotism and respect.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on ABC's "This Week" that players have "the right to have the First Amendment off the field."
Associated Press writer Tom LoBianco contributed to this report from Silver Spring, Maryland.
President Donald Trump struck a nerve with NFL players when he implored team owners to "get that son of a bitch off the field" for protesting during the national anthem.
The line drew loud applause at the president's political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, but the words cut deep into America's most popular sports league, where the majority of players are black and many grew up in tough neighborhoods, raised by strong women.
"I'm a son of a queen," an emotional Falcons defensive lineman Grady Jarrett said.
"There are no SOBs in this league," Lions coach Jim Caldwell said Sunday, when at least 200 NFL players either knelt, sat, stretched or prayed during "The Star-Spangled Banner" to protest Trump's remarks.
Three teams didn't even take the field until the national anthem was over.
The protest campaign that started last year with former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick was down to just six players last week.
But Trump's weekend attack on athletes sparked angry reactions from around the sports world and drew defiance from most of the NFL.
He suggested the NFL was going soft for cracking down on big hits.
He uninvited the NBA champions Golden State Warriors to the White House after Stephen Curry and other players indicated they weren't sure they would accept the invitation.
Players, owners and commissioners past and present chastised the president for his divisive remarks, but the angriest responses came from players upset that he'd insulted their mothers.
"Once again, this is a tragedy in this country that we have to sit here and still have these discussions," Browns rookie quarterback DeShone Kizer said following a 31-28 loss to the Indianapolis Colts.
"I know for a fact that I'm no son of a bitch, and I plan on continuing forward and doing whatever I can from my position to promote the equality that's needed in this country."
After calling for NFL players who protest to be fired, Trump tweeted Sunday that the league should make it mandatory to stand for the national anthem and that fans should shun anyone who doesn't.
"It just amazes me with everything else going on in this world, especially involving the U.S., that's what you're concerned about, my man?
You're the leader of the free world and this is what you're talking about?"
said Dolphins safety Michael Thomas .
"So, as a man, as a father, as an African-American man, as somebody in the NFL and one of those 'sons of bitches,' yeah, I took it personally."
The issue reverberated across the Atlantic, where about two dozen players took a knee during the playing of the U.S. anthem at an NFL game between the Ravens and Jaguars in London.
"We stand with our brothers," Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs said.
"They have the right, and we knelt with them today.
To protest, non-violent protest, is as American as it gets, so we knelt with them today to let them know that we're a unified front.
There ain't no dividing us.
I guess we're all son-of-a-bitches."
Buccaneers wide receivers Mike Evans and DeSean Jackson, who knelt at the Bucs-Vikings game, said Trump's remarks were especially disturbing when juxtaposed to his recent comments equating white supremacists marching in Charlottesville, Virginia, with counter-protesters.
"Why is he singling out athletes?"
Evans asked.
"I really don't really see him tweeting about all the other things going on, the neo-Nazis, the situation in Charlottesville.
I don't really see him talking about that much.
But he has the time and the nerve to call out the Golden State Warriors, Stephen Curry, all of us in the NFL that took a knee out of protesting.
He has the time to do that?
It's not right.
"And he called us SOBs, so that was very disrespectful."
Jackson said, "It's just blatant disrespect.
I look at it as my mom's the queen.
(We're) not sons of any 'B's."
Bills linebacker Lorenzo Alexander said he'll go back to standing for the anthem next week but was eager to join in the protests Sunday, noting that he supports the military, considers himself a patriot and loves his country.
He said he just wanted to show solidarity with his colleagues "especially in the backdrop of our president making the comments about our players, about their mothers.
And then you put that in conjunction with how he tried to gray-area Nazism and KKK members as being fine people, I had to take a knee."
Linebacker Brandon Marshall, who hands out winter coats in Denver alongside his mother as part of his charity work, said the Broncos gathered Saturday night to talk about their reaction.
"We talked about the fact that while he called the (white supremacists in) Charlottesville very fine people, but we are sons of bitches," said Marshall, who received the 2017 Courage Award from the Harvard Graduate School of Education's Alumni of Color for his stance against social injustice.
Marshall was a college teammate of Kaepernick, who remains unsigned.
Many supporters believe teams are avoiding Kaepernick because of his protests.
On Sunday, some Dolphins players wore shirts supporting Kaepernick and even league owners and officials stood with players.
Almost universally, owners and coaches criticized Trump's comments.
"For me to single out any particular group of players and call them SOBs, to me, that is insulting and disgraceful," Former NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said.
"So I think the players deserve credit for what they do.
And when it comes to speech they are entitled to speak.
And we are entitled to listen.
We are entitled to agree or disagree.
But we're not entitled to shut anybody's speech down."
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL



AP Pro Football Writers Rob Maaddi, Teresa M. Walker and Dave Campbell and AP Sports Writers John Wawrow, Michael Marot and Berne Wilson contributed.
Follow Arnie Melendrez Stapleton on Twitter: http://twitter.com/arniestapleton
The Latest on Monday's events from NBA media days (all times local):

11:05 a.m.
The Miami Heat aren't sure if they are going to Mexico City for a game this season.
The Heat are scheduled to play the Brooklyn Nets on Dec. 9 in Mexico City, a city where at least 186 people died in a massive earthquake last week.
Rescuers were still digging in dangerous piles of rubble Monday, desperately seeking any more survivors.
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra says the team sent personnel to Mexico City to see the arena before the quake, and will send people back to Mexico City in the coming weeks.
"Our hearts go out to the folks in Mexico City," Spoelstra said.
"It's horrific to see that."
Across Mexico, at least 324 people died in the quake.
The NBA has said that, for now at least, the game remains as scheduled.
10:30 a.m.
Politics is already the talk of NBA media day.
After a weekend where President Donald Trump rescinded the Golden State Warriors' invitation to the White House and Cleveland star LeBron James responded by calling the president a "bum," it was clear that Monday's season-opening media sessions for 28 teams were quite possibly going to be as much about politics as basketball.
Detroit Pistons owner Tom Gores released a statement early Monday that did not specifically mention Trump, but says "America's most treasured values include equality and diversity, and the right to effect change through peaceful expression and thoughtful debate."
Gores also says he will support the Pistons players and their right to thoughtfully raise awareness to various causes.
On Sunday night, Sacramento Kings owner Vivek Ranadive said Trump's "recent comments are deeply disappointing, because our focus should be on fostering a culture of sensitivity and inclusion."
7 a.m.
The most retweeted post ever sent by LeBron James before this weekend was one in 2013 in response to the incessant who's-better debate about him and Michael Jordan.
"I'm not MJ, I'm LJ," he wrote.
It was retweeted nearly 112,000 times.
And then LJ took on POTUS, calling President Donald Trump a "bum."
James' Twitter account exploded from there, the 640,000 and counting retweets making it one of the top 15 shared posts ever.
If James' tweet is any indicator, politics will be center stage across the NBA on Monday when 28 teams gather for their media days  the annual precursor to the start of training camps.
Carmelo Anthony will formally become part of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Monday, Kyrie Irving's first season in Boston will truly begin and Dwyane Wade is about to become a free agent after reaching a buyout with Chicago.
But those story lines, and probably all others, will almost certainly take a back seat to athletes reacting to politics.
More AP basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
The most retweeted post ever sent by LeBron James before this weekend was one in 2013 in response to the incessant who's-better debate about him and Michael Jordan.
"I'm not MJ, I'm LJ," he wrote .
It was retweeted nearly 112,000 times.
And then LJ took on POTUS , calling President Donald Trump a "bum."
James' Twitter account exploded from there, the 640,000 and counting retweets making it one of the top 15 shared posts ever.
If James' tweet is any indicator, politics will be center stage across the NBA on Monday when 28 teams gather for their media days  the annual precursor to the start of training camps.
Carmelo Anthony will formally become part of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Monday, Kyrie Irving's first season in Boston will truly begin and Dwyane Wade is about to become a free agent after reaching a buyout with Chicago.
But those story lines, and probably all others, will almost certainly take a back seat to athletes reacting to politics.
"The decisions that players, athletes, people make to speak their conscience is their choice," Miami Heat President Pat Riley said.
"We live in a world where you have an opportunity to speak that conscience.
There's tremendous power on the part of the players in this league, especially the players that have 10, 15, 20, 30 million followers, to make a statement in the right way.
And I think those players have done it very well for the most part."
The intersection between sports and politics got very busy this weekend, starting on Twitter.
On Friday, Golden State star Stephen Curry said he didn't want to go to the White House for the traditional visit by championship clubs to meet with the president.
Trump spoke at a rally in Alabama that night and, among other things, bemoaned how some NFL players have knelt during "The Star-Spangled Banner" or partaken in other actions that the players say were designed to raise awareness about police treatment of blacks and other social injustice.
"Total disrespect for everything we stand for," Trump said about the kneeling.
Saturday morning, Trump tweeted that Curry was no longer invited to the White House.
James weighed in with his tweet not long afterward, the Warriors ultimately said that Trump beat them to the punch  the inference being they weren't going to the White House anyway  and that tenuous marriage between politics and sport dominated the Sunday NFL news cycle with teams kneeling, sitting or in some cases sitting out for the national anthem.
So welcome back, NBA.
Basketball will be talked about Monday, but probably not that much.
"I'm calling on everyone who has ever been a fan or a player, as a kid or as an adult, to affirm our shared values and to reject the President's comments in no uncertain terms," former NBA star and U.S.
Senator Bill Bradley said Sunday.
"It's time to show up, united and cheering together and for one another, at the arenas and stadiums where our common love of the game and for our country takes flight."
Media days in the NBA are usually a mixture of basketball-related interviews, photo sessions and some frivolity.
At Heat media day, Udonis Haslem traditionally commandeers his own camera crew and does his own interviews.
Coaches take questions en masse, often talking about what has to get done at training camp.
End-of-the-bench players often walk around in near total anonymity.
This year, all that will happen again.
But inevitably, the questions about Trump and politics will also come.
And based on James' tweet, people will clearly be listening to those answers.
"I have a deep respect for our nation's unwavering commitment to free speech and support all Americans' right to freely express themselves," Sacramento Kings owner Vivek Ranadive said.
"The President's recent comments are deeply disappointing, because our focus should be on fostering a culture of sensitivity and inclusion."
More AP basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
Dwyane Wade is about to become a free agent, and he's hoping that doesn't last for long.
Wade and the Chicago Bulls agreed to terms on a buyout agreement Sunday, a person with direct knowledge of the talks told The Associated Press.
Wade is considering several options, including a potential return to Miami or a reunion with longtime friend LeBron James in Cleveland, according to the person who spoke on condition of anonymity because the buyout has not been formally announced.
Wade will have other suitors, as well.
ESPN reported San Antonio is a possible landing spot, and Oklahoma City  which added Paul George this summer and will formally complete the trade with New York for Carmelo Anthony on Monday  would also seem to make sense as well.
Wade, speaking to the AP on Sunday night, indicated he wants to get his next deal done quickly.
"I'm going to take tonight and some of tomorrow and speak to the teams or players that are on my list and go from there," Wade said.
"My decision is a pure basketball decision and I'll make the one that fits me best at this point in my career, and with what I feel I have to offer a team that needs what I have to offer."
Here's what he has to offer: Even at 35, he's still a scorer, and as a three-time champion, he's a proven winner.
Wade averaged 18.3 points for Chicago last season and returned from injury down the stretch to help the Bulls get into the playoffs.
Over his 14 seasons, Wade has averaged 23.3 points, been to the playoffs 12 times, and took home the 2006 NBA Finals MVP award.
He went to Chicago with great intentions  after all, it is his hometown.
But the Bulls of a season ago featured him, Jimmy Butler and Rajon Rondo.
Butler got traded to Minnesota in what essentially was the start of a rebuild for the Bulls this summer, and Rondo is now with the New Orleans Pelicans.
Chicago isn't expected to be a playoff contender this season, and that would have been a rough spot for Wade at this point.
"We're going in different directions," Wade said.
Miami has a $4.3 million exception available if they choose to pursue Wade.
Cleveland or Oklahoma City would only be able to offer about half that, and the Cavaliers  even if they got Wade for $2.5 million  would likely be adding several million more on what could be an enormous luxury tax bill after the season.
But the Cavs have James and three straight Eastern Conference titles, two facts that will surely be appealing to Wade.
Wade is close with Anthony, which also brings the Thunder into serious play.
The wild card could be Miami, where Wade has kept his home and his popularity.
Plus, Heat teammates have made little secret that they would welcome him back with open arms.
Heat President Pat Riley said late last week that he is still in love with Wade.
He could not discuss the possibility of trying to bring Wade back to the Heat because NBA tampering rules do not allow such conversations about players under contract with other clubs.
"Anything that happens from a personnel standpoint down the road, any opportunities that are there, we're always going to approach that," Riley said.
The opportunity is now there.
Wade leaves the Bulls one day before their media day, two days before the start of training camp.
Had he been there at all, the buyout question would have overshadowed the start of Chicago's season  something apparently neither side wanted.
"A Dream was fulfilled!!!
Thank you Chicago!!!"
Wade tweeted.
With that, he's on to whatever comes next.
More AP basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
Several NBA stars changed addresses during the offseason, creating opportunities for players to step into bigger roles on several rosters

On the move were All-Stars and Olympians Carmelo Anthony, Jimmy Butler, Paul George, Kyrie Irving and Chris Paul.
And let's not forget Gordon Hayward.
With their exits, enter players like Myles Turner, Kristaps Porzingis, Zach LaVine and even a former league MVP in Derrick Rose.
Jazz general manager Dennis Lindsey may have summed it up for the league when he was asked who will fill the void left by Hayward.
"The honest answer is we don't know," Lindsey said candidly.
"We've got to find out."
With most NBA teams holding media day on Monday, here's a look at some of the those who will get those opportunities:



PACERS

In: Myles Turner

Out: Paul George

What to expect: The torch has been passed to Turner, the 2015 No.
11 overall pick.
He averaged 14.5 points per game in 2016-17 and will be expected to carry even more of the offensive load as George takes his 23.7 points to the Oklahoma City Thunder.
The Pacers also need to replace their best wing defender, a role that could be filled by Victor Oladipo, who they acquired from the Thunder in the trade for George.
KNICKS

In: Kristaps Porzingis

Out: Carmelo Anthony

What to expect: The future is now for Porzingis, the fourth overall pick in the 2015 draft.
New York's second-leading scorer last season (18.1 points) will be the centerpiece of the offense without Anthony.
That move, along with the free-agent departure of Derrick Rose, opens up 34.1 shots per game.
Newly acquired Tim Hardaway Jr. should also get more opportunities in his second stint in New York.
Hardaway was the Knicks' first-round pick in 2013 and averaged a career-high 14.5 points in 2016-17.
CAVALIERS

In: Derrick Rose (for now)

Out: Kyrie Irving

What to expect: Rose should have a different opportunity than first expected when he signed with the Cavaliers.
He was supposed to back up Kyrie Irving, who was traded to the Celtics for Isaiah Thomas in an All-Star swap.
Rose could be counted on to start, at least early, depending on the status of Thomas' hip injury.
The former MVP probably couldn't have picked a better spot to revive his career and now has his best shot yet at playing in the NBA Finals.
Rose has been the butt of jokes recently, but still averaged 18.0 points and 4.4 assists last season.
JAZZ

In: Rodney Hood

Out: Gordon Hayward

What to expect: Utah will have numerous players contending for a bigger role in the offense after their top scorers  Gordon Hayward and George Hill  left in free agency with their combined 38.8 points per game.
Hood, Derrick Favors, Rudy Gobert, Joe Ingles and Joe Johnson could all see an uptick in their offensive usage.
"How we play and how we, specifically, score are the more open-ended questions that we have to get our arms around," Lindsey said.
"Hopefully, it will be a shift in what we do at those positions rather than a huge drop-off."
Hood has shown glimpses of offensive stardom with 25 games of 20-plus points the last two seasons.
CLIPPERS

In: Danilo Gallinari

Out: Chris Paul

What to expect: The Los Angeles Clippers will need someone to help out Blake Griffin after saying good-bye to Paul, a nine-time All-Star.
They signed Serbian star point guard Milos Teodosic and added a cadre of Houston Rockets from the Paul deal.
But the best opportunity to fill the void created by Paul's departure may belong to former Denver Nugget Danilo Gallinari, who LA acquired in a trade after he averaged 18.2 points per game last season.
BULLS

In: Zach LaVine

Out: Jimmy Butler

What to expect: A former lottery pick, LaVine, will have a chance to restart his career in Chicago after being traded from the Minnesota Timberwolves for Butler.
The comeback may take some time as he works his way back from a torn ACL suffered in February, but the former Slam Dunk champion will be a focal piece with the Bulls.
He averaged a career-high 18.9 points before getting hurt last season.
Kris Dunn, another former lottery pick, also arrived in Chicago in the deal for Butler.
More AP NBA: http://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
It was a rough weekend for any fans hoping for some final-week excitement in the postseason races.
The Nationals, Indians, Dodgers and Astros ran away with their divisions a while ago, but one division that was still in play  the NL Central  is now just about settled.
The Chicago Cubs took three of four in a series with Milwaukee to open a 5 ?-game lead over the Brewers.
The race for the second wild card in the American League looked interesting for a while, but Minnesota's four-game sweep in Detroit has the Twins 4 1/2 games up on the Los Angeles Angels.
The National League's second wild card is a bit less clear, but Colorado leads Milwaukee by two games and St. Louis by 2 ?
after gaining a game on both Sunday.
So this next week could be anticlimactic from a team standpoint, but there are a few intriguing stories still worth keeping an eye on:

Miami's Giancarlo Stanton needs three more home runs to reach 60.
Aaron Judge of the New York Yankees has 48, one behind the rookie record set by Mark McGwire in 1987.
Jose Altuve leads comfortably in the AL batting race, but it's closer on the NL side.
Charlie Blackmon of Colorado leads at .326, with Justin Turner of the Dodgers at .321.
Blackmon finished fourth last year.
Cleveland's spectacular month of September has the Indians just a game behind the Dodgers for the best record in baseball.
The teams were separated by 15 games at the start of the month.
If you're already looking ahead to next year's draft, it's still anyone's guess who will end up with the worst record in the majors.
Right now San Francisco (61-95) occupies that spot, but Philadelphia (62-94), Detroit (62-94) and the Chicago White Sox (63-92) are in the vicinity.
Here are a few other developments from around baseball:

MAKING THE SALE?
Boston's Chris Sale became the first AL pitcher in 18 years to strike out 300 batters in a season.
He struck out 13 against Baltimore on Wednesday night.
The last AL pitcher to do it was Pedro Martinez in his memorable 1999 season, when he went 23-4 with a 2.07 ERA.
Martinez set Boston's franchise record with 313 strikeouts, and he did it in 213 1/3 innings.
Sale has pitched 209 1/3.
The last AL pitcher to fan 300 batters and not win the Cy Young Award was Randy Johnson in 1993, but Sale has a major challenger for that honor in Cleveland's Corey Kluber.
HIGHLIGHTS

Toronto's Ryan Goins pretended to throw the ball back toward the pitcher  a move attempted all the time at all levels of baseball, but which rarely accomplishes anything.
This time, Todd Frazier of the Yankees was caught by that hidden-ball trick , absentmindedly shuffling his feet and stepping off second base long enough to be tagged out Friday night.
At the other end of the baserunning spectrum was Cincinnati's Billy Hamilton, who raced around to score Sunday on a play in which he'd initially been caught in a rundown between first and second.
When Boston's Dustin Pedroia made a wild throw past first, Hamilton took off and went all the way to third.
And since the catcher had vacated home, Hamilton kept going, reaching the plate before the defense could do anything about it.
LINE OF THE WEEK

Arizona's Chris Iannetta homered twice and drove in eight runs Friday night in a 13-11 victory over Miami.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball



Follow Noah Trister at www.Twitter.com/noahtrister
They were memorable images bookending a day around the NFL that will remain memorable  for absolutely nothing at all to do with football itself.
Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shahid Khan locked arms with players as "The Star-Spangled Banner" was performed before the first game of the morning Sunday in London.
Eleven hours later, Washington Redskins owner Daniel Snyder did the same before the last game of the night not too far from the White House.
It was a symbolic gesture by two of the very men called upon by President Donald Trump to punish NFLers for making any sort of Colin Kaepernick-esque statement during the national anthem.
(Not to get too cynical about how these scenes were orchestrated, but both teams tweeted out images of those owners in the pregame arm-in-arm pose with the one-word caption "Unity."
Also worth keeping in mind: Khan and Snyder were among at least seven team owners who gave money to Trump's inauguration committee.)
Redskins cornerback Josh Norman, one of the players at Snyder's side Sunday, told a national television audience via NBC's broadcast of Washington's 27-10 victory over the Oakland Raiders that it was "one demonstration I feel, just, we had to do, just because of the tyranny that we face" from Trump.
"It's sad that we have to go through stuff like that," Norman said, "but at the end of the day, (if) we unite as one, nobody's going to divide us."
In the locker room later, Norman said Trump is "not welcome here in Washington" and that the president's remarks in the preceding 48 hours amounted to "taking on 1,800 men"  roughly the number of NFL players.
After Trump drew sports into politics in an unprecedented manner, more than 200 players knelt or sat on a bench or raised a fist or, in the case of most of the Pittsburgh Steelers , remained indoors as national anthems echoed through stadiums.
A week ago, a half-dozen players took a stance.
Some spectators applauded the moves.
Others booed .
And Norman was hardly the only one offering opinions about the president.
New Orleans Saints coach Sean Payton, for example, said the country needs "a little bit more wisdom in that office."
Denver Broncos linebacker Von Miller referred to Trump's recent words as "an assault on our most cherished right, freedom of speech."
This was, all in all, an unusual day for the NFL, one when the most significant discussion about the nation's most popular sport had nothing to do with concussions or a late TD catch or a blocked kick.
There were still games played, of course.
So in case you missed it, here are the other top topics after the season's third Sunday:

NO FAVORITES LEAGUE

Be honest: Who expected Norman's Redskins to shut down Derek Carr and the rest of the Raiders?
Or Mike Glennon's Chicago Bears to beat the Steelers 23-17 in OT ?
Or Blake Bortles and the Jaguars to wallop the Baltimore Ravens 44-7 ?
Or Josh McCown and the New York Jets to top the Miami Dolphins 20-6 ?
Or the Buffalo Bills to outscore Miller and the Denver Broncos 26-16 ?
Or the Tennessee Titans to run at will in a 33-27 win against the Legion of Boom and the Seattle Seahawks?
If you claim you were sure of any of those outcomes, you're a genius ... or you're lying.
This is the sort of "Any Given Sunday" status of the league that helped drive the sport to massive popularity.
SHERMAN'S DAY

The Seahawks' impressive run as a Super Bowl champion and annual contender is looking like it might just be nearing an end, and cornerback Richard Sherman certainly did not have his best performance against the Titans.
Late in the first quarter, he drew three penalties on a single play.
In the second, he nearly incited an all-out brawl between the teams with a late, high hit on QB Marcus Mariota.
JAKE'S MAKE

Jake Elliott is a rookie kicker who just a week ago missed a 30-yard gimme field-goal attempt and shanked an extra point.
So it came as quite a surprise to see him paraded off the field on teammates' shoulders after squeezing a 61-yard field goal just inside the right upright as time ran out to give the Philadelphia Eagles a 27-24 win over the NFC East rival New York Giants.
It was the longest kick in Eagles history and longest ever by an NFL rookie; the longest in league history went 64 yards.
Follow Howard Fendrich on Twitter at http://twitter.com/HowardFendrich



For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
For one of those rare times, the focus at NFL stadiums was on what happened before the games.
What occurred on the sidelines, or in the tunnels leading to the locker rooms.
After those extraordinary demonstrations of unity by players, coaches, staff and owners, the action Sunday could have been anticlimactic.
Instead, the league delivered some scintillating stuff punctuated by fantastic finishes in Detroit, Foxborough, Green Bay, Chicago and Philadelphia.
Following two weeks of, well, blah, the NFL gave us WOW.
"Awesome, awesome, awesome," Eagles coach Doug Pederson said after Jake Elliott boomed a 61-yard field goal to beat the Giants as time expired, 27-24.
"I've never seen anything like it," noted Falcons receiver Mohamed Sanu after Detroit had a go-ahead touchdown with 8 seconds remaining taken away by replay  and the Lions lost any chance for another play because of a relatively obscure rule requiring a 10-second runoff.
"You always dream about stuff like that but it never happens, so it was real crazy," Bears running back Jordan Howard said following his 19-yard TD to beat Pittsburgh in overtime.
That came moments after rookie Tarik Cohen sped 73 yards to win it, only to discover his tip-toeing on the sideline wasn't precise enough.
"Definitely, it was a very wacky game but through everything that happened we found a way to win."
Wacky, yep, but given what we'd seen thus far in 2017, very welcome.
The NFL tends to have weekends where about the only predictable thing is that they will actually play the games.
Exhilaration usually comes deeper into the schedule, when teams have created an identity  then perform directly opposite of that identity.
This year, it came in September.
Consider:

 The Jaguars were blown out by Tennessee in their only game so far in Jacksonville.
But they are 2-0 elsewhere after a 44-7 annihilation of previously unbeaten Baltimore in London on Sunday.
The J-E-T-S got their initial W-I-N over archrival Miami, which looked more like the rebuilding franchise than did New York.
New Orleans' Swiss cheese defense turned into an opportunistic wall in a 34-13 romp at previously undefeated Carolina.
Buffalo, which almost never wins if LeSean McCoy doesn't run wild, knocked off unbeaten Denver despite McCoy being mediocre.
But for true excitement, the nail-biters at Ford Field, Soldier Field, the Linc, Gillette Stadium and Lambeau couldn't be beat.
And boy, did the NFL need it.
"Everyone came together to make the plays to help us win," Patriots star tight end Rob Gronkowski said somewhat breathlessly.
Tom Brady had driven New England 75 yards on eight plays and thrown his fifth TD pass of the night, 25 yards to Brandin Cooks , with 23 seconds remaining for the 36-33 victory over Houston.
"It just shows how big of a team game this is, NFL football.
That was a great NFL football game.
After that win I was like, 'That's what NFL football is right there.'
You've got great players on both sides of the ball, on the defensive side, the offensive side of both teams and everyone fighting to the end."
Sometimes beyond the end, as they did in Green Bay and Chicago.
The Bengals, now 0-3, were in complete control against the Packers until Aaron Rodgers and crew got really serious.
Green Bay tied the game when Rodgers  Brady isn't the only quarterback capable of such heroics  guided the Packers 75 yards in just over three minutes to a 3-yard TD pass to Jordy Nelson.
A mere 17 seconds remained, and Mason Crosby then won it in overtime.
Pittsburgh also had to hustle from behind to catch the Bears, doing so in the second half after trailing 17-7.
But Chicago, which showed plenty of resilience in an opening loss to Atlanta in which Howard dropped a potential winning TD pass, turned it up in OT.
It was a singular Sunday, one that won't and shouldn't be forgotten.
Not only sports lovers were paying attention, but pretty much everyone in America focused on the memorable pregame displays from Philly to Indy, from Music City to the Windy City, from East Rutherford to Southern California.
The headlines deserved to emanate from those displays.
And then came the games.
If this is the kind of stuff fans can look forward to over the next 3 1/2 months, maybe the action on the field will be drawing those headlines.
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
The Associated Press observed more than 200 players around the NFL kneeling or sitting during the national anthem on Sunday.
The highest total was in Washington before the nationally televised night game, where nearly the entire Oakland Raiders team protested, in addition to six Redskins.
No one
Oakland Athletics catcher Bruce Maxwell pressed a hand to his heart and took to a knee for the national anthem for the second straight day, part of the protest movement that has been criticized by President Donald Trump
Where does Dwyane Wade have the best chance of making a difference this season?
Wade, a 12-time All-Star, is a free agent after agreeing to a buyout with the Chicago Bulls on Sunday.
Already, many of the league's best teams have been mentioned as possible destinations, with ESPN's Adrian
The Latest on the sports world reacting to President Donald Trump's remarks about pro football (all times Eastern): 9 p.m.
When you add up the numbers, about one in eight NFL players did not stand for the national anthem this weekend.
AP reporters and photographers counted the players kneeling or
Which we're we're getting excited to sports guys in here you know.
But Jones and write a very divisive topic indeed.
For years you know there's been reports.
Just actual players.
Just having this disease which is just hearing crop you know cross the spore and families in an ex players.
And hand
The NCAA is in the process of reforming its rules for athletes who transfer  and the mere suggestion of changes that could make it easier for football and basketball players to leave one school and play immediately for another was enough to stir things up.
"How can you plan a roster or a team when
TV: FOX Sports Florida

TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 8 p.m.

DENVER -- Marlins slugger Giancarlo Stanton will continue his quest to hit at least 60 home runs Monday when Miami faces the Colorado Rockies at Coors Field, where he has a robust history.
Meanwhile, the Rockies hold the upper hand in the chase for the second National League wild card and will be trying to move closer to the postseason when they begin the three-game series with the Marlins.
Odrisamer Despaigne (0-3, 4.37 ERA) will start for the Marlins with Tyler Chatwood (8-13, 4.56) taking the mound for the Rockies.
Watch the Miami Marlins on FOX Sports Florida

Stanton hit his 57th home run on Saturday at Arizona.
It was his third homer in six games and sixth homer in 20 games this month.
That is a decent pace but nothing like his otherworldly August, when Stanton hit 18 home runs in 29 games, including a stretch of six consecutive games with a homer.
The Marlins and Rockies will play night games on Monday and Tuesday before concluding their series with an afternoon game Wednesday.
Stanton has thrived at Coors Field, where he has said the hitting background beyond the wall in center field at night is unsurpassed.
In 20 career games at Coors Field, Stanton is hitting .316 (25-for-79) with a 1.211 on-base-plus-slugging percentage, 10 homers, 24 RBIs and 12 walks.
He went 4-for-12 with a double, home run and six RBIs in three games over the weekend at Arizona.
"I'm locked in," Stanton said after going deep Saturday.
"I'm not worried about (the attention).
I embrace it, understand it, and know the better I do, the more it's going to come.
I put that as my hard work.
You can't run from it, and know that it's there.
Don't let it be a distraction.
Have fun with it.
It's a cool thing for baseball, a cool thing for a lot of reasons."
The Marlins (72-82) swept three games from the Rockies in Miami from Aug. 11-13, winning 6-3, 4-3 and 5-3.
Despaigne is 2-0 with a 1.65 ERA in six games (two starts) against the Rockies and 1-0 with a 3.68 ERA in three games (one start) at Coors Field.
He has pitched in 16 games for Miami this season and made six starts, including five since Aug. 26.
In those five starts, Despaigne went 0-2 with a 4.39 ERA, walking 13 walks and striking out 10 in 27 innings.
The Marlins won his last outing 5-4 in 10 innings Tuesday against the New York Mets.
Despaigne allowed six hits and three runs in six innings and left the game trailing 3-1.
He has been far more successful this season against right-handed batters, limiting them to a .176 average and .509 OPS in 88 plate appearances.
Lefties own a .306 average and .834 OPS against Despaigne in 114 plate appearances.
Chatwood is 0-1 with a 14.29 ERA in two career starts against the Marlins in 2012 and 2016.
Since he returned to the Colorado rotation Sept. 5, Chatwood is 2-1 with a 1.83 ERA.
He lost his last start Wednesday at San Francisco when he gave up five hits and three runs in six innings as the Rockies fell 4-0.
Colorado (84-72) was shut out in three of four games for the first time in franchise history before beating San Diego 8-4 on Sunday to split a four-game series.
The Sunday win coupled with losses by both Milwaukee (82-74) and St. Louis (81-74) left the Rockies two games ahead of the Brewers and 2 1/2 games in front of the Cardinals in the wild-card chase.
The Rockies' final six games are at home with the Marlins and the Los Angeles Dodgers.
"We're in a good place," Colorado center fielder Charlie Blackmon said after the Sunday game.
"We just got a really good win, and we're going home.
We don't have to worry about travel and all that mess.
We can just be at home and worry about baseball."
One concern for the Rockies is the health of third baseman Nolan Arenado, who is tied with Stanton for the major league lead in RBIs and is arguably the best defensive player at his position.
Arenado departed the Sunday game in San Diego with either a sprain or a bruise to his right hand.
After the game, Rockies manager Bud Black said Arenado's right hand "was swelling up during the game."
Losing the slugger for any time this week could be a severe blow to the playoff hopes of a Rockies team already in a bit of an offensive funk.
Arenado is listed as day-to-day, and he said he expects to miss one game.
MIAMI (AP) -- Dwyane Wade is about to become a free agent, and he's hoping that doesn't last for long.
Wade and the Chicago Bulls agreed to terms on a buyout agreement Sunday, a person with direct knowledge of the talks told The Associated Press.
Wade is considering several options, including a potential return to Miami or a reunion with longtime friend LeBron James in Cleveland, according to the person who spoke on condition of anonymity because the buyout has not been formally announced.
Wade will have other suitors, as well.
ESPN reported San Antonio is a possible landing spot, and Oklahoma City -- which added Paul George this summer and will formally complete the trade with New York for Carmelo Anthony on Monday -- would also seem to make sense as well.
Wade, speaking to the AP on Sunday night, indicated he wants to get his next deal done quickly.
"I'm going to take tonight and some of tomorrow and speak to the teams or players that are on my list and go from there," Wade said.
"My decision is a pure basketball decision and I'll make the one that fits me best at this point in my career, and with what I feel I have to offer a team that needs what I have to offer."
Here's what he has to offer: Even at 35, he's still a scorer, and as a three-time champion, he's a proven winner.
Wade averaged 18.3 points for Chicago last season and returned from injury down the stretch to help the Bulls get into the playoffs.
Over his 14 seasons, Wade has averaged 23.3 points, been to the playoffs 12 times, and took home the 2006 NBA Finals MVP award.
He went to Chicago with great intentions -- after all, it is his hometown.
But the Bulls of a season ago featured him, Jimmy Butler and Rajon Rondo.
Butler got traded to Minnesota in what essentially was the start of a rebuild for the Bulls this summer, and Rondo is now with the New Orleans Pelicans.
Chicago isn't expected to be a playoff contender this season, and that would have been a rough spot for Wade at this point.
"We're going in different directions," Wade said.
Miami has a $4.3 million exception available if they choose to pursue Wade.
Cleveland or Oklahoma City would only be able to offer about half that, and the Cavaliers -- even if they got Wade for $2.5 million -- would likely be adding several million more on what could be an enormous luxury tax bill after the season.
But the Cavs have James and three straight Eastern Conference titles, two facts that will surely be appealing to Wade.
Wade is close with Anthony, which also brings the Thunder into serious play.
The wild card could be Miami, where Wade has kept his home and his popularity.
Plus, Heat teammates have made little secret that they would welcome him back with open arms.
Heat President Pat Riley said late last week that he is still in love with Wade.
He could not discuss the possibility of trying to bring Wade back to the Heat because NBA tampering rules do not allow such conversations about players under contract with other clubs.
"Anything that happens from a personnel standpoint down the road, any opportunities that are there, we're always going to approach that," Riley said.
The opportunity is now there.
Wade leaves the Bulls one day before their media day, two days before the start of training camp.
Had he been there at all, the buyout question would have overshadowed the start of Chicago's season -- something apparently neither side wanted.
"A Dream was fulfilled!!!
Thank you Chicago!!!"
Wade tweeted.
With that, he's on to whatever comes next.
It took a little while for the Chicago Cubs to get going this season after ending 108 years of frustration by winning the World Series last fall.
Now, the Cubs are on the verge of completing the first step toward defending their long-awaited championship -- winning a division title.
Chicago takes a magic number of two for clinching the National League Central into the opener of a four-game series against the St. Louis Cardinals at Busch Stadium on Monday.
The Cubs (87-68) were 43-45 and 5 1/2 games behind the Milwaukee Brewers at the All-Star break.
They are 44-23 since the break and have been in sole possession of first place since beating the Arizona Diamondbacks on Aug. 13.
Milwaukee (82-74) sits 5 1/2 games back, and St. Louis (81-74) is six games back.
Because the Brewers are idle Monday, the earliest the Cubs can clinch is Tuesday.
Chicago might have been able to clinch Monday if it had completed a four-game sweep at Milwaukee.
Instead, it won three of four, taking the first two games in extra innings before Jose Quintana struck out 10 during a three-hitter during a 5-0 win Sunday.
Ben Zobrist is among those looking forward to clinching in front of Chicago's biggest rivals.
"It will be nice to do it there, I'll just say that," Zobrist said.
"We have to win the games.
It's a big series.
"We intend to clinch there, and I think for a lot of guys who have been around here for a long time, it'll be very satisfying."
Since scoring three times and getting swept in a three-game series at home against Milwaukee, the Cubs are 10-2 in their past 12 games.
Three of those wins occurred Sept. 15-17 at Wrigley Field against St. Louis.
St. Louis is on the verge of being eliminated from the division race but is still alive in the wild-card chase.
The Cardinals are 2 1/2 games behind the Colorado Rockies (84-72) for the second NL wild card.
The Cardinals rebounded from getting swept at Chicago a week ago by winning four consecutive games, but they were outscored 15-7 in losing the final two games of their three-game series at Pittsburgh over the weekend.
"We just have to keep playing until mathematically you're out of it," St. Louis outfielder Tommy Pham said.
"That's how you have to look at it.
It's a very tough situation.
We need some luck."
The Cardinals also need some better hitting.
Matt Carpenter homered Sunday, but the offense went 3-for-15 with runners in scoring position in the two losses to Pittsburgh.
Another area not helping St. Louis is its performance against the Cubs.
The Cardinals are 4-11 in the season series, hitting .222 and pitching to a 4.11 ERA in those games.
"We've got to find a way to win, and we've got to play them better," Carpenter said.
"We haven't had enough to beat them to this point."
Besides potentially clinching, the Cubs would like to see Jon Lester (11-8, 4.56 ERA) finish the regular season well.
He is 3-1 this month but owns a 5.91 ERA in his past four starts heading into a Monday outing at St. Louis.
The left-hander last pitched Wednesday, when he allowed seven runs and eight hits in 4 1/3 innings at Tampa Bay.
Lester also owns a 5.11 ERA since the All-Star break while working around a brief DL stint.
Lester is 1-1 with a 3.28 ERA in four starts against St. Louis this season, and 4-4 with a 2.36 ERA in 13 starts in his career.
Luke Weaver (7-1, 2.05 ERA) opens the series for the Cardinals.
He is on a seven-game winning streak, the longest by any St. Louis rookie since Ted Wilks in 1944 and the longest by any Cardinal since Matt Morris in 2001.
Weaver kept the streak alive by allowing two runs on five hits in five innings ina 9-2 win at Cincinnati on Wednesday.
He has struck out at least seven in seven straight starts.
"For a young guy, he doesn't make a lot of mistakes in the middle of the plate," Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said of Weaver.
"He's making quality pitches.
It is fun to watch."
Weaver is facing the Cubs for the first time this season and making his fourth appearance against a contending team this season.
He lost to the Arizona Diamondbacks on July 27 but struck out 18 in 12 innings during a pair of starts against Milwaukee last month.
The right-hander's only start against the Cubs wasAug.
13, 2016 -- his major league debut -- when he allowed two runs and four hits in four innings ofa no-decision in Chicago.
GREEN BAY, Wisconsin (AP) -- The Cincinnati Bengals came so close to breaking through for a win.
Instead they found a new way to lose.
The offense wasn't entirely to blame.
A defense that had contained quarterback Aaron Rodgers and the Green Bay Packers' potent offense in the first half fell apart late in a 27-24 loss in overtime on Sunday.
"A disappointment is not finishing a football game now," coach Marvin Lewis said.
The Bengals are 0-3 for the first time since 2008.
Mason Crosby kicked the decisive 27-yard field goal with 6:26 left in overtime to complete the Packers' comeback from a 21-7 halftime deficit.
The game-winner was set up by Rodgers' 72-yard pass to Geronimo Allison that came on a free play.
Defensive end Michael Johnson was whistled for offside on third-and-10 from the Packers 21.
Officials let the play continue and the two-time NFL MVP found Allison on about a 40-yard pass before the receiver beat a couple defenders for more yards.
Rodgers also connected with Jordy Nelson for a 3-yard touchdown pass with 17 seconds left in regulation to tie the game at 24, completing a 12-play, 75-yard drive.
Cornerback Dre Kilpatrick narrowly missed batting away the bullet thrown by the quarterback into the front right corner of the end zone.
"Far too many chunk plays against a good quarterback like that.
That ended up being the difference in the football game," Lewis said.
At least the offense showed signs of life, especially early in the game.
Green caught a 10-yard scoring pass on the game's opening drive for Cincinnati's first touchdown after two frustrating weeks for the offense.
Bill Lazor made his debut as offensive coordinator for the fired Ken Zampese.
Andy Dalton was 21 of 27 for 212 yards and two scores for the Bengals.
Dalton was targeting his best playmaker early, just like the star receiver had hoped following the Week 2 loss to Houston.
Green caught 10 of 13 targets for 111 yards.
Then the Packers started getting to Dalton a little more in the second half.
The Bengals' backfield-by-committee rushing attack combined for 30 carries for 110 yards, with rookie Joe Mixon leading the way with 18 carries for 62 yards.
For Pittsburgh Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin, being respectful of our football team trumped the right of Steelers offensive tackle Alejandro Villanueva to show respect for the national anthem.
A former Army Ranger, Villanueva was the only Steeler to break from the team's orders and come out of the tunnel Sunday in Chicago to stand for "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Speaking after his team's 23-17 loss to the Bears, Tomlin appeared to take a swipe at the Bronze Star recipient's decision.
Like I said, I was looking for 100 percent participation, we were gonna be respectful of our football team, Tomlin said.
Tomlin told the media that, prior to kickoff Sunday, the Steelers held a team meeting and decided, though not unanimously, to not come out of the locker room for the national anthem.
Tomlin added the intent was to have his team focus on the game and not President Trumps comments blasting players who chose to protest during the playing of "The Star-Spangled Banner."
"I was looking for 100 percent participation."
- Mike Tomlin

Many of them felt like something needed to be done.
I asked those guys to discuss it and whatever they discussed that we have 100 percent participation or we do nothing, Tomlin said after the game.
They discussed it for an appropriate length of time and they couldnt come to an understanding, so they chose to remove themselves from it.
They were not going to be disrespectful in the anthem so they chose not to participate, but at the same time many of them were not going to accept the words of the president.
Villanueva, who served three tours in Afghanistan, decided to stand his ground instead and placed his hand over his heart while the anthem played.
Were not politicians.
Were coaches and professional athletes," Tomlin said Sunday.
"If those of us or individuals choose to participate in politics in some way Im going to be supportive of that.
But when we come out of locker rooms, we come out of locker rooms to play football games."
There appeared to be some confusion in the Steelers locker room after Villanueva came out of the tunnel for the anthem.
Offensive tackle Chris Hubbard told Penn Live that the players, by a slim majority, voted in favor of staying off the field instead of standing on the sideline holding hands.
"We thought we were all in attention with the same agreement, obviously," linebacker James Harrison told the website.
"But, I guess we weren't."
Hubbard, however, said everyone in the locker room accepted that Villanueva would be exempt from the team's decision.
"Al was cool with it, with whatever we went through.
He was on board.
That's Al, man," Hubbard said.
"He's a good guy."
Villanueva has previously spoken out about former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernicks decision to sit and kneel during the national anthem, saying his actions may send the wrong message.
I dont know if the most effective way is to sit down during the national anthem with a country thats providing you freedom, providing you $16 million a year...when there are black minorities that are dying in Iraq and Afghanistan for less than $20,000 a year," Villanueva told ESPN in 2016.
He added: I will be the first one to hold hands with Colin Kaepernick and do something about the way minorities are being treated in the United States, the injustice that is happening with police brutality, the justice system, inequalities in pay.
You cant do it by looking away from the people that are trying to protect our freedom and our country.
Broncos defensive end Derek Wolfe also told ESPN he would be standing during the national anthem Sunday because he wanted to be "paying tribute to the men and women who have given their lives for our freedom."
"I stand because I respect the men who died in real battle so I have the freedom to battle on the field...but everyone these days likes to find a reason to protest and thats their right," Wolfe told ESPN, according to The Washington Post.
NEW YORK -- Aaron Judge is one home run shy of tying the major league rookie record, and he hopes to make history at the same time the New York Yankees clinch home field in the wild-card game.
Judge is one homer shy of Mark McGwire's 1987 record of 49 set in 1987.
He gets his first chance to tie and possibly break the mark Monday in a makeup game against the Kansas City Royals at Yankee Stadium.
New York heads into its final seven games with a 4 1/2-game lead over the Minnesota Twins in the wild-card race, and Judge is among the reasons the Yankees are planning for the postseason.
He homered twice Sunday in New York's 9-5 loss at Toronto.
After slumping through August with a .185 average (17-for-92), Judge is hitting .296 (21-for-71) with 11 homers and 23 RBIs in 21 games this month.
Judge's turnaround has helped the Yankees go 16-7 in their past 23 games since getting swept in a three-game series Aug. 28-30 by the Cleveland Indians.
"I am swinging at the right pitches, getting into good counts and swinging at the right pitches," Judge said.
"The biggest thing is to win the ballgame.
Do whatever I can to help the team get to October."
The Yankees clinched at least a wild-card spot with a 4-1 win at Toronto on Saturday, but by losing two of three over the weekend, they are five games behind the Boston Red Sox for the division title.
The Red Sox havea magic number of three to secure the division, and the Yankees own a magic number of three to ensure the wild-card game takes place in New York.
"If it happens, it happens," Yankees first baseman Chase Headley said of coming back to win the division.
"If it doesn't, then we'll figure out the wild-card thing.
You couldn't really ask for us to play any better than we have this month.
Unfortunately, Boston got hot at the same time."
Yankees manager Joe Girardi said of the division deficit: "It's getting fairly large with seven games to go.
Obviously, we're going to keep playing, but I think you have to start to think ahead a little bit, too.
It's frustrating because we've played really well the last six weeks."
The Royals (76-79) are on the verge of officially being eliminated from the wild-card race after managing five hits during an 8-1 loss to the Chicago White Sox on Sunday.
Kansas City is 5 1/2 games behind Minnesota for the second wild card but can'tbe eliminated Monday because the Twins are idle.
The Royals reached three games above .500 at 64-61 on Aug. 23, but they are 12-18 in their past 30 games.
They are 4-6 on their final road trip of the season after Lorenzo Cain's 15th homer accounted for their lone run Sunday.
Kansas City's showing on this road trip has mirrored its season-long inconsistencies away from home.
The Royals began the season by dropping 11 of its first 13 road games, then won 23 of its next 37, but since July 31 they are 12-18 away from home.
CC Sabathia (12-5, 3.81 ERA) will start for the Yankees on Monday, looking to remain unbeaten since returning from a brief stint on the disabled list.
Since coming back from a knee injury Aug. 19, Sabathia is 3-0 with a 3.18 ERA in his past six starts.
Sabathia got the win Tuesday when he allowed two runs and six hits in six innings during New York's 5-2 victory over Minnesota.
Lifetime against the Royals, Sabathia is 20-11 with a 3.11 ERA in 38 starts.
The veteran left-hander beat the Royals on May 16 in Kansas City, allowingfive hits in 6 2/3 scoreless innings.
Jakob Junis (8-2, 4.05 ERA) makes his 15th start and takes a six-game winning streak into Monday.
Since July 24, he is 6-0 with a 2.96 ERA in his past 10 appearances.
"I've just been impressed with his consistency," Royals manager Ned Yost said.
"He doesn't get rattled.
He just goes out there every start and hits his spots and performs like a veteran."
Junis last pitched Wednesday in a 15-5 rout at Toronto in whichhe allowed four runs (two earned) and three hits in 6 1/3 innings.
He improved to 6-2 on the road, and his six road wins are tied for the fifth most by a Royals rookie.
"He comes out and throws strikes," Yost said.
"That's what you like to see."
HOUSTON (AP) Luis Valbuena hit a tiebreaking two-run double in the seventh inning and Justin Upton tacked on an insurance run with a solo homer in the eighth, helping the Los Angeles Angels snap a six-game skid with a 7-5 win over the Houston Astros on Sunday night.
It was a much-needed victory for the Angels, who are 4 1/2 games behind Minnesota for the second AL wild card.
The Astros used a four-run third inning to lead 4-1.
Brandon Phillips pulled the Angels closer with a long solo homer off the train tracks atop left field in the fourth before they tied it in the fifth by scoring on back-to-back bases-loaded walks.
Valbuena hit his bases-loaded, go-ahead double with no outs off Chris Devenski (8-5), making it 6-4.
George Springer cut the lead with his solo homer to start the seventh before Upton homered for the third time in two days when he connected off Luke Gregerson.
It was his 35th homer to extend a career high.
Keynan Middleton (6-1) pitched a scoreless sixth for the win, and Blake Parker struck out one in a perfect ninth for his seventh save.
The Angels got back on track offensively after managing just three runs combined in their last three games.
Mike Trout got two hits Sunday night after going 0 for 8 in the first two games against Houston, and Phillips finished with two hits and two RBIs.
Houston starter Lance McCullers allowed four hits and two runs in 3 1/3 innings in his first start since Sept. 13.
It was just the second start for McCullers since July 30 as the right-hander has missed time with a back problem and arm fatigue.
Tyler Skaggs yielded six hits and four runs in five innings before Middleton struck out two in the sixth.
Springer sent Cam Bedrosian's first pitch into the right-field stands for his 33rd homer.
Manager A.J.
Hinch was ejected for the second time in three games when he was tossed for arguing with home plate umpire Will Little after Evan Gattis struck out to end the seventh inning.
Martin Maldonado doubled to start the third inning and scored later in the inning when Upton grounded into a force out to make it 1-0.
Skaggs plunked Springer with one out in the third before Alex Bregman sent a pitch into the seats in left field for his 17th homer to give Houston a 2-1 lead.
Gattis added an RBI double in the third to push the lead to 4-1.
Calhoun and Trout hit back-to-back singles with one out in the fifth before Albert Pujols walked with two outs to load the bases.
Phillips drew another walk from Francis Martes to send home a run and cut the lead to 4-3.
Martes was replaced by James Hoyt, and he walked Andrelton Simmons to tie it up and draw loud boos from the home crowd.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Astros: OF Josh Reddick returned to the lineup after missing one game with a sore back.
UP NEXT

Angels: Ricky Nolasco (6-14, 5.06 ERA) is expected to start for Los Angeles in the first of four games against the White Sox on Monday.
Nolasco didn't factor into the decision in his last start against Cleveland after yielded five hits and two runs in five innings.
Astros: Collin McHugh (3-2, 3.44) will start for Houston on Monday in the opener of a three-game series at Texas.
He allowed five hits and one run in five innings of a win over the White Sox in his last start.
The Minnesota Wild got out to a 1-0 lead after one period, but the Colorado Avalanche responded with five unanswered goals of their own to hand Minnesota its first loss of the preseason, 5-1.
More Wild coverage

Newcomer Marcus Foligno scored the lone Wild goal with a tip-in up front on the power play with under one minute to go in the first period.
Colorado scored two goals in the second period and three more in the third.
Minnesota had won its first three games of the preseason: 3-2 and 1-0 over the Winnipeg Jets and 2-1 over the Avs on Saturday.
The Wild have threegames remaining in the preseason before the puck drops on the regular season Oct. 5.
SAN DIEGO (AP) -- Gerardo Parra hit a tiebreaking single in a two-run third inning, Pat Valaika and Charlie Blackmon hit consecutive home runs in the ninth and the Colorado Rockies beat the San Diego Padres 8-4 Sunday to open a two-game lead over Milwaukee for the second NL wild card heading into the final week of the regular season.
St. Louis trails the Rockies by 2 games.
Seeking its first postseason appearance since 2009, Colorado opens a six-game homestand Monday, playing Miami and then the Los Angeles Dodgers.
At 41-40, the Rockies tied their record for road wins, set in 2009.
German Marquez (11-7) allowed two runs, five hits and three walks in five innings.
He had been 0-2 in six starts since beating Milwaukee on Aug. 18.
Colorado starters have a 2.52 ERA in their last nine games.
Scott Oberg gave up a pair of runs in the sixth, and Pat Neshek, Jake McGee, Carlos Estevez and Greg Holland combined with three innings of hitless relief.
Luis Perdomo (8-11) gave up four runs and six hits in five innings.
Mark Reynolds hit an RBI single in the first, but the Padres went ahead in the bottom half on consecutive homers by Wil Myers and Yangervis Solarte.
Christian Villaneuva's sixth-inning homer raised San Diego's home total this year to a club-record 89, two more than the previous mark set in 1992 and matched the following year.
Ian Desmond tied the score when he came home on a wild pitch in the second.
Valaika had a pinch RBI double in the sixth that made it 5-2.
He entered leading big league pinch hitters in doubles (eight) and RBIs (16).
Blackmon's home run was his team-high 35th.
UP NEXT

Rockies: RHP Tyler Chatwood (8-13, 4.56) is set to start Monday.
Padres: LHP Travis Wood (4-6, 6.55) is slated to pitch Monday's series opener at the Dodgers.
Wood has a 1.13 ERA in two starts and three relief appearances at Dodger Stadium.
GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP) -- Aaron Rodgers burned another defense deep with a free play.
The Cincinnati Bengals found their offense and a new way to lose.
Mason Crosby kicked a 27-yard field goal with 6:26 left in overtime set up by Rodgers' 72-yard pass to Geronimo Allison, and the Green Bay Packers rallied to beat Cincinnati 27-24 on Sunday.
Crosby's kick completed the Packers' comeback from a 21-7 halftime deficit.
On third-and-10 from his 21, Rodgers took advantage of yet another free play after defensive end Michael Johnson was whistled for offside.
Officials let the play continue and the two-time NFL MVP found Allison on about a 40-yard pass before the receiver beat a couple defenders for more yards.
"Luckily I put it in a good spot and G-Mo did the rest," Rodgers said.
Crosby, a veteran kicker, finished it off for the Packers (2-1).
The winless Bengals (0-3) won the toss in overtime but went three-and-out on their opening drive.
It was so loud at Lambeau Field that they had to call timeout before their first overtime snap.
Rodgers thrived under the pressure.
He connected with Jordy Nelson for a 3-yard touchdown pass with 17 seconds left in regulation to tie the game at 24.
Cornerback Dre Kilpatrick narrowly missed batting away the bullet thrown by the quarterback into the front right corner of the end zone.
"We rushed the quarterback, keeping him in.
We did a lot, but when we broke down, (Rodgers) made plays," Bengals coach Marvin Lewis said.
Rodgers finished 28 of 42 for 313 yards with three touchdowns and one interception.
Allison had six catches for 122 yards.
"I thought Aaron played one of his best games," coach Mike McCarthy said.
"I thought he was tremendous today."
The Packers flipped the script after the Bengals controlled the first half.
Green caught a 10-yard scoring pass on the game's opening drive for Cincinnati's first touchdown after two frustrating weeks for the offense.
Bill Lazor made his debut as offensive coordinator for the fired Ken Zampese.
Andy Dalton was 21 of 27 for 212 yards and two scores.
The Bengals were desperate to avoid their first 0-3 start since 2008.
But they couldn't finish the Packers off in the second half.
"A disappointment is not finishing a football game now," Lewis said.
Green Bay's defense generated a little more pressure on Dalton in the second half, and rookie safety Josh Jones gave the injury-laden defense a boost with two sacks and 12 tackles.
Rodgers shook off his early struggles to guide the Packers to another win.
He was sacked six times, mostly against just the Bengals' four-man rush, though the protection shored up after halftime.
Rodgers threw just his second career pick-six -- and his first at home -- when William Jackson returned an interception 75 yards for a touchdown for a 21-7 lead early in the second quarter.
"Oh, we took a step as a football team," McCarthy said.
"This always pays forward when you go through adversity and you have success."
BENGALS OFFENSE

At least Cincinnati's offense finally got into the end zone.
Green's score snapped a season-opening streak of 25 possessions without a touchdown.
Until Sunday, they were only able to muster three field goals over the first two weeks, both losses.
NOTABLES

Rodgers' only other interception returned for a score came on Nov. 8, 2009, by Tanard Jackson in a 38-28 loss at Tampa.
It was the warmest kickoff for a Packers home game at 89 degrees.
NATIONAL ANTHEM

Most members of each team interlocked arms on their respective sidelines when the national anthem was played before kickoff.
"We've got to stick together and show people that it doesn't matter what skin color or where you come from, we can stand as one.
That's what we did today," Green said.
Across the field, Rodgers stood at the sideline locking arms with tight end Richard Rodgers and backup quarterback Brett Hundley.
Three Packers sat on the bench during the anthem: tight ends Martellus Bennett and Lance Kendricks, along with rookie cornerback Kevin King.
INJURIES

The Packers played without seven key players, including defensive lineman Mike Daniels (hip), outside linebacker Nick Perry (hand) and starting cornerback Davon House (quad).
On offense, left tackle David Bakhtiari (hamstring) and receiver Randall Cobb (chest) were inactive.
Right tackle Bryan Bulaga made the start after being listed as questionable but did not return after aggravating his ankle injury in the second half.
UP NEXT

Bengals: At the Cleveland Browns on Oct. 1.
Packers: Host the Chicago Bears on Thursday night.
CARSON, Calif. (AP) -- The Chiefs own the Chargers, whether they play in Kansas City, Los Angeles or San Diego.
Alex Smith threw two touchdown passes in the first 9 minutes against what used to be his hometown team, Terrance Mitchell had two interceptions and rookie Kareem Hunt scored on a 69-yard run to seal the Chiefs' 24-10 victory against the Los Angeles Chargers on Sunday.
The Chiefs (3-0) beat the Chargers for the seventh straight time and have won 12 straight AFC West games.
Los Angeles' Philip Rivers threw three interceptions and the Chargers fell to 0-3 in their first season playing in the 27,000-seat StubHub Center after moving from San Diego.
"It was weird not playing the Chargers in San Diego," said Smith, who played high school, college and NFL games at what used to be called Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego.
"I grew up with the San Diego Super Chargers, but it was cool to play here.
I enjoyed it.
I don't know if we'll ever have another opportunity to play in a venue this small where it is intimate."
A new locale hasn't changed the Chargers' fortunes.
They've lost 26 of their past 35 games dating to the start of the 2015 season, and have lost 14 of their past 15 in the division.
"It wasn't good enough," Chargers rookie head coach Anthony Lynn said.
"You might say we're the same ol' Chargers, and right now we are.
So we've got to go back to work, and we've got to get better."
After a quick start, the Chiefs held on through a defensive struggle in the second half.
They got two huge plays in the closing minutes: Justin Houston's sack of Rivers and then Hunt's sensational run when he cut back against the flow and raced 69 yards down the left sideline with 1:49 left.
The rookie finished with 172 yards on 17 carries.
The game couldn't have started more differently for Smith and Rivers.
Rivers was intercepted by Mitchell on the game's third play from scrimmage.
Four plays later, Smith hit Tyreek Hill on a 30-yard touchdown pass.
Rivers moved the Chargers into Chiefs territory before Marcus Peters intercepted a pass intended for tight end Antonio Gates and returned it 38 yards to the Los Angeles 34.
Four plays later, Smith threw a shovel pass to Albert Wilson for a 14-0 lead.
The Chargers got it together and drove for Melvin Gordon's 11-yard scoring scamper to cut it to 14-7.
Rivers floated a 44-yarder to Travis Benjamin for the drive's big gain.
After the Chargers forced a three-and-out, Rivers threw his third interception, when Mitchell leaped in front of Tyrell Williams for the pickoff.
The Chargers' defense began playing better.
The Chiefs moved to the Los Angeles 25 before Smith was sacked on consecutive plays, first by Melvin Ingram and then by Joey Bosa and Corey Liuget.
Cairos Santos missed a 51-yard field goal, but Rayshawn Jenkins was whistled for roughing the kicker, giving the Chiefs the ball on the 18.
The drive fizzled and Santos kicked a 34-yarder to make it 17-7.
Chargers rookie Younghoe Koo kicked a 29-yard field goal as the clock expired to cut the lead to 17-10 at halftime.
HUNT'S BIG RUN

Coach Andy Reid simply wanted the rookie to get a first down on first-and-10 from the 31.
Instead, he took it to the house.
"He's a young guy and it's a tough thing to do.
I told him we only need a first down but when you get out there and see the end zone in front of you it's tough to stop," Reid said.
"He came over to me and said he should have gone down.
I don't want to ruin a good thing for him.
He's young."
Hunt has six touchdowns, four rushing and two receiving, in his first three games, tied with Billy Sims (1980 Detroit Lions) and Dutch Sternaman (1920 Decatur Staleys) for the most touchdowns by a player in his first three games.
RIVERS' AIR WOES

It was the ninth time Rivers threw three interceptions.
He led the NFL in pickoffs twice in the past three seasons, including last year when he had a career-high 21.
Peters almost had another interception in the third quarter but the ball bounced off his hands.
Daniel Sorensen appeared to come up with a deflected pass in the fourth quarter, but video review showed it touched the ground first.
"It was a rough day," Rivers said.
"All three were throws, poor decisions.
I just never got in any kind of groove the whole day.
You hate to be the guy that let's down the group."
ANTHEM

With widespread rebuke around the league toward President Donald Trump for his obscene criticism of the kneeling by players during the national anthem in protest of social injustice, five Chargers either knelt or sat during the national anthem.
Many of their teammates linked arms and stood, including team chairman Dean Spanos.
About 10 Chiefs sat.
UP NEXT

Chiefs: Return home to host the Washington Redskins a week from Monday night.
Chargers: Host the Philadelphia Eagles next Sunday.
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. (AP) -- The attempted joke backfired on linebacker Von Miller.
Actually, very little went right for the rest of the Denver Broncos, too, in falling to 2-1 following a 26-16 loss to the Buffalo Bills on Sunday.
It was Miller, however, who accepted the brunt of the blame after being flagged 15 yards for unsportsmanlike conduct in helping the Bills extend their final scoring drive late in the fourth quarter.
After stopping Buffalo on third-and-6 at Denver's 46, Miller offered his hand in what appeared to be an attempt to help up Bills quarterback Tyrod Taylor.
And then Miller pulled his hand away at the last second in front of an official, who immediately threw a flag.
"I've got to be better than that.
It hits you in the stomach," Miller said.
"I just can't kill us.
I killed the game today with that penalty.
I've just got to be better than that."
The Broncos could've been better in a variety of areas in looking nothing like the team that rolled to a 42-17 win over Dallas last weekend.
Quarterback Trevor Siemian threw two interceptions to end two of Denver's final four drives.
The other two ended when the Broncos turned the ball over on downs, including once on a fake punt in the final seconds of the third quarter.
Facing fourth-and-2 at their 31, De'Angelo Henderson took the direct snap and was limited to a 1-yard gain after being tackled from behind by Deon Lacey.
It didn't help that Broncos cornerback Lorenzo Doss was late in scrambling onto the field.
"We had a late sub on the field so we kind of gave them time to adjust," coach Vance Joseph said.
"It didn't work, but in my opinion, it was the perfect timing."
The Bills capitalized on their next possession, with Stephen Hauschka hitting a 53-yard field goal to put Buffalo ahead 23-16.
The Broncos defense did its part in holding LeSean McCoy to 21 yards on 14 carries and 48 yards on seven catches.
Denver, however, couldn't contain Taylor, who went 20 of 26 for 213 yards and two touchdowns.
Jamaal Charles scored Denver's lone touchdown on a 12-yard run, with Brandon McManus accounting for the rest of the scoring by making three field goals.
"I think we probably got panicked a little bit and didn't execute on some of the plays," Charles said.
"Missed opportunities."
Denver lost despite holding the edge over Buffalo in several categories, including 21-16 in first downs and 366-272 in yards of offense.
The Broncos even limited the Bills to scoring two field goals on three Buffalo drives that began inside Denver's 35.
"Yeah, the stats say we should have won," receiver Demaryius Thomas said.
"With those turnovers, it's hard to beat anyone in this league."
Miller had one of Denver's three sacks and was also in on six tackles.
Miller and the Broncos also had an emotional start to the game, with more than half of their players taking a knee along the sideline during the national anthem.
It was part of an NFL-wide protest in response to President Donald Trump suggesting owners should fire players who kneel during the anthem.
"Me and my teammates, we felt like President Trump's speech was an assault on our most cherished right: freedom of speech," Miller said.
"We felt like, as a team, we had to do something.
We couldn't just let things go."
PANTHERS 4, LIGHTNING 2

In Tampa Bay, Florida, Jonathan Huberdeau had a goal and an assist to help the Florida Panthers beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 4-2.
Jamie McGinn, Evgeni Dadonov and Radim Vrbata also scored for the Panthers, and James Reimer stopped 27 shots.
Alexander Volkov scored twice for the Lightning, and Peter Budaj finished with 24 saves.
Dadonov scored the tiebreaking goal off a feed from Huberdeau with just under 5 minutes remaining in the second.
Vrbata then pushed the lead to 3-1 at 4:34 of the third.
After Volkov pulled the Lightning within one a little more than 8 minutes later, Huberdeau sealed the win with 1:05 remaining.
See how the Rams' top RB, Todd Gurley, has fared through the first few games of the 2017 season.
PHOENIX -- Of course it was J.D.
Martinez who got the hit that secured home-field advantage in the wild-card game for the Arizona Diamondbacks.
He's been getting big hit after big hit ever since coming over from Detroit before the July 31 trade deadline.
But, as he pointed out, the quest for a championship is only just beginning for the Diamondbacks.
"This isn't it," Martinez said.
"They only get bigger from here.
In my opinion we are not in the playoffs yet.
If we win that wild card then we are in it."
Martinez lined a two-out RBI single to deep left field with the bases loaded in the ninth inning, and Arizona beat the Miami Marlins 3-2 on Sunday to clinch the top wild card in the National League.
's been unbelievable," first-year manager Torey Lovullo said.
"How fitting that the guy you pick up in a big midseason push gets the big hit today.
It makes everything very special."
The Diamondbacks, who won only 69 games a year ago but are 90-66 this season, were already assured a playoff berth earlier in the day when St. Louis lost at Pittsburgh, and Milwaukee was beaten at home by the Chicago Cubs.
The comeback victory over Miami ensured Arizona will host the NL wild-card game Oct. 4.
The Diamondbacks think they're ready for the tension of that elimination game.
"It's one thing I'm going to keep saying: We just really get along, man," said Archie Bradley, the bearded late-inning reliever and free spirit who has become a fan favorite.
"We really do care for each other.
We really do believe in each other.
Something special's going on here."
After drenching each other and anyone else nearby with champagne in the clubhouse, the players donned their postseason T-shirts and made the trek across the field to take a dip in the Chase Field swimming pool.
"What a fun way to win it, on a walk-off," pitcher Patrick Corbin said.
"All the hard work.
It's such a long year.
There's so many hours dedicated for this.
It's just special.
We want to keep this going.
We want to have this feeling five more times or something."
Fernando Rodney (5-4) pitched a perfect inning for the win.
A throwing error by reliever Justin Nicolino (2-3) on Kristopher Negron's sacrifice bunt helped load the bases with no outs in the Arizona ninth.
Ketel Marte and Paul Goldschmidt each hit into a forceout at home.
That brought up Martinez, who has been spectacular since joining the Diamondbacks.
He sent Javy Guerra's pitch on a line shot over the head of left fielder Marcell Ozuna to win it.
Giancarlo Stanton and Brian Anderson each doubled in a run for the Marlins.
Chris Herrmann homered for the Diamondbacks

Arizona tied it 2-all when Goldschmidt led off the seventh with a single, went to second on Ozuna's error and scored on Daniel Descalso's single.
"Torey's done a great job with his staff over there," Marlins manager Don Mattingly said.
"They play good baseball.
They're a tough club."
Miami starter Dan Straily gave up one run and four hits in six innings, striking out nine and walking three.
"He threw a good game," Mattingly said.
"Obviously, that's a very good lineup over there and this ballpark, to keep those guys to one run is a feat."
Corbin allowed two runs and five hits in 6 2/3 innings.
The Diamondbacks learned they had clinched a postseason spot halfway through the fourth inning with an announcement on the big message board that was followed by a roar from the crowd.
In the Arizona dugout, there were hugs and high-fives, and players even came out briefly to cheer the fans.
It's the sixth time Arizona has advanced to the postseason in its 20-year history.
The other years were 1999, 2001 (World Series champions), 2002, 2007 and 2011.
UMPIRE CHANGE

Plate umpire Jeff Kellogg was hit in the head inadvertently by Marte's bat.
After one more batter to lead off the eighth, Kellogg left the game was replaced at home by first base ump James Hoye.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Diamondbacks: Manager Torey Lovullo said an X-ray on Friday revealed the fracture in INF Chris Owings' middle finger is not completely healed.
The earliest possible return for Owings would be the NL Division Series.
C Jeff Mathis (broken hand) has been cleared for more baseball activity and hopes he can play in the final series of the regular season at Kansas City.
UP NEXT

Diamondbacks: Arizona continues its final regular-season homestand Monday night when RHP Zack Godley (8-8, 3.20 ERA) pitches against Giants RHP Johnny Cueto (7-8, 4.49).
FOXBOROUGH, Mass.
(AP) -- Brandin Cooks started his day by being booed.
He ended it with one of the biggest moments of his short New England Patriots tenure.
Cooks was one of a group of Patriots players jeered as they stood locked arm in arm next to a group of players that knelt during the national anthem Sunday.
The display was in response to criticism President Donald Trump levied against Colin Kaepernick and other NFL players and teams over the weekend.
All was forgotten by the home crowd about three hours later when Cooks was on the receiving end of a 25-yard, toe-tapping touchdown pass from Tom Brady with 23 seconds left in the game as the Patriots rallied to beat the Houston Texans 36-33.
Brady finished with five TD throws.
Cooks caught five passes for 131 yards and pair of scores .
It was the fifth multi-touchdown game and eighth 100-yard game of his career.
Cooks, in his first season with the Patriots, made clear his pregame demonstration wasn't meant to disrespect the military.
Cooks' father, Worth Cooks, served in the Marines and died of a heart attack when his son was 6.
"It's one of those things where you want to stand with your brothers, kneel with your brothers and be by their side," Cooks said.
Brady finished 25 of 35 for 378 yards as New England (2-1) won its fifth straight regular-season meeting with Houston (1-2) and seventh of eight overall.
"I think no matter how you get it, you've got to figure out how to win the game," Brady said.
Brady stood next to Cooks pregame.
"I speak for myself.
I believe what I believe," Brady said.
"We all go through ups and downs and there's struggles and it's life and we're all trying to navigate it as best we can."
Texans rookie Deshaun Watson was strong in his second career start.
The Patriots were thin on the edge without linebacker Dont'a Hightower (knee) for the second straight week, and Watson took advantage, completing 22 of 33 passes for 301 yards and two touchdowns.
But he did have two interceptions, including one that set up a New England first-half touchdown.
"It was really painful.
That's all I can really say about that," Watson said.
The Patriots extended their halftime lead to 28-20 in the third quarter before Houston used a 12-yard TD pass from Watson to Ryan Griffin, and a 31-yard Ka'imi Fairbairn field goal to edge back in front 30-28 early in the fourth quarter.
PIVOTAL PLAYS

The Texans forced New England to punt with just over seven minutes to play, but had to settle for a 36-yard Fairbairn field goal with 2:24 left.
Houston failed on a third-and-1 at the Patriots 18.
That left Brady room.
After an early holding penalty pushed New England back to its 15, Brady used a 15-yard pass to Rob Gronkowski and 27-yarder to Danny Amendola to the Houston 25.
But the Texans had a chance to end the game prior to the Amendola reception when safety Corey Moore dropped an interception on Brady's second-and-18 pass attempt to Cooks.
Instead Cooks made good on his second chance for the go-ahead score.
He also caught the ensuing 2-point conversion.
Houston wasn't intimidated by the Patriots in the first half.
With Houston trailing 7-3 after an early Brady touchdown pass to Gronkowski, the Texans' defense handed Watson great field position on the Patriots 44.
The rookie responded with a 29-yard touchdown pass to Bruce Ellington.
Watson got caught trying to do too much a few drives later and paid for it when Stephon Gilmore intercepted his pass intended for DeAndre Hopkins and returned it 39 yards to the Houston 12.
Brady took the lead back two plays later when he hit a wide-open Chris Hogan across the middle for a 7-yard score.
It was 14-13 when Whitney Mercilus got free around the end and sacked Brady from the blind side.
The ball popped free on the hit and it was picked up and returned 22 yards by Jadeveon Clowney for a touchdown.
But the Patriots responded again late in the half when Brady found Hogan wide open again for a 47-yard touchdown.
QUOTABLE

"I could have pushed him out of bounds.
I am trying to relive the play and I could have done a lot of things a little bit differently."
-- Texans safety Corey Moore on defending Cooks' final touchdown

CLOWNEY'S BIG DAY

Clowney had two sacks along with his fumble return.
He became the third player in Texans history with two sacks and a fumble return for a touchdown in a game, joining Mario Williams and J.J. Watt.
The two sacks also matched a career high for Clowney.
BRADY AND BREES

Brady had his sixth game with five TD passes and no interceptions, one behind New Orleans' Drew Brees for the most in a career.
ANTHEM PROTESTS

In addition Patriots players knelt or locked arms during the national anthem, Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who's been a strong supporter of the president, expressed "deep disappointment" with Trump in a statement.
Texans owner Robert McNair also called the president's comments "divisive."
INJURIES

Texans: Safety Andre Hal was shaken up in a collision with Amendola late in the fourth quarter.
Patriots: Tight end Jacob Hollister limped off the field early in the third quarter after a hard hit from Johnathan Joseph.
UP NEXT

The Texans return home for an AFC South matchup with the Tennessee Titans.
New England hosts the Carolina Panthers.
CARSON, Calif. (AP) Alex Smith threw two touchdown passes in the first 9 1/2 minutes against what used to be his hometown team, Terrance Mitchell had two interceptions and rookie Kareem Hunt scored on a 69-yard run to seal the Kansas City Chiefs' 24-10 victory over the Los Angeles Chargers on Sunday.
The Chiefs (3-0) beat the Chargers for the seventh straight time and have won 12 straight AFC West games.
Los Angeles' Philip Rivers threw three interceptions and the Chargers fell to 0-3 in their first season playing in the 27,000-seat StubHub Center after moving from San Diego.
After a quick start, the Chiefs held on through a defensive struggle in the second half.
They got two huge plays in the closing minutes: Justin Houston's sack of Rivers and then Hunt's sensational run when he cut back against the flow and raced 69 yards down the left sideline with 1:49 left.
The rookie finished with 172 yards on 17 carries.
The game couldn't have started more differently for Smith, who grew up in the San Diego area, and Rivers.
"You hope you avoid days like this all year long, but if you have them, you have to learn from them and go and not overreact."
-- Rivers pic.twitter.com/lxQPpxlHEk  #KCvsLAC (@Chargers) September 25, 2017

Rivers was intercepted by Mitchell on the game's third play from scrimmage.
Four plays later, Smith hit Tyreek Hill on a 30-yard touchdown pass.
Rivers moved the Chargers into Chiefs territory before Marcus Peters intercepted a pass intended for tight end Antonio Gates and returned it 38 yards to the Los Angeles 34.
Four plays later, Smith threw a shovel pass to Albert Wilson for a 14-0 lead.
The Chargers got it together and drove for Melvin Gordon's 11-yard scoring scamper to cut it to 14-7.
Rivers floated a 44-yarder to Travis Benjamin for the drive's big gain.
After the Chargers forced a three-and-out, Rivers threw his third interception, when Mitchell leaped in front of Tyrell Williams for the pickoff.
The Chargers' defense began playing better.
The Chiefs moved to the Los Angeles 25 before Smith was sacked on consecutive plays, first by Melvin Ingram and then by Joey Bosa and Corey Liuget.
Cairos Santos missed a 51-yard field goal, but Rayshawn Jenkins was whistled for roughing the kicker, giving the Chiefs the ball on the 18.
The drive fizzled and Santos kicked a 34-yarder to make it 17-7.
Chargers rookie Younghoe Koo kicked a 29-yard field goal as the clock expired to cut the lead to 17-10 at halftime.
A week earlier, Koo missed a 44-yard attempt as time expired that would have given the Chargers a win against the Miami Dolphins in their home opener.
In the season opener, Koo had a potential game-tying, 44-yarder blocked at Denver and the Broncos won 24-21.
RIVERS' AIR WOES

It was the ninth time Rivers threw three interceptions.
He led the NFL in pickoffs twice in the last three seasons, including last year when he had a career-high 21.
Peters almost had another interception in the third quarter but the ball bounced off his hands.
Daniel Sorensen appeared to come up with a deflected pass in the fourth quarter but video review showed it touched the ground first.
Chargers LIVE: Coach Lynn Post-Game Press Conference https://t.co/bBfsvuXWbu  #KCvsLAC (@Chargers) September 24, 2017

INGRAM & BOSA

Ingram had a career-high three sacks and Bosa had a half sack for the Chargers, who need big seasons from the pass-rushing duo.
ANTHEM

With widespread rebuke around the league toward President Donald Trump for his obscene criticism of the kneeling by players during the national anthem in protest of social injustice, five Chargers either knelt or sat during the national anthem.
Many of their teammates linked arms and stood.
About 10 Chiefs sat.
INJURIES

Chargers: Gordon injured his knee late in the second quarter.
He returned in the fourth quarter.
UP NEXT

Chiefs: Return home to host the Washington Redskins a week from Monday night.
Chargers: Host the Philadelphia Eagles next Sunday.
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- Aaron Rodgers burned another defense deep with a free play.
The Cincinnati Bengals found their offense and a new way to lose.
Mason Crosby kicked a 27-yard field goal with 6:26 left in overtime set up by Rodgers' 72-yard pass to Geronimo Allison, and the Green Bay Packers rallied to beat Cincinnati 27-24 on Sunday.
Crosby's kick completed the Packers' comeback from a 21-7 halftime deficit.
Packers Coverage

On third-and-10 from his 21, Rodgers took advantage of yet another free play after defensive end Michael Johnson was whistled for offside.
Officials let the play continue and the two-time NFL MVP found Allison on about a 40-yard pass before the receiver beat a couple defenders for more yards.
"Luckily I put it in a good spot and G-Mo did the rest," Rodgers said.
Crosby, a veteran kicker, finished it off for the Packers (2-1).
The winless Bengals (0-3) won the toss in overtime but went three-and-out on their opening drive.
It was so loud at Lambeau Field that they had to call timeout before their first overtime snap.
Rodgers thrived under the pressure.
He connected with Jordy Nelson for a 3-yard touchdown pass with 17 seconds left in regulation to tie the game at 24.
Cornerback Dre Kilpatrick narrowly missed batting away the bullet thrown by the quarterback into the front right corner of the end zone.
Rodgers finished 28 of 42 for 313 yards with three touchdowns and one score.
Allison had six catches for 122 yards.
"I thought Aaron played one of his best games," coach Mike McCarthy said.
"I thought he was tremendous today."
The Packers flipped the script at halftime after the Bengals controlled the first half.
Green caught a 10-yard scoring pass on the game's opening drive for Cincinnati's first touchdown after two frustrating weeks for the offense.
Bill Lazor made his debut as offensive coordinator for the fired Ken Zampese.
Andy Dalton was 21 of 27 for 212 yards and two scores.
The Bengals were desperate to avoid their first 0-3 start since 2008.
But they couldn't finish the Packers off in the second half.
Green Bay's defense generated a little more pressure on Dalton in the second half.
Rodgers shook his early struggles to guide the Packers to another win.
Rodgers was sacked six times, mostly against just the Bengals' four-man rush, though the protection shored up after halftime.
Rodgers threw just his second career pick-six -- and his first at home -- when William Jackson returned an interception 75 yards for a touchdown for a 21-7 lead early in the second quarter.
BENGALS OFFENSE

At least Cincinnati's offense finally got into the end zone.
Green's score snapped a season-opening streak of 25 possessions without a touchdown.
Until Sunday, they were only able to muster three field goals over the first two weeks, both losses.
NOTABLES

Rodgers' only other interception returned for a score came on Nov. 8, 2009 by Tanard Jackson in a 38-28 loss at Tampa.
It was the warmest kickoff for a Packers home game at 89 degrees.
NATIONAL ANTHEM

Most members of each team interlocked arms on their respective sidelines when the national anthem was played before kickoff.
Rodgers stood at the sideline locking arms with tight end Richard Rodgers and backup quarterback Brett Hundley.
Three members of the Packers sat on the bench during the anthem: tight ends Martellus Bennett and Lance Kendricks, along with rookie cornerback Kevin King.
UP NEXT

Bengals: At the Cleveland Browns on Oct. 1.
Packers: Host the Chicago Bears on Thursday night.
Three NFL teams stayed in their locker rooms during the national anthem ahead of NFL games on Sunday, as a growing number of players from other teams joined in protest by kneeling on the field.
As the national anthem rang out at Nissan Stadium in Nashville, neither the Tennessee Titans nor the Seattle Seahawks were out on the field.
Earlier in the day in Chicago, all but one of the Pittsburgh Steelers remained in the locker room during the anthem ahead of their game against the Bears.
Ahead of Sunday night's game, many Oakland Raiders and Washington Redskins sat or kneeled, as others stood and linked arms.
In all, more than 100 NFL players from several teams across the country kneeled or locked arms Sunday, after President Trump lashed out at the protesters and called for those who disrespect the flag to be fired or suspended.
One Steeler was seen just outside the players' tunnel at Soldier Field: offensive tackle Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger.
NFL Sunday began with members of the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Baltimore Ravens either taking a knee or locking arms as the U.S. national anthem was sung at London's Wembley Stadium.
Those who were not kneeling, including the coaches on both teams and Jaguars owner Shahid Khan, locked arms during the national anthem.
The players then stood up for God Save the Queen, the British anthem.
Members of the Seahawks and Titans marched out onto the field with arms linked after the anthem was played.
Some people in the crowd booed as the players finally emerged.
Pittsburgh's coach, Mike Tomlin, stood by himself on the sideline in Chicago.
Tomlin had said before the game that Pittsburghs players would remain in the locker room and that were not going to let divisive times or divisive individuals affect our agenda.
Tomlin added that the Steelers made this choice not to be disrespectful to the anthem but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldnt have to choose.
Most teams in the early afternoon games locked arms in solidarity.
At least three team owners joined their players.
Several New Orleans Saints players sat during the national anthem.
The Jaguars tweeted a photo shortly after the team's defiant message with the caption: Unity.
Ravens owner Steve Bisciotti released a statement posted on Twitter after the incident, saying: We recognize our players influence.
We respect their demonstration and support them 100 percent.
All voices need to be heard.
Thats democracy in its highest form.
The display marked a tumultuous weekend between the NFL and Trump, who called the players kneeling during "The Star-Spangled Banner" disrespectful.
Trump took note of the incidents at the start of the games on Sunday.
"Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!"
Trump tweeted.
He wrote earlier on Twitter: If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast, Trump tweeted Sunday morning.
"Fire or suspend!
"...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.," he tweeted.
Trump's criticism began on Friday during a rally in Alabama when he called for players to be fired who disrespect the American flag.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'get that son of a b ---- off the field right now?
He's fired!
He's fired,'" Trump said to the crowd.
His comments drew sharp criticism among professional athletes and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," Goodell said.
Goodell announced on Twitter Sunday that a video titled, "Inside These Lines" will air during Sunday night's game as a sign of unity in the league.
Trump stood by his words on Saturday when he rescinded Golden State Warrior Stephen Currys invitation to the White House this spring to honor his teams 2017 NBA championship.
He then suggested that NFL players who kneel during the patriotic song should be fired.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began the controversial movement last year when he refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest police brutality against the African-American community.
Kaepernick has since become a free agent, but he has not yet been picked up by any team.
A number of players wore shirts during warmup Sunday that said "#IMWITHKAP" in support of Kaepernick.
SEATTLE (AP) -- At this point, there is not much Corey Kluber can do to strengthen his case for the American League Cy Young Award.
Another win, another quality start, another 10 strikeouts has become what is expected from Cleveland's ace.
"He's the Cy Young.
I think he's clearly the Cy Young," Indians teammate Jason Kipnis said.
"That doesn't take away anything from Chris Sale.
I think he's clearly the No.
2 and would be the Cy Young in any other year Corey Kluber is not pitching like this.
What he's done has just been efficient as you can be."
Kluber threw seven strong innings to become the first 18-game winner in the AL, Jose Ramirez's 29th home run snapped a 2-all tie, and the Indians beat the Seattle Mariners 4-2 on Sunday.
Kluber (18-4) made only one mistake in winning his sixth straight start, striking out 10 and allowing six hits.
It was his 15th start this season with at least 10 strikeouts.
And Kluber didn't feel at his best after getting extra rest before this turn in the rotation.
"Just didn't quite feel as crisp as when you get to go every fifth day, but it's about making adjustments," Kluber said.
Ben Gamel had a two-run homer with two outs in the fifth inning to pull Seattle even and snap a string of 26 2/3 scoreless innings by Kluber.
Both of the runs were unearned after an error by Giovanny Urshela.
But it was the only offense the Mariners could produce against Cleveland's ace.
The Indians won for the 29th time in 31 games, won their ninth straight series and have not lost consecutive games since Aug. 22-23.
The loss eliminated the Mariners from contention for the second AL wild card.
Seattle is seven games behind Minnesota with six games left.
The Mariners have not made the postseason since 2001.
"We faced some really good pitching the last couple weeks," Seattle manager Scott Servais said.
"I'm proud of our guys and the way they fought all year.
It's disappointing with the expectations we had on ourselves and this ballclub."
Ramirez put Cleveland in front leading off the sixth with a solo shot off Seattle starter Mike Leake (3-1) and put Kluber in line for the victory.
Cleveland also got RBI doubles from Edwin Encarnacion and Jason Kipnis in the fourth.
Encarnacion later doubled in the eighth off reliever Shea Simmons and scored on a sacrifice fly from Kipnis.
Brian Shaw pitched a clean eighth, and Cody Allen worked the ninth for his 29th save.
Allen allowed a game-ending home run to Nelson Cruz in Friday's loss but struck out two of three batters in the ninth on Sunday.
"We knew (Allen) was fine or he wouldn't be pitching," Indians manager Terry Francona said.
STARTING OFF

Leake was lifted after 6 2/3 innings, the third time in five starts since being acquired by Seattle that he pitched into the seventh.
The right-hander pitched into the seventh just twice in his final 10 starts with St. Louis.
The three earned runs were the most allowed by Leake since his addition to the Mariners rotation.
POSTSEASON DROUGHT

Seattle has the longest postseason drought in baseball at 16 years and counting.
The Mariners were in the middle of the wild card race until the past 10 days, when they were swept by the Astros in Houston and swept at home by Texas.
Seattle has dropped eight of nine.
"It says a lot for our guys to keep it up like that for as long as we did," Servais said.
"I think when you battle so long like that  you kind of run out of gas.
You can only go so far."
TRAINER'S ROOM

Indians: 1B Carlos Santana was out of the lineup a day after having his right arm bent awkwardly in a collision at first base with Seattle's Jean Segura running down the line.
RF Jay Bruce was back in the lineup after leaving Saturday's game early with left heel soreness.
Mariners: Seattle was without starting SS Jean Segura on Sunday, and he may miss a few more games with a sprained middle finger on his right hand.
Segura was hurt in Saturday's game.
Servais said it would probably be a few days before Segura will be back in the lineup.
UP NEXT

Indians: Cleveland has Monday off before opening a three-game series at home against Minnesota.
Josh Tomlin (9-9) will start the opener.
Mariners: Seattle goes on the road for its final six games, beginning with three against Oakland.
Felix Hernandez (5-5) will start the opener against the A's.
Sunday was one of the most exciting afternoons in the still-maturing history of the NFL RedZone channel.
Five close games were decided over the course of 23 minutes of real time, and while that doesn't sound like much, it was enough time to change our perceptions of teams.
The Giants looked like a team that had battled to save its season, only to miss out to a 61-yard field goal.
Matthew Stafford looked to have launched yet another dramatic fourth-quarter comeback and pushed his Lions to 3-0, only to be stopped inches short of the end zone.
The Patriots saved a week of think pieces with a magical drive to beat the Texans, who might actually have beaten themselves.
Everyone has a different definition of exciting, but one useful measure is what ESPN's Brian Burke refers to as the Excitement Index, which is simply the sum of all the changes in a win expectancy chart throughout the game.
This is the exact sort of model that rewards the crazy late-game changes that moved the needle by as much as 78 percent in Week 3.
The average 1 p.m.
ET game since 2005, when RedZone made its way into our hearts, had a typical Excitement Index of 3.7 points.
The most exciting contest was the 37-34 overtime game played between the Bears and Lions in 2015, which featured several lead changes in the fourth quarter and an eventual game-winning field goal in overtime.
Where did Sunday's slate compare to great RedZone afternoons of years past?
With the help of both Burke and ESPN Stats & Information, I found the average Excitement Index for the top five games from each 1 p.m.
ET kickoff going back through 2005.
I included only the top five because every weekend will have stinkers, and Sunday's scoring bonanza wasn't any less fun because Dolphins-Jets was a bummer.
By my count, the top five games in Week 3 produced the seventh-best average Excitement Index since 2005 , with an average EI of just under 5.95.
The record, which requires going back to Week 6 of that 2005 campaign, was an average EI of 6.55 points per game.
Four games that week were either tied or saw a lead change in the final minute of regulation, including a Steelers-Jaguars game in which Pittsburgh blew two chances to win in overtime.
This week's big five was nearly as great.
Let's run through those games in order of Excitement Index and break down some of the key takeaways from each:

The Falcons lost the turnover battle 3-0 but still beat the Lions.
Rey Del Rio/Getty Images

Excitement Index: 6.91

Excitement Index doesn't even account for the drama of Detroit's final pass to Golden Tate being ruled a touchdown before being overturned and wiped off the board with a 10-second runoff to boot.
ESPN.com's Kevin Seifert already wrote about the logic behind the rule and how it applied to the Lions' last gasp.
As painful and unfair as it might seem to Lions fans, offensive coordinator Jim Bob Cooter has to know that the 10-second runoff is a possibility on the exact sort of 1-yard pick play the Lions were running without any timeouts, even if the chances were relatively slim.
Lions coach Jim Caldwell suggested after the game that Detroit "certainly" could have gotten to the line to run a final play after Tate was stopped short with nine seconds to go, but I'm skeptical it would have mattered much.
I wasn't able to find a similar play from the Lions' history books since 2016 given the unique circumstances.
It's true that the Lions already were all near the line of scrimmage, but they were dispersed all around the end zone, which would have required several seconds to line up.
It's entirely possible they would have lined up incorrectly, which also would have ended the game with a penalty.
The officials also would have needed to get into place.
Editor's Picks Game winners galore: The craziest win-probability swings of Week 3 A walk-off 61-yard FG.
A toe-tap TD.
A goal-line stand as time expired.
These are the plays that swung Week 3 in the NFL.
The NFL was right to reverse Golden Tate's touchdown and end the game The league made the right call in ruling that the wideout's knee was down before the ball crossed the plane of the goal line.
And then the fun began.
Tom Brady magic saves Patriots from another fourth-quarter meltdown Tom Brady led the Patriots 75 yards into the end zone over the final minutes Sunday -- the 52nd time he has orchestrated a game-winning drive.
2 Related

I suspect Detroit would have had enough time to spike the ball, but on fourth down, that wasn't an option.
The Lions would have needed to call and run a play on the fly, and unless Cooter sent in a playcall for fourth down before the snap on third down, there wouldn't have been enough time for Stafford to communicate the playcall.
The play would almost definitely have been a quarterback sneak, and while it might have worked, the Falcons could have sold out against a Lions interior that had left guard Graham Glasgow playing center and recent waiver acquisition Zac Kerin at guard.
Stafford has gone 20-for-22 in converting sneaks with a yard to go, but a lot would have needed to go right for the Lions to get to that spot.
There was some drama before the concluding moments of the game were played out by runoff.
The final Lions drive crammed 15 plays into 153 seconds.
Stafford appeared to hit Marvin Jones on the 2-yard line with 1:10 to go, only for his pass to be wiped out by a penalty on Kerin.
Jones committed offensive pass interference on the next play to make it first-and-30, but a Stafford interception on second down was wiped off the board by a holding penalty on star Falcons cornerback Desmond Trufant.
Four plays later, Trufant was called for pass interference in the end zone on a play where he clearly contacted Jones, but on a pass that did not seem catchable on replay.
It's fair to say that the Falcons were probably unlucky to find themselves needing to hold on for dear life inside of two minutes.
Matt Ryan was intercepted three times Sunday, and while the first of those three picks was an excellent job by Glover Quin of reading Ryan's eyes and sprinting nearly all the way from one hashmark well past the other to undercut a Julio Jones in-breaking route for a pick-six, the other two were gifts.
Both of Ryan's other interceptions bounced off an open receiver's hands and into the waiting arms of Darius Slay.
The first set up the Lions on the edge of the red zone for a field goal, and the second cost the Falcons what would have been second-and-1 at the Detroit 10-yard line and likely a minimum of three points.
His final numbers might not have been especially impressive, but Stafford has been playing lights-out so far this season.
Some of the throws he made in this game were positively Aaron Rodgers-esque.
The league's highest-paid player sneaked the ball through the tiniest of windows to hit T.J. Jones for a 29-yard completion to start the final drive of the game.
Earlier in the fourth quarter, Stafford lofted a deep out narrowly over Brian Poole to Tate to move the chains on third-and-4, setting up a 57-yard Matt Prater field goal that brought the Lions to within four points of the Falcons.
The concern for the Lions, though, remains a defense that might be entirely dependent upon forcing takeaways.
Teryl Austin's defense was only able to force Atlanta to punt on its two final drives, and even those trips came within 2 yards of a first down.
The nine preceding meaningful possessions ended in either a touchdown, field goal or pick.
The Lions struggled against Atlanta's running game, with Tevin Coleman and Devonta Freeman averaging in excess of 5.6 yards per carry while racking up 10 runs of 9 yards or more, with two 15-yard runs wiped out via penalty.
Detroit now has eight takeaways after racking up just seven through their first nine games last season.
They finished 2016 with a mere 14 turnovers, a number that was likely to regress toward the mean on sheer luck alone.
But after the bizarre final play of this game, it's difficult to imagine a clearer example of luck in close games simultaneously regressing to the mean.
Detroit won't be going 8-5 in one-score games again.
The only reason I'm saying difficult and not impossible is because of another game I'll get to in a minute.
Brandin Cooks had five catches for 131 yards and two touchdowns on Sunday.
Photo by David Butler II/USA TODAY Sports

Excitement Index: 6.77

The Texans nearly became the first team to win as underdogs of 13.5 points or more since 2012, when the Cardinals got off to a 2-0 start by upsetting these very same Patriots in Foxborough 20-18.
Those Cardinals nearly fumbled the game away by giving up the ball with 1:10 to go, only to be bailed out when Stephen Gostkowski missed a would-be game-winning 42-yard field goal at the end.
You can make a case that the Texans lost through a self-inflicted mistake of another kind.
Facing fourth-and-inches on the Patriots' 18-yard line with 2:24 to go and a two-point lead, coach Bill O'Brien elected to send out kicker Ka'imi Fairbairn to attempt a 36-yard field goal to go up five, handing the ball back to Tom Brady while trusting the defense to come up with a stop.
The alternative option, of course, would have been to trust Deshaun Watson to find a half-yard and move the chains, even if it meant the downside of turning the ball over to Brady with the Pats only in need of a field goal to win.
Should the Texans have gone for it?
I think so.
Their running game had been effective in the second half against a thin Patriots defense; while Lamar Miller had been stuffed for no gain on the third-and-1 before O'Brien's call, it was the first time in 18 second-half tries that Houston's rushing attack had been stopped for no gain or a loss.
The Patriots had just used their two timeouts, but their defense also had faced 36 plays during the second half and looked worse for wear.
What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

A successful conversion wouldn't have won the game for the Texans, but it would have put them well on their way to victory.
With 2:28 and one timeout left for the Patriots, a Houston first down would have allowed the Texans to run the clock down to about 32 seconds before attempting a field goal that would have put them up five.
Brady still would have had a shot, and the Texans could have missed the field goal, but after making hyper-conservative decisions as a huge underdog against New England in the playoffs last season, it's disheartening to see O'Brien make the same mistakes in Foxborough yet again.
I think O'Brien should have gone for it, but in terms of how the game actually played out, I don't think his decision cost the Texans the game by any stretch of the imagination.
Fairbairn hit the field goal.
The Texans' defense eventually cracked, but it took some miraculous conversions and a bit of luck.
The Patriots had to convert on one series from a second-and-20 and then, on the next series, from a third-and-18.
The pass rush drew one holding penalty and stripsacked Brady later in the drive, only for the Patriots to recover.
On the next play, Brady nearly threw a game-ending interception to Corey Moore, but the Texans safety dropped what would have been his first career pick.
Brady then found a leaping Danny Amendola for 27 yards on third-and-18.
On the next play, Moore would be a step slow to get over to the sideline from what looked to be a two-deep look and Brady found Brandin Cooks for the game-winning touchdown.
As crushing as the loss has to be for the Texans, there are positives to take away from what was by far their best performance of the season.
Their pass rush finally woke up; after going sackless through the first two games of the season, their big three of Jadeveon Clowney, Whitney Mercilus and J.J. Watt combined for three sacks, seven tackles for loss and six quarterback knockdowns.
It helped that the Patriots were down starting right tackle Marcus Cannon and didn't appear to have a full-strength Nate Solder all game on the left side.
Watson also appears to have sprung the Houston offense to life, although the fact that O'Brien opted to start Tom Savage over Watson after the preseason has to make Texans fans wonder what exactly the former Patriots offensive coordinator was watching.
Watson's ability as a runner has forced opposing linebackers to hesitate and created running lanes for what has been a moribund Houston running game under Miller, with D'Onta Foreman helping shoulder some of the load as both a runner and checkdown receiver.
The rookie first-rounder isn't consistent yet, and turnovers are a concern -- Watson fumbled twice and threw an ugly interception off his back foot before adding another pick on a Hail Mary at the end of the game -- but he offers infinitely more upside compared to Savage.
The 35-yard pass Watson completed to Ryan Griffin across his body from the numbers on one side of the field to the other on second-and-22 was one of the most impressive passes of the day.
As for the Patriots, the concern has to be that several of their stars aren't playing very well this season.
Devin McCourty, the leader of what was supposed to be one of the best secondaries in football, has been a mess and was victimized for at least one touchdown pass on Sunday.
Solder has been out of sorts all season.
You have to assume they'll figure things out, given that the Patriots always do over the course of a campaign, but this isn't the Pats team people expected might flirt with a 16-0 record.
Odell Beckham Jr. caught nine passes for 79 yards and two touchdowns again the Giants.
Abbie Parr/Getty Images

Excitement Index: 6.21

Since 1994, kickers have gone 15-for-71 on attempts between 60 and 65 yards.
With the game on the line in the fourth quarter and overtime, those same kickers were 4-of-21 before injury fill-in Jake Elliott atoned for an earlier miss from 52 by hitting a 61-yarder to beat the division rival Giants and cap a thrilling second half.
This is the 10th anniversary of the Super Bowl XLII-winning Giants, who started 0-2 and trailed 17-3 at halftime in Week 3 at their division rivals in Washington before frantically turning things around in the second half to pull out a late victory en route to a six-game winning streak.
Eli Manning seemed to leave it even later this time around, but this time, luck wasn't on the Giants' side.
Although the Giants were down 14-0 when they took over on their 45-yard line after an ugly Donnie Jones punt with 14:49 left to go in the fourth quarter, it would be fair to say they had been knocking on the door for a while.
Their running game had been functionally useless for most of the day, but coach Ben McAdoo had been both conservative and aggressive with little luck.
The Giants punted twice from Philadelphia's side of the field in the first quarter, lost the ball on a pair of Manning interceptions, and were stopped on downs twice in the red zone, including a pair of plays from the three-inch line at the end of the first half.
The Eagles were limited by injuries, with the secondary down three would-be contributors in Ronald Darby, Jaylen Watkins and Corey Graham.
By the end of the first half, star defensive tackle Fletcher Cox and every-down linebacker Jordan Hicks were done for the day.
The Giants eventually took advantage.
Their drive from midfield to start the fourth quarter set up Odell Beckham Jr. for a devastating double-move past Jalen Mills for one score.
After Landon Collins forced Zach Ertz to fumble and the Giants recovered, it didn't take long for New York to tie it up.
The Eagles' secondary couldn't bring down Orleans Darkwa on a 20-yard run, which set up Beckham on a fake slant-and-fade past Mills to tie the score.
On the next possession the Eagles punted, and two plays later, the Giants led.
Manning hit a tight window on a play-action pass and found Sterling Shepard for what should have simply been a first down, only for third-string safety Chris Maragos to crash in with a terrible angle and miss his tackle.
Maragos' miss knocked Patrick Robinson off Shepard's trail, which was all the space the second-year receiver needed to put the Giants ahead.
A stop and a running game might have been enough for the Giants to seal the win, but they made mental mistakes down the stretch.
Eli Apple, who has struggled mightily during his second season, was drawn into a long pass interference penalty against the King of Pass Interference, Torrey Smith, setting up a tying Eagles touchdown.
On the ensuing drive, the Giants thought they had a free play and a third-down conversion in the red zone with an Eagles player struggling to get off the field, but John Jerry was whistled for holding the defender down and preventing him from getting off the field, marking the most successful block made by a Giants offensive lineman in 2017.
With Olivier Vernon out thanks to an ankle injury, the Eagles were able to run the ball and get back in field goal range, eventually tying the score at 24-24 with 51 seconds left.
The Giants took over with three timeouts and had plenty of time to get in field goal range, only to again play sloppy football.
Manning completed a short pass and let the clock run without calling timeout, but as the Giants rushed to the line, the offense never got set and Ereck Flowers was called for an illegal shift.
The Giants then used a timeout to prevent a 10-second runoff, which cost them dearly.
Flowers subsequently held to make it second-and-18, where Shane Vereen caught a 2-yard checkdown and foolishly went out of bounds, saving the Eagles a timeout.
Manning then threw a pass short of the sticks on third down, and a 28-yard shank from Brad Wing gave the Eagles the ball back with 13 seconds and a timeout on their 38-yard line.
After a 19-yard completion, Elliott hit a 61-yarder to get the keys to every Wawa in Philadelphia.
It's bad luck to be beaten by a field goal from another area code, but the Giants should have been able to seal up this lead or at least make it to overtime.
This is a team that was supposed to be full of veterans who know how to win after going 8-3 in one-score games last season, but a series of mental mistakes might have cost them their season.
According to ESPN's Football Power Index, the Giants now have a 4.3 percent chance of making the postseason after starting 0-3, down from their 39.4 percent preseason odds.
They're also 0-2 in the division and have lost to three NFC teams likely to figure in the wild-card picture.
Just six teams have made the playoffs after starting 0-3, and none of them have come since the league went to its current divisional and playoff format in 2002.
The Giants don't seem likely to become the fourth.
Rookie Tarik Cohen has 20 catches and 24 rushes for 283 total yards, with one touchdown, on the season.
Dennis Wierzbicki/USA TODAY Sports

Excitement Index: 5.46

This game would rank even higher in terms of excitement if a win expectancy model could know that Chicago's Marcus Cooper would inexplicably lock up inside the 5-yard line at the end of a blocked field goal return and fumble the ball away to produce what felt like an hour of chaos and referee discussions.
It might even top the list if the model knew what Tarik Cohen did in overtime, running through seemingly the entire Steelers defense before scoring what appeared to be a game-winning touchdown, only for it to be called back because the rookie stepped out of bounds.
It didn't matter for the Bears, who overcame their mistakes and prevailed in overtime without ever giving the Steelers a chance to score.
It's remarkable to consider that the Bears could very easily be 2-1 right now with wins over a pair of 11-win playoff teams from a year ago, given that they just beat the Steelers and came within a dropped pass in the end zone of beating the Falcons in Week 1.
It's even more remarkable, I suppose, that they lost by 22 points to the Buccaneers in between those two performances.
With Mike Glennon officially earning the title of embattled after that ugly loss to the Bucs, the Bears simply decided to look past their quarterback problem and run the ball down Pittsburgh's throat.
Despite missing starting guard Josh Sitton and losing center Hroniss Grasu to an injury during the game, the Bears gashed a Pittsburgh run defense that was without two front-seven pieces in Stephon Tuitt and T.J. Watt.
The combination of Cohen and Jordan Howard carried the ball 35 times for 216 yards in addition to serving as the team's top two receivers on the day.
By the Joe Thomas rushing efficiency metric, more than 50 percent of Chicago's running plays on the day were successful.
The Pittsburgh running game, on the other hand, is still waiting to kick things off.
It's too simplistic to say that Le'Veon Bell's holdout has kept him from showing off his best work to start the season, but the superstar back hasn't been as productive as anyone would like so far.
Through three games, Bell has just 180 yards on 52 carries, which is under 3.5 yards per attempt.
It didn't help that the Steelers were without right tackle Marcus Gilbert, who was sidelined by a hamstring injury.
Even if Gilbert is slow to get back, the Bell breakout should be coming.
The last time he didn't make it over 200 yards in a three-game stretch was during the middle of last season.
Bell followed it with four consecutive 100-yard games, including a 236-yard shellacking of the Bills.
He's too good to keep down for long.
While the Bears left seven points on the field with the bizarre Cooper fumble and a missed field goal, they rode their luck to win this one.
Chicago should have been down 7-0 after the first play from scrimmage, as Martavis Bryant ran right past Cooper for what should have been a 75-yard touchdown pass to start the day, only for Ben Roethlisberger to overthrow his speedy wide receiver.
There also were seven fumbles in this game, and the Bears recovered six of them, which is a bit ironic given the Steelers recovered a league-high 62.2 percent of fumbles in their games last season.
(Pittsburgh is 3-for-10 so far this season.)
A muffed punt by Eli Rogers, who has taken over for Antonio Brown on punt returns, set up Chicago with a short field for its first score.
Chicago's fumble into the end zone stuck around long enough to require Vance McDonald batting it out of the end zone, which gave the Bears three points.
John Fox's offense also fumbled twice during the final drive of regulation, recovering both fumbles in a spot where a Steelers recovery would have resulted in a game-winning field goal try.
We're still waiting to see a great game from the Steelers.
They were fortunate in Week 1 to have a first-quarter blocked punt against the Browns somehow bounce violently backward and stay inbounds for a Pittsburgh touchdown, given that the Browns outscored their divisional rivals 18-14 the rest of the way.
Mike Tomlin's team beat the Vikings 26-9 last week, but that was with Sam Bradford as a surprise inactive on Sunday.
The higher gear we were supposed to see from this offense with Roethlisberger, Bell, Brown and Bryant all on the field together hasn't yet been realized.
And yet, I'm not sure it really matters.
Pittsburgh's loss didn't hurt at all given what happened around the AFC North.
The Browns blew their best chance at a road win by losing to the Colts, dropping Cleveland to 0-3.
The Bengals couldn't hold onto a 21-7 lead in Green Bay and lost to the Packers in overtime, leaving them in the cellar alongside the Browns at 0-3.
Baltimore, without arguably its best player on offense (guard Marshal Yanda, who's on IR) or defense (defensive lineman Brandon Williams), were stomped by the Jaguars in London by 37 points.
Pittsburgh came into the week with a 56.9 percent chance of winning its division and, despite the loss, left with a 73.3 percent chance of claiming its division.
The Steelers have time to figure things out.
Tyrod Taylor ranks ninth in the NFL in Total QBR this season (59.5).
Mark Konezny/USA TODAY Sports

Excitement Index: 4.40

Burns are exciting too, right?
Von Miller's now-infamous "too slow" move seemed like a bizarre act to flag given that he never actually touched Tyrod Taylor after the play, but the call was enough to push a back-and-forth game Buffalo's way.
The Bills were set to punt the ball from the Denver 46-yard line with 7:43 to go in the fourth quarter up seven, but the fresh set of downs revitalized Taylor's offense.
Buffalo picked up two more first downs and forced Denver to burn all of its timeouts before kicking a field goal with 3:18 left to make it a 10-point game and basically end the contest.
Before the officiating crew decided to take center stage, though, this was an interesting game and a bit of a reality check for the Broncos' offense under Trevor Siemian.
Siemian had stretches during the first two weeks where he looked like a franchise quarterback, but he also threw two picks and had a would-be pick-six dropped by the Chargers early in the opener.
While linebacker Ramon Humber dropped one would-be interception, the Bills generally weren't as forgiving.
A scrambling Siemian tried to force a second-and-long pass over the middle of the field in the shadow of his end zone, and it didn't work.
The Broncos survived the E.J.
Gaines pick, thanks to a holding penalty and a sack of Taylor, but they weren't as lucky the second time around.
Siemian was again under pressure, this time on the edge of the red zone, and tried to throw a pass away off his back foot and instead only found impressive rookie Tre'Davious White.
The Broncos were in a favorable spot on the Buffalo 24-yard line with 11 minutes to go.
Instead, with the ensuing drive including the Miller penalty, the Bills ran more than seven minutes off the clock before kicking a field goal to stretch their lead to 10.
While a seven-minute drive might sound like it features one team running the ball down the other's throat, LeSean McCoy & Co. were basically held in check by the Broncos' run defense, which is one of the quiet success stories of 2017.
Keep in mind that the league-best Denver defense was first against the pass and 21st against the run per DVOA last season.
So far this season, the Broncos have held Melvin Gordon to 64 yards on 22 carries, Ezekiel Elliott to 8 yards on nine rushes, and now McCoy to 21 yards on 14 attempts.
Those are three franchise running backs who have combined to run for 93 yards on 45 carries, or just under 2.1 yards per attempt.
That's sensational.
On the other hand, much as they did with Dak Prescott last week, the Broncos stacked the box with run defenders and dared Taylor to beat them.
The difference is that Taylor delivered.
He went 20-of-26 for 213 yards with two touchdowns, and two of those incompletions were drops.
Taylor's first touchdown pass came on a throw that was fortuitously deflected by Zay Jones to Andre Holmes, but he was brilliant regardless.
Taylor posted a passer rating of 126.0, which is comfortably the best mark any quarterback has posted against the Broncos and their dominant pass defense since the beginning of the 2015 season.
Drew Brees was previously the only other passer to make it to triple digits over that time frame (111.7).
This was an important victory for the Bills, especially because they head to Atlanta to take on the 3-0 Falcons next week.
It was especially promising to see them win without the services of their two most expensive players, as both left tackle Cordy Glenn and defensive tackle Marcell Dareus were inactive with injuries.
Sean McDermott's team also has to travel to Cincinnati before its Week 6 bye, and while the Bengals aren't good, a home game against the Broncos was likely Buffalo's best shot at heading into the bye with two wins underneath its belt.
As for the Broncos, they may just chalk this one up to a bad day at the office.
A fake punt on fourth-and-2 was stuffed.
Opposing kicker Steven Hauschka hit four field goals, including kicks from 53 and 55 yards out, which are far less likely to be gimmes in Buffalo than they are in the thin air of Denver.
They were victimized by the bizarre Miller penalty.
With a key home game against the Raiders coming up in Week 4 before their bye, the Broncos might have fallen victim to something that may not even exist: a trap game.
Philadelphia Eagles running back Darren Sproles tore an ACL and broke an arm on the same play Sunday, sources told ESPN's Chris Mortensen and Adam Schefter.
Sproles is having surgery on his arm Monday and will require surgery on his knee, sources said.
His season is over.
He was injured in the first half against the New York Giants following an awkward plant and hit from safety Darian Thompson.
Trainers were originally looking at Sproles' knee, but he was able to walk off under his own power, holding his right arm in obvious pain as he headed indoors.
Replays showed that Thompson's foot inadvertently hit Sproles on the arm.
The 34-year-old running back held a key role in the Eagles rotation.
LeGarrette Blount and Wendell Smallwood received the bulk of the carries in his absence Sunday.
Sproles rushed for 61 yards this season on 15 carries.
He also had seven receptions for 73 yards.
ESPN's Tim McManus contributed to this report.
Dallas Mavericks players will get the chance to weigh in on the divisive comments made by President Donald Trump and their feelings on the United States.
Editor's Picks What NBA world is saying about Trump, protests Here's what NBA players, coaches and executives are saying in response to President Donald Trump, protests and the intersection of politics and sports.
The effort is being encouraged by Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, who said it would offer a clear message to fans on where the players stand.
"If they would want to have, as a team, their feelings aired on our JumboTron before a game rather than trying to make a point through a secondary action, whether it's taking knees, joining arms, whatever it may be, let's just say what's on our mind and just be clear to fans what we think," Cuban told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Monday, "and if we can take it from there and start a discussion in our community, then that's a good thing."
The Mavericks are one of several teams holding their media day on Monday.
Questions about Trump's comments about standing for the national anthem are likely to be pervasive.
Detroit Pistons owner Tom Gores released a statement early Monday that did not specifically mention Trump but says "America's most treasured values include equality and diversity, and the right to effect change through peaceful expression and thoughtful debate."
Gores also said he will support the Pistons players and their right to thoughtfully raise awareness to various causes.
Mavericks owner Mark Cuban says having players speak openly about their views on the United States would offer transparency to fans.
EPA/CJ Gunther

Cuban has been an outspoken critic of Trump since the president started his campaign, including tweets that have questioned Trump's policies and character.
He also has teased possible presidential and vice presidential runs, though he has made no formal effort to pursue office.
In his comments to CNBC, Cuban said Trump needs to be able to take the blowback to his rhetoric.
"If he's going to dish it out, he's got to be able to take it," Cuban said.
"I don't expect him to apologize, but if this is the new presidency, where our president wants to mix it up, and obviously he does, whether it's North Korea -- God help us -- or sports or me or public figures or anybody, then this is the new reality we live in, and that makes him fair game."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
NFL underdogs went on a run Sunday that produced a significant transfer of wealth in Las Vegas.
Ten of Sunday's 13 underdogs covered the spread, with six teams pulling outright upsets.
For some bookmakers, it was their most lucrative NFL Sunday ever.
For the betting public, it was a multimillion-dollar defeat.
On an average NFL Sunday, sportsbook operator CG Technology will win 4-6 percent of the amount wagered.
This Sunday, CG Technology kept more than 16 percent of the money bet on the NFL at their sportsbooks, according to vice president of risk Jason Simbal.
"It was certainly one of the best days we've had," Simbal told ESPN on Sunday night.
Editor's Picks Week 3 NFL gambling recap: ATS winners from every game If you missed any of the action in Week 3 of the NFL season, ESPN Chalk gets you caught up on the winners and losers of every game from a gambling perspective.
All the big decisions went the books' way.
Upset wins by the Buffalo Bills and Chicago Bears, combined with the Houston Texans covering the spread against the New England Patriots, ended the bulk of parlay bets early in the day.
The Denver Broncos, who lost at Buffalo, were included on more parlay bets than any other team at Caesars Palace sportsbooks.
The Bears' overtime win over the Pittsburgh Steelers set the tone at MGM, which took a $340,000-plus money-line bet on the Steelers to win straight-up at -340 odds.
That money stayed with the book.
"We had a ton of money-line parlays on the Steelers, ton of teasers," Jay Rood, vice president of MGM race and sports, said.
"That was a complete blow to the public."
The biggest win of the day for the books, though, came at night when Washington, a 3-point underdog, ran over the Oakland Raiders in a 27-10 win.
An hour before kickoff at MGM's sportsbook, seven times as much money had been bet on Oakland as had been bet on Washington.
William Hill, Nevada's largest sportsbook, reported a record Sunday, and most books said it ranked right up there with their most lucrative Sundays ever.
"It was as good as one Mayweather-McGregor fight," Frank Kunovic, director of specialty games for Caesars Entertainment, added.
Sportsbooks won millions of dollars on Floyd Mayweather's knockout of Conor McGregor in late August.
Heading into the Monday night game, underdogs were 11-3 against the spread, including the San Francisco 49ers covering as 3-point underdogs in a 41-39 loss to the Los Angeles Rams on Thursday.
The Arizona Cardinals are 3-point underdogs to the Dallas Cowboys on Monday.
The Minnesota Vikings could have been the 12th underdog to cover the spread on Sunday.
The Vikings were underdogs to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers for most of the week, before late sharp money showed up on Minnesota to drive the line down to pick 'em when the game kicked off.
The Vikings won 34-17.
Sunday's windfall for the books could have been even bigger, but multiple operators reported that handle on the NFL was down slightly.
"Our handle was down a little bit, but not significantly," John Avello, executive director for Wynn race and sports, said.
"I'm certainly not complaining."
The NFL parlay lottery in Delaware also experienced a boon from the Sunday underdogs.
According to executive director Vernon Kirk, $2.9 million was wagered on Sunday, with the lottery winning $2.4 million of it.
The Pittsburgh Steelers remained off the sideline during the national anthem, although offensive lineman Alejandro Villanueva stood in front of the tunnel.
Members of the Chicago Bears locked arms in a show of solidarity on the sideline.
(0:16)

CHICAGO -- Alejandro Villanueva's emergence from the Soldier Field tunnel during Sunday's national anthem surprised many members of the Pittsburgh Steelers, a source told ESPN.
Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who served terms in Afghanistan, was the lone Steeler to appear despite an expectation from Saturday's players-only meeting that the entire team would remain in the locker room, the source said.
The starting left tackle was a key figure in the team's protest planning because of his background.
Players wanted to accommodate Villanueva, who expressed during their 30-minute session that he didn't want to be singled out, the source said.
Moving the protest off the field entirely was a way to keep solidarity without isolating an individual.
"That's where the confusion came in," the source of the anthem sequence said.
Editor's Picks Steelers, Titans, Seahawks absent for anthem Players for the Steelers stayed off the field during the anthem prior to their game Sunday, except for Army vet Alejandro Villanueva, who stood outside with a hand over his heart.
The Seahawks and Titans also stayed in the tunnel during the anthem.
Trump-supporting PAC starts anti-NFL ad A political action committee that supports President Trump began an advertising campaign Sunday that encourages NFL fans to turn off games and watch a patriotic movie instead, according to a source close to the committee.
Report: Timmons visited Steelers during bye According to CBSSports.com, Lawrence Timmons visited the Steelers during the Dolphins' impromptu Week 1 bye.
He went AWOL from the Dolphins a week later, which led to his indefinite suspension.
2 Related

Players discussed several potential methods of protest at that meeting, including holding hands on the sideline or laying hands on teammates who would stand or kneel.
The team eventually moved their locker-room plan into the tunnel for time purposes.
Villanueva was not available in the locker room during the Steelers' open locker room after a 23-17 overtime loss to the Chicago Bears.
Asked what played into Villanueva's leaving the tunnel, defensive end Cam Heyward said: "I don't want to go into that, but we support our guy Al.
He feels he had to do it.
This guy served our country, and we thank him for it."
James Harrison told PennLive.com that he did not think anyone was exempt from the pregame plan.
"We thought we were all in attention with the same agreement, obviously," Harrison told PennLive.com.
"But I guess we weren't."
In the past, Villanueva has said he aligned with player frustration over racial injustice, but the sacrifice of the military is too great to minimize the anthem.
Teammates widely respect Villanueva for serving the country, and they made that clear Sunday.
"Al is a unique circumstance, what he's been through, some of the things he's talked about before," guard David DeCastro said of Villanueva's decision Sunday.
"I've got a lot of respect for Al.
I wish there was a different way to do this thing.
We've got some people who look at the national anthem as patriotism, soldiers, all the stuff that it means, and obviously, people are upset, and I understand that.
I just wish both sides understand that they want the right thing, but doing it through the national anthem, I wish there was a different way."
Patriots quarterback Tom Brady said he disagrees with President Donald Trump's criticism of players who protest the anthem, calling those remarks "divisive."
(0:51)

Patriots quarterback Tom Brady said he disagrees with President Donald Trump's criticism of players who protest the anthem, calling those remarks "divisive."
(0:51)

FOXBOROUGH, Mass.
-- New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady directly addressed remarks by President Donald Trump on Monday morning, saying, "I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive."
Editor's Picks Matt Light on players kneeling: First time I'm ashamed to be a Patriot Retired OT Matt Light said he's not the only former Patriot who finds it "disheartening" that 17 New England players knelt Sunday during the anthem.
Listen: How NFL players, coaches responded to President Trump's criticism Listen to players talk about why they locked arms, why they knelt, why they stood, why they stayed in the locker room during the singing of the national anthem

Trump-supporting PAC starts anti-NFL ad A political action committee that supports President Trump began an advertising campaign Sunday that encourages NFL fans to turn off games and watch a patriotic movie instead, according to a source close to the committee.
2 Related

Brady's willingness to answer the question, which came during his weekly interview on sports radio WEEI's "Kirk and Callahan" program, was different from how he handled a similar query after the team's 36-33 victory over the Houston Texans on Sunday.
At that time, Brady said he didn't want to get into politics while speaking of the love he has for his teammates.
During his radio interview Monday, Brady was asked if he thought Trump had bigger things to worry about than whether a player kneels during the national anthem.
After saying he disagreed with Trump's remarks, Brady added, "I just want to support my teammates.
I'm never one that says, 'Oh, that's wrong or that's right.'
But I do believe in what I believe in, and I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.
Those are the values that my parents instilled in me and that's how I try to live every day.
"I've been blessed to be in a locker room with guys from all over the United States over the course of my career.
Some of my great friends are from Florida, Virginia, New York, Montana, Colorado, Texas.
I think one thing about football is that it brings so many guys together, guys that you would never have the opportunity to be around, whether it was in college and all the way into the pros.
We're all different.
We're all unique.
That's what makes us all so special."
Brady was asked if he had ever had conversations with teammates who had questions about his friendship with Trump, and he said that has not happened.
Trump on Friday night criticized NFL players who lodge protests during the national anthem.
Speaking at a political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!'"
Seventeen Patriots players kneeled during the national anthem Sunday, while Brady stood in a row with a handful of teammates whose arms were interlocked.
Fans at the Patriots' home stadium booed the players who kneeled, with some calling for them to stand up.
Brady acknowledged on sports radio WEEI that he heard the boos.
Asked if the boos disappointed him, Brady said, "No, I think everyone has a right to do whatever they want to do.
If you don't agree with it, that's fine, you can voice your disagreement; I think that's great.
It's part of our democracy, as long as it's done in a peaceful, respectful way.
That's what this country has been all about."
The players kneeling sparked a strong reaction from former Patriots offensive tackle Matt Light who was part of the franchise's first three Super Bowl championships.
"As a guy that's been there and helped set up the Patriot Way so they can walk in there and do what they do, it's beyond disheartening," Light told the Boston Herald.
"It's the first time I've ever been ashamed to be a Patriot.
And I promise you I'm not the only one."
On Monday morning, Trump tweeted support for the fans who booed.
The visuals all across the NFL, from Lambeau Field to London, declared an unemployed quarterback named Colin Kaepernick as the biggest winner of the day.
He started this movement by sitting next to some Gatorade buckets 13 months ago during a preseason playing of the national anthem, and it is possible he paid for that protest with the rest of his NFL career.
But this was Kaepernick's defining moment Sunday, far more significant than his two playoff conquests of Aaron Rodgers and his NFC Championship Game victory over Atlanta in 2013.
Dozens of NFL players took a knee during the anthem -- Kaepernick's revised form of protesting police brutality and racial inequities in society -- and at night, around the bend from the White House, a whole procession of Raiders took a seat before playing Washington.
The Steelers, Titans and Seahawks declined to take the field for the anthem.
Scores of players, coaches and owners stood on two continents with arms locked in a show of unity after President Donald Trump profanely called for the firings of men who had peacefully exercised their First Amendment rights.
Editor's Picks 'Hopefully it's not a one-week thing': Malcom Jenkins on what happens now What's the point of these protests during the national anthem?
For the Eagles safety, they're just a start.
He wants to effect change off the field.
NFL players who protested during the national anthem in Week 3 After President Donald Trump criticized NFL players who lodge pregame protests, several players protested during the national anthem in Week 3.
What NFL players, coaches are saying about protests Every team participated in some form of demonstration in response to President Donald Trump's criticism of NFL players who protested during the national anthem.
Here's a sampling of quotes from an emotional day across the league.
2 Related

Professional football players weren't alone in expressing their dissent over the weekend.
Bruce Maxwell, Oakland A's catcher, became the first MLB player to drop to a knee during "The Star-Spangled Banner."
The entire Garfield High football team took a knee in Seattle.
Stevie Wonder, legendary singer, took two knees at a New York music festival.
Rico LaVelle, national anthem singer at the Falcons-Lions game in Detroit, took a knee at the close of the song and then raised his right fist in the air.
"If we don't protest, how are we going to get our voices heard?"
Marlin Briscoe, the first African-American to start a pro football game at quarterback, told ESPN.com by phone.
"I've supported everything Kaepernick and those who followed have done."
Nicknamed "The Magician," Briscoe was busy in his Long Beach, California, home on Sunday watching Deshaun Watson, Houston's rookie quarterback, take on Tom Brady in New England.
Briscoe thinks Watson plays his style of football, but the rules of engagement have dramatically changed for black quarterbacks over the past five decades.
In 1968, after the Denver Broncos of the old American Football League drafted him as a defensive back, Briscoe had to insist on a three-day tryout at quarterback, his position at Omaha University.
Briscoe aced the tryout, ultimately set a Broncos rookie record with 14 touchdown passes in only five starts (Joe Namath threw 15 that year in 14 starts) and then wasn't even allowed to compete for the starting job the next year.
A quarterback since his Pop Warner days, Briscoe was forced to leave Denver and switch to wide receiver, a position he'd never played, because of the color of his skin.
He became a star receiver for the Buffalo Bills and a two-time champion with the Miami Dolphins.
"Athletes were always supposed to be barefoot and pregnant in my time," Briscoe said.
"We weren't supposed to express our views outside of going on the field and playing football.
When I was coming up, you couldn't have a black quarterback, center or middle linebacker -- all the thinking positions.
When you were in school and a teacher asked what you wanted to be when you grew up, a white kid would say, 'I want to be president of the United States.'
You would never hear a black kid say that, including myself.
"Racism has softened over time, but it hasn't been eradicated.
And to have some of the same concerns and experiences for African-Americans in 2017 that we had in 1968 is amazing.
For African-Americans who can't throw or catch a football, or shoot baskets, or get their music out, there's a helplessness that they feel as a people."
A retired director of a Boys & Girls Club in Long Beach and a former financial broker, Briscoe said he has been sober 25 years after battling a drug addiction that left him, at times, homeless and in jail.
He said his white offensive linemen in Denver, most from the South, all rallied around him and told each other, "Don't let them touch The Magician."
As proud as he is of Watson, Cam Newton and other black quarterbacks who followed his lead, Briscoe is encouraged by the support offered to today's protesters by their white teammates and co-workers.
"It's not just African-Americans speaking out; it's society as a whole," he said.
"Back in the day we were alone in our protests and in our pain."
Not this Sunday.
This show of solidarity was a blowout victory for Kaepernick, absent in body but so present in spirit.
Trump's attack was countered by criticism from an unlikely group, NFL owners ("They're friends of mine," the president said), including one of the seven who contributed $1 million to his inauguration committee (and the only one to gift him a Super Bowl ring), New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft.
At a political rally Friday night in Hunstville, Alabama, Trump didn't just call your average peaceful protestor a "son of a bitch" who deserved to be terminated; he claimed highly compensated NFL players had forfeited the right to "disrespect" the flag.
People don't disrespect the flag when giving a public voice to the voiceless they believe have been oppressed.
They are actually respecting what that flag is supposed to represent.
Colin Kaepernick first started protesting last season by sitting down during the national anthem before a preseason game, and then kneeling during the anthem in Week 1 and throughout the season.
AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez

"Nonviolent protest is as American as it gets," the Ravens' Terrell Suggs said after Jacksonville's 44-7 victory in London, where he took a knee for the anthem.
"We knelt with them today and let them know we are a unified front.
There is no dividing us."
Put aside your personal feelings about what you witnessed Sunday, pro or con, and review this fundamental concept of American democracy: Freedom of expression is a constitutional right.
Many men and women have died protecting it.
Protesting players have not broken any league or team rules.
They have done nothing to disrupt the games they're paid handsomely to play, or to prevent teammates from standing and honoring the anthem as they see fit.
And frankly, they've really done this country a big favor.
Millions of people who go about their daily lives rarely thinking about systemic imbalances were likely inspired by the NFL protests to at least think and talk about them.
In the end, thought and dialogue can bridge even the most stubborn divides.
Not that everyone inside an NFL stadium Sunday was supportive of the cause.
Some fans in Indianapolis and New England were among those heard booing players who didn't stand for the anthem.
Denver's Derek Wolfe sent a statement to ESPN's Josina Anderson saying, in part, he feels a protest during the anthem is "disrespectful to the ones who sacrificed their lives and it's the wrong platform."
And that's perfectly fine.
Wolfe and the booing fans are only exercising their rights, too.
But the sights and sounds that will endure above all were those that projected unity between white and black, employer and employee.
They started on social media, where Brady and Rodgers posted hashtagged messages of love and brotherhood and photos of Brady about to embrace a black teammate, and Rodgers kneeling with white and black Packers.
They continued on the field, where fans could see the Lions' 92-year-old owner, Martha Ford, locking arms with 62-year-old head coach Jim Caldwell.
This isn't what the president wanted to see.
A political group supporting Trump has started an ad campaign designed to persuade fans to stage a protest of their own.
"Turn off the NFL," was the headline in the first posted ad, next to the hashtag TakeAStandNotAKnee and a photo of Trump with his hand over his heart.
It's too bad Trump never bothered to invite some protesting players to the White House for an open and honest discussion on the issues, assuming they would agree to meet him.
It's too bad Trump never spent 10 minutes listening to the Eagles' Malcolm Jenkins, who raises his fist during the anthem.
You couldn't have a more thoughtful representative of your company -- and your country, for that matter -- than Malcolm Jenkins.
But it's too late for any of that.
The president assailed the basic rights of unionized NFL workers, and he ended up unifying the very sport he's trying to tear down.
In the end, he made a big winner out of his least favorite athlete, Colin Kaepernick, a quarterback who didn't need to be on the field to have his day in the sun.
Brandin Cooks explains that the Patriots' anthem protest prior to the game was meant to take a stand for a need for respect and unity.
(0:24)

FOXBOROUGH, Mass.
-- When 17 New England Patriots players knelt during the national anthem before Sunday's game against the Houston Texans, it sparked a strong reaction from a player who was part of the franchise's first three Super Bowl championships.
"As a guy that's been there and helped set up the Patriot Way so they can walk in there and do what they do, it's beyond disheartening," offensive tackle Matt Light told the Boston Herald.
"It's the first time I've ever been ashamed to be a Patriot.
And I promise you I'm not the only one."
Light, who played for the Patriots from 2001 to 2011 and appeared in 155 regular-season games (153 starts), was present at Sunday's game.
He told the Herald he was surprised that players knelt because of the detail that head coach Bill Belichick puts into all situations.
"Nobody can force anybody to do anything in a situation like that.
If he chooses to do it, he's going to do it," Light told the Herald.
"But I'm going to tell you this much, with the amount of preparation and attention to detail, and all the things that happen in that organization, I'm really surprised that it wasn't dealt with so it didnt get to that point."
Former Patriots receiver Troy Brown, who played for the team from 1993 to 2007, struck a more empathetic tone during his work as a postgame analyst on Comcast Sports Net.
Brown said he was disappointed that fans booed players who knelt.
"I was kind of surprised after the President said what he had to say that they would boo the players who took a knee.
Maybe they don't understand that this is in protest to what he had to say about one or two other players on their team and other teams who took a knee because he thought there was some racial inequality in this country," Brown said.
After the game, when asked about his players' reaction to the national anthem, Belichick said, "I'm just going to talk about the game.
I'll deal with that later."
The predictable: Tom Brady led all quarterbacks in fantasy points through the 1 p.m.
ET game block, his 35.72 giving him the 19th instance of at least 30 in his NFL career.
The unpredictable: The Nos.
2, 3 and 4 quarterbacks in fantasy points during the 1 p.m.
ET block -- Case Keenum (28.56), Jacoby Brissett (27.8) and Blake Bortles (27.6) -- combined were started in just 1.98 percent of ESPN leagues.
Welcome to the wild, wacky world that is Sunday football!
As we do each week, we recap the week's winners and losers from a fantasy perspective, complete with applicable game and historical data.
Check back after the conclusion of the 1 and 4 p.m.
ET (and, when applicable, Sunday Night Football) games for our picks of the week's best and worst.
Winners

Stefon Diggs, WR, Minnesota Vikings: Say hello to your leading scorer from Sunday's 1 p.m.
ET game block, as Diggs' 37.3 PPR fantasy points led the way.
Diggs shredded the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' defense en route to a career-best day in both PPR and non-PPR (29.3) fantasy scoring, showing chemistry with fill-in quarterback Case Keenum that wasn't at all evident in Week 2.
Most remarkably, Diggs' score could've been even greater if not for multiple drops, but this was an extremely encouraging outing for an underrated player who had already shown an outstanding effort working with Sam Bradford in the season opener.
Started in just 40.5 percent of ESPN leagues in Week 3, Diggs' number should rise dramatically in Week 4 against the Detroit Lions.
Tom Brady, QB, New England Patriots: His heroics led his team to a stunning 36-33 victory, with his 35.72 fantasy points good for the fourth-best total in any of his 239 career NFL games.
Started in 94.2 percent of ESPN leagues, Brady now has 77.2 fantasy points through three games this season, his third most through three team games of any season behind only 2011's 88.18 (he finished with 366.30) and 2015's 78.58 (he finished with 344.70).
Reminder: Brady is 40 years old, and he's already 27.2 percent of the way to Brett Favre's all-time record of 283.58 fantasy points (2009) in a player's age-40 season or older.
Brady is on pace for 411.63 fantasy points.
Jordan Howard, RB, Chicago Bears: So much for sweating over Tarik Cohen's emergence.
Howard, who scored the winning touchdown in overtime, finished with a career-best 31.4 PPR fantasy points, and his 26.4 non-PPR fantasy points were his second-best total behind only his 29.7 of 2016 Week 13.
This was the fifth time in his 16 NFL starts that he managed at least 23 carries -- he had exactly that number -- and his five receptions represented a new personal best.
That's not to take anything away from Cohen, who had healthy numbers in terms of PPR (14.2) and non-PPR (10.2) fantasy points, but the Bears remain likely to give Howard the larger rushing share of the two to keep the smallish Cohen healthy over the long haul.
Howard was started in just 53.0 percent of ESPN leagues, down more than 40 percent from Week 1, but that number is sure to rise significantly next week.
Kareem Hunt, RB, Kansas City Chiefs: He just continues to rewrite the record books, posting 25.3 PPR fantasy points on Sunday, his third consecutive week with at least 25.
He joined Marcus Allen (1982 Weeks 1-3) as the only two players (at any position) since at least 1950 to score at least that many in each of their first three NFL games, and Hunt's 96.8 total PPR fantasy points and 87.8 non-PPR fantasy points are second most behind only Billy Sims' 98.2 and 92.2 (1980 Weeks 1-3) through the first three games of an NFL career.
Hunt was started in 98.6 percent of ESPN leagues in Week 3, and continued to cement his status as an every-week, front-of-the-RB1-class weekly fantasy play.
Marcedes Lewis, TE, Jacksonville Jaguars: Congratulations if you were one of the fantasy managers who constituted the 0.03 percent of ESPN leagues in which Lewis was active in Week 3.
He managed career bests with 24.2 non-PPR and 28.2 PPR fantasy points, and both of those were the second most by any tight end in a game in London, trailing only Rob Gronkowski's 26.6 and 34.6 in 2012 Week 8.
Most unusually, Lewis was targeted three times in the red zone, his most in a game since 2011 Week 12 (also three), harkening back to his 2010 season when he managed 14 red zone targets resulting in a career-best seven of his 10 touchdowns.
Was this a new trend, or a one-game aberration?
The latter is the wiser guess, but the red zone usage makes Lewis a name to track in the coming weeks.
Case Keenum, QB, Vikings: What a game by Sam Bradfo ... wait, what?
That was Case Keenum under center for the Vikings?
It would have been understandable if anyone was thrown off by the box score or Keenum's fantasy point total of 28.56, as the sixth-year passer making only his 26th career NFL start moved the ball with ease against a Tampa Bay Buccaneers defense that had tied for the Week 2 lead in fantasy points.
Owned in just 0.40 percent and started in 0.18 percent of ESPN leagues, Keenum was almost universally doubted entering the week.
Remarkably, this was only his third-best single-game fantasy point total: He scored 29.54 in 2016 Week 6 (then starting for the Los Angeles Rams) and 28.60 in 2013 Week (then starting for the Houston Texans).
That's not to say that Keenum should suddenly be trusted for future play in games Bradford is forced to miss nursing a bone bruise in his surgically repaired left knee -- Keenum remains a Hail Mary option only in two-quarterback leagues -- but it's a reminder that the Vikings' passing game as a whole shouldn't be significantly downgraded when Keenum is called upon to start.
If you've got Diggs or Adam Thielen you should be especially encouraged.
Dalvin Cook, RB, Vikings: Perhaps the least-celebrated of the rookie running backs in Weeks 1 and 2, Cook managed 27.9 PPR and 22.9 non-PPR fantasy points on Sunday, the second most at the position during the 1 p.m.
ET game block.
Through three games, he has a 4.7 yards-per-carry average and 10 receptions.
Cook was started in 84.7 percent of ESPN leagues in his breakout game.
Jacoby Brissett, QB, Indianapolis Colts: Thanks largely to a pair of rushing touchdowns, Brissett managed a career-best 27.76 fantasy points, just 4.50 shy of his total in his previous three NFL starts combined (32.26).
It was, however, still likely more of a statement about the Cleveland Browns' defense than Brissett himself.
FYI: The Seattle Seahawks are next up on Brissett's schedule.
Todd Gurley, RB, Rams: Though his was a Thursday night performance, it's one that shouldn't be overlooked among "winners."
Gurley's 37.9 PPR fantasy points were the 10th most by any running back in a Thursday game since at least 1950, and they were the third most at the position since Thursday Night Football began in 2006, trailing only Kareem Hunt's 45.6 in 2017 Week 1 and Brian Westbrook's 40.0 in 2008 Week 13.
They also gave Gurley a new career high, as did his 32.9 non-PPR fantasy points.
He continues to look like a borderline RB1 thanks to his role as the team's clear goal-line back, though his 3.8 yards-per-carry average through three games should serve as a reminder not to get overzealous with your expectations from him.
Blake Bortles, QB, Jaguars: Well that was ... unexpected.
Bortles' 27.56 fantasy points were the fifth most in his 49 career NFL games, they were the fourth most by any of the 36 quarterbacks to start a game in London, and they were just 0.90 fewer than Tom Brady's 28.46 all-time record for a game there (2012 Week 8).
More notable, however, was the way in which Bortles accumulated this time.
By far the league's leader in fantasy points accumulated while his team trailed on the scoreboard during his four-year NFL career (571.22, 73.02 more than anyone else), Bortles managed 24.70 points on Sunday with his Jaguars leading on the scoreboard, easily his most in any game in his career and only the sixth time in his career that he managed at least 10 fantasy points in a game with his team leading.
That it happened against a Baltimore Ravens defense that had allowed an NFL-low 6.10 fantasy points to opposing quarterbacks in the season's first two weeks made it all the more puzzling a performance.
Bortles does face the New York Jets in Week 4, though, so it's not unthinkable he'll have something more to offer.
Brandin Cooks, WR, Patriots: It was his catch that sealed the victory for the Patriots, pushed him past the 30-point PPR fantasy plateau for the fourth time in his 45 career NFL games, and resulted in a 32.1 final score that was his third-best single-game effort.
It was a key performance for Cooks, whose fantasy managers might have begun to doubt his borderline-WR1 potential after he disappointed facing a superior matchup in Week 2.
Cooks' ownership percentage dropped to 71.3 percent on Sunday, down from 97.6 percent in each of the season's first two weeks.
If you had been concerned about him, consider this: Since the beginning of 2016, he now has 296.5 PPR fantasy points, eighth most among wide receivers (though Davante Adams, Doug Baldwin and Michael Crabtree have a decent chance of passing him in later games this week).
Hilton, WR, Colts: Speaking of encouraging performances, Hilton's 28.3 PPR fantasy point effort, his eighth-highest single-game score in his 81 career NFL contests and nearly double his Weeks 1-2 total (15.6), should keep him teetering on the WR2/3 map even in future games Andrew Luck misses.
Yes, it was mostly a matchups-driven effort, and Hilton and the Colts do face the Seahawks on the road, but this was also a big plus in the chemistry department for him and Brissett.
Hilton was started in 65.3 percent of ESPN leagues.
Odell Beckham Jr., WR, New York Giants: He put on yet another spectacle on Sunday, quelling most fantasy players' fears about the ankle injury that limited him to just 7.6 PPR fantasy points and 33 of 56 offensive snaps played in Week 2.
Beckham's 28.9 PPR fantasy points were third most among wide receivers through the Sunday 1 p.m.
ET game block, and they gave him 947.6 in the first 45 games of his NFL career.
That's a record by a significant margin, as Randy Moss' 861.9 rank second.
Russell Wilson, QB, Seattle Seahawks: After scoring just 23.64 fantasy points in Weeks 1-2 combined, Wilson managed 33.52 on Sunday, which remarkably was the ninth of his 83 career NFL games with at least 30 fantasy points.
Wilson was started in 51.7 percent of ESPN leagues, and he'll carry the hot performance into another favorable matchup against the Colts in Week 4.
Doug Baldwin, WR, Seahawks: Now that's the kind of game we wanted to see from Baldwin, a 26.5 PPR fantasy point effort that represented his 11th with at least 25 in his career, nine of which have occurred since the beginning of the 2015 season.
Most notably, he managed a tops-among-all-players (through the 4 p.m.
ET game block) 15 targets, despite departing in the fourth quarter with a groin injury.
Baldwin's status should be closely monitored, as he'd be one of the position's top starters in Weeks 4 (versus Colts) and 5 (at Rams) if he's good to go for those contests.
Green, WR, Cincinnati Bengals: His fantasy managers should also feel better about receiving a "vintage A.J.
Green" point total on Sunday, as he dropped 27.1 PPR points on the Green Bay Packers in what was reportedly the hottest game in Green Bay history at kickoff time (90 degrees).
Those who drafted Green remained faithful despite his somewhat ordinary -- albeit both double-digit in PPR scoring -- performances the first two weeks, activating him in 98.1 percent of ESPN leagues in Week 3.
Chris Thompson, RB, Washington Redskins: He scored a touchdown less than 10 minutes into Sunday Night Football, marking his third consecutive game with a touchdown to begin the season, and finished with career bests in both PPR (30.6) and non-PPR (24.6) fantasy points, breaking the marks he set just one week ago.
Thompson, who was started in 33.7 percent of ESPN leagues, is already almost halfway to his 2016 PPR fantasy point total (147.5) with 72.0 points through three games.
Losers

Cam Newton, QB, Carolina Panthers: Now it's time to panic.
Newton, who was started in 66.9 percent of ESPN leagues as he faced a New Orleans Saints defense that had surrendered a most-in-the-league 56.3 fantasy points to opposing quarterbacks in the season's first two weeks, dropped an 8.3-point stinker on Sunday, his sixth-worst single-game effort in his 96 career NFL contests.
Even more troubling: He was benched in the fourth quarter -- granted, with the Panthers trailing by 21 points -- and, a week after losing Greg Olsen for at least the next seven weeks due to a broken foot, he lost Kelvin Benjamin to a knee injury that threatens to cost the No.
1 wideout additional time.
Newton, who is coming off March shoulder surgery, doesn't appear his usual self, making him a surefire sit until he begins to show some improvement.
Jay Ajayi, RB, Miami Dolphins: If Newton wasn't the week's biggest matchups-related head-scratcher, Ajayi sure was.
Facing a Jets defense that allowed 72.1 PPR fantasy points to opposing running backs in the season's first two weeks, fourth most in the league, Ajayi scored just 4.5 PPR and 2.5 non-PPR fantasy points on Sunday, his fewest in either format in any of his 14 career NFL starts.
His 11 carries can be explained by the Dolphins playing a large chunk of the game from behind, which deflated any chance at his putting forth anything close to the 28 he had in Week 2, but that doesn't excuse his awful 1.4 yards-per-carry average in the game.
Perhaps the knee injury that had him listed as questionable for the game contributed, and the hit below the belt he took in the first quarter probably didn't help, but Ajayi's low score probably cost a lot of matchups for the 96.1 percent of ESPN managers who started him.
Travis Kelce, TE, Chiefs: He was started in 99.0 percent of ESPN leagues, so his 1.1 PPR fantasy point effort on Sunday was particularly painful.
Kelce caught his only target for a gain of 1 yard, resulting in the second-worst performance in his 52 career NFL games, trailing only his NFL debut in 2013 Week 2, when he played just one snap, that coming on special teams.
Joe Flacco, QB, Ravens: Though he was started in just 3.56 percent of ESPN leagues, Flacco's minus-2.88 fantasy points on Sunday were the second fewest by any skill player in a game so far this season, trailing only Andy Dalton's minus-3.00 in Week 1.
It was also the worst single-game effort by any skill-position player in history in a game in London.
Flacco now has six consecutive regular-season games with fewer than 15 fantasy points, rekindling questions about the back injury that cost him the entirety of preseason.
He's not even a consideration for starts in two-quarterback leagues, especially not facing the Pittsburgh Steelers in Week 4.
Mike Gillislee, RB, Patriots: Here's what happens when the Patriots don't run a single play from within 3 yards of the goal line, and do nothing but throw all three times they run plays from 5 yards out.
Gillislee, who entered Week 3 with a league-leading five rushing attempts from 3 yards out or closer, had a whopping zero on Sunday, resulting in a 3.1 point fantasy outing (whether PPR or not).
Gillislee, started in 71.0 percent of ESPN leagues, is going to be a frustrating player in fantasy this season, a touchdown-dependent player.
Jacquizz Rodgers, RB, Buccaneers: If he's to keep the starting job once Doug Martin returns from suspension in Week 5, Rodgers will need to fare better than the 1.5 fantasy points (either PPR or non-PPR) he scored on Sunday.
He was started in 35.0 percent of ESPN leagues, but he scored by far the fewest fantasy points in any of his 12 career NFL starts.
Before this week, Rodgers had averaged 15.5 PPR and 12.5 non-PPR fantasy points in a starting role.
Anderson, RB, Denver Broncos: After he carried the football 20-plus times in each of the first two weeks and had 30.4 PPR fantasy points in Week 2, Anderson saw his carry total shrink to eight and his PPR fantasy point total to 6.3 on Sunday.
Additionally, Jamaal Charles ran nine times and had 12.7 PPR fantasy points, resuming the debate about a potential timeshare between the two.
Anderson was started in 89.3 percent of ESPN leagues.
Jeremy Maclin, WR, Ravens: Where Flacco's score goes, Maclin's will follow.
After consecutive games of 13-plus PPR fantasy points to begin his Ravens career, Maclin managed just 1.8 points on five targets on Sunday.
It was his lowest score in a game that wasn't injury influenced since he was shut out in 2012 Week 11, though his fantasy owners recognized the challenging matchup, starting him in only 34.2 percent of ESPN leagues.
Kyle Rudolph, TE, Vikings: While Diggs and Thielen thrived working with Keenum on Sunday, Rudolph's day was almost completely quiet, as he caught 1 of 2 targets for 1.4 PPR fantasy points.
It's especially troubling for Rudolph, who was started in 78.1 percent of ESPN leagues, that the Vikings have been targeting wide receivers at a greater rate than usual.
Keenum threw 19 of his 33 passes to Diggs and Thielen alone, and 23 of his 33 passes total to his wideouts on Sunday.
Philip Rivers, QB, Los Angeles Chargers: For only the eighth time in his 183-game NFL career, Rivers was intercepted as many as three times, resulting in a ghastly 3.5-point fantasy score on Sunday.
That was the 11th-worst single-game effort of his career, and it was yet another stinker against the division-rival Chiefs, who certainly seem to have had Rivers' number during his 14-year career.
Rivers has managed only 39 career games with fewer than 10 fantasy points, and nine of them have come against the Chiefs.
He has averaged just 12.78 fantasy points in his 24 career games against them.
Terrelle Pryor Sr., WR, Redskins: His Redskins career hasn't begun quite as well as his fantasy owners had hoped, as he managed just 3.9 PPR fantasy points on Sunday Night Football, his worst single-game score since 2016 Week 14 (1.3) and second worst since the beginning of the 2016 season.
Pryor was started in 69.3 percent of ESPN leagues, and as his point production continues to slide, so soon will his start rate.
That might well be true in Week 4 facing a much tougher matchup against the Chiefs.
Derek Carr, QB, Oakland Raiders: He and the entire Raiders offense couldn't get things going on Sunday Night Football, as Carr finished with 5.2 fantasy points, his sixth-worst single-game total in 50 career NFL games.
Carr was started in 75.7 percent of ESPN leagues.
Amari Cooper, WR, Raiders: For the second consecutive week, Cooper was held in single digits, following up his 7.3 PPR fantasy points with 1.6 on Sunday night.
That was the third-lowest total in his 35-game NFL career, and he was started in 91.2 percent of ESPN leagues.
Justin Tucker, K, Ravens: Kickers can be wholly unpredictable, at the mercy of their offense, such as in Tucker's case in a game his Ravens lost 44-7.
His one-point fantasy score qualified for the "losers" list, though, as he was started in 93.8 percent of ESPN leagues in Week 3.
Only five times in his 83 career NFL games has he scored one or zero points, and this was the first time that Tucker did so since 2015 Week 10 (also one).
David Ross explains why the Cubs' success of late has earned them a spot in the top five.
Tim Kurkjian and Ross explain what the Twins or Rockies could do if they make the postseason.
(1:28)

With a week left after 25 played, the Indians are still on top almost any way you want to count it -- like expected wins (105 according to our own expected win-loss record) and in our rankings, but they have six games left to make up their one-game deficit with the Dodgers and claim MLB's best record.
But even with that epic in-season run to catch up to L.A., the Indians aren't the only team making a big move down the stretch.
With a week left, the Cubs have made their move to put away the National League Central and gain our voters' support to move back into the top five.
Editor's Picks What's at stake in MLB season's final week?
NL wild-card race, award battles and playoff strategy Think everything has been decided?
The Rockies are in a three-team chase, the AL MVP race just got closer and the best (and worst) record is not set.
What has changed for the Dodgers and Indians?
Nothing -- and everything On Sept. 3, the Dodgers were World Series favorites.
On Sept. 8, the Indians were.
In those five days, no players switched teams, and the standings held firm.
But sometimes September games matter -- even when they don't.
1 Related

The Cubs' move in the rankings wasn't the only major reshuffle within the top 10, as the Yankees fell two spots as they close in on a wild-card appearance.
Nor was the Cubs' jump this week's largest.
As Giancarlo Stanton pounds his way toward 60 homers this season, his late surge also helped power the Marlins to a four-slot rise.
And the single biggest tumbles were by the Pirates and Tigers.
Detroit's fall is perhaps the most remarkable as the rebuilding Motor City Kitties fell all the way to the bottom of our rankings, and may well be doomed to finish the season there.
This week's voters are Bradford Doolittle, Eric Karabell, Tim Kurkjian, David Schoenfield and Mark Simon.
Week 24 rankings | Week 23 | Week 22 | Week 21 | Week 20 | Week 19 | Week 18 | Week 17 | Week 16 | Week 15 | Week 14 | Week 13 | Week 12 | Week 11 | Week 10 | Week 9 | Week 8 | Week 7 | Week 6 | Week 5 | Week 4 | Week 3 | Week 2 | Week 1 | Preseason

Record: 98-58

Week 24 ranking: No.
1

As he also makes his case to win American League MVP, Jose Ramirez is closing in on becoming the first Indians player in franchise history to hit 50 or more doubles, 30 or more homers, steal 15 or more bases and score 100 or more runs.
He just needs one more homer this week.
Will those feats and his flexibility to play a solid second or third base win over voters and make him the first Indian to win the award since Al Rosen in 1953?
-- Christina Kahrl, ESPN.com

Record: 95-60

Week 24 ranking: No.
3

The Astros' 837 runs scored easily sets a franchise record for their time in the American League, and a strong finish could propel them to the second-highest-scoring team in Houston history, eclipsed by only the 2000 Astros, who scored 938 runs but lost 90 games.
This team has a chance to make more history with another postseason appearance, but will their second-half scoring slump -- declining from a league-leading 5.9 runs per game to 4.7 -- haunt them in October?
-- Kahrl

Record: 99-57

Week 23 ranking: No.
2

The Dodgers already possess perhaps the game's best closer in Kenley Jansen, but one thing their up-and-down second half has revealed is the potential value retread righty Brandon Morrow could provide in the postseason.
Morrow's .414 OPS since the All-Star break ranks second in the majors among relievers with 20 or more appearances in the second half, and his .184 slugging allowed is MLB's power-sapping best in that span.
-- Kahrl

Record: 94-61

Week 24 ranking: No.
4

Twenty-year-old top prospect Victor Robles, who started the season in the Class A Carolina League, has impressed manager Dusty Baker beyond his on-field performance in his first handful of starts in the outfield.
"He's very respectful, especially with me," Baker said.
"I watch how he interacts with the other guys more than anything.
He's kind of a leader already.
He might be one of the youngest, but I can tell how they follow him."
-- Mark Simon, ESPN Stats & Information

Record: 87-68

Week 24 ranking: No.
8

Guess who's warming up for October?
The Cubs' big midseason addition from Chicago's South Side, as Jose Quintana spun his first shutout as a Cub on Sunday, and just the second of his career (he threw one for the White Sox in 2015).
The win sealed the Cubs' series win against the Brewers, and virtually guarantees their first back-to-back NL Central titles since the ill-fated teams of 2007-08.
-- Kahrl

Record: 91-64

Week 24 ranking: No.
5

The Sox seem like a lock for the AL East crown, but questions for the postseason still remain: Who starts Game 2?
What will David Price bring to the table?
Will the lack of homers from the offense come back to haunt Boston?
Of course, Drew Pomeranz could be a stud, Price could be this year's version of Andrew Miller out of the bullpen, Mookie Betts could keep tearing the cover off the ball and the above questions could seem pretty dumb by the end of October.
-- Michael Bonzagni, ESPN Stats & Information

Record: 90-66

Week 24 ranking: No.
7

Closer of concern watch: Fernando Rodney has had his ups and downs this season, but in the second half he has been among the best relievers in baseball, securing 17 saves in 18 opportunities, holding hitters to a .496 OPS and striking out batters at a 30.9 percent clip.
Can he be a championship-caliber closer?
With the D-backs locking up their first-ever wild-card appearance, Arizona is about to find out.
-- Kahrl

Record: 86-69

Week 24 ranking: No.
6

The Yankees are headed to the postseason for the second time in the past three seasons -- and will yet again most likely find themselves a wild card.
Don't look now, but the Yankees have lost five straight postseason games, the most recent being the 2015 AL wild-card game.
That is tied for the longest postseason losing streak in franchise history.
Since the 2009 World Series, the Yankees are 10-14 in the postseason.
-- Sarah Langs, ESPN Stats & Information

Record: 84-72

Week 24 ranking: No.
9

With their 38 wins from rookie pitchers this year, the Rockies may not have a shot at the single-season record for the division era (since 1969, set by the Marlins in 2006 with 43), but they still owe a considerable chunk of this season's success to the quartet that helped carry the rotation through the early months.
Now they're closing in on Colorado's fourth postseason appearance, all of them via the introduction of the wild card.
-- Kahrl

Record: 81-74

Week 24 ranking: No.
10

The Cardinals have struggled against the Cubs, whom they'll host for four games to start the week, all season.
But it isn't Kris Bryant, Anthony Rizzo and Javier Baez who have caused the most trouble (they've combined for 10 RBIs against the Cardinals).
It's Jon Jay (.389), Albert Almora Jr. (.333), Jason Heyward (.310), Ian Happ (.303 with three home runs) and Willson Contreras (five home runs).
On one hand, it's encouraging to know you've shut down your rival's top bats.
But on the other, it could mean they're due.
-- Simon

Record: 82-74

Week 24 ranking: No.
11

Imperative for the Brewers in their upcoming series with the Reds: Find a way to get shortstop Zack Cozart out.
Cozart is hitting .439/.558/.902 with four home runs, three doubles and two triples in 52 plate appearances against Milwaukee this season.
Craig Counsell may wish to consider whatever the Brewers did in years past (Cozart hit .200, .203, .250 and .213 against Milwaukee the past four seasons).
Cozart's motivation may not be to just win, but to try to finish the season with a .300 batting average for the first time in his career.
-- Simon

Record: 82-74

Week 24 ranking: No.
12

The Twins were swept by the Yankees at Yankee Stadium last week, and their head-to-head numbers against the Yankees lately are not good.
The Twins are 17-37 against the Yankees since 2010, including 9-17 at Yankee Stadium.
They're 2-12 against the Yankees in the postseason all time -- but both wins did come at Yankee Stadium ... in 2004 and 2003.
-- Langs

Record: 76-79

Week 24 ranking: No.
15

With the Twins almost out of reach and holding the second AL wild card, Rangers fans might wonder what would have happened if Yu Darvish had never been traded.
Rangers starting pitching ranks 10th in the AL in runs allowed since the trade deadline.
The four pitchers used in their No.
4-5 slots -- A.J.
Griffin, Miguel Gonzalez, Tyson Ross and Nick Martinez -- have combined for a 6.52 ERA since Aug. 1.
-- Kahrl

Record: 77-78

Week 24 ranking: No.
13

A six-game losing streak effectively eliminated the Angels from playoff contention.
As a team, they batted .191 over that span while their bullpen posted a 6.95 ERA.
The Halos finish up with four games at the White Sox and three against the Mariners, and will likely need a minor miracle to even sniff the postseason.
If they're out, it will be the fifth year out six full seasons Mike Trout has played without reaching October.
-- Paul Hembekides, ESPN Stats & Information

Record: 76-80

Week 24 ranking: No.
16

For much of the season, Alex Cobb had to find ways to win without recording strikeouts at a rate comparable to the high-end pitchers in the league.
But since coming off the disabled list on Aug. 24, the whiffs have been there.
Cobb has 32 strikeouts in 32 innings over his past six starts.
He was averaging 5.9 K/9 prior to that.
One reason for the improvement?
Cobb's average fastball velocity was 91.5 mph in his first 23 starts, but it's 92.4 in his past six.
-- Simon

Record: 75-81

Week 24 ranking: No.
14

The Mariners ran into a buzzsaw last week, suffering losses to Dallas Keuchel, Justin Verlander, Cole Hamels and Carlos Carrasco.
Seattle, already losers of nine of their past 12 games on the road, finishes its season at Oakland (four games) and at the Angels (three games), with their hopes of achieving even just wild-card contention already effectively over.
-- Hembekides

Record: 76-79

Week 24 ranking: No.
18

The Royals' core players likely won't be together next season as Eric Hosmer, Lorenzo Cain, Mike Moustakas and Alcides Escobar are all free agents this offseason.
Those players helped Kansas City make the postseason for the first time in nearly 30 years in 2014, propelled them into back-to-back World Series and brought home the franchise's second title in 2015.
That is quite the run.
-- Bonzagni

Record: 75-82

Week 24 ranking: No.
17

Trey Mancini's rookie season will go down in Orioles lore.
His 24 home runs are tied for third most in franchise history by a rookie, and his .492 slugging percentage is second best by an Orioles rookie in franchise history behind only Wally Judnich in 1940 (set with the O's previous incarnation as the St. Louis Browns).
-- Langs

Record: 73-82

Week 24 ranking: No.
23

Giancarlo Stanton has 30 doubles to go along with his 57 home runs this season.
A 31st two-bagger would tie his career high.
Stanton is the first National League player with 50 home runs and 30 doubles in a season since Prince Fielder did it in 2007.
-- Langs

Record: 73-83

Week 24 ranking: No.
19

Jose Bautista may have played his last home game with the Blue Jays.
He has hit 287 home runs with the Blue Jays, second most in franchise history behind Carlos Delgado.
He was a six-time All-Star with the Blue Jays and led the majors in home runs twice, including hitting a franchise-record 54 home runs in 2010.
-- Langs

Record: 72-83

Week 24 ranking: No.
22

Powered by four players -- Matt Olson with 20 home runs, Khris Davis with 17 and Matt Chapman and Matt Joyce with 13 apiece -- the A's are third in the majors in homers hit since the All-Star break.
Add in the defensive upgrades that Chapman provides at third and Boog Powell in center field, and you can see some big reasons the A's have played .500 baseball in the second half.
-- Kahrl

Record: 70-84

Week 24 ranking: No.
21

There's a lot to like about the Braves going forward.
Freddie Freeman is an offensive monster, Ender Inciarte contributes with the bat and the glove, and after a really rough four months Dansby Swanson has hit well since Aug. 1.
They might not be in a position to contend next year, but they're headed in the right direction with an improving talent base to build upon.
-- Bonzagni

Record: 71-85

Week 24 ranking: No.
20

One offseason project for the Pirates is to find the good version of Ivan Nova and bring him back to the way he performed early in the season.
Nova had a 3.08 ERA in his first 16 starts but a 5.61 ERA in his past 14, with 18 home runs allowed in 77 innings.
Nova also has had what for him are uncharacteristic bouts of wildness.
In this bad stretch, he's walking 2.6 per nine innings.
In 11 starts with the Pirates last season, Nova totaled three walks, part of what led to his landing a two-year deal from them.
-- Simon

Record: 70-86

Week 24 ranking: No.
26

At the end of August, Wil Myers was hitting .233 with an OPS under .800, but he has been hot in September, posting an OPS close to 1.000.
If the Padres want to go anywhere next year, they need the September Myers to show up for a full season.
Finding a couple of reliable starters, a shortstop and a left fielder plus Hunter Renfroe taking a step forward wouldn't hurt either, but the rebuild is providing better than expected results already.
-- Bonzagni

Record: 66-90

Week 24 ranking: No.
24

The biggest Reds news last week came in the form of a four-year contract extension for catcher Tucker Barnhart, who has had a career year offensively (96 OPS+) and defensively (throwing out opposing stolen base attempts at a 45 percent rate).
Cincinnati finishes up its season on the road at the Cubs and Brewers, whom they're a combined 13-19 against this season.
-- Hembekides

Record: 66-89

Week 24 ranking: No.
25

Asdrubal Cabrera has made it highly tempting for the Mets to pick up his $8.5 million option (rather than pay a $2 million buyout) to stick him at third base next season.
Cabrera has played an average third base defensively and he's hitting.
Since Aug. 25, he's slashing .371/.453/.629.
Given that Mike Moustakas will likely cost more than the Mets would be willing to spend, Cabrera seems like an affordable option.
-- Simon

Record: 62-94

Week 24 ranking: No.
28

With the Phillies in rebuild mode, the most significant outcome to emerge from the past week of the season will be their draft position for next year.
At 62-94, they are one game behind the Giants (61-95) for the worst record in MLB.
Can they finish with a weaker flourish to get the top pick?
-- Hembekides

Record: 63-92

Week 24 ranking: No.
29

Last week, Jose Abreu became the third player since the RBI became an official statistic in 1920 to hit 25 home runs with 100 RBIs in each of his first four seasons (joining Albert Pujols and Joe DiMaggio).
With two remaining years of club control, Abreu could either be at the center of the White Sox rebuild or a trade chip in what will likely be a weak crop of free-agent position players.
-- Hembekides

Record: 61-95

Week 24 ranking: No.
30

The Giants have said they will have a farewell appearance in the final weekend series against the Padres.
It hasn't been a great run for Matt Cain in recent memory, but he was the longest-tenured member of the Giants' World Series team when they won in 2010.
Cain debuted for the Giants at 20 years old in 2005 and finished fifth in Rookie of the Year voting the following year.
From 2007-12, he posted a 3.18 ERA, made three All-Star teams, and received Cy Young votes three times.
-- Langs

Record: 62-94

Week 24 ranking: No.
27

The Tigers may have been dreadful in 2017, and their run of being an annual playoff contender might be finished, but this team is in a much better position to be good down the road.
They cleared a lot of money off the books and started restocking a barren farm system.
It might be rough for a few years, but this team is building for a better future now that the Verlander era is over.
-- Bonzagni
I'm not going to say the final week of the regular season will be anti-climactic, but there's a good chance the final week of the regular season will be anti-climactic.
Four teams have clinched division titles and the other two have better than 99 percent odds to win their divisions.
Meanwhile, the Minnesota Twins have pulled away from the dredge of mediocrity in the race for the second wild card in the American League, so that leaves the second wild card in the National League as the only playoff spot somewhat up for grabs.
At least it's a three-team chase, giving us one final opportunity for chaos.
Here's what to watch for in the final week ...

National League wild-card race

The Colorado Rockies are two games up on the Milwaukee Brewers and 2 up on the St. Louis Cardinals.
Here are the final-week schedules:

Rockies (84-72): Marlins (3), Dodgers (3)

Brewers (82-74): Reds (3), at Cardinals (3)

Cardinals (81-74): Cubs (4), Brewers (3)

FiveThirtyEight.com gives the Rockies a 75 percent chance at reaching the playoffs, the Brewers 14 percent and the Cardinals 10 percent.
Of course, we can still root for chaos and a three-way tie.
Here's how that can happen:

The Rockies go 2-4 against the Marlins and Dodgers.
The Brewers go 3-0 against the Reds and 1-2 against the Cardinals.
The Cardinals go 3-1 against the Cubs and 2-1 against the Brewers.
Somewhat reasonable, right?
So what happens if we get a three-way tie?
The rules:

Teams are given A, B and C designations.
Those rules are too long to list here, but you can read through them here.
The season series so far: the Rockies went 2-4 against the Cardinals and 4-3 against the Brewers, while the Brewers are 9-7 against the Cardinals.
Club A would host Club B, and the winner of that game would host Club C to determine the wild-card team.
Based on the above rules, the teams would be ranked by winning percentage: Assuming the Cardinals win two of three from the Brewers, they would be 13-12 against the other two clubs, the Brewers 13-13 and the Rockies 6-7.
The Cardinals would get first choice on their designation, the Brewers second and the Rockies third.
If I'm the Cardinals, I choose Club C. You have to play on the road, but you only have to win one game.
So we would end up with the Rockies at Brewers on Monday and the winner hosting the Cardinals on Tuesday.
Luckily, the NL wild-card game was already scheduled for Wednesday (with the AL on Tuesday).
Got it?
Me neither.
Magic numbers

Cubs: 2 to win NL Central

Red Sox: 3 to win AL East

Twins: 3 to clinch second wild card

Rockies: 5 to clinch second wild card

Home-field advantage

Cleveland Indians over Houston Astros for No.
1 seed in AL: 5

The other slots are essentially locked in, barring crazy stuff this week.
The Dodgers, Nationals and Cubs will be 1-2-3 in the NL and the Red Sox will be the No.
3 seed in the AL.
The Yankees and Diamondbacks will host the wild-card games.
For overall best record, the Dodgers are 99-57 and the Indians 98-58.
The Dodgers won the season series 2-1, so if they finish with the same record and meet in the World Series, the Dodgers would have home-field advantage.
Got it?
Worst overall record

It's a fight to the finish.
While there doesn't appear to be a Bryce Harper-Stephen Strasburg obvious No.
1 pick at this point in next year's draft, if you're bad, you may as well hope to finish with the worst record.
Four teams have a chance:

Giants: 61-95

Tigers: 62-94

Phillies: 62-94

White Sox: 63-92

Detroit has really gone in the tank with a 4-20 record in September.
The Tigers finish with a road trip to Kansas City and Minnesota, so maybe they'll pull this out.
They last drafted first overall in 1997, when they took pitcher Matt Anderson out of Rice (who didn't even end up as the best first-round pick that year from Rice, as Lance Berkman went 16th).
American League MVP race

It's back on, right?
With 11 home runs and 23 RBIs in his past 19 games, Aaron Judge has climbed back on the heels of Jose Altuve.
Their WAR totals entering Sunday (and Judge's will be a couple tenths higher at least after hitting his 47th and 48th home runs):

Baseball-Reference: Altuve 8.2, Judge 7.1

FanGraphs: Altuve 7.2, Judge 7.0

Jose Ramirez is probably third behind those two, and don't ignore Corey Kluber or Chris Sale.
Mike Trout, with a mediocre September and a lengthy DL stint, has probably dropped out of the top three.
Judge leads Altuve in both runs and RBIs, which in the minds of some voters will cancel out Altuve's edge in WAR.
Altuve is probably still the favorite, but how awesome is this sport that the biggest hitter in the game and the shortest are the leading MVP candidates?
National League MVP

A couple of little things have changed from last week.
Giancarlo Stanton did have a big week with three home runs and 13 RBIs and is now tied with Nolan Arenado for the RBI lead.
That helps Stanton, but Arenado can still help himself by doing something big as the Rockies make the playoffs.
I still say it's between those two and Paul Goldschmidt.
I think the advantage Stanton has is that most voters will put him in the top three.
Arenado or Goldschmidt may end up with more first-place votes, but also more down-ballot votes.
It's going to be a tight vote no matter what.
Cy Young races

Clayton Kershaw and Max Scherzer both pitched (and won) on Sunday, so they'll each have a final tune-up start before the playoffs.
The numbers (WAR totals before Sunday's starts):

Player Record IP Walks Strikeouts ERA bWAR fWAR Clayton Kershaw 18-4 171 30 200 2.21 4.3 4.5 Max Scherzer 16-6 191.1 54 263 2.54 6.6 5.6

Zack Greinke blew any chance he had by giving up eight runs in his last start.
And, hey, Gio Gonzalez actually leads in Baseball-Reference WAR at 6.9 with a 2.68 ERA.
His peripherals aren't in the class of Kershaw or Scherzer, so he's a distant third at best.
Scherzer has the edge over Kershaw in WAR, Kershaw has the edge in wins and ERA.
In 26 more innings, Scherzer has allowed 16 more runs, so the extra innings he has pitched haven't been that valuable.
One note about Scherzer.
Due in part to the soft NL East, just eight of his 30 starts have come against winning teams.
Kershaw has faced winning teams in 12 of his 26 outings.
Who do you have?
We've talked about the AL race enough.
With another gem on Sunday, I think Kluber has locked it up, even though Sale reached 300 strikeouts this past week.
Playoff rotations

Some teams won't make an official announcement on their playoff rotation until the dead time between the end of the regular season and the start of the division series, but you can kind of get an idea by looking at how the rotations line up throughout the week.
The Cubs, for example, have Jon Lester going on Monday and Jake Arrieta on Tuesday, followed by John Lackey, Kyle Hendricks and Jose Quintana.
That would seem to suggest Lester, with his history of October success, is still the No.
1 guy, even though he has been the team's worst starter this month.
Of course, the Cubs would have four days off from the final Sunday until the division series starts on the following Friday, so that group could be rearranged in any manner.
As far as potential wild-card game starters, Arizona will probably line up Greinke, who starts Wednesday, giving him six days of rest before the wild-card game.
Likewise, Jon Gray starts Wednesday for the Rockies.
The Brewers are without injured ace Jimmy Nelson, but have 17-game winner Zach Davies going Tuesday and Sunday as they scramble to catch the Rockies.
That could leave Chase Anderson for the wild-card game.
The Cardinals have ace Carlos Martinez going Tuesday and Sunday as well, so that would point to Lance Lynn or Michael Wacha in the wild-card game.
(And none of that gets into potential tie-breaker scenarios.)
Batting titles

Yes, it's OK to still care about batting titles.
Altuve has a 17-point lead in the AL, so he's going to win his third title.
In the NL -- don't be shocked here -- Charlie Blackmon leads Justin Turner, .326 to .321.
Blackmon also finishes with six games at home, where he has hit .387 this season.
He'd be the fourth different Rockies player in five seasons to win a batting title (DJ LeMahieu, Justin Morneau, Michael Cuddyer), sixth different since 2007 (Carlos Gonzalez, Matt Holliday) and ninth different in Rockies history, which only goes back to 1993 (three-time winner Larry Walker, Todd Helton, Andres Galarraga).
If you want to win a batting title, go play for the Rockies.
Injuries

Bryce Harper could return to the Nationals' lineup for the first time since he suffered a bone bruise in his left knee since slipping on a wet base while running out a grounder Aug. 12.
Manager Dusty Baker said the team is "still trying to make up our minds."
Will he be well-rested after his stint on the DL and team bonding on "Game of Thrones" trip?
Or will the rust of not playing show in the playoffs?
You'll have to watch to find out.
Every sports league deals with the challenge of making the final weeks and months of its regular season seem relevant for as many teams as possible.
They do this by offering various incentives -- playoff spots, playoff byes, seeding systems and home-field advantages -- so each team doesn't have just one, perhaps unreasonable, goal to shoot for (the most wins) but a series of them.
This is a complex challenge, since the contours of each season are unknown in advance.
Sometimes these incentives work beautifully and a lot of teams are between, say, 10 and 90 percent likely to make the playoffs toward the end of the season.
Any team within that range will see its chances vary with each day's results and be compelled to treat every day like the season might hinge on it.
This makes rooting fun and viewing essential.
But sometimes, even these incentives leave most teams, good and bad, sleepwalking through the end of the regular season.
On Sept. 1, 2015, for example, all five NL playoff spots had more or less been decided: The Nationals, Dodgers and Cardinals were all north of 90 percent likely to win their divisions.
The Pirates and Cubs had basically each wrapped up a spot in the wild-card game.
There were essentially no stakes to any National League game played in September 2015:

(All playoff odds and charts via Baseball Prospectus.)
The majority of the 2017 playoff spots were locked in by mid-August.
The Indians, Dodgers, Nationals and Astros were all near locks to win their divisions.
The Yankees and Red Sox were each overwhelmingly likely to make the playoffs, with the Red Sox's steady lead in the AL East heating that race only to a gentle simmer.
The Cubs grew to be about as safe in the NL Central, and the Diamondbacks were all but eliminated from the NL West but all but sure of a wild-card spot.
The second wild card -- which had backfired as a tension-builder in the 2015 National League -- was our only salvation, keeping a dozen teams in the race for the final spot in each league.
This was great for fans of the Royals, Orioles, Marlins and others teams who could maintain a little hope despite season-long mediocrity.
But for fans of the leagues' best teams, with almost no reason to scoreboard watch, this looked like it would make for six boring weeks.
No game the Dodgers or Indians played in late August or in September would shift their outlooks to make the Division Series.
They were in the green room, waiting, knowing nothing would change.
Nothing did change in either team's division:

Yet, everything changed.
Aug. 10: Dodgers 25.6 percent likely to win World Series; Indians 15.2 percent

Playoff odds work like this: Baseball Prospectus, using a blend of projections, actual performance and playing-time estimates, calculates what it thinks a team's true talent level is.
The Dodgers, on this day, were estimated to have the true talent of a .619 team -- a team that, if a brand new season were to suddenly break out that day, would win about 100 games.
(They were actually on pace to win more than that, but show any projection system an outlier performance and its instincts are to regress it a bit.)
Cleveland was figured to be a .577 team, which is about 93 wins in a full season.
BP then puts two teams' expected winning percentages against each other (along with adjustments such as home-field advantage) in all scheduled matchups and calculates the likelihood each team will win.
It simulates entire seasons, and then postseasons, based on these expected winning percentages.
A team's assigned chances of winning the World Series change throughout the season depending on how likely the team is to make the playoffs, how good a team it appears to be and how good the teams it'll face in the postseason appear to be.
After losing on Aug. 9, the Indians traded for Mets outfielder Jay Bruce.
He would be the last player Cleveland would add.
The Dodgers would acquire Curtis Granderson 10 days later, but for the most part, each team's postseason roster was set.
Cleveland had a little work left to do to guarantee the division, but for the most part, each team's entry to the postseason was set.
The Dodgers were by far the team most likely to win the World Series, according to BP's odds, because they were a lock to get to the postseason and because every bit of information we had on that date suggested they would be the best team in the postseason.
Aug. 25: Dodgers 27.2 percent likely to win World Series; Indians 15.8 percent

Two weeks after Cleveland added Bruce, and a week after Los Angeles added Granderson, the Dodgers reached their best World Series odds of the season.
They had gone 11-3 in those two weeks.
The key detail here, besides the relatively small Granderson acquisition, is nothing had actually changed.
The playoff odds had already, weeks earlier, given the Dodgers a 100 percent chance of winning their division and conceded them home-field advantage throughout the National League playoffs, so the 11 wins hadn't materially altered their path to the World Series.
The roster was basically unchanged, and nobody unexpectedly got hurt or got healthy.
The only thing that changed is that the odds assumed the Dodgers were even better than initial assumptions had been.
With those additional 11 wins, the Dodgers had further convinced the computer they really were a historical anomaly.
Their expected winning percentage was up to .628, a 102-win team over a full season.
Sept. 3: Dodgers 23.2 percent likely to win World Series; Indians 19.5 percent

This is the first day BP's playoff odds gave Cleveland a 100 percent lock on the AL Central.
That reflected a real change to the real standings, and it bumped Cleveland's chances in a real way -- but only slightly, since it had already been between 90 and 99.9 percent likely to win the division.
More significantly, Cleveland had just won its 10th game in a row, and its expected winning percentage had been adjusted up to .597.
It passed Houston as the American League team most likely to win the World Series.
Meanwhile, the Dodgers had just lost their third in a row and eighth out of nine.
These games didn't matter, but they counted as information.
The Dodgers' expected winning percentage was back down to .618.
Editor's Picks The National League stinks For the 13th straight season, the American League dominated interleague play.
That can only lead us to one conclusion.
Welcome to the era of the terrible, horrible, no good, very bad 30-home-run hitter Rougned Odor might not be an awful baseball player, but he has been historically awful this year.
The thing is, he's most definitely not alone.
More sluggers than ever before are hitting home runs -- and doing almost nothing else.
'Skunk in the outfield': How the most epic trick play in history broke baseball For 2 minutes, 32 seconds of pure chaos, a high school state championship game in Rhode Island entered a parallel universe -- and unleashed the longest hardball stalemate of all time.
2 Related Sept. 8: Dodgers 20.6 percent likely to win World Series; Indians 21.2 percent

After five more Los Angeles losses and five more Cleveland wins, the odds officially declared Cleveland more likely to win the World Series.
No players had changed teams, and no relevant change to the actual standings had occurred, but the longer the season went, the more information pointed to Cleveland being better: a .611 winning percentage, to the Dodgers' .608.
Sept. 14: Dodgers 20.1 percent likely to win World Series, Indians 23.8 percent

Cleveland hit its (to-date) high mark for the season on the same day it won its 22nd game in a row.
Two days earlier, the Dodgers scraped 20.0 World Series odds, the lowest they had been since June 19, when the NL West was still competitive.
Sept. 21: Dodgers 20.1 percent likely to win World Series,;Indians 23.1 percent

The Dodgers continued to struggle, but their odds held steady mostly because their likely first-round opponent -- the Diamondbacks -- dropped three straight games.
The Indians continued to roll, but their likely first-round opponents -- the Yankees -- had solidified their hold on a wild-card spot and improved their expected winning percentage.
Which brings us up to date: The Indians, once an underdog to the mighty Dodgers, are now the favorites over Los Angeles.
And it's all, basically, an illusion.
In the first place, it was an estimate of probability based on a lot of educated guesses.
Now, it's an estimate of probability based on slightly more informed guesses.
On Aug. 9, we all thought the Indians were a team that scored 4.8 runs a game and allowed 4.0.
Then we got more information, which adds up to better information, and we now know they're a team that scores 5.1 runs a game and allows 3.5.
The Dodgers aren't a team that scores 5.1 and allows 3.3, as it looked like on Aug. 9; they're a team that scores 4.7 and allows 3.6.
Still great.
But everybody was a little bit wrong about them.
Now here's the head-trip part: If the season had ended Aug. 10 instead of Oct. 4, the Indians still would have been a team that scores 5.1 runs and allows 3.5, and they would still have been more likely to win the World Series than the Dodgers; we just wouldn't have known it.
An omniscient god would have known, just like an omniscient god would know Mike Trout is a better baseball player than I am, even if baseball had never been invented.
But we humans require observation and data before we can know things.
After Aug. 9 we got more data.
The data changed a great deal about what we know, but nothing changed about either team.
Teams change data.
Data don't change teams.
I don't think it feels that way to fans of the Dodgers or Indians, though.
The other day, I was listening to a radio broadcast of some other game that truly didn't matter, between two out-of-it teams.
The broadcasters got to talking about the Indians and Dodgers.
"Would you rather be the Indians than the Dodgers right now?"
one asked.
It went without saying.
A month earlier, the opposite would have gone without saying.
The net result is that, for a month of baseball that had no tangible impact, Cleveland and Los Angeles fans got to care.
OK, maybe these games did change something.
Maybe momentum is critical here, though research into the correlation between September performance and October performance has never turned up any relationship.
And even if momentum is very real (plausible!
), who could possibly assume that late-August momentum would still have any force in mid or late October?
June and July momentum obviously had no force in late August.
For that matter, maybe the reverse could be true: Maybe the Dodgers' struggles were a wake-up call, a push to treat these next six weeks with more urgency, a sign that Pedro Baez shouldn't be on the mound in a key situation.
The World Series odds at BP don't consider the momentum a factor in either direction.
So why do we do this?
Why do I look with great interest at these odds shifting every day, even as nothing tangible changes?
Why do Dodgers fans panic and Indians fans rejoice over outcomes that no longer shift any standings that matter?
I think it's this: Baseball produces two different rewards systems.
For the players, the rewards of winning or losing, homering or striking out, are tangible.
If they win, they get paid more money, the world remembers their names differently, the historical record of their worth is altered and their sense of accomplishment is directly tied to an action they did.
For about three hours every day, 162 times a year plus games in October, they get to affect these real, tangible returns.
After each game, they go home and have to wait for their next chance.
For the fans, winning or losing is nothing more than emotions.
We have no actual effect on the outcome, and we get no actual return, other than the dopamine, endorphins, oxytocin and vasopressin that affect our moods.
We get to feel happy, and we get to avoid feeling sad.
It's a less tangible return, but it's also unbounded by the action itself.
We can feel emotions 24 hours a day, and we can feel them all year.
All we have to do to collect these emotional returns is believe these probabilities are shifting based on how good we think the team is.
A fully invested fan can convince herself a spring training game matters, so she can certainly believe that three late-season losses against the Phillies -- which technically, tangibly matter a lot more to the Phillies than to the Dodgers -- matter.
A fan has incredible power to turn "nothing" into something.
Since these games exist for fans, that makes it not nothing at all.
In a tied game with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth, J.D Martinez hits a line drive to left field that scores David Peralta for the game-winning run.
The win clinches a wild-card spot for Arizona.
(0:39)

The Arizona Diamondbacks clinched a playoff spot when the Milwaukee Brewers lost.
Then they joined the postseason parade in style, clinching home-field advantage for the National League wild-card game on J.D.
Martinez's walk-off hit, the first of his career:

Given Martinez's amazing run since coming over from the Tigers, it will be interesting to see how he fares in the MVP voting.
In 57 games with Arizona, he has 27 home runs and 58 RBIs.
Compare his numbers to a couple of others players who had monster partial seasons after a midseason trade:

Player Season Team Games Slash Line HR RBIs MVP Finish J.D.
Martinez 2017 D-backs 57 .294/.364/.734 27 58 Yoenis Cespedes 2015 Mets 57 .287/.337/.604 17 44 13th Manny Ramirez 2008 Dodgers 53 .396/.489/.743 17 53 4th

I suspect he'll get some votes, but it might be difficult to crack the top 10 with a deep pool of strong individual seasons.
As awesome as he has been, many voters will factor in the entire season and leave him off their ballot, which I think is fair.
The other interesting thing about the Diamondbacks clinching is it doesn't feel like much of a surprise since they've been so consistent all season.
They got off to a 6-1 start -- remember that big Opening Day win?
Fernando Rodney gave up the go-ahead run in the ninth to the Giants, but Arizona rallied with two runs off Mark Melancon in the bottom of the inning.
The Diamondbacks took three of four from San Francisco and then swept Cleveland and finished 17-11 in April.
Their only below-.500 month was July, when they went 10-14 -- although they still outscored their opponents by 19 runs.
But the Diamondbacks getting here is a surprise!
Look at our preseason predictions on ESPN: Nobody picked the D-backs to make the playoffs.
A big, fat 0-for-35.
I checked the FanGraphs predictions: Only two of 53 staff members picked the Diamondbacks to make the playoffs.
Of course, many expected the Diamondbacks to make the playoffs last season, which ended with the demise of the Tony La Russa/Dave Stewart era.
So that's another reason it doesn't feel so surprising; we thought they'd be decent a year ago and it's not like they made wholesale fixes in the offseason.
Still, kudos to the players, manager Torey Lovullo and first-year GM Mike Hazen.
Pretty good first season.
Their biggest key: starting pitching.
Last year, Arizona's rotation had a 5.19 ERA, 29th in the majors.
This year it's 3.59, third in the majors behind the Dodgers and Indians.
A key there has been stability.
They did lose Shelby Miller to Tommy John surgery after four starts, but the top five guys have been healthy and started 140 of the team's 156 games -- and remember that Zack Godley didn't join the rotation for good until May 10.
Taijuan Walker missed about a month with a blister problem and Robbie Ray missed a few starts after getting hit in the head by a line drive, but nobody has had an arm issue.
Meanwhile, the odds now favor the Diamondbacks playing the Rockies in the wild-card game.
The Rockies have been shut out three times in their past five games, but they beat the Padres on Sunday and the Brewers and Cardinals lost, so the Rockies' lead is two games over Milwaukee and 2 over the Cardinals.
The closing schedules for each team:

Colorado: Marlins (3), Dodgers (3)

Milwaukee: Reds (3), at Cardinals (3)

St. Louis: Cubs (4), Brewers (3)

FiveThirtyEight gives the Rockies a 75 percent chance, the Brewers 14 percent and the Cardinals 10 percent.
We'll get more opportunity to discuss this later, but it seems clear the Diamondbacks would have the best chance of the wild-card teams of upsetting the Dodgers and moving on to the National League Championship Series.
Even starting Zack Greinke in the wild-card game means Ray would likely start the division series opener and he has owned the Dodgers this season.
Stay tuned.
A Twins killing.
You know who else wasn't expected to make the playoffs?
The Twins!
ESPN went 0-for-35.
FanGraphs went 0-for-53.
That's 0-for-88.
You can't predict baseball.
The Twins, however, all but wrapped up the second wild card in the American League, crushing the Tigers in a four-game sweep at Comerica Park, including a 10-4 win on Sunday (the Twins outscored the Tigers 39-12 in the series).
It has been a dramatic turnaround from July 31, when Twins management considered the standings and the team's performance and traded away left-hander Jaime Garcia and reliever Brandon Kintzler.
Through July 31: 50-53, minus-72 run differential

Since July 31: 32-21, plus-96 run differential

Offense

Before July 31: .251/.328/.406, 4.55 runs per game

After July 31: .275/.346/.487, 6.06 runs per game

Defense

Before July 31: .275/.342/.462, 5.25 runs per game

After July 31: .251/.309/.419, 4.25 runs per game

Not only have the Twins played well, particularly at the plate where they've scored more runs than any team in the majors since Aug. 1, but none of their wild-card competitors have played well.
The records of the other contenders since the beginning of August:

Angels: 26-23

Rangers: 26-24

Orioles: 24-28

Rays: 22-27

Mariners: 21-28

Royals: 21-30

That's a lot of bad baseball, while they Twins have played great.
This means they are likely headed to a wild-card game at Yankee Stadium, which means we'll be hearing how the Twins lost the American League Division Series to the Yankees in 2003, 2004, 2009 and 2010 -- winning just two games and losing the last nine games in a row.
Enough with that already; whatever happened in 2004 or 2009 has zero relevance to what will happen in 2017.
And, yes, the Twins will have a chance to beat the Yankees.
It's one game.
Anything can happen.
And, yes, I'm aware the Twins went to Yankee Stadium before the Detroit series and lost all three games, while scoring just six runs.
One game.
All the pressure is on the Yankees.
The Twins are smashing baseballs.
Flip a coin.
Cubs all but wrap up NL Central.
It was a riveting four-game series in Milwaukee between the Cubs and Brewers, with the first three games all going 10 innings.
But the Cubs ended up taking three of four with Jose Quintana dominating with a three-hit shutout on Sunday, the Cubs' first complete-game shutout since Kyle Hendricks in August and the first with at least 10 strikeouts since Jake Arrieta in 2015 (the most recent Cubs pitcher besides Arrieta with a shutout and 10-plus K's was Carlos Zambrano way back in 2008 when he no-hit the Astros).
Quintana's Game Score of 90 was just the eighth of 90 or higher this season -- Dylan Bundy (a one-hitter with 12 strikeouts) and Edinson Volquez (his no-hitter with 10 K's) share the highest score at 95.
In fact, one of the effects of increased offense this season has been the decline in dominating starts.
The last season with a high Game Score of just 95 was back in 2006.
Here is a little table outlining the number of 90 and 95 games in recent years:

Season 90-plus 95-plus High Pitcher 2017 8 2 95, Dylan Bundy, Edinson Volquez 2016 13 6 98, Madison Bumgarner 2015 31 10 104, Max Scherzer 2014 21 6 102, Clayton Kershaw 2013 19 5 98, Shelby Miller 2012 19 9 101, Matt Cain 2011 21 1 96, Chris Capuano 2010 18 2 100, Brandon Morrow 2009 12 1 98, Jonathan Sanchez 2008 12 1 96, Carlos Zambrano 2007 9 3 98, Erik Bedard 2006 9 1 95, John Lackey

Things peaked in 2015, which was the year we had seven no-hitters, including two from Max Scherzer.
His 104 Game Score that year is the second-highest ever for a nine-inning start (behind Kerry Wood's 105).
Clayton Kershaw's 102 the year before is third-highest.
Even though strikeouts are still going up, more home runs in 2017 means it's harder for pitchers to throw those high-strikeout, low-run games for nine innings that you need for a high Game Score.
Quintana, by the way, has been really good of late.
In his past five starts, he has 40 strikeouts, four walks and two home runs allowed.
Let's put it this way: He's throwing a lot better than Jon Lester.
Cubs manager Joe Maddon will have some tough choices in lining up his playoff rotation.
Umm, about that AL MVP race ...: Here's Aaron Judge hitting his 47th home run:

He later added No.
48 and is just one behind Mark McGwire's rookie mark of 49.
He has 11 home runs in his past 19 games with 23 RBIs -- more than he had in July and August combined (20).
Your WAR update entering Sunday:

Baseball-Reference: Jose Altuve 8.2, Judge 7.1

FanGraphs: Altuve 7.2, Judge 7.0

Altuve has 105 runs and 80 RBIs.
Judge has 122 runs and 105 RBIs.
Altuve has the edge on defense and on the bases.
Altuve still seems like the favorite, but it's a lot closer than it was three weeks ago.
Corey Kluber, Clayton Kershaw lock up Cy Young Awards.
Maybe.
Kluber allowed two runs in seven innings in a 4-2 win over the Mariners, serving up a two-run homer and even walking two for the first time since Aug. 13.
The runs were unearned since the home run came after a two-out error, but he struck out 10 and improved to 18-4 with a 2.27 ERA.
Kershaw also improved to 18-4 with a one-run, six-strikeout effort against the Giants.
He had a couple so-so games since his return from the DL, so the Dodgers have to be encouraged about him throwing 70 strikes in 93 pitches over eight innings.
One thing to consider about Kershaw.
Look who he has faced in his five outings since coming off the DL: Padres, Rockies (in L.A.), Giants, Phillies, Giants again.
Hmm, three of those teams stink and the other can't hit on the road.
In those five games, Kershaw has a 26.7 percent strikeout rate and has allowed a .682 OPS.
Before landing on the DL: 31.1 percent K rate, .572 OPS allowed.
It's a small sample size and I didn't watch Sunday's game, but given the weak competition he has faced, my snap judgment is he hasn't pitched quite as well.
That doesn't mean he won't turn it up when it matters, but if he ends up facing the Diamondbacks, well, Martinez and Paul Goldschmidt are a lot scarier than Kelby Tomlinson and Pablo Sandoval.
Goodbye, Joey Bats.
Jose Bautista will go down as one of the best and most popular players in Blue Jays history.
He's fifth in career WAR behind Dave Stieb, Roy Halladay, Tony Fernandez and Carlos Delgado.
He's had a terrible season, hitting .203, and it seems he likely played his final home game on Sunday as everyone seems to believe the Jays won't be bringing him back.
Manager John Gibbons pulled him in the top of the ninth as the crowd gave him a big ovation:

Your right fielder, No.
19, Jos Bautista.
pic.twitter.com/gzsNOdkW6G  Blue Jays (@BlueJays) September 24, 2017

It's even possible nobody signs him next year, given that nobody except the Jays seemed to desire him last offseason.
If that's the case, it has been a remarkable career for a guy the sport once essentially gave up on.
And then there was this:
CHICAGO -- The defining moment in Dwyane Wade's yearlong stint with the Chicago Bulls didn't come during a game.
It came during a team meeting.
After ripping his younger teammates following a Jan. 25 loss to the Atlanta Hawks, questioning just how much some in the group wanted to win, and dealing with the public fallout from Rajon Rondo's Instagram the following day, in which Rondo publicly called out Wade and Jimmy Butler for how they handled the situation, Wade sat with the rest of his teammates inside the Advocate Center prior to a morning shootaround to discuss the comments of the past two days.
Each player had the opportunity to speak on that Friday morning, and what became clear as the meeting progressed, according to multiple sources, is that several young players angrily voiced their displeasure to Wade regarding how he had called them out.
Veteran Taj Gibson would explain later that the younger players were upset, at least in part, that Wade wasn't practicing all the time.
At 35, Wade acknowledged he wasn't going to be on the practice floor every day at this point in his career, but it bothered many in the young group that Wade was calling them out for a perceived lack of effort when he wasn't exerting the same kind of effort on a regular basis.
Young players like Denzel Valentine and Bobby Portis had spoken openly after Wade signed about how much they were looking forward to playing with the future Hall of Famer.
Now, the young group had collectively turned its back on the aging star, and the Bulls' locker room was never the same from that point on.
Wade mostly kept to himself, developing an even closer relationship with All-Star swingman Butler, while the younger players continued to look for guidance from Rondo.
The narrative of Wade's happy homecoming back to Chicago wasn't supposed to play out like this.
After signing Wade last summer, Bulls GM Gar Forman was confident that Wade would serve as a sounding board for the younger players and would help unify what had become a fractured locker room in coach Fred Hoiberg's first season.
The Bulls were also hopeful that Wade would help Butler become more comfortable as the face of the franchise.
After some early-season success, the good vibes that Forman was hoping for didn't last.
Wade was helpful to Butler as he took another developmental step in his career, but his relationship with many of the young players he was supposed to guide soured, culminating in the angry words in the Jan. 27 meeting.
From that point on, it wasn't just the players who seemed frustrated with Wade.
Many within the organization believed that the 35-year-old was more interested in his business ventures off the floor than he was his performance on it.
Midway through last season, Wade told ESPN: "At the end of the year, you sit back and see what the team is, what direction they're going in.
I would be a liar to say that I want to play on a team with all 21-year-olds.
You know what I mean?
And be a part of the future building.
I would be a fool to say that.
But you also want to be in the best position for what you think is for you at that time, too ... One of the main reasons I'm here is Jimmy.
He's the one who called me and got me to come here.
So that's a big part of my decision and everything else, is what Jimmy's doing, what his future looks like and all that.
And I've made it very clear.
So I have no idea from that standpoint.
You just have to wait and see and then see what works out."
Dwyane Wade came home to play for the Chicago Bulls, but his tenure lasted for only a single season.
Caylor Arnold/USA TODAY Sports

After reading those quotes, several Bulls officials privately chuckled, believing there was no way at this point in his career that Wade would opt out of the player option in his Bulls deal that would pay him almost $24 million in the upcoming season.
So when Wade informed the Bulls two days before the NBA draft that he was opting into the deal, despite the fact that trade rumors involving Butler swirled, nobody in the Bulls organization was surprised.
After Butler was dealt to the Minnesota Timberwolves on draft night, it was only a matter of time before a buyout was reached.
The surprise was that Wade and the Bulls were able to come to an agreement before the season began, thus saving themselves from the uncomfortable questions that would hover over them until Wade headed elsewhere.
In hindsight, it wasn't Wade's fault that he decided to accept the Bulls' original offer.
After all, he turned down more money from the Denver Nuggets last summer to make his arrival in Chicago possible.
If there is blame to place here, it falls at the feet of Forman and the Bulls' front office.
With a desire to remain relevant after their championship window had already closed, the Bulls not only signed off on the Wade deal, they also agreed to give him the $23.8 million player option that they will be buying out.
ESPN.com's Adrian Wojnarowski reported Sunday that Wade will give back $8 million of that $23.8 million that was due to him this season, but the Bulls never should have made that deal in the first place.
The Bulls should have either committed to building around Butler for the long term before last year or started the process of rebuilding earlier.
Even if they had held on to Butler for another year in order to maximize his trade value, the decision to sign both Wade and Rondo was shortsighted.
It also ended up costing the Bulls a lot more money that they could have used in other areas.
Both Wade and the Bulls deserve credit for making the buyout a reality before their unlikely union would have dissolved later in the year, but this was a marriage of arrogance on both sides that was destined for failure from the moment it was consummated.
Even if Rondo hadn't gotten hurt after the Bulls went up 2-0 over the Boston Celtics in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs last season, a team led by Butler, Wade and Rondo wasn't good enough to ever sniff legitimate championship contention.
The reality at this stage in his career is that Wade isn't the same consistently dynamic player he has been in years past.
He can still have nights where he turns back the clock offensively, but he seems allergic to playing defense on a regular basis.
The Bulls should have seen all the warning signs coming, but decided to invest in the hope anyway.
They believed that Wade could still play at a high level on a regular basis, and that he could teach professionalism to a group badly in need of more lessons.
They ended up being wrong on both counts.
The Knicks and Thunder have agreed to a deal that will send Carmelo Anthony to Oklahoma City, forming a formidable trio alongside Russell Westbrook and Paul George.
(0:30)

Did the Oklahoma City Thunder just put together a superteam to rival the Golden State Warriors?
Sam Presti, the Oklahoma City general manager, pulled off another stunner this offseason by trading two bench players and a future second-round pick for former New York Knicks star Carmelo Anthony.
This deal comes two months after Presti netted Paul George for Victor Oladipo and Domantas Sabonis.
With the reigning MVP Russell Westbrook in the fold, the Thunder have created a big three that should contend with just about anybody.
Editor's Picks Trade grades: Did Knicks or Thunder win Melo deal?
The Thunder load up to challenge the Warriors, and the Knicks fully start their rebuild.
Kevin Pelton grades the trade.
Or will they?
In July, we ran the summer's first edition of the superteam standings.
It's time for an update in light of the bananas summer we just witnessed in the NBA.
To recap, I defined a superteam as having at least three stars on the roster.
What qualifies as a star?
You have to have been on an All-Star team, or All-NBA team in any of the previous three seasons.
To rank each superteam, I created a points system that rewards star accolades as follows: five points for first-team All-NBA, three points for second-team All-NBA, one point for All-NBA third team or All-Star team.
One caveat: Those over 35 years old don't count for this exercise, which removes guys such as Kyle Korver and Pau Gasol, who would otherwise be eligible as a "star."
Once we have the stars figured out, add up all of the SuperPoints for each team, and you have a pretty clear tiered system of superteams.
Did OKC make the leap to the Golden State Warriors' level?
And where do the Boston Celtics and Cleveland Cavaliers stand after their blockbuster swap?
Let's get into it.
Tier 1: The superteam of superteams

Golden State Warriors

Stars: Four (Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Draymond Green, Klay Thompson)

SuperPoints: 36 (Curry 16, Durant 9, Green 6, Thompson 5)

A class of their own.
After a fairly quiet free agency, the Warriors retain nearly 90 percent of their minutes from their championship squad.
In comes Nick Young and Omri Casspi, two players who will make them even tougher on the perimeter.
As I mentioned in July, this analysis, believe it or not, understates their superteam standing.
Not a single player was voted first-team All-NBA last season.
If Curry and Durant are voted first-team All-NBA this season, they'd hit a ridiculous 40 SuperPoints.
As is, the team maintains a ridiculous lead above the rest of the league.
The second-most stacked team falls more than 10 points short of the defending champs.
Tier 2: The superteam standard

Cleveland Cavaliers

Stars: Three (LeBron James, Isaiah Thomas, Kevin Love)

SuperPoints: 24 (James 18, Thomas 5, Love 1)

In July, the Cavs were the only team other than the Thunder to boast a "big three" by this standard.
That's not the case anymore, not after their trade with Boston and the Melo deal from Saturday.
But the Cavs still have the second-most SuperPoints on the ledger, thanks to the acquisition of Isaiah Thomas.
By this measure, the Cavs actually upgraded with Thomas, who was named second-team All-NBA last season.
Questions surrounding his balky hip are real and could undermine the Cavs' status as a "big three" team.
But if IT is healthy come playoff time, this team undoubtedly boasts star power among the league's best.
But that's a big if.
One thing to watch: Dwyane Wade, who is reportedly interested in signing with the Cavs after working out a buyout with the Bulls.
Because of his All-Star appearances recently, he can bump this score up to 26, still 10 points behind the Warriors.
That would give them a fierce foursome, but their health (Wade turns 36 in January) would remain a huge question mark for the Eastern Conference champs.
And that's before we consider Derrick Rose, who has missed more than 20 games on average over the past three seasons.
Oklahoma City Thunder

Stars: Three (Russell Westbrook, Paul George and Carmelo Anthony)

SuperPoints: 22 (Westbrook 16, George 3, Anthony 3)

Anthony may be 33 years old, but he's still a star in this league who averaged 22.4 points in a broken system in the Big Apple.
In OKC's system, he should see much better looks alongside Westbrook and George.
And don't be surprised if a fourth star emerges from the mix: Steven Adams.
The 24-year-old could be a monster this season as the benefactor of all the attention paid to the star trio.
Russell Westbrook and James Harden got some serious superstar help this offseason.
Michael Wyke/AP

Tier 3: Super duos

Houston Rockets

Stars: Two (James Harden and Chris Paul)

SuperPoints: 21 (Harden 13, Paul 8)

Say what you want about New York's haul in the Melo deal, but the Rockets seem to be the biggest losers from that trade.
Not only did the Rockets whiff on Melo, he went to a conference rival in OKC.
The Rockets failed to put together the team's first big three (by this measure) since 1996-97 team featuring Hakeem Olajuwon, Clyde Drexler and Charles Barkley.
The Ryan Anderson contract, which pays him $61 million over the next three seasons, obviously proved to be too onerous for New York's taste.
The Rockets can hope 23-year-old Clint Capela becomes the third star on the roster.
New Orleans Pelicans

Stars: Two (Anthony Davis and DeMarcus Cousins)

SuperPoints: 22 (Davis 13 and Cousins 8)

Jrue Holiday was a 2013 All-Star, but that falls too early to qualify for this criteria.
While no one is calling the Pelicans a superteam yet, no one can boast a Twin Towers frontline as daunting as New Orleans'.
The team lacks shooting in the worst way, and adding Rajon Rondo didn't help matters.
At 27, Holiday could still produce at an All-Star level, but he'll have ridiculous competition in the conference to get to the 2018 All-Star festivities.
San Antonio Spurs

Stars: Two (Kawhi Leonard and LaMarcus Aldridge)

SuperPoints: 18 (Leonard 12, Aldridge 6)

By re-signing Pau Gasol, it would technically make the Spurs a big three because of his 2014-15 All-NBA appearance and two All-Stars in the last three seasons.
But Gasol is 37, and not exactly close to a seventh All-Star bid.
This feels more like a Big One than a Big Two, much less a big three.
But a big season from LaMarcus Aldridge could change all that.
Photo by Omar Rawlings/Getty Images

Tier 4: Barely big three

Boston Celtics

Stars: Three (Kyrie Irving, Gordon Hayward and Al Horford)

SuperPoints: 6 (Irving 3, Horford 2, Hayward 1)

In terms of star power, the Celtics just aren't in the same class as OKC or Cleveland (the latter assuming Thomas is healthy).
Neither Irving, Horford or Hayward have finished on the top two All-NBA teams, dragging their score far below the other star trios.
Essentially, they're the bare minimum for a "big three."
Still, no one should be mistaking the Celtics for a superteam, even with the Hayward signing and the Irving trade.
Depending on your opinion of Horford, you may not even consider this team as a "big three."
Nonetheless, they've got the accolades to check off three names on the list.
They still have a good shot at No.
1 in the East, however, because of that other star, Brad Stevens, who has helped the Celtics exceed preseason Vegas expectations for three straight seasons.
What's also clear is that with Jayson Tatum and Jaylen Brown, the C's are engineered for LeBron's supposed decline over the next five years.
Tier 5: On the super sidelines

LA Clippers

Stars: Two (Blake Griffin and DeAndre Jordan)

SuperPoints: 10 (Jordan 8, Griffin 2)

Danilo Gallinari is a good player in this league, but he's just shy of star status.
Griffin and Jordan make up this Big Two now that Chris Paul has headed to Houston.
To illustrate how far Griffin has fallen, he mustered just 2 points in this system.
Jordan's durability has outpaced Griffin's overall contributions the past few seasons.
Toronto Raptors

Stars: 2 (Kyle Lowry and DeMar DeRozan)

SuperPoints: 7 (Lowry 4 and DeRozan 3)

This doesn't mean the Raptors won't have a shot at nabbing the No.
1 seed out East.
It just means they don't have a traditional super squad.
They're banking on the core's continuity to capitalize on some newness at the top of the East, but Lowry and DeRozan need some more help before we start calling them a super team.
Being a perennial playoff team with 50ish wins shouldn't be laughed at.
But they're definitely a tier below in the star department.
Tier 5: Tomorrow's superteam

Minnesota Timberwolves

Stars: 2 (Jimmy Butler and Jeff Teague)

SuperPoints: 5 (Butler 4 and Teague 1)

Karl-Anthony Towns will etch his name on the star level this season.
Though he hasn't yet qualified for "star" status by this measure, he's one of the best young big men in the game today.
To take that next step, he'll have to dig in defensively and coax fellow aspiring All-Star Andrew Wiggins to do the same.
Teague technically qualifies on this list, but it'll be interesting to see how he coexists with Jimmy Butler, who figures to share primary ball-handling duties for Tom Thibodeau.
Butler is probably a dark horse for MVP this season, considering he finished as the seventh-best player by RPM this past season.
If Towns' and Wiggins' defense improves, they'll make this a no-doubt "big three" in no time.
Only five SuperPoints keeps them from the upper echelon.
Missed the cut:

Memphis Grizzlies, Miami Heat, Utah Jazz and Charlotte Hornets
Steph Curry says LeBron James' critical tweet about President Donald Trump was "courageous," especially from someone who has a lot to lose.
(1:18)

It's Media Day for many teams around the league.
Here's what NBA players, coaches and executives are saying in response to President Donald Trump's comments over the weekend about the Warriors, NFL protests and the intersection of politics and sports.
This file will be updated throughout the day.
Mark Cuban, Dallas Mavericks, owner (to CNBC): "If [Mavericks players] would want to have, as a team, their feelings aired on our JumboTron before a game rather than trying to make a point through a secondary action, whether it's taking knees, joining arms, whatever it may be, let's just say what's on our mind and just be clear to fans what we think and if we can take it from there and start a discussion in our community, then that's a good thing."
Erik Spoelstra, Miami Heat, head coach: "I commend the Golden State Warriors for the decision they made.
I commend NFL players and organizations for taking a stand right now for equality, for inclusion, for taking a stand against racism, bigotry, prejudice.
"It is disheartening to see right now the divisiveness.
We support our players and the other teams for their right to express themselves in a nonviolent way for a cause that needs to be addressed."
After a knee injury during the 2016 Fiesta Bowl ended his career with Notre Dame, Jaylon Smith is slated to return to Glendale, Arizona, for the first time in Week 3 as a member of the Cowboys.
(0:57)

The traffic slog up to AT&T Stadium spares no one, rich or poor, gifted or unathletic, because 100,000 people descending on an area near a baseball stadium and a Six Flags amusement park is destined to be chaos.
On opening night for the Dallas Cowboys earlier this month, Richard King took a cab as far as he could, then went the rest of the way on foot.
King works security at a hospital about 1,500 miles away in Pennsylvania, and before he left to see his first Cowboys game, he bought a Jaylon Smith jersey.
He loved the young linebacker's story -- how Smith came back from a gruesome knee injury in his final college game -- and figured the No.
54 shirt would stand out in a stadium full of Daks and Zekes.
Richard King meets Cowboys linebacker Jaylon Smith while stuck in traffic heading to AT&T Stadium.
Elizabeth Merrill

As he approached AT&T Stadium, King heard someone yell, "Yo, 54!"
from a white Chevy Tahoe.
The man behind the wheel was stuck in traffic too.
It was Jaylon Smith.
"If you jump in here," Smith told King, "I'll sign that for you."
King thought somebody must be playing a joke on him.
But Smith cleared some stuff off his passenger seat, and King hopped in while Smith dug out a Sharpie.
He signed the back of the jersey and mugged for pictures with King.
When a couple of Smith's teammates were told about the encounter this past week, they thought the exchange was cool -- up until the part about letting a random fan into the car.
People who know Smith say there's an innocence about him, an unbreakable faith in people, God and himself.
And as King climbed out of the SUV, Smith actually thanked him.
"I didn't even believe it was happening," King said.
"He said he was glad to see that people still had faith in him."
King climbed into Smith's SUV, and the Cowboys linebacker signed his jersey.
Elizabeth Merrill

People generally don't act this way.
Jaylon Smith spent 20 months recovering from a shredded knee, and during his rehab last year as a rookie, he smiled every single day.
While various media types were writing last year that Smith would never play again, he spoke to about 1,500 men at Gateway Church in Southlake, Texas.
Pastor James Lee said it was like a scene from the movie "Braveheart," and by the time Smith was finished, everyone in the building gave him a standing ovation and was convinced he would be back on the field again in 2017.
Smith not only recovered from a torn anterior cruciate ligament, a torn lateral collateral ligament and a stretched nerve in his knee; he is starting at middle linebacker for Dallas and currently leads the team with 23 tackles, according to the coaches' breakdown.
On Monday night, he'll travel back to University of Phoenix Stadium, where he suffered the injury 636 days ago that changed his life.
Yet Smith said he has put no thought into the significance of the venue for the game between the Cowboys and the Arizona Cardinals.
To give you an idea of how little his family has thought about it, his older brother, Rod Smith, a backup running back for the Cowboys, didn't even remember that the Cardinals' home field was where Jaylon suffered the injury that dropped him from a top-5 pick to completely off the board for some teams.
As of Thursday, there were no plans for their parents to attend the game.
"It's something in the past," Rod said.
"He's beaten those odds."
The Cowboys reportedly had planned to put him sort of a pitch count in the preseason, but then they wound up in schemes that favored Smith in the season opener against the New York Giants.
He looked good, recording seven tackles and a forced fumble.
He has progressed enough to take away playing time from veteran Justin Durant.
When asked whether he was surprised that Smith was playing so much so early in the season, Cowboys defensive coordinator Rod Marinelli said, "Nothing surprises me."
"He's gaining ground with every step.
He's got really extraordinary talent.
He's really fast.
He's learning.
He hustles and does all the things right, and he's going to get better every week."
Smith and the Cowboys will visit the Cardinals on Monday night.
It will mark the first time the linebacker takes the field at the University of Phoenix Stadium since he injured his knee during a bowl game there on New Year's Day 2016.
Tim Heitman/USA TODAY Sports

Before that life-altering day in Arizona, Smith, an All-American for Notre Dame, had never been seriously hurt.
He had never missed a game, never missed a practice, in high school or college.
While some seniors or players who are declaring for the draft don't fly home with the team after a bowl game, Smith rode back with his teammates.
He spent the first couple of days at the Morris Inn, a hotel on the South Bend, Indiana, campus.
Michael Bertsch, Notre Dame's director of football media relations, was one of the first people to check in on him.
Bertsch is age 41, with a 1-year-old son, and he can't imagine how he would handle something like that.
Smith was sitting on the bed, his leg propped up, and Bertsch tried to console him.
But there was no need.
"I just can't wait to get started on getting back," Smith told Bertsch.
Smith would drop 20 pounds from his 245-pound body and vomit from the effects of anesthesia.
When he eventually got back on his feet and posted video of himself moving around, it was one of those "That poor guy" moments for his doubters.
He flunked some NFL physicals in February, but even then, Fighting Irish coach Brian Kelly was convinced that Smith, who declared early for the draft, would be back to playing football.
Kelly told coaches and general managers that, and some listened.
Others didn't.
He sat in his office for an interview with ESPN.com in the winter of 2016, predicting that Smith would be a star in the NFL.
Kelly has been coaching for 27 years, and he said he has never seen someone like Smith, someone who set the entire tempo for everyone at practice -- a linebacker, no less -- someone who so greatly touched an entire team.
"When we talk about this young man, unique's not even the right word," Kelly said.
"He's got incredible grit.
He loves life, and he loves the challenges of it."
The Cowboys seemed to be one of the few teams who listened.
It helped that their team doctor, Dan Cooper, performed Smith's surgery just after the Fiesta Bowl.
But even Cooper couldn't guarantee that the nerve would fully regenerate.
Still, Dallas selected Smith in the second round, and the NFL -- and a fan base -- held their collective breath and hoped.
Rehab can be a place where people might tend to feel sorry for themselves.
Injured players keep schedules similar to that of their teammates, arriving at the team facility at 6 a.m., putting in six or seven hours of sometimes grueling work, but knowing they have no chance to play.
Cowboys defensive end Charles Tapper also was drafted in 2016, and like Smith, he spent the year on injured reserve with a bad back.
The isolation from the team could be depressing, Tapper said.
You're with the team by virtue of being in the same building, but you're not really with the team.
Smith, the proverbial long shot of the injured players, was the one lifting Tapper up.
Smith ran through drills as hard and as fast as he could, and soon it became a competition.
If one guy came up an inch or two short of the line, they ran again.
Tapper said it took his rehab to another level.
"He's almost like a robot," Tapper said.
"We'd be in the weight room, and ...
I'm like, man, this guy is not human."
"I've never seen him upset, never seen him talk bad about anybody," Tapper added.
"He never talks bad about anything.
I would come in some days and I'd say, 'Man, I've got my mom and my brother and all this stuff,' and he's like, 'Hey, Tap, it's going to be all good.'
We loved competing against each other, but then we'd come back and sit and talk.
Once we did those things, I'm like, 'Man, this is a real guy right there.'"
Maliek Collins was also part of the Cowboys' 2016 draft class, also wound up injured last year and also fell under the spell of Smith.
At one point, Collins asked Smith how he stays so positive.
Smith would tell his fellow injured teammates, "Man, we've got the opportunity to still be Cowboys.
We can still be great."
"He just kept faith though the process," Collins said.
"I respect the hell out of him."
Cowboys defensive coordinator Rod Marinelli, right, said Smith "hustles and does all the things right and he's going to get better every week."
LM Otero/AP Photo

Smith is declining one-on-one interviews right now.
His publicist said he wants to focus solely on football but that Smith politely says thank you for your interest.
The Cowboys want it this way now, anyway.
Maybe they don't want to put too much on a 22-year-old who has been through so much and is essentially a rookie.
He does not fit into the personality mold of some of his other marquee teammates.
On Thursday, for example, receiver Dez Bryant stood on a cameraman's ladder, holding court as he acted like a character from "Game of Thrones."
Running back Ezekiel Elliott deflected the latest controversy, which centered on whether he quit on a play in a loss at Denver.
Smith was nowhere to be found in the locker room.
But he was coerced into doing a group interview on Saturday.
"Everything I've done has been a part of the plan, you know what I mean?"
Smith said.
"The rehab, the training prior to getting back out on the field in OTAs, camp, all of that stuff is tougher than going out playing, quite frankly.
We work pretty hard, very hard, so the game is all about going out there and having fun.
"We've been playing the game since we were 7 years old, so that's kind of the joy and the relief to be able to go out there and play.
For me, I love performing at a high level, so that's what I'll continue to do."
The nerve injury gave Smith a drop foot, which essentially means that he could not pick up his left foot on his own.
Smith still wears a brace on the foot, and it's unclear how long he'll need it.
During training camp, Sports Illustrated reported that his nerve was 80 percent regenerated.
But Cowboys linebackers coach Matt Eberflus said he "doesn't mess around with percentages."
He just said he expects Smith to keep getting better as he gets healthier and learns more on the job.
"His attitude is positive, and it's very contagious," Eberflus said.
"Guys, I think, are drawn to him because of that."
In some ways, things have worked out.
Rod and Jaylon Smith are playing together.
They never had the chance to do that in high school or college.
As kids in Fort Wayne, Indiana, their dad, Roger, whom Rod calls "Pops," had them run for five miles around a development called Village Woods.
They were 6 or maybe 7 years old.
Sometimes, Rod said, they couldn't have supper until they had run.
The siblings spend a lot of time with each other now.
Rod draws the line on living together; a man has to have his own space.
Besides, this is Jaylon's first chance to have his own apartment.
About the only drawback of having Jaylon in Dallas, Rod said, is that it means more reporters want to talk to him.
"I mean, I'm a chill dude," Rod said.
But Rod loves talking about his brother.
He loves being around Jaylon.
After the Sept. 17 loss at Denver, Rod sat silently at his locker while Jaylon answered questions about the defense.
Then they boarded a bus to the airport together.
Getting the chance to be together in Dallas was a big surprise for Rod.
A welcome surprise.
His brother's comeback?
That wasn't shocking at all.
Rod had faith.
Just like Jaylon.
"Me, I expected it," Rod said.
"Injury or not, I just know what he's about."
Todd Archer contributed to this report.
Larry Fitzgerald and Jason Witten have appeared in 10 Pro Bowls each.
Among the league's all-time leaders, Fitzgerald ranks third in catches (1,134) and ninth in yards (14,484) over 14 seasons.
Witten is fourth in catches (1,106) and 26th in yards (12,044) in 15 seasons.
Together they've combined for 26,528 receiving yards -- the equivalent of 15.07 miles.
They're both all but locks for the Pro Football Hall of Fame, and on Monday at University of Phoenix Stadium, they will play against each other when the Arizona Cardinals take on the Dallas Cowboys (8:30 ET, ESPN).
Here are their first-person accounts about each other:

Larry Fitzgerald ranks third all time with 1,134 career catches.
Rob Schumacher/AZCentral Sports

Jason Witten on Larry Fitzgerald

"The first time I really got to know Larry Fitzgerald was at the Pro Bowl in 2005 in Hawaii.
We were just two young guys at the time, looking at some of the stars of the game, probably wondering what the heck was going on.
"But I remember we were talking about route running and how you attack and use leverage and what you do on the stem of your routes to get open.
We play different positions, but I figured out quickly that we see the game in a similar way.
It's an art to running routes and a lot of times people just see matchups and looks but don't understand the work that goes into getting open.
Larry's done that for a long time.
"There's a lot of talk about sustained success.
We see it with a number of guys across the league nowadays, but there are very few people who have done it as well as Larry for as long as Larry.
He set that standard early in his career and he has never come off it.
He led the league in catches last year in his 13th season.
Think about that.
He did it when we first got to know each other in 2005, and he did it again last year.
That's sustained success.
"Early in my career I put together a goal-line study and there is No.
11 in a three-point stance in the wing.
How many teams ask a wide receiver to line up in a three-point stance?
It might not have been the best stance, but he fought and the result of the play is what mattered.
That says a lot about who he is and what he embodies over the course of 14 years.
"A few years ago Coach Garrett used Larry as an example to our team of the way to go about your business.
You know you're doing something right when an opposing coach is pointing out the way you've acted over the course of a career.
"Last year he was named the co-winner of the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award with Eli Manning.
I was fortunate enough to win that award in 2012.
I remember talking with Larry after he won the award and told him how proud I was of him.
It's an honor to win it but it's really what he's been about for his entire career.
"I truly believe your legacy as a person is more important than your legacy as a player.
When you are mentioned with Walter Payton, it doesn't get any better than that.
"I don't know how many more times we will get to play against each other, but I just want him to know how much I respect him as a player and as a person for what he's done in this game.
"We hear a lot about what's wrong with our game, but Larry is everything that is right about our game."
Jason Witten ranks fourth all time with 1,106 catches.
Tim Heitman/USA TODAY Sports

Larry Fitzgerald on Jason Witten

"The first thing I think about Jason is his character, what he stands for.
He's just such a special man.
I think any young person in this league would look to him as somebody that you want to model your career after professionally and personally.
"I got a chance to get to know him really well a few years ago when we were both up for the Man of the Year.
I got a chance to see him again this year.
He was very nice to me.
I look forward to playing against him, as always.
"Nobody is ever going to be able to top [the play when Witten had a 53-yard reception after his helmet was knocked off in 2007] because we would never be allowed to.
He's definitely tougher than me because I would've got my butt down.
You got guys flying around trying to take you out.
"That's how tough he is.
That's why he's been able to play 15 years at a Hall of Fame level."
FRISCO, Texas -- Everybody wants to know Jason Witten's secret.
At 35 years old, in his 15th season with the Dallas Cowboys, how does he keep producing the way he does?
The NFL might be a young mans game, but after two games, nobody in the NFL had more catches than Witten (17).
It is the most catches Witten has had in the first two games in his career.
His 156 yards is the third highest he's had after two games.
His two touchdowns match the best start of his career.
After two games this season, nobody in the NFL had more catches than Jason Witten with 17.
Matthew Emmons-USA TODAY Sports

Surely there is something genetic that has allowed him to play 221 straight games, the longest current streak in football for a position player and the most in team history.
There is some luck, too.
But Witten steals a line from golf legend Ben Hogan: The secret is in the dirt.
Its the work not only during the week but during the offseason.
And hes not alone.
Every year since 2003, his rookie season, Witten has driven into Valley Ranch or The Star and known his athletic trainers, Jim Maurer, Britt Brown and Greg Gaither, have been there waiting for him.
Since 2011, head strength coach Mike Woicik and assistant Brett Bech have been with Witten.
My car never pulls in that facility early in the morning or leaves late at night and their cars arent there, Witten said.
I know theyre not going to try to feed me stuff thats not true or sell me on a new pitch.
People say, Where do you go train?
I train here.
Who do you look to help you play?
These are my guys.
I have a lot confidence in that.
Its what theyve done in their careers and their experience, but more than that, I know theyre going to be honest with me and come up with the best plan for me.
For years, the Cowboys attempted to get him to take time off during organized team activities, minicamp and training camp.
He finally relented this offseason, not practicing three straight days.
Coach Jason Garretts message did not change from when they first broached the idea years ago.
What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

I think I was in a different place, Witten said.
We were 8-8 three years in a row, coming up short.
I just didnt think it was the time.
And I was relatively young four years ago, just turning 31.
But to call them off days is a misnomer.
He might not have been on the practice field running routes, but he was still working out in the weight room under the watchful eye of Woicik, who has six Super Bowl rings.
One of the best things about him is hes seen veteran players have success, Witten said.
Michael Irvin said theres no way possible he wouldve played at that level at the end if not for Mike Woicik, so I believe that.
You see the guys in New England: Tedy Bruschi, Willie McGinest, Troy Brown.
Even Tom [Brady].
For him its not just made-up numbers.
Theres numbers he looks to through the offseason to show youre reaching those standards.
Its not just an eye exam, Hey, he looks good.
Hes kind of the godfather of it all.
More than two hours before every game, Bech stretches Witten, looking to increase his hip flexibility.
During the week, Maurer, Brown and Gaither are organizing his treatments and maintenance programs.
Maurer is in his 28th season with the Cowboys and has not had many -- if any -- players like Witten.
There have been times hes asked Witten how he does it.
Its pretty amazing, Maurer said.
In a lot of cases, its mental fortitude and all those catch-phrase words.
Hes a tough guy, but he also listens and does what hes asked to do and that helps the process along.
Witten signed a four-year extension this offseason, but he has become a year-to-year player, much the same way Tony Gonzalez became a year-to-year player at the end of his career.
There have been considerations for age, like how much he lifts and how many times a week he lifts.
He has become more conscious of his flexibility and core.
He watches what he eats.
He even makes sure he gets enough sleep.
The best thing about our plan is not what we say.
Its what we do, Witten said.
Its not some tricked-up secret.
The secret is in the dirt.
The secret is in the repetition of going back and doing it over and over and over.
Many people look at it and say, Wow, its good, but its evolved every year.
And then the results come and it allows me to play at a high level.
That is a byproduct of what we do.
To be able to go do it every year, it takes everybody.
Im certainly appreciative of the investment everybody has made in me.
In the spring, Wittens sons, C.J.
and Cooper, had a field day at their school Witten did not want to miss.
With his tenure on the roster, he could have missed one of the voluntary workouts and nobody would have said a word.
Instead of skipping the workout, he was at The Star by 5 a.m. after a 40-minute drive from his house.
His car was not the first in the parking lot.
Theres guys that have moments, Bech said, but for him to do it and sustain it for such a long period of time, he probably stands at the top of the hill, if you would ask me.
New York may have lost on a 61-yard field goal, but the team still seems optimistic despite the record after the offense finally showed up in Philadelphia.
(1:00)

PHILADELPHIA -- The New York Giants are 0-3.
Its officially time to panic.
The odds are strongly against this group making any kind of noise this season.
Theyre in such a gigantic hole that getting back to even ground will be difficult.
Something needs to be done in order to instill discipline into a Giants team that committed foolish penalties throughout the fourth quarter of Sunday's 27-24 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles.
Something needs to be done to stabilize the offensive line.
Something needs to be done (see: quarterback) to assess the future of the franchise if it keeps trending in this direction.
This is where it all stands three weeks into the season.
And it all needs to happen quickly if the Giants intend to make any run at the postseason this year.
Theyre already going to need a semi-historic turnaround.
Only three teams since 1990 have started 0-3 and qualified for the playoffs.
The playoffs is not in my thoughts right now, veteran linebacker Jonathan Casillas said.
Its go and find that first win.
The question is what can be done to get that first win or trigger an immediate turnaround?
The Giants next play Sunday in Tampa Bay.
Coach Ben McAdoo said there could be "drastic" changes entering Sundays loss to the Eagles.
That didnt appear to be the case, especially when it came to personnel.
It was the same players in mostly the same roles against the Eagles.
The Giants sped up their offense and did little else different from the first two weeks when they were run off the field by the Detroit Lions and Dallas Cowboys.
It resulted in another disappointing loss.
This Giants simply may not be good enough.
Or disciplined enough.
Eli Manning got rid of the ball quickly against the Eagles.
It did not make up for poor offensive line play.
Abbie Parr/Getty Images

They cant afford to keep putting Ereck Flowers at left tackle.
This could fracture the team.
He simply isnt a starting-caliber left tackle, even if the Giants hid their porous offensive line most of Sunday by getting the ball out of Eli Manning's hand at lightning speed.
Manning released the ball on average in 1.86 seconds, per Pro Football Focus.
That was .39 seconds faster than any other quarterback in Week 3.
But even that didnt totally cover Flowers' flaws.
Two of the biggest plays in the loss was because of Flowers' ineffectiveness.
Flowers was dominated on a fourth-and-goal run late in the first half where Orleans Darkwa was tackled behind the line of scrimmage.
Flowers then clotheslined and tackled Eagles defensive end Vinny Curry with under a minute left and the Giants trying to march for the winning score.
That led to an eventual punt and the game-winning field goal for the Eagles.
McAdoo is going to have a hard time looking his players in the face if he keeps sending Flowers out as the left tackle.
Flowers knows he has played poorly.
Its not fair to everyone involved, including Flowers, to continue putting him in this position.
This needs to be the week the Giants shift Justin Pugh to left tackle or try undrafted rookie Chad Wheeler there.
Flowers can compete with Bobby Hart for the starting right tackle job instead.
Maybe that works.
Maybe it doesnt, but at least its a change.
Trying D.J.
Fluker at guard is also a move worth exploring.
He would help a running attack that has amassed just 146 yards in three games combined.
The Eagles ran for 193 yards on Sunday.
The offensive line isnt alone in its need for alterations.
There are rules and they are intended for everyone, including Odell Beckham Jr., the Giants top playmaker.
There have to be real consequences for poor performance and foolish behavior.
The NFL has loosened its rules on celebrations and the Giants already have two unsportsmanlike penalties in three weeks.
We dont want to be kicking off from the 20-yard line, McAdoo said.
Thats not smart football and we arent playing smart football.
But something must not be getting through.
When I get in the end zone, Im going to do what I do, Beckham said.
Im going to try to spark this team.
The consequences are going to be what they are.
Its life, you have to deal with the consequences.
And thats something I can take.
We were motivated from that.
I dont think it set us back any.
While that particular momentary lapse of judgment didnt cost the Giants -- they successful covered the ensuing kickoff -- there were other foolish mistakes that proved costly.
In the fourth quarter alone the Giants had an invalid fair catch, a delay of game by an offensive lineman and an illegal shift.
This all needs to be fixed.
The Giants dont have any time to waste or it will only snowball and get worse.
At that point, everything should be on the table, including taking a look at rookie quarterback Davis Webb later in the year if this season spirals out of control.
Three loses in, were almost at the point where this becomes a late-season consideration.
Andy Dalton says that the Bengals left too much time for Aaron Rodgers and the Packers to steal the game at the end.
(0:18)

Dalton: 'We got to find a way to put that away' (0:18)

GREEN BAY, Wis -- The Cincinnati Bengals are getting desperate, and they should be.
They're 0-3, and the window is closing.
That quiet desperation was evident in the locker room after a 27-24 loss to the Packers on Sunday.
The defiant anger that permeated the locker room after a loss to the Texans had been replaced by something else.
On Sunday, the Bengals were more solemn than angry.
They know they're letting the season slip away.
According to ESPN Stats and Information, only three teams who started 0-3 have gone to the playoffs since the NFL went to a 12-team format in 1990: The 1998 Bills (finished 10-6, lost in wild-card round), 1995 Lions (finished 10-6 and lost in the wild-card round) and 1992 Chargers (finished 11-5 and lost in the divisional round).
There's hope, albeit slim hope.
And it starts with the winless Browns next week.
Adam Jones and the Bengals are searching for a victory after falling short in overtime against the Packers.
Larry Radloff/Icon Sportswire

"It's very frustrating," said Bengals rookie Carl Lawson, who had 2.5 sacks on Sunday.
"But my mind is on Cleveland right now.
You just have to keep moving forward.
It hurts, but you have to find something to build on.
You can't be down in the dumps because you won't get any better."
The Browns have played the Bengals tough as of late, and despite their record, they've been close in every game.
They'll be just as desperate to win as the Bengals, but they simply haven't been good enough.
The Bengals knew they were good enough to beat the Packers on Sunday.
They just couldn't get out of their own way en route to blowing a 21-7 lead.
To see it end in the way it did, with Michael Johnson jumping offsides in overtime to give Aaron Rodgers a free pass to make a 72-yard completion, had to be agonizing.
"If we play like that clean up a couple self-inflicted plays we can beat any team!!!
Crazy," Bengals defensive end Carlos Dunlap said on his social media account after the game.
"It is what it is.
We've got to still go," said linebacker Kevin Minter.
"We've just got to do a better job.
We had the foot on their neck.
We need to stomp on them.
We need to cut it off."
Marvin Lewis and his staff talked all summer about pulling out those tough victories.
By losing the way they did, the Bengals proved they are no better than last year's team.
In their last 11 games, the Bengals are 1-9-1 in contests decided by a touchdown or less.
Closing out games has been their biggest hurdle to overcome.
Some in the locker room, perhaps trying to find the silver lining, said they thought they took some steps forward in Week 3.
They pointed to William Jackson's interception return for a touchdown, they called Lawson a "beast" for his big day against Rodgers, and they said the offense is getting better after finally getting in the end zone.
Perhaps that rings a little hollow after a loss, but the Bengals were likely trying to boost morale.
They have a chance next week against a Cleveland team that is struggling as much as the Bengals, and linebacker Vontaze Burfict returns from suspension.
If they get their first win against the Browns, they'll be back at home the following week against the Bills with a chance to go 2-3 before their bye.
It's not where they wanted to be, but it's a chance to salvage their season.
"Good teams have a short-term memory," Minter said.
"You have to take a blow to the jaw and keep fighting."
San Diego took a tough loss to Kansas City on Sunday after not being able to get anything started on offense.
(0:54)

CARSON, Calif. -- Philip Rivers is a creature of habit.
Who can blame him?
He had been with the same team, living in the same city for 13 years before the Los Angeles Chargers packed up and moved to Costa Mesa this year.
Now, Rivers is playing in a new stadium, in a new city and dealing with the pressures of trying to win over a new fan base in L.A. -- a city that so far has been indifferent to the Bolts' presence.
Sunday's performance against the Kansas City Chiefs didn't help win over any fans.
In a game ready for the taking, the Chargers lacked killer instinct on offense, with Rivers throwing three interceptions.
Philip Rivers completed just half of his passes and threw three picks in the loss to the Chiefs.
Jeff Gross/Getty Images

"I really was just never in any kind of groove the whole day," Rivers said.
"Shoot, anytime a quarterback plays that poorly, it's going to be tough to win, and that's really a shame because our defense was awesome."
Rivers might as well have been playing 7-on-7, the protection was so good, with two sacks coming late in the game when the Chiefs knew the Chargers were going to throw.
Pressure was not an issue in Rivers' performance.
Running back Melvin Gordon's play was the only saving grace for the offense.
He finished with 79 yards on 18 carries, with 78 of those coming in the first half before the Wisconsin product went out with a knee injury.
Gordon returned later in the second half but was ineffective, and the Chargers' running game suffered.
Rivers has been commuting back and forth from San Diego with backup quarterback Kellen Clemens.
He has a driver and a revamped SUV that allows him to prepare during the ride home to his wife and eight kids, so he doesn't miss any time with his preparation.
What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

Gordon said that relocation isn't an excuse for the offense's ineffectiveness and the move doesn't have anything to do with how the offense is executing on the field.
"That has nothing to do with what we have going on out here," Gordon said.
"I think our full focus is on the game.
He [Rivers] just made a couple mistakes.
It happens, and it is what it is.
But he's the leader, so we rally behind him.
"He makes a mistake, and he gets over it.
We get over it.
We have to go out there as a team and try and make him play a winning game."
Gordon is right.
Rivers' issues have more to do with getting into a rhythm on offense.
We're talking about someone with a career 64.4 percent completion percentage that completed just 50 percent of his throws in a 24-10 loss against the Chiefs on Sunday.
According to ESPN Stats & Information, Rivers was off-target on 11 throws, two of which were intercepted.
The 11 off-target passes are tied for the most by a quarterback in a game this season, and Rivers' 27 percent off-target rate is his third-worst mark in the past five seasons.
In his first two games of the season, Rivers combined to throw just 10 off-target passes with no interceptions.
The remedy?
The Chargers and offensive coordinator Ken Whisenhunt have to get back to the quick, short passing game installed when he first joined the Chargers in 2013.
That season, Rivers completed a career-high 69.5 percent of his passes on his way to a Pro Bowl season.
That was also the last time the Chargers made the playoffs.
"It's too early to overact," Rivers said.
"Shoot, last week it wasn't about four balls that hit the ground besides throwaways.
This week, I didn't have a completion until halfway through the first quarter, except to the other team.
"I had more completions to the other team than I had to our team.
I was just bad.
There was just really nothing.
I think you hope you avoid days like this all year long, but if you have them, shoot, learn from them and go -- and not overreact."
FOXBOROUGH, Mass.
-- Lets start with some of the important disclaimers: Its still early  there is a history of improvement as time progresses  losing a captain to injury is seldom easy  and theyre relying on an undrafted rookie, fourth-round draft pick, and a player who arrived via trade just three weeks ago.
OK, now that's out of the way, heres the question: Whats up with the New England Patriots' defense?
Sundays 36-33 win over the Houston Texans -- a result that easily could have gone the other way if not for Tom Bradys magical comeback effort -- highlighted some concerns on defense.
The unit is putting a lot of pressure on Brady and the offense, with Texans rookie quarterback Deshaun Watson totaling 301 passing yards as he bobbed and weaved his way through defenders to add 41 rushing yards on eight carries while extending other plays in the pocket.
After having trouble containing Deshaun Watson on Sunday, the Patriots will have to deal with handling the size and agility of Panthers QB Cam Newton in Week 4.
Maddie Meyer/Getty Images

Safety Devin McCourty noted how Watsons elusiveness put stress on the defense, while pointing out that the quarterback coming to town this Sunday, Cam Newton of the Carolina Panthers, has similar ability.
Weve got a lot of work because that guy can do that better than anyone in the NFL, McCourty said of Newton.
Thats something, obviously, weve got to keep working on.
Defensive coordinator Matt Patricia, who has been trying to put the puzzle together without linebacker/captain Donta Hightower (knee injury), is getting by with a game-plan specific approach as the team is figuring out what it has personnel-wise (and if that personnel is good enough).
That includes relying on undrafted defensive lineman Adam Butler, fourth-round pick Deatrich Wise Jr., as a top pass-rusher and newly-acquired Cassius Marsh as an end-of-the-line player.
In the opener against the Kansas City Chiefs, Patricia utilized primarily a dime package (six defensive backs).
Then in the second week at the New Orleans Saints, it was more of a big nickel game (five defensive backs, with three safeties and two cornerbacks).
And against the Texans, it was a base defense game, with the Patriots mostly playing what could be called a 5-2 or 3-4 alignment, depending if one referred to Trey Flowers and Marsh as defensive ends or outside linebackers.
The plan seemed fairly obvious: Get heavier at the line of scrimmage and dont let the Texans get the running game going to make life easier on Watson.
And in the process, dont allow Watson to win with his legs, either.
The Patriots were competitive against the run (Texans finished with 32 rushes for 125 yards), but it was their work against the pass that was more alarming.
Credit to Watson, of course, but the Patriots could have made it much harder on him than they did.
The secondary, in particular, has almost every starter from 2016 returning and added big-ticket free-agent signing Stephon Gilmore.
But the resistance wasnt consistently there.
The Texans had five passing plays of 20 yards or more in the game, as the Patriots have now surrendered 13 passing plays of 20 or more yards through three games.
That puts them on pace for 69 this season after allowing 44 in 2016.
Maybe the Panthers and Newton, who havent been lighting up the scoreboard, is the right opponent to help the unit tighten some things up.
Bill [Belichick] said it best after the game.
Weve got a lot of work to do defensively, McCourty said.
It doesnt get any easier next week with Cam Newton.
The good thing is well be highly critical of how we played against Watson because were going to see something similar Sunday.
Jordan Howard rushes for 138 yards, including the game-winning score in overtime, as the Bears defeat the Steelers 23-17.
(1:39)

CHICAGO -- It's easy to look at the Pittsburgh Steelers' three consecutive seasons of double-digit wins and ignore the occasional lapse.
But curious losses against inferior teams are making that difficult.
The Steelers' 23-17 overtime loss to the Chicago Bears on Sunday at Soldier Field -- thanks to an overpowering Chicago rushing performance in overtime -- was Pittsburgh's sixth loss against a sub-.500 team since 2014.
Bears running back Tarik Cohen's apparent 73-yard walk-off touchdown was called back after he stepped out of bounds, but Jordan Howard sealed it a few plays later with his 19-yard, game-winning score.
The Bears looked in command all game, which reveals an ugly truth about the Steelers' insistence on playing down to competition.
After Howard's game-winning touchdown run through a sea of defensive backs, Steelers cornerback Artie Burns flung his helmet and walked to the locker room without it.
Safety Mike Mitchell lay by the end zone, his face mask buried in the grass.
Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger threw just one TD pass in Sunday's loss to the Bears, continuing a trend on the road.
AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh

Despite some efforts to cure the Bears' early run success and creating two turnovers in the second half, the Steelers looked outmatched on the final drive.
"We got our asses kicked," defensive end Cam Heyward said.
The offense didn't fare much better.
With 52 seconds left in regulation, one timeout remaining and 85 yards from the end zone, the Steelers walked to the line of scrimmage looking like a high-powered offense should.
The result?
They gained 17 yards on two passes, called a timeout, and took a sack off a three-man rush before regulation ended.
"We thought we were going to go score and win the game," tight end Jesse James said .
The Steelers just can't reach back and consistently overpower teams on the road.
Quarterback Ben Roethlisberger finished with one touchdown pass, the ninth time in his past 11 road games he has had one passing score or less.
The Bears tried to lose this game at several points, including back-to-back penalties on a fourth-quarter drive.
This was a game Pittsburgh probably should have won convincingly.
As the Steelers were late out of the tunnel pregame, their play reflected as much early in the game.
The Bears' gaping running holes were alarming for a Steelers defense that prides itself on stopping the run.
Howard & Co. burst through those holes for 114 rushing yards in the first half despite no Bears receiver recording a catch before halftime.
What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

The Steelers' second-half adjustments reduced those holes, forcing Bears quarterback Mike Glennon to throw uncomfortably from the pocket without much downfield help.
Credit the Steelers' defense for attacking the ball carrier.
Antonio Brown was brilliant once again, but the Steelers are waiting on the brilliance of others, too.
Through the season's first eight quarters on the road, Roethlisberger 21-of-25 for 291 yards and a touchdown when targeting Brown, but just 25-of-50 for 206 yards and an interception when targeting everyone else.
A 25-yard strike to rookie JuJu Smith-Schusterr early in the fourth proved crucial.
Le'Veon Bell's steady but unspectacular play continued for the most part; he was good after contact and his 13-yard run late in the fourth quarter helped the Steelers out of a first-and-20 situation and kept a crucial drive alive.
It wasn't enough.
The Steelers' offense looked most comfortable in the no-huddle that Roethlisberger loves.
That setup dominated a 13-play, 77-yard drive that ended with a Brown touchdown in the second quarter.
But the rest of the offensive attack was mostly uninspiring.
Who would have thought one of the most feared NFL offensive attacks would be searching for its 2017 identity through three games?
NASHVILLE -- For a little over two quarters Sunday, the Seattle Seahawks' offensive finally found some of the rhythm that had been missing during a pair of dispiriting performances to begin the season.
Russell Wilson was on point, his receivers were making plays and the offensive line provided adequate pass protection.
It helped Seattle make a game of what otherwise would have been a runaway.
If only the Seahawks' offense could play that way for four quarters.
Heck, even three full quarters might have been enough for them to leave Nashville with a win instead of a 33-27 loss.
Their inconsistency on offense was far from the only glaring issue, but it was a big one.
And it was mostly at the start.
"I put that on me," Wilson said.
"I think we could have been better early."
Wilson was part of the problem as the Seahawks punted on each of their first six possessions, gaining only 36 yards on their first 21 plays.
He missed two throws to Doug Baldwin, including one when the receiver was open deep down the field.
That continued a trend of some uncharacteristic inaccuracy by Seattle's quarterback over the first two games.
But he wasn't alone.
Tight end Jimmy Graham dropped a pass and two snaps from center Justin Britt were off target or mishandled, the second of which resulted in a sack for a 9-yard loss.
For the better part of two quarters, it was ugly.
Russell Wilson passed for a career-high 373 yards (on 49 attempts) with four touchdowns and no interceptions, but the Seahawks punted on each of their first six possessions.
AP Photo/James Kenney

"We know we had the opportunity to make plays and move the ball up and down the field," coach Pete Carroll said.
"We missed a lot of passes in the first half, didn't throw the ball very well, catch the ball very well, and we left some huge plays on the field, so that made it difficult."
The Seahawks leaned heavily on their defense for the first two games, and for the most part, it delivered.
Seattle only allowed 26 points entering Sunday, with 17 coming against Aaron Rodgers and the Packers at Lambeau Field.
But this was a reminder that Seattle's defense, as loaded as it is with eight Pro Bowl players, can only do so much.
But it fell apart, perhaps partly a result of fatigue after being on the field for more than 19 minutes and 43 plays in the first half because of the offense's inability to sustain drives.
The Seahawks' offense showed progress on Sunday, to be sure.
What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

The Seahawks shook things up along their embattled offensive line, inserting veteran Oday Aboushi at right guard in place of Mark Glowinski.
Whether that was much of a factor or not, the pass protection seemed to be improved as the only sack of Wilson came after a bad snap.
Seattle only ran for 69 yards, but Chris Carson and C.J.
Prosise had just 15 combined carries with the Seahawks in catch-up mode for much of the second half.
Graham shook off an ankle injury from last week and caught seven passes for 72 yards, including a 26-yard gain to set up Seattle's second touchdown.
After an unproductive start to the season that led to more questions about his fit in Seattle's offense, he reminded everyone he can be a factor despite the drop and more struggles to get him involved in the red zone.
And after his early misses, Wilson was tremendous.
He passed for a career-high 373 yards (on 49 attempts) with four touchdowns and no interceptions.
Those numbers are reminiscent of how Wilson performed during the second half of the 2015 season, when he played the best football of his career.
"I was really encouraged by Russell Wilson's play," Baldwin said.
"He had a lot going on, and for him to be as resilient as he was today just reminded us all of why he is who he is, why he's Russell Wilson and why we love him so much.
Offensive line picked it up, running backs picked it up, the receivers picked it up, it was a whole team effort.
I wish we could have done more for our defense and we will, that will definitely be the case.
We will figure that out, but definitely encouraged."
I wrote last week that No.
1 Alabama had separated itself from everyone else in the SEC, and I was criticized mightily for being too presumptuous.
Well, I'll admit it: I was wrong.
The Tide are not only head and shoulders above everybody in the SEC, they're better than any other team in the nation.
Yes, I'm including defending national champion Clemson, as well as Oklahoma and Penn State.
Alabama outgained Vanderbilt by 599 yards on Saturday.
Jamie Gilliam/Icon Sportswire

Alabama is playing at such a high level, I don't think there's anyone in the SEC who could put up much of a fight against the Crimson Tide right now.
After demolishing Vanderbilt 59-0, ESPN's Football Power Index projects Alabama has a 68 percent chance to win the SEC, which is highest among Power 5 teams.
FPI also projects that the Tide would be 11.4 points better than any other SEC team on a neutral field, which is the highest gap between the league's No.
1 and No.
2 teams through at least this point of the season since 2008, when Florida won its second national title with Tim Tebow.
Now, I'm not saying Alabama will win its fifth national championship in nine seasons.
Last season, it was probably the best team, but Clemson had the best player in quarterback Deshaun Watson, who threw the winning touchdown with one second left in a 35-31 win over Alabama in the title game.
But the Tide remain the benchmark by which all contenders will be judged.
Nothing through the first four weeks of the season has changed that.
With that in mind, here's a look at the top 10 candidates to challenge Alabama:

Good enough to make Nick Saban lose sleep

No.
2 Clemson (4-0): The Tigers beat Boston College 34-7 on Saturday to start 4-0 for the third straight season, but they actually had their hands full with the Eagles.
The score was tied at 7-7 before Clemson exploded for 27 points in the fourth quarter.
It was the second time this season the Tigers have struggled at home; they beat then-No.
13 Auburn 14-6 on Sept. 9.
Maybe the closer-than-expected win will serve as an early wake-up call.
As Clemson defensive coordinator Brent Venables told reporters Saturday: "What can happen when you win too much is you don't have your guard up."
Clemson is probably the second-best team in the country, but I'm not sure they're as good as they were last season.
I still don't think you replace a once-in-a-generation player like Watson overnight.
Quarterback Kelly Bryant has been pretty good so far, but the offensive line has to do a better job of protecting him.
The line struggled against Auburn and Boston College, which have great pass-rushers, as does Alabama.
But Clemson's defensive line is downright scary -- and better than the Tide's -- and it's capable of putting a lot of pressure on quarterback Jalen Hurts.
Plus, Clemson has the confidence from beating the Tide last season.
3 Oklahoma (4-0): During a weekend filled with ho-hum performances by CFP contenders, Oklahoma's 49-41 victory at Baylor might have been the biggest head-scratcher.
The Bears had previously been lifeless, losing to FCS foe Liberty, UTSA and Duke to begin Matt Rhule's tenure.
But Baylor piled up 523 yards of offense (463 passing) and had a 31-28 lead late in the third quarter.
First-year OU coach Lincoln Riley probably doesn't need to be concerned.
The Sooners were laser-focused when they won 31-16 at then-No.
2 Ohio State and vastly underestimated the Bears.
But OU's defense will have to continue to improve, and it might have four stiff tests left -- against Texas on Oct. 14, at No.
15 Oklahoma State on Nov. 4, followed by home games against No.
9 TCU on Nov. 11 and No.
23 West Virginia in the regular-season finale.
Don't forget: The Sooners will have a chance to win every time they take the field, as long as quarterback Baker Mayfield stays healthy.
Just ask him.
Mayfield is the kind of quarterback who has beaten Alabama before (remember Johnny Manziel?
), at least stylistically.
Mayfield has that irrational confidence that you need to not beat yourself before you get off the bus.
A lot to like, but jury's still out

No.
4 Penn State (4-0): The Nittany Lions have a vastly improved defense and the country's best player in tailback Saquon Barkley.
He set a school record with 358 all-purpose yards in a 21-19 win at Iowa on Saturday.
He won't be able to beat Alabama by himself.
Former LSU star Leonard Fournette couldn't do it, and that's why quarterback Trace McSorley and his receiving corps would have to play big.
Saquon Barkley was sensational against Iowa.
Reese Strickland/USA TODAY Sports

What's alarming: Penn State ran 99 offensive plays and piled up 579 yards of offense, but scored only one touchdown until the final play of the game, when McSorley threw the winning 7-yard TD pass to Juwan Johnson with no time left.
Penn State proved it can win a tight game in a hostile environment on the road, but it has to do a better job in the red zone.
We'll know a lot more about the Nittany Lions by the end of October; they host No.
8 Michigan on Oct. 21 and play at No.
11 Ohio State the next week.
5 USC (4-0): Is it too early to be concerned about Trojans quarterback Sam Darnold?
He has already thrown seven interceptions in four games, after throwing nine in 366 pass attempts last season.
But if Darnold were to get hot in the CFP, he's good enough to carry the Trojans on his back like Watson did for Clemson last season.
The problem is getting that far.
USC has won 14 consecutive games dating back to last season, but has struggled to put away Western Michigan, Texas and Cal.
Its defense is forcing turnovers -- the Trojans have 10 takeaways in the past two games -- but the offense needs to take better care of the ball.
Editor's Picks Week 4 college football bowl projections A few upsets sprinkled with some other teams barely escaping with wins led to some big changes in the latest projected matchups for bowl season.
Forget style points; Week 4 was all about survival Sam Darnold's downfield passing.
Oklahoma's pass defense.
Michigan's offense.
It wasn't pretty for several top-10 teams.
How worried should they be about their Week 4 performances?
1 Related

The Trojans might be on upset alert at No.
16 Washington State on Friday (ESPN & ESPN App, 10:30 p.m.
ET) as FPI projects it to be their second-toughest remaining game, with a 56 percent chance of winning.
7 Georgia (4-0): It would be easy to get carried away about Georgia's prospects after its 31-3 demolition of No.
17 Mississippi State on Saturday, especially for a program that has historically struggled to handle success.
But this seems to be a different breed of Bulldogs, especially on defense.
Second-year coach Kirby Smart, a former Alabama defensive coordinator, is already putting his stamp on the program and he's following Nick Saban's blueprint.
Georgia's defense is fast and deep, and Davin Bellamy, Lorenzo Carter and Roquan Smith are playing as well as any linebackers in the country.
Freshman D'Andre Swift has added yet another dimension to the offensive backfield, and tailbacks Nick Chubb and Sony Michel were already one of the country's best one-two punches.
Georgia's offensive line is still a question mark, and Smart faces a potential dilemma once quarterback Jacob Eason returns from a knee injury.
Freshman Jake Fromm has played well enough to keep the job, and Smart might not want to disrupt the chemistry his team currently has.
Will Fromm continue to play well in games against No.
21 Florida in Jacksonville, Florida, and at No.
13 Auburn and rival Georgia Tech?
And remember, Alabama hasn't lost to an SEC East team since falling 35-21 at South Carolina on Oct. 9, 2010.
11 Ohio State (3-1): The Buckeyes were left for dead after their 15-point loss to Oklahoma in Week 2, but history suggests Urban Meyer's team will improve dramatically before season's end.
While it's still too early to say Ohio State had fixed its problems on offense, quarterback J.T.
Barrett is at least building some confidence against the likes of Army and UNLV.
He'll get more chances to pad his stats against Rutgers, Maryland and Nebraska the next three weeks.
If Ohio State is going to climb back into the CFP race, it will have to beat Penn State at home on Oct. 28 and Michigan on the road on Nov. 25.
If Meyer can somehow get his team back into the CFP, he and Clemson's Dabo Swinney are about the only FBS coaches who have had success against Saban.
Too soon to tell, but ... maybe?
6 Washington (4-0): The Huskies wanted Bama last year, and it didn't turn out too well for them in the CFP.
There's not much reason to think a rematch would be much different this season, but the Huskies again look like a Pac-12 title contender.
Myles Gaskin rushed for 202 yards in Washington's win over Colorado.
Ron Chenoy-USA TODAY Sports

While their soft nonconference schedule makes it hard to gauge how good they truly are, the Huskies have plenty of firepower with quarterback Jake Browning and receiver Dante Pettis.
Tailback Myles Gaskin finally got going with 202 rushing yards and two touchdowns in a 37-10 win at Colorado on Saturday.
8 Michigan (4-0): The rebuilt Wolverines are showing some early growing pains, especially on offense.
They struggled to put away Air Force and then struggled at Purdue on Saturday.
Michigan's offense averaged only 3.7 yards per play and had only 131 yards of offense in the first half.
Michigan will have to wait to see if quarterback Wilton Speight returns this week from a "soft tissue" injury, or if coach Jim Harbaugh turns over the offense to backup John O'Korn, who went 3-for-3 in the red zone in the second half.
Michigan's defense, which lost 10 players from 2016, is already scary good.
It held the Boilermakers to 12 yards of offense in the second half.
The Wolverines are probably a year away from being a true CFP contender, but Harbaugh might be good enough to get them there this season.
If there are indeed football gods, we'll get to see a Saban-Harbaugh matchup one day.
9 TCU (4-0): For all the talk about Oklahoma and Oklahoma State, TCU coach Gary Patterson is quietly putting together another dramatic turnaround.
After a 6-7 finish in 2016, the Horned Frogs put the rest of the Big 12 on notice with Saturday's 44-31 win at Oklahoma State.
The Horned Frogs seem committed to the running game, and Darius Anderson had 160 yards with three touchdowns against the Pokes, and Kyle Hicks is expected to return soon.
Quarterback Kenny Hill is also playing well, after struggling mightily a year ago.
He's completing 72.7 percent of his passes with nine touchdowns and three interceptions.
"Everybody has been waiting for him to fall," Patterson said.
"But I've been telling you, Kenny is learning how to win."
The Horned Frogs probably aren't ready to take on Bama, but Patterson made his reputation beating heavy favorites.
10 Wisconsin (3-0): The Badgers have defeated Utah State, Florida Atlantic and BYU, so it's hard to say yet how much of a factor they'll be in the Big Ten title race, let alone whether they'll be in the CFP mix.
Quarterback Alex Hornibrook has been efficient -- he completed 18 of 19 passes for 256 yards with four touchdowns in a 40-6 rout of BYU two weeks ago.
The offensive line looks like it's going to be good enough, and there's another deep stable of running backs.
The Badgers should cruise until early November when they host Iowa on Nov. 11 and Michigan the next week.
They don't play Ohio State or Penn State during the regular season.
The Badgers probably can't stay on the field with Bama, but we said the same thing about them before they upset LSU in the 2016 opener.
12 Virginia Tech (4-0): For all the talk about the SEC being a one-trick pony, the ACC could really use another team to step up and challenge Clemson.
Florida State and Louisville aren't very good right now, and Virginia Tech might be next in line.
The Hokies were supposed to be rebuilding this season, but quarterback Josh Jackson has played exceptionally well, completing 65.2 percent of his passes with 11 touchdowns and only one interception.
Bud Foster's defense is as stingy as ever, allowing only 10.3 points per game.
Virginia Tech coach Justin Fuente's stock will be sky high if the Hokies can upset Clemson at Lane Stadium on Saturday night (ABC & ESPN App, 8 p.m.
Week 4 brought the first or second tests for many playoff contenders.
All but one -- sorry, Oklahoma State -- earned high marks.
Profiles are finally being built, and most teams in these rankings have at least one nice skin on their walls.
Week 4 was mostly about road victories, from the undeniably impressive (TCU, Washington) to the extremely hard-fought (Penn State, USC) to the shaky (Oklahoma).
Georgia, meanwhile, made it clear visitors won't be welcome between the hedges this season.
There's a definite drop-off after No.
12 and some shuffling at the bottom of the rankings.
But the days of projections are over.
Evidence is here.
It's fair to say that most of what happened Saturday wasn't totally surprising.
Exciting, of course, but surprising?
Come on, this is college football.
What we did learn in Week 4 is that the gap between the favorites and the rest of the field is not as wide as we may have thought in some Power 5 conferences, and formidable challengers have emerged in unexpected places.
Thanks to TCU's blowout of Oklahoma State, Georgia's domination of Mississippi State and Penn State's last-second victory over Iowa, it's time to adjust some of our preconceived notions.
Take the Big 12, for example.
Entering Saturday, the cream of the conference resided in the state of Oklahoma.
You had the third-ranked Sooners planting flags, putting up points and inflicting pain on their first three opponents.
You also had high-flying No.
6 Oklahoma State, a team many were picking as a dark horse for the College Football Playoff.
Kenny Hill helped keep TCU unbeaten with a road win at No.
6 Oklahoma State.
Rob Ferguson-USA TODAY Sports

By the end of the night, the 16th-ranked Horned Frogs were the talk of the conference with their 44-31 win over the Cowboys in Stillwater.
TCU dominated this game from the second quarter on, leading by as many as 20 points early in the fourth quarter.
TCU entered the season under the radar and relatively unknown.
Head coach Gary Patterson, forever the forgotten man in the Big 12, outcoached Mike Gundy, while his players out-everythinged Oklahoma State.
TCU forced Heisman Trophy candidate Mason Rudolph to make some uncharacteristically bad throws (two interceptions) as the Horned Frogs beat an opponent ranked in the top six on the road for the third time in their past four tries.
It was a purple clinic by the Frogs, who managed nearly 500 yards and had 32 first downs while witnessing tremendous growth from quarterback Kenny Hill, who was actually a thrill to watch, turning into both a weapon and a game-manager.
The Frogs' domination put Oklahoma on notice, too, especially with their much closer-than-expected 49-41 win over Baylor, after trailing 31-28 in the third quarter and surrendering 523 yards.
TCU's win won't shove them to the top of the Big 12, but it means that Oklahoma's grip on the conference isn't as tight as expected.
The same can be said for the SEC.
Kind of.
Now, let' be clear: This is No.
1 Alabama's conference.
In fact, a 59-0 pounding of a pesky and confident Vanderbilt reminded everyone in the SEC of their rightful place -- way behind the Tide.
However, 11th-ranked Georgia's 31-3 obliteration of red-hot No.
17 Mississippi State left the door cracked open a little in the SEC.
As it stands, there are only two teams capable of beating Alabama -- Alabama and maybe Georgia.
Nick Chubb scored two touchdowns to help fuel Georgia's rout of Mississippi State.
Bob Andres/Atlanta Journal Constitution via AP)

Nick Saban, forever the master manipulator of motivation (just look at the faux outrage created when one Vanderbilt player dared to show confidence about upsetting the Tide) won't let his team slip into complacency after such a commanding conference win, so that leaves the Dawgs to try to dethrone this juggernaut.
UGA quarterback Jake Fromm, evolving at tremendous speed, looks good enough to keep his starting job even when Jacob Eason returns from a knee injury, and that defense is absolutely smothering, holding one of the SEC's most exciting quarterbacks in Nick Fitzgerald to just 130 total yards and two interceptions.
Head coach Kirby Smart, created in Saban's image, has a brutally tough team erected in Alabama's mold in an SEC East that seems to get worse every week.
Tennessee and South Carolina survived UMass and Louisiana Tech, respectfully, while Missouri is one of the nation's worst teams, and No.
20 Florida is three terribly bad defensive breakdowns by Tennessee and Kentucky away from being 0-3 instead of 2-1.
Georgia made the statement that it's the closest thing the SEC has to having a challenger to Alabama, and if these two don't meet in Atlanta in the SEC championship game in December, it'll be a travesty.
Editor's Picks 'I kind of blanked out': Inside Juwan Johnson's game winner for Penn State Juwan Johnson's walk-off score for No.
4 Penn State on Saturday night was the product of an observation he made to his WR coach earlier in the quarter.
College Football Playoff picks after Week 4 Oklahoma State fell to TCU, and Penn State just survived against Iowa.
One team that had no such trouble was Alabama, which solidified its grasp on the top spot, according to our experts.
1 Related

When it comes to challengers in the Big Ten, things might have opened up some for the conference.
Fourth-ranked Penn State's fantastic finish in Iowa City keeps the Nittany Lions in the Big Ten driver's seat, but this kind of scare should give No.
8 Michigan and No.
10 Ohio State fans a little comfort.
If not for another incredible performance by Saquon Barkley, who might be at the top of the Heisman list now, and a gutty last-second touchdown pass by Trace McSorley, Penn State wasn't leaving with a 21-19 win.
Michigan hasn't looked nearly as dominant since its opening win over Florida, and quarterback Wilton Speight went down in an ugly 28-10 victory over an improved Purdue.
Meanwhile, Ohio State is trying to figure out if it's more Jekyll or Hyde right now.
But Penn State's Saturday struggles should give these two teams a little more leeway in the Big Ten race, and the window remains very much open for ninth-ranked Wisconsin, which won't see the Buckeyes or the Nittany Lions during the regular season.
Here was the best stuff from Week 4 in college football:

Heisman hurdle?
Saquon Barkley is just not fair.
pic.twitter.com/kctEK2EBpg  Bryan Fischer (@BryanDFischer) September 24, 2017

Sheldrick Redwine took his turn wearing Miami's "Turnover Chain" during the Hurricanes' win over Toledo.
..........

 

 



 pic.twitter.com/7KSSKlJPLh  Canes Football (@CanesFootball) September 23, 2017

Is that some kind of record?
99 yards ... 99 YARDS.
pic.twitter.com/X56jwFzLmp  ESPN CollegeFootball (@ESPNCFB) September 23, 2017

Abdul Adams' 99-yard run is the longest run in OU history.
The previous record was 96 yards, set by Jeff Frazier in 1995.
A man can dream

Can this New York Jets fan predict the future?
He sure hopes so as he's already invested in a Sam Darnold jersey in the green and white.
Darnold and USC ready to take on Cal here in Berkeley.
Nick Wagoner, ESPN Staff Writer

INT of the day

Happy birthday to you!
Alae Risse Leitch is celebrating her 104th birthday today.
She's been coming to Georgia Tech football games since 1920.
#TogetherWeSwarm pic.twitter.com/jSdvNBPwJQ  Georgia Tech (@GeorgiaTech) September 23, 2017

Pokes fans loving Melo move

The OKC Thunder trade for Carmelo Anthony caused a buzz among the Oklahoma State tailgates leading into Saturday's TCU game.
"Im a little bummed about (Enes) Kanter getting traded.
... but I think were going to the Western Finals now," said Edmond native Bryson Holden, a freshman at OSU.
Cowboy/Thunder fans Chad Schmidt and Lance Hoose found out about the trade watching the ESPN crawl at Eskimo Joe's.
"I love it," said Schmidt, whose son was actually going to Kanter's basketball camp this weekend.
"It moves us up there (with Golden State)," Hoose said.
"Going to come down to who wants it on the court more now."
Jake Trotter, ESPN Staff Writer

A Texas-sized burger

Everything's bigger in Texas, right?
Especially the burgers.
This Texas A&M fan purchased the "mega burger" at AT&T Stadium on Saturday.
Sam Khan Jr., ESPN Staff Writer

This is actually the "Super 16" Burger at AT&T Stadium.
The burger has 16 ounces of meat, including chopped brisket, the official barbecue delicacy of Texas.
It has four slices of cheese.
Chelsea Gray hits a pull-up jumper with seconds remaining to give Los Angeles an 85-84 win over Minnesota in Game 1 of the WNBA Finals.
(1:48)

MINNEAPOLIS -- Los Angeles Sparks coach Brian Agler made an analogy earlier this season, reminding his team to rely on his navigation.
Think of me as Waze, he told them, referencing the traffic app.
But his point guard, Chelsea Gray -- who hit the winning shot Sunday for Los Angeles in Game 1 of the WNBA Finals -- is probably better than anyone on the team at loosening him up with humor.
"There was a game this season where she wanted to go with a different play than Brian, and he was just looking at her," Sparks guard Alana Beard said.
"And Chelsea says, 'OK, you're Waze, but I'm Google Maps.
Trust me.'
"There's something about her maturity you don't always see in people her age.
On top of her being a great player, she's a great leader."
In Sunday's opening game of the Finals that went from blowout to barn burner, Gray led the Sparks in the right direction: an 85-84 victory.
Even if they didn't exactly take the most direct route to get there.
Editor's Picks 'Unacceptable' start dooms Lynx at home in Game 1 Minnesota has waited all season for another crack at Los Angeles.
But the Lynx failed to execute and were nearly run out of the building in the first quarter before nearly pulling off the biggest comeback in WNBA Finals history.
Gray's jumper helps Sparks avoid collapse in Game 1 Chelsea Gray's pull-up jumper with 2 seconds to play helped the Los Angeles Sparks avoid what would have been a stunning collapse and take Game 1 of the WNBA Finals, 85-84, over the Minnesota Lynx on Sunday.
2017 WNBA Finals schedule and results Minnesota has home-court advantage throughout the postseason.
2 Related

It looked like they would, after getting out to a 28-2 lead in a surreal (nightmarish, for the Lynx) first quarter.
But Minnesota came all the way back to take an 84-83 with 6.5 seconds left.
Gray at this point had 25 points, tying her career high.
She then broke it with 2 seconds left, taking an inbounds pass from Candace Parker, dribbling to the left side of the free throw line, and hitting a pull-up jumper.
Minnesota then had a turnover, and the Sparks had a 1-0 series lead.
"We had the timeout, and I think we needed that to set up," Gray said of her game winner.
"And I just knocked it down.
"I think all athletes dream of that moment, you know, especially at this stage.
Last year it was Alana, and then it was Nneka [Ogwumike].
I'm glad it went in."
She was referring to the Sparks' two last-second victories in the WNBA Finals last year in Minnesota.
Beard hit a jump shot on an assist from Gray in Game 1, and Ogwumike made the shot that won the championship in Game 5, after she had rebounded a Gray miss.
Gray is just 24 -- she'll be 25 next month -- and playing her third season in the WNBA.
She had a tough ending to her college career at Duke, suffering knee injuries that cut short both her junior and senior seasons.
She was picked No.
11 in the 2014 WNBA draft by Connecticut, and sat out that season recovering.
Sparks guard Chelsea Gray scored a career-high 27 points in Game 1, including the game-winning 14-foot jumper with 2 seconds remaining.
David Sherman/NBAE via Getty Images

She played one year for the Sun, then was traded to the Sparks before last season.
Los Angeles gave up center Jonquel Jones to get Gray, but the deal has worked out for both teams.
The Sparks needed a point guard who could score and distribute at a high level.
Gray has done that.
Beard, a Duke grad who is 10 years older, reached out to Gray when she was still in college, passing on encouragement.
Beard missed two WNBA seasons with ankle injuries, so she understood what Gray was going through.
"I had seen her play, and I had a belief in her talent," Beard said.
"Stuff like that is just something you have to get through.
And she's gotten through it."
In fact, Gray says now, "It created a mental toughness.
Everything happens for a reason, and I'm better for it.
When I got hurt in back-to-back years, I didn't know if I would ever be at this point.
It was about perseverance."
Gray's performance was critical Sunday, because the Lynx almost pulled off the biggest rally in WNBA Finals history.
WNBA Finals schedule The best-of-five WNBA Finals continue Tuesday.
All tipoffs ET.
Sept. 24: Sparks 85, at Lynx 84 Sept. 26: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN2) Sept. 29: Lynx at Sparks, 9 p.m. (ESPN2) Oct. 1*: Lynx at Sparks, 8:30 p.m. (ESPN) Oct 4*: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN) * If necessary  Complete schedule and results

"Gray made some really good plays," Lynx coach Cheryl Reeve said.
"Some of the things we were trying to get done, we got done.
And she still would make a play."
Reeve acknowledged that on Gray's last shot, where she was guarded by Seimone Augustus with Maya Moore coming in to help, the Lynx just weren't able to close in tight enough on her.
But that's because it's hard to crowd Gray.
She's nimble enough to give herself space.
Like Gray, Sparks guard Odyssey Sims also is a tough player for the Lynx to stop because of her quickness.
"Let's not forget Odyssey and what she did this game," Parker said of Sims, who finished with 16 points and five assists.
"She was unbelievable, defensively picking up the ball as well as running in transition.
It was a collective effort, then Chels down the stretch really brought us home."
Parker got called for her fourth foul with just over a minute left in the second quarter, which she said impacted her in the second half, especially on defense.
Still, she finished with 15 points, 12 rebounds and four assists.
The Lynx went with a smaller lineup and were able to keep creeping back into the game.
When they tied the score for the first time, 78-78, with 2:10 left on Moore's layup after she stole a pass from Gray, Williams Arena was a madhouse.
Gray, though, stayed calm.
It's one of the things she has learned to do: not get rattled despite the pressure of the game.
"I have sort of watched this develop over the course of two years now," Agler said of Gray's rapid growth while with the Sparks.
"Chelsea made some very, very big plays throughout the course of the game."
Candace Parker added 15 points and 12 rebounds for the Sparks, who also won Game 1 of the 2016 WNBA Finals (on a last-second shot from Alana Beard).
David Sherman/NBAE via Getty Images

After the game, though, Gray talked about her mistakes, an indication of how mature she has become even so young.
"I tried to stay poised, but I had too many turnovers," said Gray, who had five giveaways to six assists.
"I've gotta be smart about that going into Game 2."
But the fact that the Sparks will enter that game Tuesday with the upper hand was thanks largely to Gray.
The opener might not have gone exactly as the Sparks would have mapped it out.
But in the biggest moment Sunday, Gray had the answer.
In Game 1 of the WNBA Finals, the Sparks start fast and jump to a 12-0 lead over the Lynx following a deep Chelsea Gray 3-pointer.
(0:25)

MINNEAPOLIS -- If the Minnesota Lynx had won Sunday, it would have been the greatest comeback in WNBA playoff history.
Game 1 of the WNBA Finals -- a 85-84 Los Angeles Sparks win -- technically wasn't over when the Sparks jumped to a 26-point first-quarter lead at Williams Arena, shocking the pro-Lynx crowd of 11,823, which arrived primed for an afternoon of screaming itself hoarse.
That the Lynx clawed back and ultimately took the lead twice in the final minute before losing Game 1 at home for the second straight year shouldn't have surprised anyone.
The Lynx made a similar late push last year in Game 5, wiping out an eight-point Sparks lead in 61 seconds before Nneka Ogwumike's putback denied the Lynx a fourth NBA title.
But the bigger question, one that neither Minnesota coach Cheryl Reeve nor any of her players could answer, was how the Lynx, after waiting all season for another crack at the Sparks, could come out so off, so discombobulated, that the Sparks nearly ran them out of the building before the last fans settled into their seats.
"I've got no idea," Lynx guard Seimone Augustus said.
"I couldn't give you rhyme or reason.
Editor's Picks Gray guides Sparks to Game 1 victory over Lynx In a WNBA Finals Game 1 that went from blowout to barnburner, guard Chelsea Gray led Los Angeles with a career-high 27 points, including the game winner with 2 seconds to play.
Gray's jumper helps Sparks avoid collapse in Game 1 Chelsea Gray's pull-up jumper with 2 seconds to play helped the Los Angeles Sparks avoid what would have been a stunning collapse and take Game 1 of the WNBA Finals, 85-84, over the Minnesota Lynx on Sunday.
2017 WNBA Finals schedule and results Minnesota has home-court advantage throughout the postseason.
2 Related

"Not to take anything away from L.A., but it's kind of on us.
Turnovers led to easy baskets for them.
Defensive schemes broke down.
They got layups.
That's all stuff that we have to correct.
It's not necessarily something they schemed, and came up with a game plan we couldn't defend."
Ogwumike (twice) and Odyssey Sims broke free for layups on L.A.'s first three possessions.
Chelsea Gray and Candace Parker followed with 3-pointers, and Parker a layup, and the run was on.
The Sparks hit their first six shots and 8-of-9, and the score was 22-2 before Minnesota's Sylvia Fowles, the league's most valuable player, touched the ball in the post.
It was 28-2 before Fowles scored her first basket, with 1 minute, 49 seconds left in the quarter.
"How we started out was unacceptable," Fowles said.
Worse?
The Lynx, the second-best rebounding team in the WNBA, finished the first quarter with none.
Even while missing 11 of 15 shots.
"I know everybody's going to talk about what a great comeback it was, etc., but that's not the world we live in," Reeve said.
"That means absolutely nothing to us.
It's more what we did in the early part of the game that we're focused on.
That obviously was disappointing."
"They got the upper hand in those first five minutes.
When that happens, you lose your focus.
Then defensively, we were terrible.
So the combination was really, really bad."
Lynx coach Cheryl Reeve

Failing to find Fowles early proved troublesome.
Augustus said the Sparks defended Fowles just as they did in the regular season, with Qgwumike the primary defender and Parker sliding down to help.
So the Lynx tried to get Rebekkah Brunson going early from the perimeter, hoping to draw Parker from Fowles.
Good strategy.
Bad execution.
Brunson missed back-to-back jumpers early in Minnesota's 1-for-11 shooting start.
Other than one fallaway jumper by Maya Moore, no one else could hit anything either.
Lindsay Whalen threw away the ball early trying to force it into Fowles, and two more bad passes led to turnovers.
"We tried to attack from the perimeter to try and loosen it up," Augustus said.
"Obviously we weren't hitting shots, so it didn't help.
It just compounded the mistakes that were going on and how we played in the first five minutes of the game."
Added Reeve: "They got the upper hand in those first five minutes.
When that happens, you lose your focus.
Then defensively, we were terrible.
So the combination was really, really bad.
We kind of lost trust in what we were trying to get done."
Maya Moore's 27 points helped the Lynx overcome an early 28-2 deficit.
But Minnesota's rally fell short and it trails Los Angeles 1-0 in the WNBA Finals.
Jordan Johnson/NBAE via Getty Images

Brunson extended her league record by playing her 31st career Finals game, but she won't remember this one fondly.
Seeking a record fifth championship, Brunson shot only 1-for-6 from the field for two points, with three rebounds and a garish plus/minus of -22.
Reeve went with a three-guard lineup much of the second half, unsuccessfully trying to slow the hot-shooting Gray (27 points).
That limited Brunson's overall court time to 15:55.
"Rebekkah's a fighter," Reeve said.
"She's probably already watching the video right now."
Down 12 entering the fourth quarter, the Lynx chipped back and grabbed the lead 82-81 with 49.8 seconds left on an Augustus 3-pointer from the top of the key.
Augustus continued her postseason revival, scoring 19 points on 8-for-14 shooting, with three 3-pointers.
The Lynx began winning titles when Augustus assumed the role of shutdown defender.
Now 33, Augustus isn't that defender anymore.
But with 6.5 seconds left and the Lynx up by one, Reeve asked Augustus to reach back in time and do what none of her teammates could: stop Gray, just once.
WNBA Finals schedule The best-of-five WNBA Finals continue Tuesday.
All tipoffs ET.
Sept. 24: Sparks 85, at Lynx 84 Sept. 26: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN2) Sept. 29: Lynx at Sparks, 9 p.m. (ESPN2) Oct. 1*: Lynx at Sparks, 8:30 p.m. (ESPN) Oct 4*: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN) * If necessary  Complete schedule and results

But Gray had one more clutch shot in her.
She took Augustus one-on-one, creating enough space to launch the game-winning fadeaway before Moore could arrive and help.
"We made her go the direction we kind of wanted her to go," Augustus said.
"We made her take a jump shot, which is what we wanted to do, try to keep her out of the paint.
She's been hitting that shot all game.
It's tough to defend because she's fading away, leaning back.
That was the best that I can do."
Just not good enough.
"It's kind of tough in that locker room, though, to take the lead twice, and you need something good to happen to you," Reeve said.
"It just wasn't our day for something good to happen."
Steve Kerr comments on President Donald Trump's tweeting that the Warriors are not welcome at the White House, saying it is more difficult to put aside political differences than it was in the past.
(2:07)

OAKLAND, Calif. -- Stephen Curry emerged from the Golden State Warriors training room with a huge grin.
He'd had all morning to decide how to respond to being called out in a tweet by President Donald Trump and disinvited to celebrate the Warriors' NBA title at the White House.
And as he walked over to address a crowd of about two dozen sports reporters who were all of a sudden swimming in the same strange political pond, Curry was all smiles.
"Anyone got any basketball questions?"
Curry joked to break the ice.
It was funny for a moment, but as the words left his mouth, both Curry and the assembled crowd seemed to realize that all of this was probably intertwined forever now.
"The last time athletes have been this outspoken was with Muhammad Ali and Bill Russell," head coach Steve Kerr told ESPN.
"That's the last time probably we've seen this kind of division in the country and with civil rights issues.
"Now all of a sudden, our country is in a really weird place, and everything is blending together."
Late-night comics are debating health care policy with senators.
LeBron James is tweeting at the president, "U bum."
NFL owners are issuing statements decrying the president's tweets on the peaceful protest their players have engaged in to call attention to racism and police brutality.
The NFL Players Association is making videos urging its players to stand together on Sunday to protest the president's condemnations, with imagery from civil rights era protest marches.
It's all intertwined now.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

The Warriors have been thinking on, and answering questions about, celebrating at the White House since June.
Everyone in the organization and the league office recognized the responsibility of the decision.
This would serve as a precedent for future NBA champions and a litmus test for champions in other sports.
There was a statement to make in attending a White House celebration.
And there was a statement to make in not attending a White House celebration.
The very least the Warriors and NBA could do was give it thoughtful consideration, which had been ongoing for months and was set to conclude Saturday morning before the team's first practice.
Then, President Trump ended all debate by disinviting the team over Twitter and criticizing Curry's public comments at media day Friday.
It was a stunning end to what had been a long process among the team, the league, its players and several senior White House officials.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

"Surreal," Curry said.
"Insane," Kerr said.
And yet, it's not as uncommon for basketball to enter the political arena as you might think.
Remember the players' furor over former Clippers owner Donald Sterling's racist comments?
The Miami Heat's team photo in hoodies to honor Trayvon Martin?
The NBA's commercials to call attention to gun violence?
The NBA and its players have long been the most willing of all the major sports leagues to engage in cultural and political debate.
Kerr, Spurs coach Gregg Popovich and Pistons coach Stan Van Gundy have all been publicly critical of the president since he took office.
James even campaigned in Ohio for Democratic challenger Hillary Clinton.
But this time, the president answered back.
He had no interest in hearing what the Warriors had to say.
Maybe the divide had already grown too large and the rhetoric too ugly.
"The idea of civil discourse with a guy who is tweeting and demeaning people and saying the things he's saying is sort of far-fetched," Kerr said.
"Can you picture us really having a civil discourse with him?"
That's hard to picture.
But instead of the well-reasoned, calm, decision-making process the Warriors, NBA and senior White House officials had worked for months to set up, there was suddenly no choice to attend or not attend, and no chance at civil discourse at all.
"It was an actual chance to talk to the president," Kerr said.
"After all, he works for us.
He's a public servant.
He may not be aware of that, but he is a public servant, right?
So maybe as NBA champions, as people in a prominent position, we could go in and say, 'This is what's bothering us, what can we do about this?'"
Two-time NBA champion and two-time NBA MVP Stephen Curry found himself name-checked on Twitter by the president of the United States.
Kyle Terada/USA TODAY Sports

That was the case Kerr, general manager Bob Myers and owner Joe Lacob were going to make to the team Saturday morning.
Maybe there was a way to go to the White House and not have it turn into a photo opp.
Maybe there was a way to meet behind closed doors and discuss the issues, policies and rhetoric that so many in the organization found so noxious.
"There had been discussions between our camp and his camp all summer," Lacob told ESPN.
"He knew there would be a discussion and decision [Saturday].
And that was all usurped by a tweet.
I find that rather disconcerting."
Lacob said he was preparing for the team meeting when the president's tweet came across his screen.
"You don't get the opportunity to speak to the president and express your opinion very often," Lacob said.
"That does not mean that I support the president or his view or his policies, his rhetoric or tweets.
I'm probably very close to my players in their views.
"It was an actual chance to talk to the president.
After all, he works for us.
He's a public servant.
He may not be aware of that, but he is a public servant, right?
So maybe as NBA champions, as people in a prominent position, we could go in and say, 'This is what's bothering us, what can we do about this?'"
Steve Kerr, Warriors head coach

"I'm Jewish, and I felt persecuted by what happened in Charlottesville.
I saw the footage of the neo-Nazis.
It would have been nice to have that discourse with the president, but that's not possible [now].
First of all, we would have only gone if we were able to speak our voice.
But we never got to have that discussion."
That's the real missed opportunity here.
That the discussion ended before it began.
That a chance at civil discourse, even if it was just among the Warriors players, coaches, owners and executives, never took place.
That the president didn't want to hear or even engage in what any of them had to say.
"It was a big opportunity as a team and an organization to talk about what the situation was," Curry said.
"It's kind of funny that tweet was sent before we could meet as a team."
It's highly unlikely the Warriors would have voted to attend the White House celebration.
Most of the team's players had already stated publicly they didn't want to go.
Draymond Green cited the president's refusal to condemn neo-Nazis and white supremacists after a woman was killed during protests in Charlottesville as the final straw.
Kerr mentioned the president's divisive statements Friday about NFL players who kneeled during the national anthem.
"How about the irony of, 'Free speech is fine if you're a neo-Nazi chanting hate slogans, but free speech is not allowed to kneel in protest?'"
Kerr said.
"No matter how many times a football player says, 'I honor our military, but I'm protesting police brutality and racial inequality,' it doesn't matter.
Nationalists are saying, 'You're disrespecting our flag.'
Well, you know what else is disrespectful to our flag?
Racism.
And one's way worse than the other."
One of the hallmarks of the Warriors organization is that it encourages debate, even with strong opinions on both sides.
"I believe it's not only OK, but it's required to have opinions," Lacob said.
"I've run a lot of companies, and for me, that's what works best.
I have my personal views, Steve Kerr has his views, Rick Welts has his views, Bob Myers has his views, the players have their views.
And we should all get in a room and discuss and decide.
"That's why you have Steph or KD speaking their minds.
Nobody tells them what to say or do.
I think it's the right way to run an organization.
I think we're better when we operate that way."
"It was a big opportunity as a team and an organization to talk about what the situation was.
It's kind of funny that tweet was sent before we could meet as a team."
Stephen Curry

Sports have long served as America's town hall.
Lately, there has been a lot of talking at each other and not to each other.
It has gotten loud and emotional on both sides.
"I spent some time last year sort of blasting the president," Kerr said.
Then he took a step back Saturday and thought about the best way to have an impact.
"It was unanimous today," Kerr said.
"We stand for the things we think our country should stand for -- inclusiveness, equality, diversity, joy and love.
It sounds corny, but that's what we stand for."
Statement from the Golden State Warriors: pic.twitter.com/6kk6ofdu9X  Warriors PR (@WarriorsPR) September 23, 2017

Curry ended his news conference Saturday much as he had begun it.
He said he wanted to focus on ways the team could do something meaningful during its trip to Washington, D.C., in late February.
He said he'd continue to stand for what he believed in.
Then he smiled and said, "Oh, I had a good pick-and-roll today.
I made a basket."
Back to basketball, whatever reality that is now.
Xander Schauffele wins the TOUR Championship by a single stroke over Justin Thomas, who wins the $10 million bonus for the FedEx Cup.
(1:58)

ATLANTA -- The two buddies who have been friendly rivals since their junior golf days, through college and now as professionals on the PGA Tour, battled down the stretch Sunday for the FedEx Cup title.
After a year that saw them both win major championships and multiple tournaments, Justin Thomas and Jordan Spieth seemed all but destined to fight it out over East Lake's closing holes for the season-long trophy that comes with a $10 million bonus.
And so it was during the final day of the long PGA Tour season: The Open champion and the PGA champ vying for a difference of $7 million in bonus money and bragging rights.
Justin Thomas' take on Sunday at the Tour Championship?
A cool $10,945,000 that includes both his $10 million FedEx Cup bonus as well as the $945,000 for finishing solo second at East Lake Golf Club.
Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports

While, of course, Xander Schauffele won the Tour Championship.
The system and format has always had the opportunity to present some awkwardness, and this is one of the rare times that it did.
And it is why 2019 can't get here soon enough, at least in terms of the FedEx Cup format.
By then -- if not next year -- a new format should be in place that either allows the Tour Championship winner to be crowned FedEx Cup champion, too, or leads to some sort of one-day shootout for the big prize.
Schauffele, 23, is a worthy tournament champion who now has his biggest victory to go along with a win earlier this year at the Greenbrier, making for an exceptional first PGA Tour season that will undoubtedly be capped with rookie of the year honors.
2016-17 FedEx Cup payouts Player FedEx bonus 1.
Justin Thomas $10,000,000 2.
Jordan Spieth $3,000,000 3.
Xander Schauffele $2,000,000 4.
Dustin Johnson $1,500,000 5.
Jon Rahm $1,000,000 6.
Marc Leishman $800,000 7.
Rickie Fowler $700,000 8.
Hideki Matsuyama $600,000 9.
Justin Rose $550,000 10.
Brooks Koepka $500,000

Thomas, 24, did his part, rallying to make the tournament compelling and forcing Schauffele to birdie the 18th hole at East Lake to win by 1 stroke.
Thomas finished the season with five victories, including a major, the FedEx Cup title and undoubtedly player of the year honors.
But even he admitted the situation was strange.
"Feels very weird,'' he said.
"I'm sure people were kind of shocked at my reactions or my tone because ...
I wasn't mad, but my competitive nature, I mean I was upset.
I felt like I had a great chance to win the tournament and I didn't.
I wanted to win six times this year.
"It's odd getting something so tremendous, one of my best achievements in my career, without winning a golf tournament.
So it feels different, but it's still great.''
He then noted that the FedEx Cup was a great consolation prize -- probably the best ever, considering the $10 million bonus, not to mention the $945,000 he received for finishing second in the tournament.
Spieth, who got a $3 million bonus for finishing second in the FedEx Cup standings, tried to make it interesting, shooting a 67 that for a time had him ahead in the projected FedEx Cup standings, only to see Thomas birdie two of the last three holes to finish far enough ahead in second place to secure the big trophy.
"I almost kind of cheated my way into winning the FedEx Cup when he really deserved it,'' Spieth said.
And that, by and large, is how most players feel about it.
They don't mind if someone wins the FedEx Cup if he wins the Tour Championship, as Rory McIlroy did last year -- along with the six players in a row before him.
Even Xander Schauffele looked a little shocked that his winning putt found the bottom of the cup during the final round of the Tour Championship.
Butch Dill-USA TODAY Sports

Short of that, they want to see the best player all year rewarded, which happened in this case with Thomas, but is hardly assured of occurring when you have a system that crunches out points instead of just going by what is on the scorecard.
To that end, numerous suggestions have been put forth to take the last tournament of the season beyond a computer program.
"We've considered virtually every single circumstance that's available to us,'' said PGA Tour commissioner Jay Monahan, who might just want to push through a new concept so as to end the fatigue about the current one.
One of the various ideas to have gained some traction is concluding the Tour Championship on Saturday, crowning the champion, then having the top six or eight (or whatever number) players in the points standings compete for the FedEx Cup title the next day.
Not only would that promote the drama of the tournament title but also the subplot of who gets to compete for $10 million -- or likely more, as FedEx's commitment has been renewed for 10 years and is likely to rise.
"What you do like about the concept of a second event is it's a moment, and if you go in that direction, it's a different moment,'' Monahan said.
"There's an awful lot on the line.
Not that there isn't an awful lot on the line here [now], but in terms of creating moments that we don't have at any other point in the season and thinking about something that would pull fans, you could see some positives to that.''
Editor's Picks Weekly 18: PGA Tour season wraps up with plenty to talk about From #TakingAKnee to the Tour Championship and the FedEx Cup finale, the PGA Tour wasn't missing any drama during the final week of the season.
Schauffele wins Champ, Thomas FedEx Cup It's the first time since 2009 that the Tour Championship and FedEx Cup were won by different players.
1 Related

From here, there would appear to be nothing but positives in doing away with point permutations and computer projections -- at least for a day, if not for the entire Tour Championship.
To be fair, the Tour Championship and the FedEx Cup have often produced compelling winners and champions.
The season-ending playoff series is miles better than the bland end to the season of many years gone by when there was nothing more than a dozen tournaments following the PGA Championship and a money-list champion.
The FedEx Cup was born, and has now been contested 11 times, although this is the first time since 2009, when Phil Mickelson won the Tour Championship and Tiger Woods won the FedEx Cup, that two players have been on the podium accepting the different trophies.
Mickelson then famously quipped that "I shot 65 but he's got the check for $10 million,'' a product of the system that often leads to headshaking over the complexity of something that could be far simpler.
And yet there's nothing difficult to decipher about Thomas, who not only won five times, but shot 59 during a tournament victory in Hawaii, shot 63 during the third round of the U.S. Open, won the PGA Championship with a back-nine rally and also captured the second FedEx Cup playoff event.
It's all but a formality that he is voted PGA Tour player of the year by his peers.
Afterward, Thomas shared what before had been his secret goals for the year, a list of he rattled off that included making the Tour Championship and winning a major championship.
He failed on just one, which was 10 top-10 finishes -- he had nine.
Still, he was annoyed about not winning Sunday.
"Yeah, I'm still not over it,'' Thomas said.
It's unlikely he will feel that way for long.
Since the 2011 trade to the Knicks, Carmelo Anthony's career has seen many ups and downs ... including a feud with Phil Jackson before Anthony's trade to Oklahoma City.
(4:14)

A few weeks into the 2014-15 season, a handwritten message appeared on the whiteboard in the New York Knicks' locker room.
"The pain that you have been feeling can't compare to the joy that's coming ... Romans 8:18."
The message was designed to give hope to a Knicks team in the opening stages of a free fall, but the words take on a new meaning now for Carmelo Anthony as he heads to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter, Doug McDermott and a 2018 second-rounder.
It's a transaction that shakes up the NBA and makes a Western Conference power even more dangerous.
It was eerily similar in scope to the three-team, 12-player trade that sent Anthony to New York seven years ago.
In many ways, Anthony's legacy as a Knick can be summed up in the same way you'd describe these two trades: extremely complicated.
Early in the 2014-15 season -- a few months after Anthony signed a $124 million deal to remain with the New York Knicks -- he was already having second thoughts about his decision.
After one vexing home loss, Anthony shared his frustration with a few friends at the arena.
One friend summed up Anthony's mindset at the time: "He said he should've signed with Chicago."
It wasn't the last time Anthony questioned his decision to re-sign with the Knicks.
Over the next three seasons, it became clear that Anthony and New York, under team president Phil Jackson, were stuck in one of the NBA's most dysfunctional relationships.
So now that it's over, how do you unpack Anthony's time with the Knicks?
Editor's Picks Lowe: Most intriguing NBA players this season Zach Lowe highlights key faces in key places in his annual rundown of the NBA's most fascinating players and teams.
NBA mock draft: New lottery picks for Cavs, Bulls, Knicks There's a new leader in the crowded race for the No.
1 pick, as well as more movement in the top seven.
NBA draft assets for all 30 teams What upcoming draft picks does every NBA team owe and own?
Here's our team-by-team breakdown.
2 Related

Some will remember him as a ball-stopper whose preferred style of play ultimately impeded the Knicks' ability to win.
There's merit to that theory.
Others will hang on to the idea that Anthony never had a chance to truly succeed in New York because of the Knicks' perpetual roster and coaching instability.
There's plenty to support that point as well.
As is usually the case, the truth probably lies somewhere in between.
The raw results during Anthony's Knicks tenure aren't pretty.
New York never advanced past the second round of the playoffs, and the club missed the postseason entirely in each of the past four years.
The Knicks finished 207-269 during Anthony's six full seasons and went 1-3 in playoff series.
But how much of that was Anthony's fault?
His six-plus seasons in New York were filled with constant turnover.
A half-dozen executives and coaches were hired and fired during Anthony's tenure.
He had 72 different teammates in his past six seasons.
That's the sixth-highest total in the NBA in that span and 10 more players than the NBA average.
"I've had nightmares about that," Anthony said late last season.
If you want to start a fun argument among Knicks fans, ask them who Anthony's most talented Knicks teammate was.
Was it Amar'e Stoudemire?
Kristaps Porzingis?
Tyson Chandler?
A 40-year-old Jason Kidd?
Of course, Anthony's detractors will point to his isolation-heavy style of play as a reason for the revolving door of executives, coaches and players.
People around the Knicks will always question whether Anthony did enough with the hand he was dealt.
Carmelo Anthony has a chance to restart his career in Oklahoma City with Paul George and Russell Westbrook.
Adam Hunger-USA TODAY Sports

Multiple teammates over the years complained privately about the ball stopping in Anthony's hands.
They lamented his poor habits on defense.
(Last season, Anthony finished 66 out of 70 qualified small forwards in ESPN's defensive real plus-minus).
One veteran Knick went as far as telling friends that he "hated" sharing the floor with Anthony because of those traits.
But this wasn't a uniform opinion.
Anthony engendered loyalty among many of his teammates, particularly the younger Knicks.
One Knick last season told his agent that if Phil Jackson traded Anthony, he'd want to be dealt to the same team.
That loyalty, at times, went both ways.
Case in point: Shortly after Cleanthony Early was shot in the leg during a robbery attempt in his second season, Anthony told Early that if he were cut, he'd help ease any financial burden he incurred, according to people familiar with the matter.
"That was real," one teammate said.
Whatever goodwill Anthony built with teammates didn't always transfer to management.
Some in the Knicks' front office started to sour on Anthony when Porzingis emerged as a potential franchise player after his rookie season.
Several top members of Knicks management told associates that they felt they couldn't win with Anthony and that his habits would negatively affect Porzingis and the other young Knicks, according to sources.
That whisper campaign turned public, of course, late in the season when Jackson leveled public critiques -- some direct, and some indirect -- at Anthony.
Jackson openly stated his desire for Anthony to waive his no-trade clause, which complicated any potential deals.
Anthony was bewildered by the Knicks then-president's tactics.
He told friends that despite the embarrassing episodes on and off the court and the critiques from Jackson, he remained loyal to the organization.
He understood the responsibility that came with being the face of the franchise -- "You have to make every shot in this m-----f-----," he said once early on in his Knicks career -- and felt that he'd handled it well.
Anthony couldn't understand why Jackson didn't have the same type of loyalty toward him.
To most close observers, the beginning of the end for Anthony was March 12.
Knicks coach Jeff Hornacek lit into the team at halftime of a game that day against the Brooklyn Nets.
While Hornacek unloaded in an expletive-filled critique, Anthony sat in the corner.
Coaches giving R-rated critiques of their teams' play at halftime isn't unusual.
But something extraordinary happened that afternoon.
Thunderous Move: Melo To OKC Carmelo Anthony is headed west.
The 10-time All-Star is leaving NYC and will team up with Russell Westbrook and Paul George.
Woj: NYK gets Kanter, McDermott, pick

 Melo escapes NY, leaving mixed legacy

 Young: Post-KD, Thunder move quickly

 How NBA players reacted on Twitter

 Fantasy fallout: Trio value dinged

 Pelton: Trade grades in Melo deal

The normally laid-back Anthony -- his preferred social media hashtag is #StayMe7o -- was moved to respond.
And it wasn't pretty.
According to people familiar with the matter, Anthony said to no one in particular that "this whole thing" is a "joke" and added "f--- this place" loud enough for most in the room to hear.
Associate head coach Kurt Rambis responded to Anthony directly, asking him if he had anything to say to the group.
"Yeah I have something to say: This place is a f---ing joke," Anthony responded.
Rambis, using the same expletive-laden phrase, then questioned Anthony's effort.
Things didn't escalate from there, but it was clear to most around the team that Anthony was done with the Knicks.
In the ensuing weeks, Anthony was still thinking about staying in New York to remain close to his son amid a family situation and stay in the city that he comfortably called home.
He thought about leaving as well but was concerned about being seen as a player who "bounced around" during his career, according to people in touch with him at the time.
Still, Anthony kept coming back to the idea of starting over in a new city and with a new team -- a feeling that ultimately won out.
Anthony will start his new NBA life on the Thunder.
In OKC, he'll be paired with the kind of elite talent in Russell Westbrook and Paul George that he never shared the floor with in New York.
There's reason to believe that those two -- along with center Steven Adams -- can help bring out the deadly Team USA Melo whom observers have seen over the years.
Will it be enough to contend with the defending champion Golden State Warriors?
We'll begin to find out in a few months.
In the meantime, Anthony leaves behind more questions than answers in New York.
The club is looking to go young now and views its core of Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Frank Ntilikina and Willy Hernangomez as a strong foundation to build upon.
New additions Kanter and McDermott (both 25) fit that timeline as well.
But New York has a big void to fill with Anthony -- and his 22 points per game -- headed to the Thunder.
For Melo, it's a new start with a new team, but that old whiteboard message in the Knicks locker room still rings true.
Anthony felt plenty of pain amid all of the losing over the past three seasons in New York.
He won't be around to feel any of the joy that's coming -- if it ever does.
Maybe he'll finally find it in Oklahoma City.
HOUSTON -- After the 2001 Yankees lost the World Series to the Diamondbacks on Luis Gonzalezs broken-bat hit in the bottom of the ninth inning, a lot of the Yankees players were circumspect in defeat.
Arizona had generally dominated the Yankees for the majority of that World Series, and New York was somewhat fortunate to even be in position to have a shot at a fourth consecutive title.
Additionally, some of the older members of the dynasty understood that this would be the end for them; it was the last game ever played by Paul ONeill and Scott Brosius, the last game for Tino Martinez and Chuck Knoblauch before they reached free agency.
Even Mariano Rivera -- who allowed the Gonzalez hit -- spoke evenly, in defeat.
Not Derek Jeter.
Afterward, teammates recalled him stewing in the athletic trainers room -- where he nursed what would be diagnosed as a broken foot -- and absolutely furious over the defeat, enraged by the fact that the Yankees had lost despite being just a few outs away.
His competitiveness and confidence were at the core of what made him great as a player and will undoubtedly drive him as he assumes control of the Miami Marlins' business and baseball operations.
According to the Miami Herald, he has already dictated change, pushing out longtime Marlins staffers Jack McKeon, Tony Perez, Andre Dawson and Jeff Conine.
Perez and Dawson are Hall of Famers who have been with the Marlins for many years, and they were fired over the phone.
Perez was the only Cuban-American staffer in their baseball operations department and was dumped almost a year to the day that Jose Fernandez died.
Jeter has not commented publicly on the decisions and may not until his group is formally approved by other baseball owners.
Hall of Famers Andre Dawson and Tony Perez are among those losing their jobs with the change of regimes in Miami.
AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee

Even before Jeter finished his playing career, he had made it known to others that he wanted to own a baseball team someday, and it makes sense that Major League Baseball would want Jeter in a role like this.
He was a superstar player, well-known to casual fans, and he would seem to have as good of a shot as anyone not named The Rock to rebrand the Marlins franchise.
But as Jeter begins his second career, two questions nag for me:

Why would Jeter want to take on the Marlins problems?
Since hes the man in charge -- and far more than a complementary figure -- how prepared is Jeter to handle what might be baseballs most complicated set of obstacles?
Because having a unique ability to hit the other way and excel in October baseball doesnt necessarily translate into business success.
Others who have seen the Marlins books all say the same thing: The unpopular franchise is saturated with debt.
The clubs current television contract runs out in a few years, and its unclear how much growth the Marlins can expect, given the clubs struggles on the field.
A lot of Miami baseball fans have been unhappy with the way that the teams relatively new ballpark was funded, and they have stayed away from a place that isnt easy to access before games and isnt easy to leave on those rare nights when a sizable crowd appears.
The challenge facing Jeter and the incoming owners is to completely alter a communitys perception of the organization, and change ingrained habits of fans.
Right away, Jeter and his group have an enormous and almost impossible quandary.
A lot of the clubs debt is tied to the heavily backloaded contract of record-setting slugger Giancarlo Stanton, who will make $295 million over the next 10 years.
If the Marlins keep Stanton, they may have too little payroll left over with which to maneuver and build a winner.
If the Marlins trade Stanton -- who is likely to finish first, second or third in the NL MVP race -- theyll tear open old scars for Miami fans frustrated by years of seeing their best young players, such as Miguel Cabrera, traded away.
Additionally, the work of dealing Stanton will be difficult in itself, because the Marlins might have to choose between eating a lot of money or taking a deal with few prospects just to dump the onerous contract.
The Marlins are a mess.
If this were a horse race, Jeter has bought into a fat nag with a bad leg.
Through Jeters star power, he has been able to somehow convince folks with a lot of money to allow him to assume day-to-day control of the franchise without much of his own dollars at stake, so hes taking very little financial risk.
However, Jeter has one shot to form a first impression as a baseball executive and part-owner.
Hell assume the challenge with his full complement of competitiveness and with confidence, and time will tell if he has the business acumen needed for this incredible task, or whether he has bet on a loser that will pull under his reputation as a businessman.
If Jeter in fact outsourced the firing of highly respected, well-known, modestly paid employees, he has made his first mistake under circumstances in which hell have very little margin for error.
Launch angle hitters are in trouble

Joey Votto sharpened his command of the strike zone to even greater heights.
Is there a lesson there for other hitters?
Shelley Lipton/Icon Sportswire

The electronic strike zone would crush a generation of launch-angle hitters.
A really smart executive asked a really smart rhetorical question the other day as he discussed the high rate of home runs and strikeouts: If a hitter trains himself to angle his swing upward, what is the highest pitch he can consistently reach within the strike zone?
He wasnt referring to the likes of Kris Bryant, who developed his unusual swing as a child, or Josh Donaldson, who has a special ability to lift the ball.
He was talking about the average major leaguer, and he answered his own question.
If youre talking about getting to the ball with an angled swing, the executive continued, the highest -- the highest -- might be mid-thigh, or at the [groin].
With that kind of swing, the executive continued, the launch-angle hitters are effectively conceding the upper half of the strike zone in an era in which umpires are calling more high strikes -- and are graded on properly calling the high strike.
Its not working for the hitters, said the executive, who believes, like many players, coaches and managers, that the baseballs are smaller and harder this year.
Home runs are way up, but I think thats the ball.
How about making contact?
How about putting the ball in play?
Last week, MLB hitters smashed the record for most homers in a season, crushing the mark set in 2000, in the heart of what will always be remembered as the steroid era.
In that 2000 season, 101 batters hit 20 or more homers.
This year, 111 batters have 20 or more homers, with a week to go.
But theres a flip side to the homers this year: the explosion of strikeouts.
During the 2000 season, 58 batters had 100 or more strikeouts.
In 2017, 126 batters have 100 or more strikeouts.
These times are different, of course.
Pitchers throw harder than they used to, and front offices prefer to use hard-throwing relievers rather than allow a lot of starting pitchers to face a lineup for a third time within a game.
But a lot of evaluators believe that many players would be better served by trying to make contact instead of trying to angle their swings and hit a fly ball.
Many players love to pick the brain of Reds first baseman Joey Votto, who is generally regarded as perhaps the smartest hitter in the game.
On a podcast recently, Votto talked about how he came into this year devoted to the task of cutting down on his strikeouts.
Votto had racked up 135 strikeouts in 2015 and 120 in 2016, and in his effort to reduce that this year, Votto decided to cut down on his swing as he got deeper into the count -- choking up a little more after one strike, and even more on two-strike counts.
At times, Votto seems to wield his bat like a tennis player at the net, volleying pitches foul just to stay alive.
The change in his walk/strike ratios has been exceptional:

Year Walks Rate Strikeouts Rate 2015 143 20.6% 135 19.4% 2016 108 16.0% 120 17.7% 2017 129 19.2% 78 11.6%

He is one of only three MLB batters qualified for the batting title who have walk/strikeout ratios of 1/1 or better, and along the way Votto has compiled 35 homers, the second-most in his career.
As detailed in a recent column, the rise in home run hitters may well diminish the value of that particular skill in the trade and free-agent market.
And heres another concern: If the electronic strike zone is implemented in the near future, with a higher ceiling than what has been called by most umpires, a generation of hitters who have designed their swings to lift the ball may be much more vulnerable.
I think theyre [in trouble] anyway, said one MLB staffer.
Pitchers are going to continue to carve them up.
They are selling out for a home run  I would take gap power with hitters who have the ability to make adjustments.
This launch angle thing is terrible for the game.
Somebody is going to make a lot of money in the next few years as the launch-angle fixer: the hitting instructor who takes a page from Votto and teaches pupils to hit the ball hard and be able to cover more than the lowest portion of the strike zone.
Around the league

The debate about whether to extend the netting at major league ballparks effectively ended when three teams announced Thursday that they would do so.
Now teams that arent committed to netting beyond the dugout cede the public-relations high ground, but those clubs also are at increased liability, as one baseball official noted, because of the tacit acknowledgment of the risk that has occurred: If youre the only team that hasnt extended its netting and somebody gets seriously hurt because of it, how can you argue [in court] that you didnt contribute to the risk?
About the composition of the baseballs and the pervasive belief among a lot of players and staffers that they are different in 2017: Earlier this season, a veteran National League pitcher held out two baseballs that he said he had saved from his previous start, and he noted the obvious physical difference between them.
One was notably smaller than the other.The same pitcher mentioned last week that he has taken to simply tossing aside the baseballs that he finds to be smaller than normal.
Im probably throwing out 40 percent of the balls Im given [by the umpire], he said.
Ive been holding baseballs my whole life, and I know what theyre supposed to feel like.
Over the All-Star break, Dodgers outfielder Andre Ethier talked with his wife about trying to push through the injury and discomfort he has felt in an effort to come back in 2017.
Maggie Ethier knows a whole lot about competition: She was a gymnast earlier in life.
Youve got nothing to lose, she told her husband, and last weekend, Andre Ethier related that conversation in explaining his current mindset.
Hes in the last days of his long-term deal with the Dodgers, and Ethier, 35, knows that the market for an aging hitter who has had only 55 plate appearances the past two years wont be robust this winter.
So hes working through his ailments and focusing on doing whatever he can to help the 2017 Dodgers -- and is intent on embracing whatever opportunity presents itself.
Its possible that hell get some time as the left fielder in the postseason, and its possible that hell be used as a pinch hitter -- as he was the other day, when he mashed an opposite-field homer to help beat the Phillies.
When Bernie Williams began his career with the Yankees, Gene Michael protected him -- from some bullying by teammates over Williamss glasses and quiet demeanor and from owner George Steinbrenner, who grew frustrated during the slow start to the center fielders career.
When Michaels memorial service was held the other day, Williams was in attendance.
Baseball Tonight Podcast

Friday: Ross Atkins, Blue Jays GM, on the plans for Josh Donaldson, the area of need for 2018, and the work of fixing Aaron Sanchezs blister issue; Karl Ravech on the issue of netting at ballparks, and the AL Wild Card race; and Jessica Mendoza on the Brewers and Cubs.
Thursday: Astros manager A.J.
Hinch, on the conversations leading up to the Justin Verlander trade, and the impact of the former Cy Young Award winner; Boog Sciambi on the foul ball that hit a young girl Wednesday and the fallout; and Keith Law on the Dodgers bullpen and Jake Arrieta.
Wednesday: Eric Thames of the Brewers on why his team is like "The Bad News Bears"; Oaklands Matt Chapman, about his defensive work and about playing wiffle ball with Nolan Arenado as a kid; Tim Kurkjian on the launch angle fad; and Paul Hembekides on the home run record.
Tuesday: Keith Law on the impact of the exploding home run numbers; Sarah Langs plays the Numbers Game; and Clark Spencer of the Miami Herald on the Marlins sale and the plans for Giancarlo Stanton.
Monday: Nationals catcher Matt Wieters and Jerry Crasnick on the Dodgers and Nationals, and the punishment handed down for the Red Sox; and Todd Radom picks the second-best MLB logo of all time before his weekly quiz.
And today will be better than yesterday.
This week's mailbag features your questions on Dwight Howard's fit in Charlotte, playoff reform, and more.
You can tweet your questions using the hashtag #peltonmailbag or email them to peltonmailbag@gmail.com.
"Is it fair to say that the Charlotte Hornets are the closest of Dwight Howard's recent teams in terms of style and similar players to his Orlando Magic teams?"
-- Jeremi H.

Yes, I think that's fair to say.
Obviously, Steve Clifford was an assistant to Stan Van Gundy for those Magic teams, and there's a great deal of stylistic similarity between their systems in terms of emphasizing 3s, limiting turnovers (the Hornets and Van Gundy's Detroit Pistons finished first and second in turnover rate last season), controlling the defensive glass (they were first and second in the opposite order there) and staying home on shooters rather than gambling to force turnovers (Charlotte ranked 22nd and Detroit 23rd in forcing turnovers last season).
Of course, the biggest difference between those teams is why Howard might not work out any better offensively with the Hornets than in his recent stops.
Just 6 percent of Charlotte's plays last season were finished with a shot, trip to the free throw line or turnover generated by a post-up opportunity, which ranked 27th in the NBA.
By contrast, during Howard's prime, Orlando ranked fifth in post-up percentage in 2007-08, second in 2008-09, third in 2009-10 and second in 2010-11.
Naturally, personnel is part of that.
The best post-up player on last year's Hornets was ... Frank Kaminsky, I guess?
Suffice it to say, there wasn't a prime Howard on the roster.
But there isn't a prime Howard now, and his comments to ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski and Lee Jenkins of Sports Illustrated suggest Howard still hasn't come to terms with that fact.
"You have often stated that a college player's free throw percentage is a far better predictor of 3-point accuracy in the NBA than college 3-point percentage.
However, someone like Marcus Smart shoots over 80 percent at the line and is one of the worst shooters in the league.
Does NBA free throw percentage not predict 3-point prowess or is Smart just an outlier?"
-- Brett Hullihen

First, just to be clear, college free throw percentage is not a far better predictor than college 3-point percentage; the two are pretty close but free throw percentage came out marginally better the way I studied the issue.
Looking specifically at Smart, it's true this same relationship doesn't hold once players enter the NBA.
I looked at players with at least 100 3-point attempts in consecutive seasons.
Their 3-point percentage in the first season has a correlation of about 0.4 with 3-point percentage the second season, which isn't good but still much better than the correlation with free throw percentage the first season (0.15).
When you put both 3-point percentage and free throw percentage into a regression to predict 3-point percentage the following season, 3-point percentage makes up the bulk of it.
So even for a player with percentages as mismatched as Smart, incorporating free throw percentage only improves his 2017-18 projected 3-point percentage from 32.9 percent to 33.4 percent.
(With the benefit of additional years, it becomes clear Smart is unlikely to reach even that lower projection; my SCHOENE projection system forecasts 30.6 percent shooting.)
So the interesting question here is why free throw shooting doesn't have the same predictive power in the NBA than it does for college projections, and I'm not really sure.
The fact that the distance is changing could make raw shooting ability more meaningful going from the NCAA to the NBA, but Ken Pomeroy has found predictive power for free throw percentage to year-to-year improvements among college players.
So it might have more to do with the development of young players.
If we limit our NBA sample to players 22 and younger, the correlation between free throw percentage in year one and 3-point percentage in year two does improve about 50 percent to 0.22.
So there might be a little more reason for optimism about Smart's shooting, but with each passing year it becomes less likely he'll translate his free throw accuracy to the longer distance.
Who are the historical long-two takers who would have been most helped by taking a step back?
#peltonmailbag  Kevin Garrity (@kg_cagey) September 22, 2017

I tried to come up with a way to answer this question statistically but didn't come up with anything satisfying, so instead we'll go case by case.
The first two players I thought of when I read this question were two I watched as Sonics growing up: super sixth men Eddie Johnson and Ricky Pierce.
Pierce was an 87.5 percent career foul shooter who shot accurately enough from the midrange to shoot nearly 50 percent from the field for his career (49.3 percent), yet he attempted just 920 career 3s and shot them at a 32.2 percent clip.
Johnson embraced the 3 a bit more, particularly in his later years, so he attempted a more reasonable number (1,679).
Perhaps the ultimate example is someone who got namechecked in this column last week: Jeff Malone, who like Pierce shot a high percentage (48.4 percent) and was a fine free throw shooter (87.1 percent).
Malone attempted just 321 3s in his 13-year career, fewer than 31 players attempted in his final NBA season (1995-96) alone.
Some other names worth mentioning: Rolando Blackman (677 career attempts), Walter Davis (577), Alex English (83!
), John Long (313), Kelly Tripucka (465) and Kiki VanDeWeghe (592).
"I was brainstorming ways to fix the playoffs and came up with something that I haven't really seen being mentioned.
We often see the idea of eliminating the conferences, but then it gets shot down because of travel concerns, and because then it would get very complicated to balance all these teams' regular- season schedules without considering conferences.
So, I propose the following: Instead of ranking 1-16, you could still do eight teams in each conference, but a non-playoff team from the opposite conference with a better record could replace a team with a worse record."
-- Michael Cohen

I tend to think of this as the MLS solution, because the soccer league used a somewhat similar format earlier this decade.
Technically, the MLS called the last four spots in its playoffs "wild cards," allowing teams from either conference to participate but not be seeded higher than playoff teams in the other conference.
Either way, that resulted in Real Salt Lake and the Colorado Rapids winning the "Eastern Conference" playoffs in 2009 and 2010.
I like that this method gets the best 16 teams to the playoffs without dramatically altering their structure in terms of travel or conference rivalries.
As Michael noted in the full version of his email, in 2008 the 48-win Golden State Warriors stayed home while five teams from the East with weaker records made the playoffs.
That's worth trying to avoid.
That noted, there are questions about this idea.
My biggest concern is that under your proposal, teams would have huge incentive to tank their way out of their own conference's bracket and into the other whenever the conferences are lopsided.
There's less incentive if the teams from the opposite conference automatically go to the bottom of the line.
(In 2008, for example, the Warriors would be seeded seventh in the East this way instead of fourth.)
But that format would mean more travel and better opponents for the top seeds in the weaker conference than the lower seeds in the same conference, and that's not particularly fair.
So I'm not sure there's a good solution here.
@kpelton Will you be doing the Player Profiles again this year for every team?
#peltonmailbag  Hiawatha Mohawk (@MohawkHiawatha) September 23, 2017

Unfortunately, we've decided not to do them starting this season.
I understand many readers will be disappointed, and the player profiles was perhaps my favorite thing to write, so I'll miss them too.
But they were also far and away the most time-consuming writing on my plate, particularly with Bradford Doolittle moving to the MLB beat and unable to assist, so with the shortened offseason we decided to focus instead on regular analysis throughout the summer months.
You love basketball.
You follow the NBA, root on your favorite team and watch games on TV.
Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
And you still haven't played fantasy basketball?!
If that sounds a lot like you, this is the perfect season to get off the bench and into the game.
The NBA is more stacked with star talent than it has been in years, with reigning MVP Russell Westbrook leading the way, and there has never been a better time to jump right into the fantasy game.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Imagine the feeling of having Stephen Curry on your squad when he has one of his classic shooting performances with 10 3-pointers.
Or what it feels like when Giannis Antetokounmpo erupts for a triple-double and adds three blocks to lead your team to victory.
This stuff is a lot of fun!
In fact, many of those who've played fantasy basketball for a while can probably recall specific games certain players had for them in the last 10, 15 or even 20 years.
Don't get me started on Tom Gugliotta!
If you're not an expert, don't worry -- we have everything you need to know on how to enter a league and draft a winning team.
Even if you're a total beginner, you will still have the tools to experience the joy of fantasy basketball like millions do every year.
Make the league your own

Every fantasy basketball league is different.
While there are basic rules and settings that apply across the board (you will learn about those below), each league takes on its own identity based on settings like roster size, injury spots, stat categories and other specifics.
We encourage you to join or start a league that fits what you're looking for.
If you want to be more casual and set your lineups once a week, find a league that uses weekly lineup changes.
If you're a little bit more diehard with all this and want to be able to add and drop players and craft new lineups on a daily basis, that's the type of league you should enter.
The bottom line is to do what's fun for you.
Find a league that keeps you tuning in to watch your players every night.
With that in mind, we've put together ESPN Fantasy Basketball 101 to give you an overview of how to get started, how to prepare for your draft and how to play during the season.
Now it's time for you to sign up and join the fun!
Getting started

How to sign up on the ESPN Fantasy app

Were you invited to an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league?
Do you want to create your own as a League Manager?
We have complete instructions for you right here.
How to sign up online

Whether you were invited to join an already-existing league or want to create your own as a League Manager, you'll find everything you need to do so right here.
League settings

If you created your own league, you'll need to make sure all of your league's rules and settings -- including roster size, scoring, regular-season schedules and playoff schedules -- are to your liking.
We have all of the details of how to do that right here.
You've signed up, now what?
Check out your league and team pages

It's time to learn more about your league and team pages, so you know where everything is.
We've got you covered with a detailed tour right here.
Know your rules

This might seem incredibly basic, but even veteran fantasy basketball players often assume they know their league rules even when they don't.
The result of overlooking a rule can be costly, so be sure you know the rules before your draft.
Go to your fantasy football league page, click on League, then Settings.
Here, you'll be able to find all the rules that are in place for your league this season.
This includes roster construction, scoring, schedule, playoff structure and more.
Take the time to carefully go over every section.
To make sure you understand the thinking behind each rule, check out our League Settings overview.
Draft prep

A good draft will put you in position to have a successful season, and taking time to prepare beforehand is key.
That includes formulating strategies and printing out rankings that reflect your league's scoring format.
Don't worry, we have you covered with customized expert rankings and draft strategies in the ESPN Fantasy Basketball draft kit.
Autodraft prep

If you don't plan to take part in a live draft, that's OK. Our system will automatically draft for you.
Still, you have the option of guiding how our system will draft your team.
Go to your Team page and click "Edit Autopick Strategy."
Here, you can decide which player positions you'd like to pick in which parts of the draft and how many players at each position you want to select overall.
Mock drafts

Mock drafts are simply practice drafts that don't count for anything.
It's a terrific way to get used to the ESPN draft software, make sure you know how everything works and test out different strategies.
For example, that might mean drafting a point guard in the first round versus drafting a small forward in Round 1 and waiting on a point guard until the fourth round.
These practice drafts also let you see which players are going higher than expected and which are routinely slipping down a round or two (or more).
This is extremely useful knowledge that you can take with you in your real draft and use to your advantage, avoiding those "sliding" players until later rounds when you have a good idea that they will still be available.
For an overview of how everything in the ESPN draft room works, click on this link.
The draft

Draft day is the most exciting day of the season, because it's when your team goes from a plan to a reality.
It's when you finally get the chance to assemble the group of players you get to root for all season.
Of course, you can always add and drop players throughout the year, but the draft is still the most fundamental part of your roster and you want to make sure you don't miss on your top players.
If you have prepared for your draft by reading up on players and strategies, and by participating in several mock drafts, you're on the path to success.
Believe in your hunches and don't look back.
To make everything go as smoothly as possible, be sure to follow these handy rules.
The season is starting, let the fun begin!
Trading

In most leagues, there are at least a few managers who enjoy the art of the deal.
If you're one of those people, trading is going to be one of the most fun aspects of fantasy basketball.
When done well, it's a great opportunity to improve your roster while unloading someone you perhaps no longer want or need.
There are several important factors to keep in mind.
You must look at the roster of the team you're trading with and understand which, if any players, that manager might be willing to part with.
For example, it'd be unwise to make a trade offer for a point guard on a team that is battling injuries and down to one healthy point guard.
Also, while you may never want to send your best trade offer with your first proposal, be careful not to offer up too little.
That can be offensive to the other manager and can lead to that person not only declining your offer but ending all future trade talks with you.
In-season strategies

Beyond trading, there are other factors to consider during the season like how to manage your games played in roto leagues, how to approach head-to-head playoffs, and how best to work the waiver wire.
Check out the in-season strategies section of our draft kit.
Fantasy basketball etiquette

Every few years, no matter what type of league you're in, you'll run into someone who causes problems.
Sometimes it name-calling on the message board and being a bully.
Other times it is a constant stream of wild trade offers and questionable transactions.
Whether you are in a hyper-competitive league or just trying to have some casual fun, you want to avoid being this way or having others in your league who conduct themselves like this.
Generally speaking, that just means following the golden rule: Treat others the way you'd want to be treated in your league.
Following up our first mock draft, which was a 10-team roto-style format, we got together for a 10-team head-to-head points mock draft.
Of important note is that this draft took place before the trade that sent Carmelo Anthony to the Oklahoma City Thunder and Enes Kanter and Doug McDermott to the New York Knicks, and before Dwyane Wade was bought out by the Chicago Bulls.
The participants, in order of draft position, were Tom Carpenter, Eric Karabell, Leo Howell, Austin Tedesco, Seth Walder, Renee Miller, Joe Kaiser, Kyle Soppe, Jim McCormick and John Cregan.
Below, you'll find one takeaway from each manager, followed by the draft results.
Tom Carpenter: I had the good fortune of landing the No.
1 pick, but there simply isn't one obvious standout choice this season.
In a points format, I could easily make a case for about a half-dozen players, but it came down to Russell Westbrook versus Karl-Anthony Towns for me.
I gave Russ the edge, because even with Paul George at his side, I couldn't pass up his massive usage, especially when KAT had more teammates to share the ball with.
But now that Melo is in the mix in OKC, I would lean toward Towns, especially with standard ESPN points scoring, which gives extra weight to big-man stats.
Westbrook is still going to rack up huge numbers, but I think KAT's ceiling in this format may actually be higher now.
Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
Eric Karabell: One of the things I find myself doing in these mock drafts is ending up with the utility slots filled with centers because I can't pass up the potential numbers.
It's not the most versatile strategy, of course, and in leagues we play out, I could have problems if it's a daily format or when injuries occur.
But the centers seem to be falling, and I can't help myself!
Take Joel Embiid, for example.
I was surprised he was there at pick No.
He won't play 70 games, but when he plays, he should be awesome.
A few rounds later Jonas Valanciunas was curiously available.
Then it was Marcin Gortat!
These guys should shoot well and provide the numbers I expect and need, but if swingman Jimmy Butler were to get hurt, my team might have a problem.
In future mocks, I want to see how it feels to build with 2s and 3s.
I imagine I won't enjoy it as much.
Leo Howell: Unlike our previous mock draft, which was a roto format, I felt a lot more free to make choices based on talent and general feel for a player and not be bound to categories and balance.
I found myself gravitating to guys who have solid roles and established production, because in a points format, talent + volume = victory.
From my first rounder (James Harden) to my last starter (Dwyane Wade), I feel like I have both elements in large amounts.
Normally in fantasy sports, I like young players and potential breakouts, but when I need to maximize counting stats and production, I don't want to take as many gambles when it comes to role or inexperience.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Melo to Thunder trade: Fantasy fallout How will the fantasy values of Melo, Russell Westbrook and Paul George change following the Knicks-Thunder trade?
Is Russ still worthy of a No.
1 overall pick?
Is Melo still top-50?
Where should you take PG-13?
2017-18 fantasy basketball points rankings In fantasy hoops leagues that use ESPN's standard points-league scoring, you'll find big men on the rise.
Do the likes of KAT and The Brow top Russ and Harden?
Does Steph even make the top 10?
Where do LeBron and Jokic land?
2 Related

Austin Tedesco: Myles Turner felt like a reaaach, but look at these dudes around him in the draft.
It's a sea of injury histories and/or cramped rosters with opportunity risks.
Hard pass.
So I'm banking on Turner upping his 3-point attempts per game from 1.4 to closer to 4.0 (let it fly, Myles!).
The rest of his game should naturally improve in Year 3.
He's already a good defender, and a bump in his RPG and BPG would make him a monstrous fantasy center with power forward flexibility.
If he doesn't average 20 and 10, I'm blaming Victor Oladipo and Kevin Pritchard.
The only thing he doesn't do is dish.
On this Pacers team, I hope it stays that way.
Seth Walder: I actually pondered DeAndre Jordan with my second-round pick but had a sneaking suspicion that the Clippers' center might last until the third round -- our interface's pre-draft rankings were based on rotisserie scoring, and therefore he was ranked 46th -- and decided to push my luck to test that theory.
It worked out.
By ESPN's projections, Jordan is forecasted to score the 16th-most points in this format.
Jim McCormick ranked him 16th in his points rankings.
And FiveThirtyEight's CARMELO projects him to have the 19th-highest WAR in 2017.
While CARMELO isn't forecasting with fantasy in mind, it's still nice to look to another projection system to confirm Jordan's overall value is in this range.
This early on, a roughly 10-spot value in a draft is about as good as you can hope for.
Jordan may have fallen because he doesn't score as many points as some of the other big men we often seek for points leagues, but that irrelevant at the rate he hoovers up boards.
Renee Miller: With a solid center, a best-is-yet-to-come power forward and Kevin Durant already on my team I was thrilled when Eric Bledsoe was available in the 4th round.
A triple-double threat when healthy, Bledsoe has averaged 32-34 minutes per game with around 18 points, 5 rebounds, 6 assists, and almost 2 steals per game during his four seasons in Phoenix.
The Suns play at a fast pace, which benefits point guards (and power forwards), specifically.
It doesn't hurt that he's pretty efficient (45 FG%, 81 FT%) either.
The knock on him is health and the risk of being benched for a younger model (Tyler Ulis).
However, he's healthy now, entering just his eighth season in the league (age 27), with a well-rounded skill set that shores up my team at the point.
Joe Kaiser: I'm already having buyer's remorse for taking Kawhi Leonard over LeBron James in a points league.
That shouldn't have happened, and if LeBron is there with the seventh pick you take him every time.
The lesson here is that it's easy to let yourself get swayed by efficiency, even when it doesn't matter as much, as is the case in a points league.
My strategy in the later rounds was to get scorers, and I was happy to get pretty good values in players like Dario Saric (67th), Tobias Harris (74th) and Lou Williams (107th).
Unfortunately, passing on a center in the middle rounds for the sake of selecting the best player available backfired, as I was left choosing from the likes of Pau Gasol, Mason Plumlee and Frank Kaminsky.
Once Gasol came off the board, I reluctantly took Plumlee as my one and only center.
If I had to do it over with the whole wait-for-a-center approach, I'd make sure to get someone like Clint Capela in the 60-70 range.
Kyle Soppe: My biggest takeaway from this draft was that I'm likely fading the masses this season.
We are in a golden era for point guards and that was reflected in this mock, as half of our league had a starting point (and McCormick had two) within the first 16 picks.
Yes, I understand how good these players are, but there is sneaky depth at the position, and by zigging when others are zagging, I love the value I got inside the top 100.
D'Angelo Russell and Dennis Smith Jr. are the two players I base this strategy on, as I truly believe they are the top values on the board, given their current ADP, and the ability to wait on filling my backcourt allows me to capitalize on any frontcourt player who falls as a result of the early run on guards.
Jim McCormick: Full disclosure: A traffic jam on the "Blue Route" (people from Philly understand) saw me autodraft the first six rounds of this draft.
Full disclosure: I actually like the build of this team, save for the far-too-early Isaiah Thomas selection.
With that Thomas pick, I'd instead prefer the volume rebounding potential of Kevin Love or Andre Drummond in a points format than the risk Thomas presents.
The auto portion of my roster should prove elite in 3-pointers, assists, steals and volume scoring but entirely thin in boards and blocks.
Given we don't need to worry about categorical balance as much in a points format, I spent the second half of the draft building on the strengths the first six rounds established -- resulting in a blend of 3-and-D perimeter specialists.
It's a bit of an atypical build, but with a bevy of top guards, there is at least an intriguing ceiling for this small-ball collective.
John Cregan: Following on the heels of my second-year breakouts column, I wanted to use this draft to highlight where I'd pick some of my favorite sophomores.
I selected Marquese Chriss and Willy Hernangomez in the eighth round, Malcolm Brogdon in the 10th, and Buddy Hield in the 12th (I had the wraparound pick).
Of the four, Chriss has the most upside, while Brogdon is the safest pick.
71st may feel like a reach for Hernangomez, but with Joakim Noah out the first month of the season, Hernangomez has a huge opportunity to dramatically increase his minutes per game for the duration.
Advertisement

What Every N.F.L.
Team Did During the National Anthem on Sunday

Widespread calls for demonstrations at Sunday's games erupted after President Trump's comments this weekend criticizing players for kneeling during the national anthem and owners for tolerating the displays.
Starting with Jacksonvilles game against Baltimore in London, players, coaches and several owners protested across the league .
Here is a look at what each team did during the playing of the national anthem:

Image Officials stand in front of an empty bench during the national anthem before the Seahawks-Titans game.
Credit Mark Zaleski/Associated Press

Seattle Seahawks at Tennessee Titans

In the days largest protest so far, neither team was on the field for Meghan Linseys singing of the national anthem.
While the Titans not participating was something of a surprise, the Seahawks had announced in advance that they would not participate.
As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem, the team said in a statement.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Advertisement

The complete lack of players made for a bizarre scene in which team mascots and game officials were the only figures television cameras could focus on besides the flag and Linsey.
Unlike some other stadiums, where fans booed at the protests, the fans in Nashville were eerily quiet during the anthem, and after the songs conclusion the players began running onto the field.
Image Credit Top: Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images; Charles Rex Arbogast/Associated Press

Pittsburgh Steelers at Chicago Bears

Another dramatic demonstration came from the Pittsburgh Steelers, who were playing the Bears at Soldier Field in Chicago.
The entire Steelers team remained off the field during the playing of the national anthem, while some of the teams coaches, including Mike Tomlin, were on the sideline.
The one Pittsburgh player seen during the anthem was Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, who was in the tunnel with his hand over his heart.
The players took the field at the conclusion of the anthem.
Bears stood on the sideline with their arms linked together.
Image Credit Top: Al Bello/Getty Images; Seth Wenig/Associated Press

Miami Dolphins at Jets

Christopher Johnson, the acting owner of the Jets, joined his players in locking arms during the anthem.
The Jets have yet to comment on Mr. Trumps remarks in spite of the fact that Johnsons father, Woody, is a close ally of the president and the current ambassador to Britain.
Shaun King, a columnist for The Intercept who is closely associated with the Black Lives Matter movement, claimed Jets players were discouraged from protesting.
The Dolphins had several players wear #IMWITHKAP T-shirts in support of Colin Kaepernick, the player whose own protests last season started the movement that is now boiling over.
The team also had players linking arms, with several kneeling.
Image Credit Top: Matt Dunham/Associated Press; Paul Childs/Reuters

Baltimore Ravens at Jacksonville Jaguars (London)

In London, the game between the Ravens and the Jaguars began with the anthem being played as more than a dozen players from the two teams knelt for the duration of the anthem.
Coach John Harbaugh of the Ravens, Coach Doug Marrone of the Jaguars and Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jaguars, stood locking arms with players and coaches on the field as well.
After the American anthem had concluded, the kneeling players all stood for the British national anthem.
Image Credit Top: David Butler Ii/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Jim Rogash/Getty Images

Houston Texans at New England Patriots

The Patriots have often been seen as allies of Mr. Trump.
The president has claimed to be friendly with the teams owner, Robert Kraft, and its star, Tom Brady.
But Mr. Kraft condemned the presidents remarks, and the Patriots were one of the many teams to demonstrate during the anthem, with Brady locking arms with many of his teammates while around 20 players chose to kneel.
The Texans players all chose to lock arms.
Image Credit Top: Matt Rourke/Associated Press; Michael Perez/Associated Press

Giants at Philadelphia Eagles

Philadelphias owner, Jeffrey Lurie, joined the Eagles players on the sideline, locking arms as a group, while some of the team split off to surround Malcolm Jenkins, a player who since last season has stood with a raised fist during the anthem.
Torrey Smith and Marcus Johnson also raised their fists this week.
Olivier Vernon, Landon Collins and Damon Harrison of the Giants became the first players from that team to kneel during the anthem, while the rest of the team stood with arms linked.
After a touchdown in the second half, Odell Beckham Jr. dropped the ball and stood in the end zone with a raised fist, continuing the demonstrations from earlier in the day.
Image Credit Top: Kelvin Kuo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

Kansas City Chiefs at Los Angeles Chargers

Melvin Ingram knelt, a group of five players sat and the rest of the Chargers locked arms during the anthem.
On the other side of the field, the Chiefs were in an interesting position, as that teams chairman, Clark Hunt, has regularly stated that he prefers that his players stand for the anthem.
But Hunt somewhat backed away from that stance with a statement that read, in part, We believe in honoring the American flag and supporting all of those whose sacrifices protect the many freedoms with have in this country, including the right to have differences of opinion.
Some of the Chiefs players were seen kneeling or sitting during the anthem, including Marcus Peters, who sat while raising his fist.
The strongest statement came from the teams standout linebacker, Justin Houston, who chose to kneel by himself by the teams bench, facing the crowd rather than the field.
Image Credit Top: Rey Del Rio/Getty Images; Leon Halip/Getty Images

Atlanta Falcons at Detroit Lions

Atlantas owner, Arthur Blank, who had already issued a statement denouncing the presidents remarks, joined his players on the sideline during the anthem, locking arms, as did Detroits owner, Martha Ford, and her three daughters.
Rico Lavelle, who performed the anthem, took at knee at the conclusion of the song and raised his fist.
Advertisement

Image Credit Top: Thomas J. Russo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Darron Cummings/Associated Press

Cleveland Browns at Indianapolis Colts

The crowd in Indianapolis was booing loudly as players on both teams chose to either lock arms or kneel.
The Browns had around 20 players kneeling.
The owners of the team, Jimmy and Dee Haslam, said in a statement that We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the president or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Our stance in support of the liberties of peaceful, personal expression afforded to our players and all Americans will remain strong, and we will continue to encourage our players to respectfully use their earned platform to inspire positive change in our nation and throughout society, it continued.
Despite the booing, the Colts had several players kneel during the anthem as well.
Image Credit Top: Brett Carlsen/Getty Images; Adrian Kraus/Associated Press

Denver Broncos at Buffalo Bills

The Broncos, who have had players protesting since last season, had more than 30 players kneeling during the anthem (including some practice squad members) while the Bills had one of the more unusual demonstrations, with the entire team walking about 10 yards onto the field together before having several players kneel.
Image Credit Top: Bob Leverone/Associated Press; Streeter Lecka/Getty Images

New Orleans Saints at Carolina Panthers

Adrian Peterson and Mark Ingram were part of a group of around 10 members of the Saints who stayed on the bench during the anthem.
The Panthers stood for the anthem, as they have since the protests began last season.
The Panthers Julius Peppers was not on the field during the anthem  he arrived after it had ended  but the team has not issued a statement as to whether his absence was a protest of any kind.
Image Credit Photos by Brad Rempel/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Minnesota Vikings

While no players on the Vikings chose to kneel during the anthem, the entire team, and the teams owners, stood with their arms linked.
Tampa Bay had two players kneel during the anthem, DeSean Jackson and Mike Evans.
The Buccaneers recognize every individuals constitutional right to freedom of speech, which is crucial to the American way of life that we cherish, the team said in a statement.
We are equally committed to the principles of inclusivity and respect for differing points of view that should be afforded to all Americans.
Image Credit Top: Mike Roemer/Associated Press; Jeff Hanisch/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Cincinnati Bengals at Green Bay Packers

Martellus Bennett, Kevin King and Lance Kendricks of the Green Bay Packers all sat during the anthem, while most of the players on that team stood with their arms linked, while most of the Bengals players chose to link arms but none knelt.
Bennetts protest came a day after he unleashed a series of texts criticizing the presidents remarks about football players.
Image Credit Top: Brad Mills/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Alex Brandon/Associated Press

Oakland Raiders at Washington Redskins

The entire offensive line of the Oakland Raiders, the only line in the N.F.L.
made up entirely of African-American players, was joined by virtually the entire team in kneeling or sitting during the national anthem.
It was one of the strongest visual displays of the many protests on Sunday, and across the field, the Redskins stood with linked arms as some players chose to kneel.
Many fans in attendance at FedEx Field could be heard booing the players while they sat.
But the acts of defiance received a far more mixed reception from fans, both in the stadiums and on social media, suggesting that what were promoted as acts of unity might have exacerbated a divide and dragged yet another of the countrys institutions into the turbulent cross currents of race and politics.
Photo

At Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, videos posted on social media showed some Eagles fans yelling at anti-Trump protesters holding placards.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., before the Jets played the Dolphins, many fans, a majority of them white, said they did not support the anthem protests but also did not agree with the presidents view that players should be fired because of them.
Im a Republican who voted for him, but I think this is a battle he doesnt need to get into, said Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, who said he had been a Jets season-ticket holder since 1978.
Yet he objected to the anthem protests, saying, I understand what theyre trying to get at, I just think there are better ways of expressing yourself.
Mr. Trump, in a speech on Friday and a weekend-long series of tweets, had all but baited athletes and the league to respond by saying that those who do not stand for the anthem should be fired.
He added that the league was in decline for tolerating the protests and for taking steps to reduce brain damage among players.
As the sideline demonstrations unfolded on Sunday, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter: Great solidarity for our national anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
And before boarding Air Force One in the evening, Mr. Trump told reporters that his comments had nothing to do with race or anything else  this has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag.
Still, players and team officials said they had made the gestures, including locking arms, in solidarity with players who had demonstrated during the anthem, not to support Mr. Trump.
Photo

There was a variety of protests on the sidelines Sunday.
All but one player from the Pittsburgh Steelers, one of the leagues most celebrated teams, refused to go out for the anthem.
The lone exception was Alejandro Villanueva, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Steelers, who were playing the Bears, were booed heavily by fans in Chicago when they ran onto the field after the anthem.
The Steelers, along with the Tennessee Titans and the Seattle Seahawks, who were playing each other and similarly skipped the anthem, broke a league rule requiring athletes to be present for the anthem, though a league executive said they would not be penalized.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country, Seahawks players said in a statement before the game.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Even stars who normally shy from controversy took a stand.
Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers posted a photograph of himself kneeling with three of his teammates during warm-ups before the game, and New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, a supporter of the president, liked Rodgerss photo.
Later, before the Patriots game against the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass., Brady locked arms with a teammate on the field and placed his hand over his heart during the anthem.
Rodgers stood during the anthem, but three of his teammates sat on the bench.
A dozen or so Patriots knelt during the anthem, prompting some fans at Gillette Stadium to boo.
Still, one of the more surprising reactions came from the Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, a friend and campaign donor of the president who has invited Mr. Trump to sit with him at home games, as well as from other owners who were considered bedrock supporters of the president.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday, Kraft said in a statement hours before the New England game, adding that he supported players right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
E. Stanley Kroenke, the owner of the Los Angeles Rams, and Martha Firestone Ford, the owner of the Detroit Lions, both of whom lean to the right politically, also scolded the president.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ford said negative and disrespectful comments were contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions.
She and the Atlanta Falcons owner, Arthur M. Blank, who donates to many Democratic causes, linked arms with players during the anthem before the Falcons-Lions game in Detroit.
The singer Rico LaVelle went down on one knee as he finished singing the anthem.
The demonstrations intensified what was already a divisive debate that began last season when Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice.
He left the team after last season and has not played in the league since, inspiring questions over whether teams are punishing him, while many other players have knelt or made gestures in support of him or other social causes during the anthem.
Photo

Kaepernick has not commented, and his social media accounts were largely quiet on the president and the new round of protests.
But the fallout from Mr. Trumps remarks spilled over into other sports.
In a tweet Friday, Mr. Trump disinvited the Golden State Warriors, the N.B.A.
champions, to any traditional White House visit, after members of the team, including its biggest star, Stephen Curry, were critical of him.
But on Sunday, the N.H.L.
champion Pittsburgh Penguins said they would go to the White House, and declared such visits to be free of politics.
Nascar team owners went a step further, saying they would not tolerate drivers who protested during the anthem.
To promote the idea of the N.F.L.
as a unifying force, the league was planning to replay a television ad called Inside These Lines on NBC on Sunday night when the Oakland Raiders played the Washington Redskins outside the nations capital.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While none of the Jets players knelt during the playing of the anthem, they locked arms on the sideline and were joined by some of the teams administrators.
On the other side of the field, four Miami Dolphins players  Maurice Smith, Kenny Stills, Thomas and Laremy Tunsil  knelt, while the teams owner, Stephen M. Ross, locked arms with two of his players.
Two years ago, Mr. Ross started a nonprofit organization to combat racism and discrimination.
Outside the stadium in East Rutherford, Julie and Vin Santomero, who brought their sons to the game, said they also did not want to see protests at a sporting event because they attended games to get away from politics.
Its a football game, Mrs. Santomero said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y.; Jeanna Pulistar, 29, of Lindenhurst, N.Y.; Roger Guevara, 29, of Yonkers; and Genesis Pineda, 27, of Yonkers, took the opposing view by supporting the N.F.L.
players right to protest during the anthem.
People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist, said Melendez, who is African-American.
The double standard is crazy.
Now, Villanueva has one more bit of fame: He was the only member of the Steelers to walk out of the tunnel before Sundays game against the Chicago Bears and hold his hand over his heart while the national anthem played.
His teammates remained several feet behind him, just inside the tunnel  notably not on the field, in protest of President Donald J. Trump and his comments about the N.F.L.
Villanueva, a 6-foot-8, 320-pound lineman who was born in Mississippi but is the son of a Spanish naval officer, did not speak with the news media after Sundays game.
But in past interviews he has expressed solidarity with Colin Kaepernick, whose protests last season about the way African-Americans are treated  first by sitting, and later by kneeling, during the national anthem  have spread to other teams, drawing the ire of President Trump over the weekend.
I will be the first one to hold hands with Colin Kaepernick and do something about the way minorities are being treated in the United States, the injustice that is happening with police brutality, the justice system, inequalities in pay, Villanueva said, according to ESPN.
Rather, he has questioned whether Kaepernicks approach has inadvertently suggested a lack of appreciation for service members whose sacrifices have made such protests possible.
You cant do it by looking away from the people that are trying to protect our freedom and our country, he said.
He added: I dont know if the most effective way is to sit down during the national anthem with a country thats providing you freedom, providing you $16 million a year  when there are black minorities that are dying in Iraq and Afghanistan for less than $20,000 a year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the Steelers loss on Sunday, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said the team had agreed at a players-only meeting on Saturday night to remain in the locker room or tunnel during the anthem.
His teammates might not have been aware that Villanueva would step out of the tunnel into a more visible position near the field.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We thought we were all in attention with the same agreement, obviously,  the Steelers James Harrison said, according to PennLive.
But, I guess we werent.
Asked whether it was a problem that Villanueva appeared for the anthem when the rest of the team did not, Roethlisberger said only, No.
And he emphasized that the teams decision was in no way, shape or form meant to disrespect service members, adding that the players have nothing but the utmost respect for them, obviously; they give us the freedom to play this game.
Like a lot of combat veterans, Villanueva appears to have allowed his time overseas to frame his perspective on the rest of his life, including playing professional football.
When asked about being one of the leagues lowest-paid starting left tackles  a position guarding his quarterbacks blind side that often commands a premium in the N.F.L.
he pointed out that others have endured far more serious challenges.
I was deployed three times, he told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette last year.
Ive got so many things, so many other situations in my life where it couldve been the opposite.
It could have been like, Man, would you rather be walking on both your legs?
Or, Would you rather still have all your limbs and what not?
These scenarios of whether youre getting $24 million or someone else is getting $46 , to me, thats irrelevant.
Villanueva also has expressed ambivalence about receiving the Bronze Star because a soldier he rescued, Private First Class Jesse Dietrich, later died.
In my case, my platoon was hammered time after time, Villanueva told ESPN.
A lot of people were getting wounded, and a lot of people were getting hurt.
When you have leaders that are still carrying the team and still pushing, theyll find an opportunity to say that night, 25th of August, this guy was overwhelmed, and he reacted by putting his own life at risk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if you truly think about it, thats what I was supposed to do, he added.
Because what was I going to do, leave the guy out there?
Even before Villanuevas harrowing experiences overseas, those who knew him at West Point said it would have been hard for him to miss the national anthem.
He has an intense love for his country, and he always did the utmost to make that apparent, said Harrison, who is now a student at the Armys Command and General Staff College in Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
Brady spoke Monday morning on the Kirk & Callahan show on WEEI.
He said of Trumps remarks: Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive.
Like I said, I just want to support my teammates.
I am never one to say: Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.
Those are the values that my parents instilled in me.
That is how I try and live every day.
Were all different, were all unique.
That is what makes us all special.
Everyone deals with different challenges in their life and you respect everyones opinions and views, he said.
You dont have to agree with everything.
Its hard to agree with your own wife on everything from day-to-day.
I have so much respect for my teammates and what were trying to accomplish.
Hopefully we can keep marching toward this end of the season, keep making improvements, get better and win more football games.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If you dont agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about.
After the anthem on Sunday, Brady led the Patriots to a come-from-behind 36-33 victory over the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass.
Despite his friendship with Trump, Bradys vote in the last election remains something of a mystery.
Trump claimed Brady backed him, but Bradys wife, the model Gisele Bndchen, denied that.
The former Patriot tackle Matt Light was one ex-player who took exception to the protests.
If you think that its OK to take a knee during our national anthem and disrespect openly the national anthem, you are wrong, Light told The Boston Herald.
It would have never happened during my time, he said.
Its the first time Ive ever been ashamed to be a Patriot.
And I promise you Im not the only one.
Trump raised the issue again on Monday morning on Twitter, praising Nascar drivers for respecting the anthem and denying his stand had anything to do with race.
Even if the Yankees had won on Sunday, their chances of catching Boston would have remained slim.
But the loss raised the question of how quickly the team would be able to shake off the effects of Saturdays clincher and return to crisp baseball.
Aaron Judge, for one, did not have trouble with that.
He hit two home runs Sunday that gave him 48 for the season, one shy of the major league rookie record set by Mark McGwire in 1987 with the Oakland Athletics.
Photo

Judges first homer of the day came off Toronto starter Marcus Stroman in the sixth inning with the bases empty, and landed in the second deck beyond left field.
The second, a line drive off Ryan Tepera in the seventh, was a two-run shot to left-center.
I was swinging at the right pitches, Judge said, and thats the biggest thing.
Judge said that he was not thinking about breaking McGwires record, but that if he does it, he hopes it comes during a Yankees win.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Were trying to do something special here, he said.
For Toronto, the blowout win provided a fitting stage for the home fans to say goodbye to Bautista, the slugging right fielder who is not expected to be re-signed by the team after 10 productive seasons here that included six All-Star Game appearances.
He received a standing ovation during each at-bat, and in the top of the ninth Manager John Gibbons replaced Bautista in right field, giving the crowd a moment for a final on-field salute.
Bautista hugged teammates as he left the field and also when he reached the dugout.
Then he re-emerged to wave to the fans one last time.
Bautista has 287 home runs for the Blue Jays and 218 doubles.
He also hit six home runs and drove in 16 runs during 20 playoff games over the last two years.
One of those home runs helped Toronto win the American League wild-card game here last season.
A year later, the Yankees were the ones holding a celebration at Rogers Centre, and it was unusually long and wild.
So much champagne and beer flowed in the visitors clubhouse on Saturday that there were standing puddles on the carpet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In light of that, Girardi said he had been wary of how his team would respond the next day.
You think about it, he said after Sundays loss.
You worry about it a little bit as you go through the emotions of last night and clinching a spot.
Starter Jaime Garcia had a particularly rough day, surrendering five runs and walking three batters in only two and one-third innings.
But he refused to use Saturdays celebration as a way to minimize his culpability.
On my part, there is no excuse, Garcia said.
I totally take the blame for this game.
I take a lot of pride when I take the mound to keep us in the ballgame, and I wasnt able to do that today.
Schauffele said he thought the winning putt was going to lip out.
Thats why I couldnt even react or celebrate, he said.
The biggest roar of the day was registered a full two hours before the final putt dropped.
It emanated from the 10th green when the points leader Jordan Spieth, who was trying to capture the FedEx Cup championship for the second time in three years, holed his second shot from 93 yards for eagle, putting him at seven under par.
At one point on the back nine, Spieth was projected to win the FedEx Cup title, but he played the final eight holes even, while behind him Thomas and Schauffele each played the same stretch in two-under.
Photo

Spieth, who tied for seventh after posting a 67 to finish at seven under, ranked 23rd out of 30 for strokes-gained putting in the final round.
This was the most uncomfortable Ive been with a putter in my hands maybe in my career, he said.
After Schauffeles closing birdie, two players remained on the course.
But those two, Paul Casey, the 54-hole leader, and Kevin Kisner, the former University of Georgia standout, were unable to keep up with their younger counterparts.
Kisner, 33, carded a 70 and finished tied for third, at 10-under, with a fellow former Bulldog, Russell Henley.
Casey, 40, closed with a 73 to finish fifth, at nine-under.
Casey was looking for his first PGA Tour victory in eight years.
When he captured that title, at the Houston Open in 2009, 14 of the other 29 players in the field on Sunday, including four of the top five in the final FedEx Cup standings, had not yet turned pro.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
One of those players is Thomas, who is six months older than Schauffele and has four more career Tour titles.
Schauffele, a San Diego State graduate who won the Greenbrier Classic in July, has recorded 11 top-25 finishes in 28 starts, including a tie for fifth at the United States Open.
Schauffele, the first rookie to win the Tour Championship, described his whirlwind summer as unreal.
He also could have said life-changing, which is how Thomas repeatedly described his own five-victory season, which included his first major title.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If the finish lacked drama, Thomas was not to blame.
He played the leading-man role like a stage veteran.
With the FedEx Cup title  and the $10 million bonus that comes with it  hanging in the balance, he coolly sank an 11-foot birdie putt at the par-4 16th and followed it with a beautiful approach and a six-foot birdie putt on the par-4 17th.
Johnny Miller, a two-time major winner who was in the broadcast booth Sunday for NBC, said Saturday that he loved Thomass swing, which is as unique as a fingerprint.
Hes upright on his takeaway, and then that explosiveness he has on the bottom is like Tiger, Miller said, referring to Tiger Woods, the 79-time Tour winner who won two Tour Championship titles.
With his steely resolve down the stretch, Thomas was reminiscent of Woods at the same age.
The greatness of golf is how well you handle pressure, Miller said, adding, Very, very few guys are really good closers.
Spieth is one.
This season, Thomas proved that he is another.
And on Sunday Schauffele demonstrated that he may be the next.
After all, the Laver Cup is technically an exhibition, even if it hardly felt like one.
It offers no rankings points and has no official tour sanction, although it did offer major financial incentives to attract the stars.
The taut matches played here will not  at least not yet  be part of the official record maintained by the ATP Tour.
Nor will Federer and Nadals first and perhaps only appearance as a doubles team, which was a feel-great moment on Saturday night for just about everyone except Jack Sock and Sam Querrey, the duo they so narrowly defeated.
But none of that means the sport should ignore what transpired in Prague in an O2 Arena that was sold out for all five sessions, drawing 83,273 fans over the events three days.
Next stop: the United Center in Chicago in September 2018.
Youve got to be an idiot if you dont think this is something that could be great for tennis, said John McEnroe, the former world No.
1 who was a very engaged and sometimes profane captain for Team World.
I cant imagine theres a player that played  or didnt play, for that matter, and watched it  who wouldnt think this is something we should be supporting.
Photo

That sounded like heat-of-the-moment optimism in a sport that remains deeply and perhaps permanently fragmented, with too many management companies and governing bodies guarding their piece of the action and gumming up the work of change.
Tennis Australia and the United States Tennis Association, the governing bodies for the sports in two nations that host Grand Slam events, were on board here as investors and partners.
But the ATP Tour and the International Tennis Federation, which runs Davis Cup, were not.
This is just a journey for us, the building of a new brand and building something for the sport, said Craig Tiley, the chief executive of Tennis Australia.
We know its had its critics because there are other events this week, and we understand that.
But Ive always had the view tennis needs to do things that attract more audience, and are cool and a bit different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Laver Cup certainly had more global reach this week than low-level ATP Events.
Still, we will only know whether this competition really has legs when it tries to to thrive without Federer and Nadal near the peaks of their power; it remains to be seen whether the will and paychecks remain big enough through the years to draw the best players of future generations.
But the quality of the spectacle and the depth of the emotions were real in Prague.
The only way it was ever going to be successful is if the players cared, and they did, Federer said.
I think you see it.
I think you see the happiness.
The dejection, too.
Kyrgios dropped to one knee shortly after his final forehand slammed into the net against Federer, and he was soon in tears, surrounded by supportive Team World compadres.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
When Im playing for myself, sometimes I dont put the greatest effort in, Kyrgios said.
It just hurt, because I knew I didnt want to let these guys down.
Team World, whose only unifying quality is that its players must not be from Europe, could end up with an identity problem down the road.
But it won the camaraderie competition this time, and did so partly with teen spirit.
Its youngest members were the Canadian Denis Shapovalov, 18, and the American Frances Tiafoe, 19, who, like 20-year-old Alexander Zverev on the European team, got an insider look at tennis greatness in Prague.
That could help them all going forward.
But while the European squad quickly disbanded to catch flights after celebrating with the Laver Cup (and drinking from it), World stuck together, dancing and singing along to a portable speaker in the hallway outside the team room.
Photo

It helped that there were four Americans in the six-team squad, and that Sock and Kyrgios are good friends, and that McEnroe found a way to relate to the prodigiously unpredictable Kyrgios, who has struggled with motivation and focus.
Well, I always sensed from afar that the guy is a good team guy, McEnroe said.
I think we all see what hes capable of.
Hes an unbelievable talent, but lets hope at the end of the day, he reaches his potential.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Federer has certainly done justice to his, and his strong feelings after Europes victory here were also reflective of how a sense of ownership and commitment can amplify emotion.
This event was in large part his baby.
It was driven by his agent Tony Godsick and by the events partners, but above all it was driven by Federers stature.
Any tennis event with his support at this stage is already off to a flying start, and any event that has both Federer and Nadal in the lineup this year is a super-magnet.
As doubles teammates, they looked like naturals despite nearly colliding as Nadal retreated for an overhead during their match on Saturday.
Their mutual delight in sharing the same side of the court was evident, and as they moved and communicated together  both 6-foot-1 in matching attire  they seemed more similar than different for a change.
Nadal was all in, too.
But unlike Federer, he was unable to finish off Team World on Sunday.
He seemed a little flat in his singles match, and John Isner was inspired  playing one of the finest and most relentlessly aggressive matches to beat Nadal for the first time, 7-5, 7-6(1), and cut Europes lead to 12-9.
If Kyrgios had beaten Federer, it would have tied the score at 12-12 and forced a one-set doubles playoff.
Federer, who likes things neat and tidy, kept it simple, closing out a 4-6, 7-6 (6) [11-9] victory after fighting off a match point at 8-9 in the decisive match tiebreaker.
Nick was one point away from him and Jack going out there and playing Rafa and Roger, which would have been absolutely epic, McEnroe said of the doubles set that almost happened.
I was just tasting it.
But in the end, the first Laver Cup gave its combatants and its fractious sport plenty to savor.
I didnt sign up to lose, he said afterward.
It was embarrassing.
Anthony was not a key part of that team, which starred Allen Iverson, Tim Duncan and Stephon Marbury.
He averaged just 2 points a game.
Anthony noted that it was the first time in his life that he hadnt been a starter.
Anthonys experience was far better the next three Games.
The United States was 24-0 over that span and won the gold medal each time.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Before 2008, Anthony expressed his desire for victory in a first-person article in The New York Times.
"I have a very bitter taste in my mouth from the 2004 Olympics, as if I just ate a sour grapefruit or something, he wrote.
This summer in Beijing, were going to drink a lot of Kool-Aid, because revenge is going to be sweet.
Anthony got that revenge, averaging 12 points a game.
At the time, he would not commit to another Games, much less two.
After this Olympics, Ill think about it, he said.
But he did come back.
In 2012, he averaged 16 points a game, second only to Kevin Durant on the American team.
And he defied expectations by returning the Olympics last year.
Ive been a part of USA Basketball since I was a junior in high school, Anthony told USA Today.
I actually like it.
I didnt want to miss out on that opportunity.
Who wouldnt want to play with the best players in the world?
Its easy for everybody.
Even at 32, he was a vital part of the team, second to Durant in scoring and minutes played, third in rebounding and fourth in assists.
By the end of the Games, he had also become the United States top Olympic scorer of all time, with 336 points.
(The Hall of Famer Oscar Schmidt, who played in five Olympics for Brazil, leads all nations with 1,093.)
After Rio, Anthony announced his retirement from the United States team.
Ive seen the worst and Ive seen the best, and I stuck with it  we stuck with it, he said on NBC.
And Im here today, three gold medals later.
The N.B.A.
ring still awaits, but Anthonys legacy as a star of the international game is secure.
His staunchest defenders say that its not Anthonys fault that the Knicks were, for almost all of his time in New York, subverted by the ownership dysfunction overseen by James L. Dolan.
That the Knicks could never empower him with the co-star or stars he needed to legitimately compete in the Eastern Conference against, above all, LeBron James.
Well, lets give discredit where due as well.
Back when Anthony was using the Nets lust for him to leverage the Knicks  specifically Dolan  into surrendering a mountain of assets to land him, Anthony completely missed the memo that said procuring the elusive, best-case location for your talents required patience, sacrifice and the understanding that players of his caliber will always get theirs.
James and Chris Bosh had largely set that new standard the previous summer, joining Dwyane Wade in Miami and microwaving a title contender and eventual two-time champion.
Rather than use unrestricted free agency to join the Knicks and allow them to retain those precious assets that might later have been used to bring him a James Harden, or a Chris Paul, as a teammate, Anthony worried about the fallout of a coming player lockout.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He forced the trade to the Knicks and got his long-term deal, in what Howard Beck of Bleacher Report called the Original Sin.
So yes, Anthony got paid, but the manipulation of the process cost him dearly when Amare Stoudemire, who had preceded Anthony in New York, broke down physically.
With the exception of the later, and brief, Jeremy Lin phenomenon, which Anthony rebelled against, he was left as the Knicks lone star and miscast leader.
It is difficult to pinpoint the qualities, those special talents of body and mind, that allow the most prolific franchise players to straddle the very fine line between being the obvious alpha dog and being one of five in dedicated team concert.
Theres no question that he wants to win, and his I.Q.
for the game is actually very good, George Karl told me in a conversation about Anthony during the 2013-14 season, when the Knicks faltered and missed the playoffs, leading to the hiring of Phil Jackson as the team president.
He always wants to think like a coach, but he always doesnt want to sign the contract with the coach.
Asked what he meant by that, Karl, who coached Anthony in Denver, said: I dont think Melo understands that coming to work with the best attitude every single day is a precious commodity when youre the best player.
Thats not the same thing as playing hard.
Thats bringing the total package, 100 percent focused on all the little things.
Those are rare breeds.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
To his credit, Anthony was typically a willing passer out of double teams, especially during a 54-win season for the Knicks in 2012-13 that elevated him into most valuable player contention.
But against single coverage, he held the ball, stunted the offense and too often jab-stepped the shot clock to oblivion.
Though he quickly became a polarizing figure with the Knicks fan base and the news media, I never considered him a player who was selfish by nature, but more a victim of his stylistic limitations.
In my interview with Karl, he agreed with my assertion that Anthony was the prototypical A.A.U.
showcase player, his body alive and his feet moving in earnest when he had the ball.
Battling his way under the rim to rebound teammates missed shots, fighting through screens on defense, rotating to the ball?
Not so much.
You can argue that he didnt deserve the shabby treatment he received from Jackson last season (he didnt) or that he set himself up for misery in 2014 when he opted to take more money from the Knicks, along with a no-trade clause, than he could have made escaping from New York as a free agent.
For all the talk of how professional he was during Jacksons psychological warfare to pressure him into waiving the no-trade clause (and erase Jacksons negotiating error), Anthony has, season after season, seemed to revel in attention related to his possible departures and potential destinations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He was a willing and self-made distraction, if not an actual prima donna.
Though he will face enhanced competition in the Western Conference, including the mighty Golden State Warriors, Anthony appears to have landed in an enviable spot with the Thunder, who are powered by Westbrook and enhanced by George, a pair of two-way talents who are backed up on the interior by the rugged center Steven Adams.
His ego having submitted to age, injury and insult, Anthony, 33, can simply focus on scoring the ball, what he was born and nurtured to do.
The Knicks, again dealing without leverage, as was the case in 2011, will add the Turkish center Enes Kanter, an offensively adept big man with poor defensive habits who is best known for a frightening falling out with his countrys government; the jump-shooting Doug McDermott; and a second-round draft pick.
For every argument to trade Anthony, there was a logical one to keep him.
But after struggling to quit New York for so long, he was ready to move on, and the Knicks new management tandem of the team president Steve Mills and General Manager Scott Perry was dying to declare the dawning of a new day.
Thus a marriage born of a money grab and a meddlesome owner died of battle fatigue.
R.I.P., Carmelo Anthony era.
The swift punishment by Olympic officials served as a warning to others, the article said.
The action obviously tempered the behavior of Negro American athletes who were involved in victory ceremonies today.
In accepting their medals for their one, two, three sweep of the 400-meter run, Lee Evans, Larry James and Ron Freeman wore black berets, but in no way conducted themselves in a manner to incur official wrath.
Photo

1972: Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett are barred from the Olympics

Four years after the 1968 controversy, a new one arose.
The track athletes Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett, who were also both black, took the podium in Munich, at a time when officials feared a repeat of the Mexico City gesture.
The Timess 2010 obituary for Mr. Collett said that as the anthem was played, the pair did not face the flag.
They stood casually, hands on hips, their jackets unzipped, The Times reported.
They chatted and fidgeted.
The obituary added: When the anthem ended and they climbed off the stand, the crowd booed.
Matthews twirled his medal and Collett gave a black power salute.
The two men were barred from Olympic competition by the International Olympic Committee, an action that The Times described in an editorial as an authoritarian decree.
The editorial continued, Unquestionably, the slouching, defiant posture of the two black athletes did no credit to either, but the persistence they had shown in training up to perfection pitch demonstrated that they had no lack of the Olympic ethic.
1973: Fans on Long Island boo college athletes

Fans at a college track meet at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island went from agitated to furious in January 1973 when at least one athlete lay on the ground during the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the music played, at least one runner from Eastern Michigan University continued to warm up on the floor, The Times reported.
Another athlete, wearing an Adelphi uniform, was also observed reclining on the ground.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Several fans began shouting, the article said, and after the anthem, most of the 8,551 spectators joined in the booing.
The article continued: Some chanted Throw them out!
Others shouted racial epithets at the athletes, who were black.
Photo

Later, the Eastern Michigan runner would say: I was just stretching out, preparing for my race.
I didnt mean any protest, and Im sorry I caused such a commotion.
But the booing continued, and some officials threatened to walk off the floor if Eastern Michigan was allowed to compete.
The team was disqualified.
The Times quoted Bob Parks, the Eastern Michigan coach, who is white and wears his hair very closely cropped, as saying: Im as conservative as anyone around.
I stand and sing for the anthem.
I think the kids should stand, too, and Im going to give them hell.
But why disqualify the whole team?
Parks said he was surprised by the reaction of the crowd.
At our place, when they play The Star-Spangled Banner at basketball games, a lot of the black students dont stand, he said.
I guess things are different here.
1973: Madison Square Garden drops the anthem, then reverses its decision

Amid growing controversy over whether it should be played at sports events, a front-page article in The Times on Jan. 16, 1973, reported, the national anthem has been dropped from the Olympic Invitational track and field meet at Madison Square Garden.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times quoted the meets director as saying that playing the anthem was not obligatory because its purpose and relevance to sports events has never been established.
A day later, the front page told a different story: Garden to Hear Anthem at Track Meet, After All.
The reversal came after the United States Olympic Committee was deluged with irate calls from all over the country, The Times reported.
Photo

1996: The N.B.A.
suspends Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf

In March 1996, the National Basketball Association suspended Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets for his refusal to stand during the national anthem.
Mr. Abdul-Rauf, who converted to Islam in 1991, said he did not believe in standing for any nationalistic ideology.
The real problem, according to an editorial in The Times, was not the wisdom or accuracy of Mr. Abdul-Raufs view that the flag is a symbol of oppression, or that Islamic teachings require that he not stand for the anthem.
It was the N.B.A.s blindness to the fact that trying to force participation in a patriotic exercise undermines democratic values.
Dr. Mary Anne Jackson, the director of infectious disease and professor of pediatrics at Childrens Mercy Hospital in Kansas City, and an author of the report, said that those sports physicals need to be done well, and done by the adolescents regular doctor.
The visit should be an opportunity to discuss the importance of good personal hygiene, including reminders about not sharing water bottles or sports equipment, about cleaning your footwear and changing your socks, and making sure your feet are clean and dry before you put on those socks.
For the patient and family, Dr. Davies said, the sports physical is a great opportunity to ask, what are some infectious risks and what can I do to manage that.
And for the practitioner, its an opportunity to do some anticipatory guidance, he said, telling the athlete, for example, if you see any lesion on your skin, notify your trainer.
On sports teams, infections can be transmitted in several ways.
The most common involve close contact, Dr. Davies said.
Skin infections can be transmitted directly, especially in wrestling, rugby and football.
They can also be transmitted via mats or floors, shared towels, or communal use of such equipment as callus cutters or soccer shin guards.
So its important to follow infection control practices.
That includes thorough hand-washing, that basic building block of hospital infection control, not sharing water bottles or equipment or towels, and properly and regularly cleaning mats and floors and surfaces.
Any team sport can bring kids into close enough contact for the spread of infectious diseases that travel by respiratory and airborne routes, so athletes must be up-to-date on all the recommended immunizations.
Athletes who travel may have contact with other athletes from other areas, and increasingly across the country, we know there are underimmunized pockets where you may more readily have transmission of highly infectious agents like measles, Dr. Jackson said.
Some kids will play against athletes from other countries, who may not all be immunized to the same standards recommended here.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The most infectious of these vaccine-preventable diseases include the ones that children should all be immunized against from early childhood, such as measles, chickenpox and whooping cough.
Everyone should also get the annual flu shot and the meningitis vaccine, which is recommended at 11 to 12 years of age, with a booster at 16.
All of these diseases can spread rapidly in a close team environment.
And then there are the sports that bring athletes into closer physical contact with one another, especially wrestling and rugby, but also football, basketball and others.
Wrestling and rugby are sufficiently well-known for skin-to-skin transfer that there are herpes virus skin infections actually named for them, Herpes gladiatorum and Herpes rugbiorum (also known as scrum pox).
Herpes can shut down a whole team, Dr. Rice said; wrestlers need regular skin checks before tournaments, looking for herpes, impetigo and ringworm, and treating problems so the athletes can compete.
Prophylactic medications can help prevent herpes recurrences.
Among bacterial skin infections, community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, has caused many infections among high school and college athletes.
MRSA has been a major issue in professional sports as well, particularly football, with several N.F.L.
teams having had to deal with outbreaks.
These skin infections can be extremely serious, as can streptococcal skin infections, so identifying and treating the lesions is really important for the individual athletes health, as well as for containing possible spread.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Athletes are also vulnerable to fungal skin infections, like Tinea corporis, or ringworm, not to mention athletes foot (Tinea pedis) and jock itch (Tinea cruris), two fungal infections whose popular names also reflect their tendency to hang around locker rooms.
The fungal pathogens can be transmitted directly, skin to skin, but also by towels and contaminated surfaces.
Infection control for athletes goes beyond attention to personal hygiene; the school and the athletic staff have to be scrupulous about cleaning equipment and the locker room and the weight room.
In wrestling and gymnastics, its about cleaning the mats; in football, about the tackling dummies; and in every sport, its about clean surfaces in the locker room, from floors to showers.
When outbreaks do occur, the close contact of team members means that they have to be addressed as quickly as possible.
Dr. Rice recalled an outbreak of scabies on a high school wrestling team.
A parent meeting was called immediately, he said, for that very evening, and we called all the pharmacies and made sure they had adequate medication on hand.
They didnt want any delay while each child saw his own doctor, he said, so I actually wrote prescriptions, I didnt want them to have to wait.
Finally, every team and every venue needs to understand universal precautions, that is, that blood and body fluids need to be treated as potentially infectious.
We start teaching from kindergarten, if its wet and not yours, dont touch it, Dr. Jackson said.
There are a lot of great, great things about athletic participation, Dr. Rice said, like exercise, socialization, teamwork and the challenges of competition.
Infection control is meant to keep athletes safe so they can enjoy these benefits.
Photo

MINNEAPOLIS  Chelsea Grays pull-up jumper with 2 seconds to play helped the Los Angeles Sparks avoid what would have been a stunning collapse and take Game 1 of the W.N.B.A.
finals, 85-84, over the Minnesota Lynx on Sunday.
Gray scored a career-high 27 points and Candace Parker added 15 points and 12 rebounds for the Sparks, who joined N.F.L.
players by sitting out the national anthem.
The Sparks led by 28-2 in the first quarter and by 78-66 with five minutes to play, but the Lynx took an 82-81 lead with 50 seconds to go and led by 84-83 with 6.5 seconds left.
Gray then broke free for a 14-foot jump shot.
I think all athletes dream of that moment, Gray said.
The Sparks are trying to become the leagues first repeat champions.
Los Angeles beat Minnesota in a five-game thriller last season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maya Moore scored 27 points and Sylvia Fowles had 22 points and 13 rebounds for the Lynx.
Before the game, with the Lynx locking arms in solidarity, the Sparks quickly left the Williams Arena court just before The Star-Spangled Banner began to play, joining hundreds of N.F.L.
players in opposition to President Trumps call for N.F.L.
owners to fire players who do not stand for the national anthem.
As soon as the song was over, they returned to a chorus of boos.
Relief?
Great feeling?
Whatever you want to say, McCown said.
When you win, its a great feeling.
Internally, theres a method that we go about and then theres obviously an external narrative that people have for this team.
Weve not bought that.
We expected to win games.
We expect to win a lot of games.
The Jets just missed their first shutout victory since blanking Cincinnati, 37-0, in January 2010 when Cutler threw a 3-yard touchdown pass to DeVante Parker on the games final play.
Cody Parkey missed the extra point, capping a miserable day for Miami at MetLife Stadium.
Dolphins Coach Adam Gase said the Jets had simply put a beating on his team.
We didnt show up, didnt play physical, Gase said.
Cutler, making his second start for Miami, struggled to connect with receivers throughout.
Miami failed to convert its first eight third-down opportunities and finished 1 for 12.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Cutler finished 26 of 44 for 220 yards with an interception and the touchdown.
Miami was outgained in total yards by 336 to 225, but it wasnt even that close.
After three quarters, the Dolphins had managed just 81 total yards and five first downs.
I think that game was a wake-up call for us, Cutler said.
We cant just roll it out there and expect it to happen.
Seeking their first lead of the season, the Jets put together a solid drive on their second possession.
After the drive stalled, Catanzaro missed a 45-yard field goal attempt to the left, leaving the game scoreless.
The Jets finally went ahead on Catanzaros 40-yard kick with 7:17 remaining in the first half.
The Jets extended their lead to 10-0 on McCowns perfectly placed pass to Anderson, who caught the ball in stride and sped into the end zone for a 69-yard score.
The play came one play after a 41-yard run by Powell was wiped away by a holding penalty on center Wesley Johnson.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Guys were all mad, McCown said of the penalty.
And I was like, Guys, lets go get em the next play.
Powell leapt into the end zone from a yard out to make it 17-0 on the Jets first possession of the second half.
The drive was kept alive when defensive lineman Lawrence Thomas, who lined up as a fullback throughout the game, caught a 15-yard pass on third-and-1.
On the Dolphins next drive, the Jets continued to shut down Cutler and Matt Haack tried a fake punt on fourth down.
His pass was picked off by defensive back Terrence Brooks, the first of two interceptions for Brooks on Sunday.
The Jets finished their scoring late in the third quarter on a 22-yard field goal by Catanzaro.
It was actually Catanzaros second kick of the drive, but Miamis William Hayes was flagged for illegal formation on a 46-yard field goal attempt, prolonging the possession for the Jets.
Its surreal, but its the life of a kicker, Elliott said.
You have ups and downs, and you move on to next week.
Eagles Coach Doug Pederson conferred with Dave Fipp, the special-teams coach, before sending Elliott on the field.
I had so much confidence in him, Pederson said.
The Giants Eli Manning threw three touchdown passes in the fourth quarter, including a 77-yard score to Sterling Shepard, but Philadelphia (2-1) rallied twice.
We have to play better football, said Manning, who had two interceptions along with his three touchdowns.
Coach Ben McAdoo said the Giants were not playing smart football.
We are all irritable right now, and rightfully so, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After going 11-5 last season and reaching the playoffs, the Giants are 0-3 with four tough games coming up, starting at Tampa Bay next Sunday.
Only three teams under the current playoff format have reached the postseason after losing their first three games.
I dont care about history; I care where we are at, the veteran receiver Brandon Marshall said.
Mentally, this hurts.
It doesnt feel good, but we have the guys in this room to get it done.
The Giants had failed to score 20 points in eight straight games, but Manning led them to 21 in 5 minutes 21 seconds.
He tossed touchdown passes of 10 yards and 4 yards to Odell Beckham Jr. to tie the game at 14-14.
Manning then connected over the middle to Shepard, who broke a couple of tackles and sprinted all the way for a 21-14 lead.
But Philadelphia answered quickly.
A 36-yard penalty for pass interference on Eli Apple put the ball at the Giants 15, and the rookie Corey Clement ran in on the next play for his first career touchdown to make it 21-21.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
After Aldrick Rosas kicked a 41-yard field goal to put the Giants ahead, Elliott hit a 46-yarder to tie the score, 24-24, with 51 seconds left.
The Giants had a chance for a winning drive in the final minute.
But an illegal shift on Ereck Flowers moved them back 5 yards on second-and-3, and a holding call on Flowers made it second-and-18.
Everything adds up in this league, McAdoo said.
When there are too many penalties, it makes it tough to win that way.
On a hot, humid day, both N.F.C.
East rivals looked sloppy for the first three quarters.
Down by 14-0, the Giants finally got going when Manning threw a 10-yard pass to Beckham to cut the deficit to 14-7.
Beckham drew an unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty for his celebration.
Down on all fours, Beckham took a few steps and then lifted his right leg in the air, imitating a dog urinating.
Im going to do what I do, Beckham said of his odd celebration.
Im going to try to spark this team.
The consequences are going to be what they are.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the penalty was not costly.
The Giants quickly got the ball back when Landon Collins forced Zach Ertz to fumble and Apple recovered at the Eagles 33.
Orleans Darkwa ran 20 yards to the 6.
Beckham then made a spectacular one-handed grab for a 4-yard touchdown and a 14-14 tie.
Beckham finished with nine catches for 79 yards.
The Eagles went up by 7-0 on LeGarrette Blounts 1-yard run that capped an 18-play, 90-yard drive.
Blount had a rumbling 17-yard run early in the drive, and Wentz later kept it going with a nifty 11-yard scramble on third-and-8.
Wentz completed 21 of 31 passes for 176 yards on the day, with a touchdown and no interceptions.
Mannings second interception came on a tipped ball that landed in Patrick Robinsons hands in the third quarter.
Wentz threw a 2-yard touchdown pass to Ertz on the ensuing possession to give Philadelphia a 14-0 lead.
Despite the loss, the Giants have reason to be optimistic that their offense is finally coming out of a long funk.
Manning completed 35 of 47 passes for 366 yards, and for the first time this season, he was not sacked.
We put enough points on the board to win, McAdoo said.
We had a chance to score more and we didnt handle the ball well enough, left some points out there.
Extra Points

Giants running back Orleans Darkwa was stopped by Joe Walker and Vinny Curry on fourth down from inside the 1-yard line in the final minute of the first half.
Eli Manning had thrown an apparent 2-yard touchdown pass to Sterling Shepard, but Shepard was ruled out at the 1 after a review.
Late in the third quarter, Manning threw incomplete on fourth-and-2 from the Eagles 13.
Giants defensive end Olivier Vernon left in the fourth quarter with an ankle injury.
Still, the presidents message had reached the fans, here and elsewhere, and it got some families talking and other families not talking because of disagreements.
Many noted that in this country, players were lucky to be able to express whatever view they wanted.
But drawing attention to police brutality and racial inequality by going down on one knee during the national anthem, they said, was inappropriate because it was disrespectful to the nations veterans who fought for that very freedom of expression.
Joe Barone, 27, an accountant from Rhode Island sitting under the shade of a tent with a 60-inch television, said both sides are wrong.
The players should respect the flag, he said, but Mr. Trump shouldnt have called the players what he did, using the phrase son of a bitch.
There are things wrong in this country, but there are better ways to show it, Mr. Barone said.
The players message is not coming across clearly.
Donna Murray, an office worker from Rhode Island who described herself as old enough to vote, said the players had not picked the most effective way to make their point.
When Im in Canada, Ill stand for their national anthem, she said.
Its not that she cares about Canada, per se, she said, but standing is the respectful thing to do.
The players, however, had muddied the waters by mixing up politics in the incongruous setting of football, she said.
Photo

If you want to protest, go somewhere else, she said.
I think if they did it in a different platform, more people would listen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She herself had mixed feelings about the whole brouhaha.
The players should show respect for the people who fought for this country, she said, but the president went too far in saying the players who kneel should be fired.
Many agreed that Mr. Trump had stepped over a line.
Mel Casa, 74, who owns a hair salon, and his son Robert, 52, who served in the Air Force and works with computers, had rolled out an American flag on their tailgate.
The father said he voted for Mr. Trump but regretted it because the president is a bully and has no filter when he speaks.
And this time, he said, as he puffed on a big Dominican cigar, Mr. Trump had really gone overboard.
He said it was ludicrous to expect that 70,000 people would walk out of Gillette Stadium if players went down on their knees.
Connor Bouvier, 13, an eighth grader from New Hampshire, said that players kneeling during the anthem was disrespectful.
Asked whether he sided with the president on this issue, Connor said yes but he was not as arrogant as he is.
His grandfather Philippe Bouvier, 72, a retired pharmacist who did not vote for Mr. Trump, was not happy about the presidents blue comments about the players.
Its not proper talk from a leader, Mr. Bouvier said.
The president of the United States shouldnt have to be bleeped out.
A group of three men, stealing some shade from someone elses tent while their plates of fried shrimp, fried scallops and fried Twinkies baked in the sun, were deeply divided.
Derek Nelson, 31, a martial arts instructor from New Hampshire who said he voted for Hillary Clinton, applauded the players for taking a stand for what they believe in, and said that kneeling was a respectful act, done quietly and not interfering with anyone elses rights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His friend Jim Hatch, 50, a business owner, said that the players behavior was indefensible, though he defended their right to act however they wanted.
You have the right to do it all day long and thats part of America, he said, and in other countries youd get shot.
But they agreed that the president was trying to shore up his conservative supporters.
Trump knows his base doesnt like it, Mr. Hatch said of the players kneeling.
Hes not stupid.
He knows what works.
Thats votes.
Thats 100 percent votes.
At other stadiums, most football fans wished the president had stayed out of this realm.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., home of the Jets, Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, said he was a Republican who voted for Mr. Trump but this is a battle he doesnt need to get into.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Julie and Vin Santomero and their sons Will and Jack of Wilton, Conn., said they had discussed the protests during the drive to the game.
These kids have no idea what the players are protesting, Ms. Santomero said as the family grilled corn on the cob.
But she said she did not like the protests.
Its a football game, she said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Maybe after they retire they can go into politics like a lot of them do.
Her husband nodded.
Maybe its not the proper forum, he said.
Not that theyre right or wrong either way.
Sports is meant to be a departure.
A group of people playing beer pong nearby had also been talking about Mr. Trumps comments on their way to the game.
All of them supported the protests.
Theyre protesting because people are dying, said Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y. People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist.
The double standard is crazy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said that African-Americans in particular were paying close attention to who was protesting and who was not.
He said those who do not kneel would be seen as sellouts thinking only of securing their paychecks.
Jeanna Pulistar, 29 of Lindenhurst, N.Y., said, I understand that the national anthem is important, but at the same time, what other time is there to stand up together for something you believe in?
Colleen Channer, who was walking through the parking lot, said of Mr. Trump, Can stupid get stupider?
She said the president should not be favoring one group of people over another.
Hes supposed to be neutral and hes not.
In Charlotte, at Bank of America Stadium, Keith Watson, who was tailgating with his family, thought Mr. Trumps comments were just plain dumb.
Hes more about division than coming together, he said.
Mr. Watson, who was in the military last year when Colin Kaepernick, then a San Francisco 49ers quarterback, first began kneeling as a protest, said he did not have a problem with it.
As far as Im concerned, thats why Im in the military, to give him the right to express himself any way he wants to, short of yelling fire!
in a crowded theater, he said.
Kneeling as a protest is unobtrusive, nonviolent, he said.
Its a silent protest.
Silent but visual.
Photo

Jay Kemp, a former Marine who was with his family at a fan fest near the Charlotte stadium, said he personally would not take a knee during the national anthem but said he fought for the right of anyone else to do so.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I find it hard to swallow that the president would attack professional athletes for their freedom of speech, and a freedom that I spent 21 years protecting, Mr. Kemp said.
They could be exercising their freedom of speech to promote hate or promote something else.
But theyre doing it in a nonviolent fashion and theyre exercising their right.
Besides, he said, kneeling is not about disrespecting the country.
Its a protest against police brutality and racism, he said.
And it has inspired him to teach his son, who is 7, to stand up for what he believes is right.
Kevin Mac learned in a phone call outside the stadium in Charlotte that the entire Pittsburgh Steelers team had decided to wait until the national anthem was over before taking the field in Chicago.
Originally from Pittsburgh, Mr. Mac angrily told his wife, Kelly, that he would no longer support the Steelers  and she said she would give up her season tickets to Panthers games if any players knelt.
Im just blown away, she said.
If you cant respect our country with the national anthem, then you need to go.
She said it was a terrible example to set for children.
In Detroit, near Ford Field, where the Hatch family was tailgating, Morgan Hatch, 40, said his 12-year-old twins, Alex and Jackson, were following the controversy closer than he was.
I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do, Alex said.
Jackson agreed, saying the players were simply exercising their rights.
It might look weird or something during the national anthem, but that should be O.K., he said.
Tailgating nearby was Carlos Neal, 48, who was tending to multiple grills at two tents and a pop-up camper.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said he always kneels in protest during the national anthem, has been doing it for a while and would do it today as he watched the Lions game on television in a parking lot.
I am with the players all the way, he said.
I respect every single one of them if they protest, and even if they dont, I still respect them for their rights.
As for the president, he added: Trumps has got to lay off that Instagram and Twitter crack, put his phone down and stop all this nonsense.
Somebody needs to take that phone away from him.
We got real problems going on in this world, and this is what he wants to do?
No sir.
Photo

Since shocking the tennis world with her win over Serena Williams in the 2004 Wimbledon finals, Maria Sharapova has spent time as the No.
1 player in the world, a glamorous pitchwoman whose endorsement deals run in the tens of millions of dollars and a figure of controversy.
Last year, the Russian-American star tested positive for meldonium, a drug that had been recently banned by the International Tennis Federation.
She returned to the court earlier this year after serving a 15-month suspension.
Sharapova has now also written a memoir, Unstoppable, looking back at her life and career.
It arrives a few months after she turned 30  not exactly old age in tennis but getting there.
In the book, Sharapova writes about Serena Williams, who turns 36 this month and continues to dominate the sport: Serena and I should be friends: we love the same thing, we have the same passion.
But we are not friends  not at all.
Below, in an email interview, Sharapova talks about her unlikely beginnings, how her book transformed into a rallying cry for overachievers, the way art and fashion inspire her and more.
When did you first get the idea to write this book?
From the moment I won Wimbledon, at age 17, my career has been documented.
But it was as if someone just put me inside a television screen and handed me the Wimbledon plate.
I seemed to have come out of nowhere.
When the questions started pouring in about how I got there, when I began telling the story of what brought me to that moment of victory, no one believed it.
Your mother was pregnant with you when the Chernobyl reactor blew up, only 30 kilometers away?
You were spotted by Martina Navratilova at age 6?
Your father convinced a U.S. immigration officer to give him a visa to bring his 6-year-old daughter to the United States to become a tennis player?
I would tell journalists these stories, but no one really believed them, because it was such a crazy tale.
So I decided to write about it.
Whats the most surprising thing you learned while writing it?
I think, first of all, I was really struck and moved by the tough decisions and the setbacks my father, Yuri, had to face in our early years here.
I interviewed him extensively for this book, because I was so little when we came here.
I hadnt really thought about how tough it had been for him  to leave his home, my mother (who couldnt get a visa for years), to land in the middle of the night in Florida with no English at all.
We came here with only $700, and he lost that almost immediately.
We moved through a series of Florida tennis factories before we were secure.
But my father is a believer in getting through.
He took endless odd jobs; he did everything he could to make my career happen.
I interviewed a lot of my coaches, too, for the book.
That was so interesting to me.
On the court, it is just you facing your opponent.
But the truth is, you are always part of a team.
I also was surprised by how comfortable I became, writing this book, with honesty and vulnerability.
Ive faced my career and my job with laser tunnel vision, my guard up.
But in these pages is the young girl who had to overcome obstacles over and over again.
Heres what you need to know to start your day.
Plus, generous pensions at the University of California.
How President Trump has forced professional athletes to become more political.
Get a weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.
Specialists are exploring nondrug, noninvasive treatments, some of which have proved highly effective.
Welcome to the latest edition of the Smarter Living newsletter.
Our correspondent reports from a sprawling makeshift city that houses hundreds of thousands of Rohingya people, driven from their homes by Myanmar's military.
The bills authors adjusted it to send money toward Alaska and Maine, states with senators who had indicated they werent ready to support the latest attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Hurricane Marias barrage took out entire plantations and destroyed crops and livestock across the island.
The storm knocked out about 80 percent of its crops.
Officials and business leaders across North America are going to extreme lengths to court Amazon over its second headquarters.
The physical training required for the theatrical version of A Clockwork Orange rivals that of professional athletes.
Even after deadly crashes like the one in Queens last week, discount bus companies are often able to stay in business and evade serious penalties.
Morning Briefing: Australia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Australia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Asia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Asia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Europe Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Europe.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians, delivered weekday mornings.
Now, Villanueva has one more bit of fame: He was the only member of the Steelers to walk out of the tunnel before Sundays game against the Chicago Bears and hold his hand over his heart while the national anthem played.
His teammates remained several feet behind him, just inside the tunnel  notably not on the field, in protest of President Donald J. Trump and his comments about the N.F.L.
Villanueva, a 6-foot-8, 320-pound lineman who was born in Mississippi but is the son of a Spanish naval officer, did not speak with the news media after Sundays game.
But in past interviews he has expressed solidarity with Colin Kaepernick, whose protests last season about the way African-Americans are treated  first by sitting, and later by kneeling, during the national anthem  have spread to other teams, drawing the ire of President Trump over the weekend.
I will be the first one to hold hands with Colin Kaepernick and do something about the way minorities are being treated in the United States, the injustice that is happening with police brutality, the justice system, inequalities in pay, Villanueva said, according to ESPN.
Rather, he has questioned whether Kaepernicks approach has inadvertently suggested a lack of appreciation for service members whose sacrifices have made such protests possible.
You cant do it by looking away from the people that are trying to protect our freedom and our country, he said.
He added: I dont know if the most effective way is to sit down during the national anthem with a country thats providing you freedom, providing you $16 million a year  when there are black minorities that are dying in Iraq and Afghanistan for less than $20,000 a year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the Steelers loss on Sunday, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said the team had agreed at a players-only meeting on Saturday night to remain in the locker room or tunnel during the anthem.
His teammates might not have been aware that Villanueva would step out of the tunnel into a more visible position near the field.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We thought we were all in attention with the same agreement, obviously,  the Steelers James Harrison said, according to PennLive.
But, I guess we werent.
Asked whether it was a problem that Villanueva appeared for the anthem when the rest of the team did not, Roethlisberger said only, No.
And he emphasized that the teams decision was in no way, shape or form meant to disrespect service members, adding that the players have nothing but the utmost respect for them, obviously; they give us the freedom to play this game.
Like a lot of combat veterans, Villanueva appears to have allowed his time overseas to frame his perspective on the rest of his life, including playing professional football.
When asked about being one of the leagues lowest-paid starting left tackles  a position guarding his quarterbacks blind side that often commands a premium in the N.F.L.
he pointed out that others have endured far more serious challenges.
I was deployed three times, he told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette last year.
Ive got so many things, so many other situations in my life where it couldve been the opposite.
It could have been like, Man, would you rather be walking on both your legs?
Or, Would you rather still have all your limbs and what not?
These scenarios of whether youre getting $24 million or someone else is getting $46 , to me, thats irrelevant.
Villanueva also has expressed ambivalence about receiving the Bronze Star because a soldier he rescued, Private First Class Jesse Dietrich, later died.
In my case, my platoon was hammered time after time, Villanueva told ESPN.
A lot of people were getting wounded, and a lot of people were getting hurt.
When you have leaders that are still carrying the team and still pushing, theyll find an opportunity to say that night, 25th of August, this guy was overwhelmed, and he reacted by putting his own life at risk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if you truly think about it, thats what I was supposed to do, he added.
Because what was I going to do, leave the guy out there?
Even before Villanuevas harrowing experiences overseas, those who knew him at West Point said it would have been hard for him to miss the national anthem.
He has an intense love for his country, and he always did the utmost to make that apparent, said Harrison, who is now a student at the Armys Command and General Staff College in Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
Brady spoke Monday morning on the Kirk & Callahan show on WEEI.
He said of Trumps remarks: Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive.
Like I said, I just want to support my teammates.
I am never one to say: Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.
Those are the values that my parents instilled in me.
That is how I try and live every day.
Were all different, were all unique.
That is what makes us all special.
Everyone deals with different challenges in their life and you respect everyones opinions and views, he said.
You dont have to agree with everything.
Its hard to agree with your own wife on everything from day-to-day.
I have so much respect for my teammates and what were trying to accomplish.
Hopefully we can keep marching toward this end of the season, keep making improvements, get better and win more football games.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If you dont agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about.
After the anthem on Sunday, Brady led the Patriots to a come-from-behind 36-33 victory over the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass.
Despite his friendship with Trump, Bradys vote in the last election remains something of a mystery.
Trump claimed Brady backed him, but Bradys wife, the model Gisele Bndchen, denied that.
The former Patriot tackle Matt Light was one ex-player who took exception to the protests.
If you think that its OK to take a knee during our national anthem and disrespect openly the national anthem, you are wrong, Light told The Boston Herald.
It would have never happened during my time, he said.
Its the first time Ive ever been ashamed to be a Patriot.
And I promise you Im not the only one.
Trump raised the issue again on Monday morning on Twitter, praising Nascar drivers for respecting the anthem and denying his stand had anything to do with race.
Photo

The singer and producer Pharrell Williams is the latest entertainer to show solidarity with N.F.L.
players protesting President Trumps call to fire players who refuse to stand during the national anthem.
At a charity show on Sunday in Charlottesville, Va., where violent demonstrations took place in August, Mr. Williams said, Im in Virginia right now, Im home.
Cant nobody tell me what to do if I want to get on my knees right now.
He then dropped onto both knees.
Mr. Williamss display follows a wave of demonstrations across the country on Sunday as N.F.L.
players knelt or locked arms during the national anthem in defiance of Mr. Trump.
The Take a Knee protest has now grown beyond the sporting world, and entertainers and performers are joining in.
The symbolic action began in August 2016, when Colin Kaepernick, then the San Francisco 49ers quarterback, knelt to protest police brutality and racial injustice.
Mr. Trump stirred up the issue anew by saying said in a speech on Friday and then in a series of tweets over the weekend that players who do not stand during the anthem should be fired.
In Charlottesville, Mr. Williams paused between songs to say: For the people of my city, for the people of my state, thats what that flag is for.
When I think about the potential of this country and the potential of this state, potential of these people, potential of this amazing university, there is only one word that I feel on the inside.
The artist then began singing his Grammy Award-winning hit Happy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Other performers have joined the Take a Knee demonstration.
At the Global Citizen Festival in New York on Saturday, Stevie Wonder knelt on stage and said, Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees.
Photo

Mr. Wonder made the gesture again the following night, at the same Charlottesville show where Mr. Williams was performing.
Mr. Wonder was on stage with Dave Matthews Band when he took to two knees, and Dave Matthews joined him in the stance.
The swift punishment by Olympic officials served as a warning to others, the article said.
The action obviously tempered the behavior of Negro American athletes who were involved in victory ceremonies today.
In accepting their medals for their one, two, three sweep of the 400-meter run, Lee Evans, Larry James and Ron Freeman wore black berets, but in no way conducted themselves in a manner to incur official wrath.
Photo

1972: Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett are barred from the Olympics

Four years after the 1968 controversy, a new one arose.
The track athletes Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett, who were also both black, took the podium in Munich, at a time when officials feared a repeat of the Mexico City gesture.
The Timess 2010 obituary for Mr. Collett said that as the anthem was played, the pair did not face the flag.
They stood casually, hands on hips, their jackets unzipped, The Times reported.
They chatted and fidgeted.
The obituary added: When the anthem ended and they climbed off the stand, the crowd booed.
Matthews twirled his medal and Collett gave a black power salute.
The two men were barred from Olympic competition by the International Olympic Committee, an action that The Times described in an editorial as an authoritarian decree.
The editorial continued, Unquestionably, the slouching, defiant posture of the two black athletes did no credit to either, but the persistence they had shown in training up to perfection pitch demonstrated that they had no lack of the Olympic ethic.
1973: Fans on Long Island boo college athletes

Fans at a college track meet at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island went from agitated to furious in January 1973 when at least one athlete lay on the ground during the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the music played, at least one runner from Eastern Michigan University continued to warm up on the floor, The Times reported.
Another athlete, wearing an Adelphi uniform, was also observed reclining on the ground.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Several fans began shouting, the article said, and after the anthem, most of the 8,551 spectators joined in the booing.
The article continued: Some chanted Throw them out!
Others shouted racial epithets at the athletes, who were black.
Photo

Later, the Eastern Michigan runner would say: I was just stretching out, preparing for my race.
I didnt mean any protest, and Im sorry I caused such a commotion.
But the booing continued, and some officials threatened to walk off the floor if Eastern Michigan was allowed to compete.
The team was disqualified.
The Times quoted Bob Parks, the Eastern Michigan coach, who is white and wears his hair very closely cropped, as saying: Im as conservative as anyone around.
I stand and sing for the anthem.
I think the kids should stand, too, and Im going to give them hell.
But why disqualify the whole team?
Parks said he was surprised by the reaction of the crowd.
At our place, when they play The Star-Spangled Banner at basketball games, a lot of the black students dont stand, he said.
I guess things are different here.
1973: Madison Square Garden drops the anthem, then reverses its decision

Amid growing controversy over whether it should be played at sports events, a front-page article in The Times on Jan. 16, 1973, reported, the national anthem has been dropped from the Olympic Invitational track and field meet at Madison Square Garden.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times quoted the meets director as saying that playing the anthem was not obligatory because its purpose and relevance to sports events has never been established.
A day later, the front page told a different story: Garden to Hear Anthem at Track Meet, After All.
The reversal came after the United States Olympic Committee was deluged with irate calls from all over the country, The Times reported.
Photo

1996: The N.B.A.
suspends Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf

In March 1996, the National Basketball Association suspended Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets for his refusal to stand during the national anthem.
Mr. Abdul-Rauf, who converted to Islam in 1991, said he did not believe in standing for any nationalistic ideology.
The real problem, according to an editorial in The Times, was not the wisdom or accuracy of Mr. Abdul-Raufs view that the flag is a symbol of oppression, or that Islamic teachings require that he not stand for the anthem.
It was the N.B.A.s blindness to the fact that trying to force participation in a patriotic exercise undermines democratic values.
Advertisement

What Every N.F.L.
Team Did During the National Anthem on Sunday

Widespread calls for demonstrations at Sunday's games erupted after President Trump's comments this weekend criticizing players for kneeling during the national anthem and owners for tolerating the displays.
Starting with Jacksonvilles game against Baltimore in London, players, coaches and several owners protested across the league .
Here is a look at what each team did during the playing of the national anthem:

Image Officials stand in front of an empty bench during the national anthem before the Seahawks-Titans game.
Credit Mark Zaleski/Associated Press

Seattle Seahawks at Tennessee Titans

In the days largest protest so far, neither team was on the field for Meghan Linseys singing of the national anthem.
While the Titans not participating was something of a surprise, the Seahawks had announced in advance that they would not participate.
As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem, the team said in a statement.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Advertisement

The complete lack of players made for a bizarre scene in which team mascots and game officials were the only figures television cameras could focus on besides the flag and Linsey.
Unlike some other stadiums, where fans booed at the protests, the fans in Nashville were eerily quiet during the anthem, and after the songs conclusion the players began running onto the field.
Image Credit Top: Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images; Charles Rex Arbogast/Associated Press

Pittsburgh Steelers at Chicago Bears

Another dramatic demonstration came from the Pittsburgh Steelers, who were playing the Bears at Soldier Field in Chicago.
The entire Steelers team remained off the field during the playing of the national anthem, while some of the teams coaches, including Mike Tomlin, were on the sideline.
The one Pittsburgh player seen during the anthem was Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, who was in the tunnel with his hand over his heart.
The players took the field at the conclusion of the anthem.
Bears stood on the sideline with their arms linked together.
Image Credit Top: Al Bello/Getty Images; Seth Wenig/Associated Press

Miami Dolphins at Jets

Christopher Johnson, the acting owner of the Jets, joined his players in locking arms during the anthem.
The Jets have yet to comment on Mr. Trumps remarks in spite of the fact that Johnsons father, Woody, is a close ally of the president and the current ambassador to Britain.
Shaun King, a columnist for The Intercept who is closely associated with the Black Lives Matter movement, claimed Jets players were discouraged from protesting.
The Dolphins had several players wear #IMWITHKAP T-shirts in support of Colin Kaepernick, the player whose own protests last season started the movement that is now boiling over.
The team also had players linking arms, with several kneeling.
Image Credit Top: Matt Dunham/Associated Press; Paul Childs/Reuters

Baltimore Ravens at Jacksonville Jaguars (London)

In London, the game between the Ravens and the Jaguars began with the anthem being played as more than a dozen players from the two teams knelt for the duration of the anthem.
Coach John Harbaugh of the Ravens, Coach Doug Marrone of the Jaguars and Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jaguars, stood locking arms with players and coaches on the field as well.
After the American anthem had concluded, the kneeling players all stood for the British national anthem.
Image Credit Top: David Butler Ii/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Jim Rogash/Getty Images

Houston Texans at New England Patriots

The Patriots have often been seen as allies of Mr. Trump.
The president has claimed to be friendly with the teams owner, Robert Kraft, and its star, Tom Brady.
But Mr. Kraft condemned the presidents remarks, and the Patriots were one of the many teams to demonstrate during the anthem, with Brady locking arms with many of his teammates while around 20 players chose to kneel.
The Texans players all chose to lock arms.
Image Credit Top: Matt Rourke/Associated Press; Michael Perez/Associated Press

Giants at Philadelphia Eagles

Philadelphias owner, Jeffrey Lurie, joined the Eagles players on the sideline, locking arms as a group, while some of the team split off to surround Malcolm Jenkins, a player who since last season has stood with a raised fist during the anthem.
Torrey Smith and Marcus Johnson also raised their fists this week.
Olivier Vernon, Landon Collins and Damon Harrison of the Giants became the first players from that team to kneel during the anthem, while the rest of the team stood with arms linked.
After a touchdown in the second half, Odell Beckham Jr. dropped the ball and stood in the end zone with a raised fist, continuing the demonstrations from earlier in the day.
Image Credit Top: Kelvin Kuo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

Kansas City Chiefs at Los Angeles Chargers

Melvin Ingram knelt, a group of five players sat and the rest of the Chargers locked arms during the anthem.
On the other side of the field, the Chiefs were in an interesting position, as that teams chairman, Clark Hunt, has regularly stated that he prefers that his players stand for the anthem.
But Hunt somewhat backed away from that stance with a statement that read, in part, We believe in honoring the American flag and supporting all of those whose sacrifices protect the many freedoms with have in this country, including the right to have differences of opinion.
Some of the Chiefs players were seen kneeling or sitting during the anthem, including Marcus Peters, who sat while raising his fist.
The strongest statement came from the teams standout linebacker, Justin Houston, who chose to kneel by himself by the teams bench, facing the crowd rather than the field.
Image Credit Top: Rey Del Rio/Getty Images; Leon Halip/Getty Images

Atlanta Falcons at Detroit Lions

Atlantas owner, Arthur Blank, who had already issued a statement denouncing the presidents remarks, joined his players on the sideline during the anthem, locking arms, as did Detroits owner, Martha Ford, and her three daughters.
Rico Lavelle, who performed the anthem, took at knee at the conclusion of the song and raised his fist.
Advertisement

Image Credit Top: Thomas J. Russo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Darron Cummings/Associated Press

Cleveland Browns at Indianapolis Colts

The crowd in Indianapolis was booing loudly as players on both teams chose to either lock arms or kneel.
The Browns had around 20 players kneeling.
The owners of the team, Jimmy and Dee Haslam, said in a statement that We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the president or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Our stance in support of the liberties of peaceful, personal expression afforded to our players and all Americans will remain strong, and we will continue to encourage our players to respectfully use their earned platform to inspire positive change in our nation and throughout society, it continued.
Despite the booing, the Colts had several players kneel during the anthem as well.
Image Credit Top: Brett Carlsen/Getty Images; Adrian Kraus/Associated Press

Denver Broncos at Buffalo Bills

The Broncos, who have had players protesting since last season, had more than 30 players kneeling during the anthem (including some practice squad members) while the Bills had one of the more unusual demonstrations, with the entire team walking about 10 yards onto the field together before having several players kneel.
Image Credit Top: Bob Leverone/Associated Press; Streeter Lecka/Getty Images

New Orleans Saints at Carolina Panthers

Adrian Peterson and Mark Ingram were part of a group of around 10 members of the Saints who stayed on the bench during the anthem.
The Panthers stood for the anthem, as they have since the protests began last season.
The Panthers Julius Peppers was not on the field during the anthem  he arrived after it had ended  but the team has not issued a statement as to whether his absence was a protest of any kind.
Image Credit Photos by Brad Rempel/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Minnesota Vikings

While no players on the Vikings chose to kneel during the anthem, the entire team, and the teams owners, stood with their arms linked.
Tampa Bay had two players kneel during the anthem, DeSean Jackson and Mike Evans.
The Buccaneers recognize every individuals constitutional right to freedom of speech, which is crucial to the American way of life that we cherish, the team said in a statement.
We are equally committed to the principles of inclusivity and respect for differing points of view that should be afforded to all Americans.
Image Credit Top: Mike Roemer/Associated Press; Jeff Hanisch/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Cincinnati Bengals at Green Bay Packers

Martellus Bennett, Kevin King and Lance Kendricks of the Green Bay Packers all sat during the anthem, while most of the players on that team stood with their arms linked, while most of the Bengals players chose to link arms but none knelt.
Bennetts protest came a day after he unleashed a series of texts criticizing the presidents remarks about football players.
Image Credit Top: Brad Mills/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Alex Brandon/Associated Press

Oakland Raiders at Washington Redskins

The entire offensive line of the Oakland Raiders, the only line in the N.F.L.
made up entirely of African-American players, was joined by virtually the entire team in kneeling or sitting during the national anthem.
It was one of the strongest visual displays of the many protests on Sunday, and across the field, the Redskins stood with linked arms as some players chose to kneel.
Many fans in attendance at FedEx Field could be heard booing the players while they sat.
In this case as well, the content started with the president.
As Seth Meyers, the host of NBCs Late Night, told Vox recently, The White House has the best writers room in comedy.
Where football is any given Sunday, late-night comedy is every single weeknight.
And with its harder charge into anti-Trump political humor, it has sailed into what the former New York Times writer Bill Carter called absolutely uncharted territory.
I checked in with Mr. Carter not only because we are old colleagues but also because he is the nations foremost student of late-night entertainment.
He literally wrote the book on it  that is, The Late Shift, the classic yarn about the war between David Letterman and Jay Leno to get Johnny Carsons job on the Tonight show.
(He followed it up with The War For Late Night, about the Conan OBrien debacle at NBC.)
Theres no example of any kind of sustained attack like this on a politician, Mr. Carter told me last week.
Theres a horde of writers writing jokes about Donald Trump every single night.
(And, he said, he wasnt even counting the weekly shows like Saturday Night Live, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.)
This has brought about an abundance of incisive political satire.
But it has also come with new complications that threaten to kill the fun, through blowback on the pro-Trump right and the rigid expectations of an anti-Trump audience that wants Resistance TV every night.
Mr. Colbert bumped up against the latter when he hosted the Emmys last week and decided to do a bit with the former Trump press secretary Sean Spicer.
His writing team from The Late Show knew it might not be well-received in some quarters and debated the idea ahead of time, people familiar with the deliberations told me (they spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to be seen as violating the sanctity of the writing room).
Photo

By normal comedic standards, the idea seemed pretty basic: Put Mr. Spicer behind a mock White House lectern and have him make a fake boast about the size of the Emmy audience  evoking the false claim he made about Mr. Trumps inaugural crowd.
The sketch fast became heckler bait.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Is it supposed to be comical that the former White House spokesman is now tacitly admitting that he lied to the American people?
a CNN White House correspondent, Kaitlan Collins, wrote in a tweet.
Entertainment Weekly quoted Julia Louis-Dreyfus as saying, Theres nothing funny about Sean Spicer and what his actions have been and what his behavior has been about.
Period.
The gag was woefully off-kilter with Mr. Colberts brand of principled, political comedy.
Much of his criticism revolved around Mr. Spicers role in forwarding the presidents anti-press, alternative facts strategy.
Now, he was being attacked for having abetted Spicers image overhaul, as The Timess Frank Bruni put it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Mr. Spicer was a burning ember for every comedic set of hands  or lips  he touched.
James Corden, the Late Late Show host who follows Mr. Colbert, felt compelled to apologize after a picture circulated of him giving Mr. Spicer a peck on the cheek at an Emmy party.
Understandably, some people have been disappointed by this photo, Mr. Corden told his audience.
In truth, Im disappointed by it as well.
Yet while Mr. Colbert and Mr. Corden were fielding criticism last week, Jimmy Kimmel was riding a wave of Resistance support, because of the way he eviscerated the latest Republican health care bill on his show.
It became a big news story in its own right because it was such an unusual situation: Republicans pushing the plan, including the president, were facing their strongest opposition from a late-night talk show host on ABC.
Mr. Kimmel has a personal connection to the debate  his son has a congenital heart condition that, Mr. Kimmel has said, would potentially go untreated under the recently proposed new health care laws if the boy did not have a wealthy father.
The response from the right was intense.
But where that might have led to a course correction in the past, as it so often had, Mr. Kimmel pressed on for three nights in a row.
Were at the point now where Mr. Fallon has been widely criticized for being too apolitical  and was eviscerated for playfully mussing Mr. Trumps hair.
He adjusted his show accordingly, a shift for Tonight, which is, after all, the original late-night talk show.
Leno was the guy who was most likely to be down the middle with his commentary, Mr. Carter said, referring to Jay Leno, Mr. Fallons predecessor, who led the late-night ratings through most of his 22-year tenure.
He was more or less following the tradition of his own predecessor, Johnny Carson, who made plenty of fun of Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.
But, as Mr. Carter put it, Carson was judicious about his criticism.
Mr. Lenos direct competitor, David Letterman, was known in his later years for skewering former President George W. Bush and his vice president, Dick Cheney, but for most of his tenure, he was not particularly political.
Dave would have said, Im just an idiot, I dont really know anything, said Mr. Carter, who now works as a media analyst for CNN.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And now, Mr. Carter said, Colbert and Seth Meyers, they are like the voice of the resistance.
One explanation, he said, is that late-night comedy has always played off the news, and these days, all of the news is about Mr. Trump.
Then there is the content of that news, and the reactions it so often causes.
In calling Mr. Trumps response to the white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., shameful during an opening monologue in August, Mr. Fallon said it was my responsibility to stand up against intolerance and extremism as a human being.
For his part, Mr. Colbert is being true to the left-leaning political comedy he practiced, in character, on his old show, The Colbert Report, on Comedy Central, where he and Jon Stewart initially set the new tone were seeing today.
Yet through the first half of the election campaign, in his new place on CBS, he did not embrace his politics.
As his show struggled, critics and late-night insiders debated whether CBS was restraining him or he was restraining himself.
His increasing turn toward Trump jokes as the campaign wore on gave Mr. Colbert and CBS what they needed: ratings, which are, after all, network televisions answer to liquid courage.
Mr. Trump doesnt seem likely to rob Mr. Colbert and his cohorts of material any time soon.
But the acts of defiance received a far more mixed reception from fans, both in the stadiums and on social media, suggesting that what were promoted as acts of unity might have exacerbated a divide and dragged yet another of the countrys institutions into the turbulent cross currents of race and politics.
Photo

At Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, videos posted on social media showed some Eagles fans yelling at anti-Trump protesters holding placards.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., before the Jets played the Dolphins, many fans, a majority of them white, said they did not support the anthem protests but also did not agree with the presidents view that players should be fired because of them.
Im a Republican who voted for him, but I think this is a battle he doesnt need to get into, said Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, who said he had been a Jets season-ticket holder since 1978.
Yet he objected to the anthem protests, saying, I understand what theyre trying to get at, I just think there are better ways of expressing yourself.
Mr. Trump, in a speech on Friday and a weekend-long series of tweets, had all but baited athletes and the league to respond by saying that those who do not stand for the anthem should be fired.
He added that the league was in decline for tolerating the protests and for taking steps to reduce brain damage among players.
As the sideline demonstrations unfolded on Sunday, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter: Great solidarity for our national anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
And before boarding Air Force One in the evening, Mr. Trump told reporters that his comments had nothing to do with race or anything else  this has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag.
Still, players and team officials said they had made the gestures, including locking arms, in solidarity with players who had demonstrated during the anthem, not to support Mr. Trump.
Photo

There was a variety of protests on the sidelines Sunday.
All but one player from the Pittsburgh Steelers, one of the leagues most celebrated teams, refused to go out for the anthem.
The lone exception was Alejandro Villanueva, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Steelers, who were playing the Bears, were booed heavily by fans in Chicago when they ran onto the field after the anthem.
The Steelers, along with the Tennessee Titans and the Seattle Seahawks, who were playing each other and similarly skipped the anthem, broke a league rule requiring athletes to be present for the anthem, though a league executive said they would not be penalized.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country, Seahawks players said in a statement before the game.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Even stars who normally shy from controversy took a stand.
Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers posted a photograph of himself kneeling with three of his teammates during warm-ups before the game, and New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, a supporter of the president, liked Rodgerss photo.
Later, before the Patriots game against the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass., Brady locked arms with a teammate on the field and placed his hand over his heart during the anthem.
Rodgers stood during the anthem, but three of his teammates sat on the bench.
A dozen or so Patriots knelt during the anthem, prompting some fans at Gillette Stadium to boo.
Still, one of the more surprising reactions came from the Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, a friend and campaign donor of the president who has invited Mr. Trump to sit with him at home games, as well as from other owners who were considered bedrock supporters of the president.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday, Kraft said in a statement hours before the New England game, adding that he supported players right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
E. Stanley Kroenke, the owner of the Los Angeles Rams, and Martha Firestone Ford, the owner of the Detroit Lions, both of whom lean to the right politically, also scolded the president.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ford said negative and disrespectful comments were contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions.
She and the Atlanta Falcons owner, Arthur M. Blank, who donates to many Democratic causes, linked arms with players during the anthem before the Falcons-Lions game in Detroit.
The singer Rico LaVelle went down on one knee as he finished singing the anthem.
The demonstrations intensified what was already a divisive debate that began last season when Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice.
He left the team after last season and has not played in the league since, inspiring questions over whether teams are punishing him, while many other players have knelt or made gestures in support of him or other social causes during the anthem.
Photo

Kaepernick has not commented, and his social media accounts were largely quiet on the president and the new round of protests.
But the fallout from Mr. Trumps remarks spilled over into other sports.
In a tweet Friday, Mr. Trump disinvited the Golden State Warriors, the N.B.A.
champions, to any traditional White House visit, after members of the team, including its biggest star, Stephen Curry, were critical of him.
But on Sunday, the N.H.L.
champion Pittsburgh Penguins said they would go to the White House, and declared such visits to be free of politics.
Nascar team owners went a step further, saying they would not tolerate drivers who protested during the anthem.
To promote the idea of the N.F.L.
as a unifying force, the league was planning to replay a television ad called Inside These Lines on NBC on Sunday night when the Oakland Raiders played the Washington Redskins outside the nations capital.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While none of the Jets players knelt during the playing of the anthem, they locked arms on the sideline and were joined by some of the teams administrators.
On the other side of the field, four Miami Dolphins players  Maurice Smith, Kenny Stills, Thomas and Laremy Tunsil  knelt, while the teams owner, Stephen M. Ross, locked arms with two of his players.
Two years ago, Mr. Ross started a nonprofit organization to combat racism and discrimination.
Outside the stadium in East Rutherford, Julie and Vin Santomero, who brought their sons to the game, said they also did not want to see protests at a sporting event because they attended games to get away from politics.
Its a football game, Mrs. Santomero said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y.; Jeanna Pulistar, 29, of Lindenhurst, N.Y.; Roger Guevara, 29, of Yonkers; and Genesis Pineda, 27, of Yonkers, took the opposing view by supporting the N.F.L.
players right to protest during the anthem.
People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist, said Melendez, who is African-American.
The double standard is crazy.
Still, the presidents message had reached the fans, here and elsewhere, and it got some families talking and other families not talking because of disagreements.
Many noted that in this country, players were lucky to be able to express whatever view they wanted.
But drawing attention to police brutality and racial inequality by going down on one knee during the national anthem, they said, was inappropriate because it was disrespectful to the nations veterans who fought for that very freedom of expression.
Joe Barone, 27, an accountant from Rhode Island sitting under the shade of a tent with a 60-inch television, said both sides are wrong.
The players should respect the flag, he said, but Mr. Trump shouldnt have called the players what he did, using the phrase son of a bitch.
There are things wrong in this country, but there are better ways to show it, Mr. Barone said.
The players message is not coming across clearly.
Donna Murray, an office worker from Rhode Island who described herself as old enough to vote, said the players had not picked the most effective way to make their point.
When Im in Canada, Ill stand for their national anthem, she said.
Its not that she cares about Canada, per se, she said, but standing is the respectful thing to do.
The players, however, had muddied the waters by mixing up politics in the incongruous setting of football, she said.
Photo

If you want to protest, go somewhere else, she said.
I think if they did it in a different platform, more people would listen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She herself had mixed feelings about the whole brouhaha.
The players should show respect for the people who fought for this country, she said, but the president went too far in saying the players who kneel should be fired.
Many agreed that Mr. Trump had stepped over a line.
Mel Casa, 74, who owns a hair salon, and his son Robert, 52, who served in the Air Force and works with computers, had rolled out an American flag on their tailgate.
The father said he voted for Mr. Trump but regretted it because the president is a bully and has no filter when he speaks.
And this time, he said, as he puffed on a big Dominican cigar, Mr. Trump had really gone overboard.
He said it was ludicrous to expect that 70,000 people would walk out of Gillette Stadium if players went down on their knees.
Connor Bouvier, 13, an eighth grader from New Hampshire, said that players kneeling during the anthem was disrespectful.
Asked whether he sided with the president on this issue, Connor said yes but he was not as arrogant as he is.
His grandfather Philippe Bouvier, 72, a retired pharmacist who did not vote for Mr. Trump, was not happy about the presidents blue comments about the players.
Its not proper talk from a leader, Mr. Bouvier said.
The president of the United States shouldnt have to be bleeped out.
A group of three men, stealing some shade from someone elses tent while their plates of fried shrimp, fried scallops and fried Twinkies baked in the sun, were deeply divided.
Derek Nelson, 31, a martial arts instructor from New Hampshire who said he voted for Hillary Clinton, applauded the players for taking a stand for what they believe in, and said that kneeling was a respectful act, done quietly and not interfering with anyone elses rights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His friend Jim Hatch, 50, a business owner, said that the players behavior was indefensible, though he defended their right to act however they wanted.
You have the right to do it all day long and thats part of America, he said, and in other countries youd get shot.
But they agreed that the president was trying to shore up his conservative supporters.
Trump knows his base doesnt like it, Mr. Hatch said of the players kneeling.
Hes not stupid.
He knows what works.
Thats votes.
Thats 100 percent votes.
At other stadiums, most football fans wished the president had stayed out of this realm.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., home of the Jets, Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, said he was a Republican who voted for Mr. Trump but this is a battle he doesnt need to get into.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Julie and Vin Santomero and their sons Will and Jack of Wilton, Conn., said they had discussed the protests during the drive to the game.
These kids have no idea what the players are protesting, Ms. Santomero said as the family grilled corn on the cob.
But she said she did not like the protests.
Its a football game, she said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Maybe after they retire they can go into politics like a lot of them do.
Her husband nodded.
Maybe its not the proper forum, he said.
Not that theyre right or wrong either way.
Sports is meant to be a departure.
A group of people playing beer pong nearby had also been talking about Mr. Trumps comments on their way to the game.
All of them supported the protests.
Theyre protesting because people are dying, said Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y. People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist.
The double standard is crazy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said that African-Americans in particular were paying close attention to who was protesting and who was not.
He said those who do not kneel would be seen as sellouts thinking only of securing their paychecks.
Jeanna Pulistar, 29 of Lindenhurst, N.Y., said, I understand that the national anthem is important, but at the same time, what other time is there to stand up together for something you believe in?
Colleen Channer, who was walking through the parking lot, said of Mr. Trump, Can stupid get stupider?
She said the president should not be favoring one group of people over another.
Hes supposed to be neutral and hes not.
In Charlotte, at Bank of America Stadium, Keith Watson, who was tailgating with his family, thought Mr. Trumps comments were just plain dumb.
Hes more about division than coming together, he said.
Mr. Watson, who was in the military last year when Colin Kaepernick, then a San Francisco 49ers quarterback, first began kneeling as a protest, said he did not have a problem with it.
As far as Im concerned, thats why Im in the military, to give him the right to express himself any way he wants to, short of yelling fire!
in a crowded theater, he said.
Kneeling as a protest is unobtrusive, nonviolent, he said.
Its a silent protest.
Silent but visual.
Photo

Jay Kemp, a former Marine who was with his family at a fan fest near the Charlotte stadium, said he personally would not take a knee during the national anthem but said he fought for the right of anyone else to do so.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I find it hard to swallow that the president would attack professional athletes for their freedom of speech, and a freedom that I spent 21 years protecting, Mr. Kemp said.
They could be exercising their freedom of speech to promote hate or promote something else.
But theyre doing it in a nonviolent fashion and theyre exercising their right.
Besides, he said, kneeling is not about disrespecting the country.
Its a protest against police brutality and racism, he said.
And it has inspired him to teach his son, who is 7, to stand up for what he believes is right.
Kevin Mac learned in a phone call outside the stadium in Charlotte that the entire Pittsburgh Steelers team had decided to wait until the national anthem was over before taking the field in Chicago.
Originally from Pittsburgh, Mr. Mac angrily told his wife, Kelly, that he would no longer support the Steelers  and she said she would give up her season tickets to Panthers games if any players knelt.
Im just blown away, she said.
If you cant respect our country with the national anthem, then you need to go.
She said it was a terrible example to set for children.
In Detroit, near Ford Field, where the Hatch family was tailgating, Morgan Hatch, 40, said his 12-year-old twins, Alex and Jackson, were following the controversy closer than he was.
I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do, Alex said.
Jackson agreed, saying the players were simply exercising their rights.
It might look weird or something during the national anthem, but that should be O.K., he said.
Tailgating nearby was Carlos Neal, 48, who was tending to multiple grills at two tents and a pop-up camper.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said he always kneels in protest during the national anthem, has been doing it for a while and would do it today as he watched the Lions game on television in a parking lot.
I am with the players all the way, he said.
I respect every single one of them if they protest, and even if they dont, I still respect them for their rights.
As for the president, he added: Trumps has got to lay off that Instagram and Twitter crack, put his phone down and stop all this nonsense.
Somebody needs to take that phone away from him.
We got real problems going on in this world, and this is what he wants to do?
No sir.
Many fans at FedEx Field could be heard booing the players while they sat.
Michele Tafoya reported that Raiders Coach Jack Del Rio told her the Raiders players would have preferred to stay in the locker room, but because of the demands of prime-time television they would have likely incurred a delay of game penalty.
The protests were part of a massive show of solidarity in the face of harsh criticism by President Trump, who had called for protesting players to be fired.
The days slate of games started early, with Baltimore and Jacksonville facing off in London, meaning the protests occurred over a span of 11 hours.
-

Want the big sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
Trump Sounds Off Again

Every N.F.L.
game today has carried some level of demonstration by players, with some teams going as far as not appearing on the field for the national anthem.
But nearly nine hours after the games had begun, President Trump once again took to Twitter to condemn the players who choose not to stand for the anthem, and the league that allows it.
It was his 12th sports-related tweet or retweet in a 36-hour period.
Players Explain Why They Made a Statement

Miami Dolphins tight end Julius Thomas, who previously had stood during the anthem, instead knelt on Sunday with three teammates.
Asked what had changed for him, he said: To have the president trying to intimidate people  I wanted to send a message that I dont condone that.
Im not O.K.
with somebody trying to prevent someone from standing up for what they think is important.
Lots of people dont have a voice, and I wanted to tell those folks that theyre not alone.
I used my position to try to empower everybody who seeks equality.
LeSean McCoy, a running back for the Buffalo Bills, also addressed the issue following his game against the Denver Broncos.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I cant stand and support something where our leader of this county is just acting like a jerk, you know, angry and upset about N.F.L.
players protesting in a peaceful manner, McCoy said.
Drew Brees, quarterback for the New Orleans Saints, said: I disagree with what the president said and how he said it.
I think its very unbecoming of the office of President of the United States to talk like that to the great people like that.
And obviously hes disappointed a lot of people.
But as it pertains to the national anthem, I will always feel that if you are an American that the national anthem is the opportunity for us all to stand up together, to be unified and to show respect for our country.
Photo

Seahawks and Titans Stay in Locker Rooms

Neither the Seattle Seahawks nor the Tennessee Titans took the field for Meghan Linseys singing of the national anthem in Nashville.
While the Titans not participating was somewhat of a surprise, the Seahawks had announced in advance that they would not be on the field.
Their statement said:

As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
We remain committed in continuing to work towards equality and justice for all.
Respectfully, The Players of the Seattle Seahawks.
The complete absence of players made for a bizarre scene where team mascots and game officials were the only things the television cameras had to focus on besides the flag and Linsey.
Unlike at some other stadiums, where fans booed at the protests, the fans in Nashville were eerily quiet during the anthem, and after its conclusion Linsey took a knee on the field.
An N.F.L.
executive said teams that did not take the field during the playing of the national anthem, including the Steelers, would not be fined.
According to league rules, all teams are required to be on the sideline during the national anthem, though they do not specify whether players must stand.
Trump Says Locking Arms Is Good, Kneeling Isnt

At 2:20 p.m. Eastern, more than five hours into the slate of games and about eight hours after tweeting that fans should boycott games, Mr. Trump again weighed in on the national anthem demonstrations, issuing his approval for the locking of arms, while still condemning the players who chose to kneel.
The tweet appeared to be Mr. Trump suggesting that the players choosing to lock arms were showing support of the anthem, rather than protesting his remarks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Odell Beckham Jr. Raises Fist After Touchdown

The protests did not all happen before the games.
When the Giants tied the score in the second half of their loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, Odell Beckham Jr. chose to celebrate by dropping the ball and standing in the end zone with his fist raised above his head in a protest that has been done by black athletes going back to the 1960s.
After the brief demonstration, Beckham ran to the sideline to celebrate the score in a more traditional fashion.
Beckham had been flagged earlier for unsportsmanlike conduct when he celebrated a touchdown by impersonating a dog urinating.
When asked about the celebration and penalty, Beckham told reporters, Im a dog, so I acted like a dog.
How Players and Teams in Other Sports Reacted

 On Saturday, a rookie catcher with the Oakland Athletics became the first player to demonstrate during the national anthem at a Major League Baseball game.
We have a racial divide thats being practiced from the highest power we have in this country, the player, Bruce Maxwell, told The San Francisco Chronicle.
On Saturday night, during an appearance at the Global Citizen Festival in New York City, the singer Stevie Wonder kneeled in prayer.
Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees, he said.
On Sunday morning, the Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins said in a statement that they would visit the White House.
Mr. Trump tweeted his approval, calling the Penguins a Great team!
(A day earlier, Mr. Trump had tweeted to disinvite the N.B.A.s Golden State Warriors to the White House because of the star point guard Stephen Currys opposition.)
On Sunday afternoon, athletes demonstrated ahead of a W.N.B.A.
finals game at Williams Arena in Minneapolis.
The Los Angeles Sparks stayed in their locker room during the national anthem, while the Minnesota Lynx stood with their arms linked together.
At a Nascar race in New Hampshire on Sunday afternoon, The Associated Press reported that no team members appeared to demonstrate while the anthem played.
The Hall of Fame driver Richard Petty said that anyone who does not stand up for the anthem ought to be out of the country.
Period.
He added that anyone at his company who protested the anthem should be fired.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Fans Divided on Player Demonstrations

The New York Times sent several reporters to N.F.L.
games to ask fans what they thought of the presidents criticisms and the players protests.
Perhaps surprising to no one, all sides of the debate still have adherents, even if dozens of prominent athletes and many N.F.L.
owners  a deeply conservative group of businessmen  seem to agree on some basic things.
Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, N.Y., has been a Jets season-ticket holder since 1978.
He was in the MetLife Stadium parking lot before the Jets played the Dolphins:

Im a Republican who voted for him, but I think this is a battle he doesnt need to get into, he said about President Trump.
Asked his opinion of the protests, Zaccaria said: I dont support it.
I understand what theyre trying to get at, I just think there are better ways of expressing yourself.
I feel like if the media didnt make a big deal of it  I remember that for years and years they didnt show the anthem  and now all of a sudden this is an issue.
I feel like if you just let these guys do their thing and we could all move on.
Bill Pennington

 Twin brothers Alex and Jackson Hatch, 12, from Loves Park, Ill., were outside Ford Field in Detroit before the Lions played the Atlanta Falcons:

I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do, Alex said.
I know about what Colin Kaepernick is doing, he started kneeling a long time ago.
Maybe the others are doing it to be with him too.
I do not think it is a bad thing for people to kneel, they are showing what their rights are, Jackson said.
It might look weird or something during the national anthem but that should be O.K.
Joanne Gerstner

Kaepernick Offers a Subtle Reminder of Why This All Started

As President Trump, the N.F.L.
and the nation waged a fierce debate about the appropriate nature of national anthem protests, the man who started that debate, Colin Kaepernick, was nowhere in sight.
Instead, Kaepernick spent part of his day retweeting messages about the protests and photos of players who warmed up for their games in #IMWITHKAP T-shirts.
But he also highlighted one that raised a point largely absent in this weekends discussion: that Kaepernicks protests were never about President Trump, but instead an effort to raise the issue of racial injustice.
Kaepernicks anthem protests began during the 2016 preseason, under a different president and largely unnoticed at first, in the wake of several high-profile incidents in which black Americans were killed during interactions with police officers.
Initially, Kaepernick protested by sitting down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, he told NFL Media at the time.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
After his seated protests drew scrutiny, Kaepernick began kneeling instead, a change that he said allowed him to show respect while continuing to press his point.
Several N.F.L.
players joined him in solidarity, as did athletes in other sports and leagues.
Kaepernick, who has not addressed the news media since last season, now focuses his energies, and his time, on education and awareness of causes important to him.
John Branch of The Times wrote about that ongoing political awakening this month.
Not Everyone Supports Anthem Demonstrations

The reaction to the N.F.L.
anthem demonstrations was sharply divided on social media, with many fans taking the players to task for their perceived disrespect for the flag, and America.
Others disagreed with the presidents statements and backed the players.
Steve King, a Republican congressman from Iowa, echoed President Trump by urging owners to fire players who did not stand.
The conservative commentator Dinesh DSouza urged fans to boo those players.
The former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee said on Fox News, I wish that some of these players who get on one knee would get on both knees and thank God they live in the United States.
Eric H. Holder Jr., a former U.S. Attorney General, provided a history lesson:

Paul Bailey, a state senator from Tennessee, sent a warning to the Titans:

Clay Travis, a Fox Sports contributor, tweeted: Sports medias outraged over Trump NFL anthem comments.
Yet vast majority of fans agree.
Huge disconnect in sports between fans/media.
Others, without the platform of public office or celebrity status, also criticized the players who demonstrated:

Photo

Tom Brady Stands With Patriots

Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who is friends with Mr. Trump and whose politics have been a cause of much speculation, joined his teammates in locking arms during the anthem before their game against the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass.
Brady, who has yet to address Trumps recent criticisms, also put his hand over his heart.
While Brady and teammate Phillip Dorsett locked arms, several other Patriots took a knee.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Bill Belichick, the Patriots coach, stood next to Brady during the anthem with his arms crossed.
Earlier in the day, the Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft issued a statement condemning Trumps attack on the league, saying he was deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
National Anthem Singer Takes a Knee

In a first for anthem demonstrations in the N.F.L., Rico Lavelle, who sang the anthem in Detroit for the Lions-Falcons game, sank to one knee and raised a fist at the conclusion.
Steelers Dont Participate in Anthem

The Steelers did not emerge from the locker room in Chicago during the national anthem before their game against the Bears.
Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin said the team would be unified in their actions, and the empty Pittsburgh bench was a stark image of the teams unity.
Were not going to play politics, Coach Mike Tomlin told CBS before the game.
Were football players, were football coaches.
Were not participating in the anthem today.
Not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldnt have to choose.
If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldnt have to be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldnt be separated from his teammate who chooses not to.
So were not participating today.
Tomlin came out alone for the anthem and stood at midfield with his hands behind his back.
Steelers offensive lineman Alejandro Villanueva, a captain in the U.S. Army, stood by the tunnel entrance with his hand over his heart during the ceremony.
Rex Ryan Regrets Supporting Trump

Rex Ryan, the former Jets and Bills coach who once introduced then-presidential candidate Donald Trump at a rally in Buffalo, expressed his regret on the morning show Sunday N.F.L.
Countdown.
Everyones always been united.
Yeah, the views are different but let me tell you: Im pissed off, said Ryan, who now works as an ESPN commentator.
Ill be honest with you.
Because I supported Donald Trump.
When he asked me to introduce him at a rally in Buffalo, I did that.
But Im reading these comments and its appalling to me and Im sure its appalling to almost any citizen in our country.
It should be.
Photo

Jaguars and Ravens Kneel and Lock Arms During Anthem

In a pointed rebuke of President Trumps call for N.F.L.
owners to fire players who protest during the national anthem, Shahid Khan, the only Muslim owner in the league, locked arms with his Jacksonville Jaguars players on Sunday before their game in London.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During the national anthem, Khan locked arms with tight end Marcedes Lewis and linebacker Telvin Smith, both of whom are black, on the sideline to show unity with his players, who are trying to highlight social injustice and police brutality against African-Americans.
While the N.F.L.
and several owners issued statements on Saturday saying they supported the players protests and were unhappy with the presidents comments, Khan was the first owner to stand with his players.
Khan is a Republican who contributed money to the presidents inauguration, and he has said he supports the presidents economic policies.
But he is also an immigrant and a Muslim, two groups that the president has routinely attacked.
In February, Khan, who is Pakistani-American, said he opposed the presidents attempt to bar people from some predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States.
Khans actions will put the spotlight on other team owners.
Owners of the Bills, Lions, Dolphins, Falcons, Rams and Giants were among those who issued statements opposing the presidents comments.
But many prominent owners, including Jerry Jones of the Cowboys and Woody Johnson of the Jets, were silent.
Patriots Owner Robert Kraft Condemns Trumps Criticism

President Trump doubled down on his criticism of N.F.L.
players who take a knee during the national anthem, saying fans should boycott games unless the players are fired or suspended.
Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Patriots and a longtime friend of the presidents, was among the first to reply, saying in a statement:

I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics.
N.F.L.
Owners Add Their Voices to the Chorus

N.F.L.
owners, most of them conservative and many of them large donors to President Trump, joined with Kraft and backed their players rights to protest during the national anthem and condemned Trumps criticism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Colts owner Jim Irsay said, I am troubled by the presidents recent comments about our league and our players.
The Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said, I support them as they take their courage, character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
The Chargers owner Dean Spanos said, The N.F.L.
and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
From Jimmy Haslam, owner of the Cleveland Browns:

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the President or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
The Bears chairman George H. McCaskey said in a statement that what makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
He said the franchise was unified by this divisive political situation.
On the Field

 It looked as if the New England Patriots (2-1) were going to be beaten at home by a rookie quarterback, but Tom Brady led a furious fourth-quarter drive that went 75 yards in eight plays, scoring on a 25-yard touchdown pass to Brandin Cooks.
After a 2-point conversion, the Patriots came away with a 36-33 victory, while Deshaun Watson and the Houston Texans (1-2) were sent home empty-handed despite leading with 23 seconds remaining.
Aaron Rodgers got the Green Bay Packers (2-1) into overtime with a late touchdown throw, and after his defense came through with a big stop, he found Geronimo Allison for a 72-yard catch-and-run that set up Mason Crosbys game-winning 27-yard field goal.
The winless Cincinnati Bengals, who led 21-7 at halftime, were left with a 30-27 loss.
Russell Wilson threw for 373 yards and four touchdowns, but a rare bad day for the defense of the Seattle Seahawks (1-2) resulted in a 33-27 loss to the Tennessee Titans (2-1).
The usually formidable Seattle defense allowed 195 yards on the ground, which helped the Titans build a 30-14 lead that gave them enough cushion to survive a late surge by the Seahawks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Kareem Hunt continued to make the N.F.L.
look easy.
The rookie running back of the Kansas City Chiefs (3-0) rushed for 172 yards and one touchdown in a 24-10 victory over the Los Angeles Chargers (0-3).
Hunt now has 538 yards from scrimmage in the first three games of his career.
The only player with more yards in his first three games was Billy Sims, who had 562 yards with the 1980 Detroit Lions.
The Denver Broncos (2-1) turned the ball over on their final four possessions in a 26-16 loss to the Buffalo Bills.
Buffalo survived a subpar effort from the teams best player, LeSean McCoy, who managed just 21 yards on 14 carries.
Tyrod Taylor provided plenty of offense, completing 20 of 26 passes for 213 yards and two touchdowns.
Broncos quarterback Trevor Siemian was brutal a week after leading his team to an upset victory over Dallas.
He threw two interceptions and had a passer rating of 58.2.
Jordan Howard ran in a 19-yard touchdown in overtime that gave the Chicago Bears (1-2) a shocking 23-17 upset of the Pittsburgh Steelers (2-1).
Given a chance to win the game after being tied 17-17 at the end of regulation, the Bears needed just four running plays to score, with Howard and Tarik Cohen leading them to victory.
Howard finished with 23 carries for 138 yards and two touchdowns.
Matthew Stafford of the Detroit Lions (2-1) appeared to have thrown a game-winning touchdown pass to Golden Tate with 12 seconds remaining, but after a review it was determined that Tates knee had hit the ground before he crossed the goal line.
The ruling carried with it a mandatory 10-second running of the clock, which could have been halted with a timeout if the Lions had any remaining.
With that call, the Atlanta Falcons (3-0) escaped Detroit with a 30-26 victory.
Case Keenum and Stefon Diggs looked like stars as the Minnesota Vikings (2-1) hardly seemed to miss the injured Sam Bradford in a 34-17 victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers (1-1).
Keenum threw three touchdown passes, Diggs had eight receptions for 173 yards and two touchdowns, and Dalvin Cook ran for 97 yards in a well-balanced offensive effort.
Blake Bortles, a name synonymous with quarterback mediocrity, looked like Peyton Manning, throwing for four touchdowns as the Jacksonville Jaguars (2-1) romped past the Baltimore Ravens (2-1) in London, 44-7.
Jay Cutler and Matt Haack (Miamis punter) each threw interceptions, Jay Ajayi was completely unable to make a dent in the running game, and the Miami Dolphins lost to the Jets, 20-6.
The Jets (1-2) outplayed the Dolphins (1-1) in every facet of the game.
Cam Newton threw three interceptions, Drew Brees threw three touchdown passes, and the New Orleans Saints (1-2) upset the Carolina Panthers (2-1), 34-13.
Carolinas defense had not allowed a touchdown coming into the game, but the Saints managed four, while the much-maligned New Orleans defense played one of the teams best games in recent memory.
In a battle of previously winless teams, the Indianapolis Colts (1-2) beat the Cleveland Browns (0-3) thanks to a great effort by Jacoby Brissett, the young quarterback brought over from New England to bridge the gap until Andrew Luck can recover from shoulder surgery.
It was the 15th consecutive road defeat for Cleveland.
Brissett was a star, completing 17 of 24 passes for 259 yards and one touchdown while carrying the ball five times for 14 yards and two scores.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 In Sunday night action, the Redskins (2-1) stymied the Raiders (2-1), 27-10.
Washington outgained Oakland, 472 yards to 128, and held Marshawn Lynch to just 18 yards rushing.
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Photo

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Photo

Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
Photo

HUNTSVILLE, Ala.  President Trump said on Friday night that N.F.L.
owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem, and he encouraged spectators to walk out of stadiums in protest.
In an extended riff during a speech in Alabama, Trump also bemoaned what he sees as less violence in football games.
Theyre ruining the game, he complained.
Several athletes, including a handful of N.F.L.
players, have refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest of the treatment of minorities by the police.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who started the trend last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, has not been signed by a team for this season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump says those players are disrespecting the flag and deserve to lose their jobs.
Thats a total disrespect of our heritage.
Thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, he said, encouraging owners to act.
Mr. Hernandez stood trial for first-degree murder in Massachusetts, where state law requires the government to prove all elements of a crime, including criminal responsibility, beyond a reasonable doubt.
The prosecution was able to provide the details of Mr. Lloyds murder with a tight timeline that placed Mr. Hernandez at the scene of the murder, though his lawyer maintained that his client was no more than a witness to the crime.
The government also provided a theory to establish Mr. Hernandezs motive to kill Mr. Lloyd  anger over gossip  and his ample opportunity to premeditate and deliberate.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But under the Massachusetts formulation of the insanity defense, if he were tried today, Mr. Hernandez might successfully assert that, when he killed Mr. Lloyd, he suffered a mental defect that rendered him substantially unable to conform his conduct to the requirements of the law, utterly unable to make himself behave as the law requires.
Could the evidence of C.T.E.
now create a reasonable doubt about his criminal responsibility?
Almost certainly.
Football players in the United States are disproportionately charged with crimes of violence as compared with other professional athletes.
One explanation might suggest that participating in a sport that demands aggression and violence selects the most aggressive and violent men for its ranks.
An alternative but equally simple explanation might be that aggressive and violent men are naturally drawn to compete in an aggressive and violent sport.
And, of course, when large, strong men who have been taught to be aggressive find themselves in a conflict, they are more than capable of responding with brutal force.
After all, thats what theyre paid to do on the football field.
But C.T.E.
deprives such players of the ability to handle disputes rationally.
Indeed, being afflicted with C.T.E.
may well equate to insanity.
Thats enough to excuse  at least legally  the potentially criminal, violent actions of former N.F.L.
players in many states.
The Boston University study was published too late to help Aaron Hernandez.
He had died  probably because his damaged brain could not reason well enough to prevent him from hanging himself  several weeks earlier.
But given what we now know about the prevalence of C.T.E.
in high-level athletes, especially football players, the field is open for lawyers to begin to show juries just why their clients are unable to conform their conduct and control their emotional impulses.
There are many avenues for intervention on behalf of the men who have spent years treating their heads like battering rams for high salaries.
For those men who commit violent crimes, the legal community might start by seeing them as mentally incapacitated individuals with significantly impaired impulse control.
Aaron Hernandez should be sitting in a therapeutic hospital receiving care for a profound brain injury.
Instead, his ashes sit with his family.
Suicide appears to be another result of C.T.E.
Because of the post-mortem C.T.E.
diagnosis, we now know there was substantial evidence that Mr. Hernandez should not have been convicted of first-degree murder.
Given the conclusive diagnosis of Stage 3 C.T.E., it is likely that a lifetime of playing football  not Mr. Hernandezs will  was to blame.
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay among circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said his research showed that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have the disease.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, Dr. Gandy said.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
Former players would also have to prove that the head hits they received in the N.F.L.
directly led to their troubles off the field, which is a high bar, especially for those, like Hernandez, who also played football in college and in childhood.
The league might also argue that Hernandez knew there was a risk he could be injured playing in the N.F.L., particularly because he had played the game for more than a decade before he was drafted.
Even if the league has a high probability of convincing a judge of all these arguments, the Hernandez familys lawyer, Jose Baez, might be banking on the N.F.L.
to settle the case to avoid bad publicity.
The league, though, is known to stand its ground because it wants to stop other players from suing as well.
Theres always a shot in the dark to bring the league to the table, said Jodi Balsam, a former lawyer at the N.F.L.
who teaches at Brooklyn Law School.
These cases come up all the time, and there will be more of them if they settle this without a fight.
Indeed, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for the league, said that the N.F.L.
would vigorously fight the suit and that the Hernandez family would face significant legal issues.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe, is misguided, he added.
Lockhart also cast doubt on those who are trying to connect football to C.T.E., or chronic traumatic encephalopathy, as well as C.T.E.
to violence and suicide.
The science, he said, is far from settled.
While researchers have found links between C.T.E.
and symptoms like rage, depression and irritability, they cannot definitively say that the disease predicts the behavior.
Also complicating the research is that C.T.E.
can only be diagnosed posthumously, so scientists rely on a limited number of brains donated for research.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nobody can say football and the head hits created Aaron Hernandez and his behavior, said Brad Sohn, a lawyer who has sued the N.F.L.
on behalf of former players.
But the pathology should scare anyone with a rational bone in his body.
He had a raisin-like brain of a 70-year-old even though he was 27.
Still, despite the legal hurdles facing Hernandezs family, they might still receive money from the N.F.L.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lockhart said the league had a range of benefits available to the families of deceased players, including survivors benefits and annuities.
He also pointed to the class-action settlement that the league reached with retired players in which players who died and were found to have C.T.E.
are eligible for up to $4 million.
That benefit, though, is available only to players who had retired and died before the settlement was approved in federal court in 2015.
So in effect, the settlement would be a Trojan horse.
If the Hernandez family joins the settlement, arguing that he was no longer playing as of 2013 when he was imprisoned, they give up their right to sue the league, Sohn said, without any guarantee of getting money from the settlement.
Balsam, the former N.F.L.
lawyer, suggested that Baez, through the suit, is hoping for the remainder of Hernandezs $40 million contract extension he signed in 2012.
After Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder in June 2013, the Patriots released him and refused to pay him a $3 million bonus he was owed.
The Patriots withheld the money because Hernandezs conduct was detrimental to the team.
But Hernandez, through a quirk in Massachusetts law, has had his murder conviction overturned because he died before his appeal of the case could be heard.
So, in theory, Baez could argue that because Hernandez technically is no longer guilty of murder, the Patriots should repay his family the money he did not receive.
That argument could play out in court over weeks and months, causing the team and the league significant embarrassment.
But the league does not seem to mind sticking it out, even in high-profile cases.
It has declined to settle a wrongful-death suit by another former Patriot, the Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau, who also killed himself and was found to have C.T.E.
The N.F.L.
is making clear on every level that they want to take the General Patton approach as long as possible and make it as expensive and challenging for anyone who tries to fight them in court, Sohn said.
So its a question of, whos willing to fight these cases and stand up to the bullies.
Photo

Expectations were rock bottom for a Thursday night game between the Rams and the 49ers.
But the game turned out to be an entertaining shootout, and maybe a breakout performance by Jared Goff.
Goff was the No.
1 overall pick in last years draft by the Rams.
He started seven games, losing them all, and averaged only 156 yards a game, 39th among quarterbacks.
In contrast, the No.
2 pick in the draft, Carson Wentz, was a respectable 7-9 and averaged 23 for the Eagles.
Wentz is still playing well, but now so is Goff.
He and the Rams are off to a 2-1 start, he is averaging 272 yards a game, and his adjusted-yards-per-attempt figure is a dazzling 10.77, trailing only Alex Smith among quarterbacks with two or more starts.
On Thursday he outdueled, er, Brian Hoyer, throwing for 292 yards and three touchdowns without an interception in a 41-39 win.
His passing line was an eye-opening 22-for-28.
He was helped by some fine catches by Robert Woods and Sammy Watkins, who each had 100-yard games.
Goff is 20-for-27 without an interception on third downs, according to Sportradar.
He has also shown the ability to go deep, completing eight passes in which the ball traveled 20 yards or further.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before we hand the Rams the Lombardi Trophy, lets remember that their wins have come against the woeful Niners and the Colts without Andrew Luck; neither of those teams has a win of their own.
Their loss was against the Redskins, who do not appear exceptional.
Next weeks game at Dallas will be a sterner test.
And the Rams nearly blew a 14-point lead on Thursday night, winning only after a failed 2-point conversion by the 49ers that would have tied the score.
The Rams, now coached by Sean McVay after five years of Jeff Fisher, were 100-1 odds to win the Super Bowl at the start of the season.
But they are suddenly looking like a real offensive team, and they lead the N.F.C.
With Goff proving himself more adept this year, at least against the teams hes faced so far, there is hope in Los Angeles.
The league had already faced public relations problems after other high-profile players were found to have C.T.E., including Junior Seau, Ken Stabler and Frank Gifford.
Mr. Seau  along with Dave Duerson, Andre Waters and Ray Easterling, among others  killed himself.
For years, Mr. Hernandez was held up as a particularly egregious example of N.F.L.
players running amok off the field.
Just 10 months after he signed a $40 million contract with the Patriots in 2013, with the promise of becoming a superstar, the body of a friend who had been shot multiple times was discovered.
Mr. Hernandez was convicted of the friends murder, and later accused in two other killings from 2012.
Just days after an acquittal in that case, he hanged himself with a bedsheet in his prison cell.
The researchers did not make a direct link between Mr. Hernandezs violence and his disease.
But C.T.E.
is often marked by problems with controlling aggression and impulses, and some degree of dementia, as well as mood swings, lapses in judgment and a disorganized manner.
Mr. Hernandezs estate filed a federal lawsuit on Thursday against the N.F.L.
and the Patriots seeking damages to compensate his 4-year-old daughter for the loss of her father.
The suit alleges that the league and the team knew that repeated head hits could lead to brain disease, yet did not do enough to protect Mr. Hernandez from those hits.
The lawyer, Jose Baez, said the family was also contemplating suing the N.C.A.A.
and the University of Florida, where Mr. Hernandez played before playing for the Patriots.
The N.F.L.
did not comment on the medical finding, and it declined to comment on the suit.
The Patriots declined to comment.
Soon after his arrest in 2013, the team distanced itself from him, buying back more than 1,200 Hernandez jerseys from fans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The trauma to Mr. Hernandezs brain raises fresh questions about the dangers of playing tackle football.
This week, other researchers at Boston University published research that found that adults who began playing tackle football before they were 12 years old developed more cognitive and behavioral problems later in life than those players who started tackle football after they reached that age.
Photo

Mr. Hernandez played football as a teenager, and in 2013 was given the Inspiration to Youth Award by Pop Warner, the best-known youth football organization in the country.
The fact that Mr. Hernandez also led a troubled life off the field will complicate the N.F.L.s efforts to calm jitters about the sport because it will probably make some people wonder whether football had a role in his violence away from the game.
Mr. Baez said that in hindsight, Mr. Hernandezs family had witnessed him act in ways that were consistent with a person found to have C.T.E., but you dont know.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The slides of Mr. Hernandezs brain samples were unambiguous and graphic.
Dr. Ann McKee, chief of neuropathology at the VA Boston Healthcare System and director of the CTE Center at Boston University, examined his brain and said in a statement that Mr. Hernandez had early brain atrophy and large perforations in the septum pellucidum, a central membrane of the brain.
The slides also showed what she called classic features of C.T.E.
in the brain, including deposits of tau protein in the front lobes of the brain in nerve cells around small blood vessels.
The discovery of C.T.E.
adds another turn in Mr. Hernandezs meteoric rise and fall.
After a standout career at Florida, he was signed by the Patriots in 2010.
Just years before, he had been working menial jobs in Bristol, Conn., his hardscrabble hometown, where he drove a $300 used car he bought with money borrowed from friends.
At Florida, he helped the Gators win the national title in the 2008 season.
But he fell to the fourth round of the N.F.L.
draft because of off-field issues including involvement in a bar fight.
Less than a year after he signed the contract with the Patriots that might have provided a stable future, his friend was found murdered.
His conviction in the case became a stark example of N.F.L.
players who exhibit violence off the field.
Even his demise was filled with turmoil.
After Mr. Hernandez died, Mr. Baez called a news conference in front of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner and accused the state of illegally withholding Mr. Hernandezs brain.
Mr. Hernandezs body had been discovered the day before, tied with a bedsheet to the window of his prison cell in Shirley, Mass.
His death was later ruled a suicide.
Instead, Lynch has seemed rejuvenated by the year off, and has paid immediate dividends for the Raiders, adding a hard-nosed edge to the offense that is not only showing up in attitude, but also in production.
At 31, he is hardly being asked to do everything himself  he has 30 of the teams 56 carries  but he has contributed to strong gains for Oakland in the percentage of rushing yards they pick up after contact, which makes teams work hard to stop him.
He may not have had a carry for more than 14 yards yet, but he has been knocked for a loss only twice, and the tough yards he has been able to fight for have opened things up for Derek Carr and the passing game.
Carr has taken advantage with a passer rating of 126.5 thus far, which is nearly 30 points better than his career high for a season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This week the Raiders will be on the road against a Redskins (1-1) team that has done fairly well against the run, but has shown some vulnerability in the passing game.
If Lynch can hammer away at the Redskins front-seven, and let Carr exploit matchup advantages against the Washington secondary, the Raiders could have the teams first 3-0 start since 2002.
Pick: Raiders

Falcons at Lions, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Falcons by 3

Even though the Falcons are the defending N.F.C.
champions, this was not seen by many as a marquee matchup when the schedules came out.
But considering how well Atlanta (2-0) played last week against Green Bay, and how good Detroit (2-0) has looked in both games so far, this could be the most evenly matched game this week in terms of talent.
It is the only meeting of the week between unbeaten teams.
Matt Ryan of the Falcons and Matthew Stafford of the Lions will get the bulk of the publicity, but this game is likely to come down to which defense can limit the opposing offense, which makes the absence of Vic Beasley, Atlantas top pass-rusher, perhaps the most important injury note of the week.
Pick: Lions

Texans at Patriots, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Patriots by 13.5

Coach Bill Belichick has always seemed to relish picking on young quarterbacks, and with Houston (1-1) sending out Deshaun Watson for a start against the Patriots (1-1) in Foxborough, here are some numbers worth paying attention to: 5-15 (the record of rookie quarterbacks against Belichick-led Patriots teams); 0-8 (the record of those quarterbacks when playing in Foxborough); 0-5 (the record of the Texans at Foxborough regardless of who is playing quarterback).
New Englands wide receiver depth chart has only one fully healthy player, and Rob Gronkowski, who looked superhero-like last week, had yet to practice as of Wednesday, so a blowout score might be hard to manage.
Expecting Watson to pull off a victory is likely to be too much to ask, but the point spread is outlandish.
Pick: Texans

Second-Tier Games

Photo

Seahawks at Titans, 4:05 p.m. on Fox

Line: Titans by 2.5

The Seahawks (1-1) have been horrid offensively, and a lot of the blame has been placed on the teams offensive line.
Pro Football Focus backs that blame up by rating three of the teams five starters as poor, with Rees Odhiambo, the teams starting left tackle, picking up the rear with a player rating of 25.9 that ranks 72nd among tackles.
The interesting thing, though, is that according to Sportradar, Russell Wilson has had an average of 2.57 seconds in the pocket before he releases the ball or the pocket collapses, which is better than last seasons mark of 2.29 seconds, and is the fifth most time of any quarterback.
He has been hit an average of 6.5 times a game, which is tied for the 12th most, and has been sacked six times, which is tied for 9th.
Wilson undoubtedly could use better protection, but placing all of the blame on the guys up front may be misguided.
In the meantime, Seattles defense is mostly making up for the offensive inadequacy, and should be able to handle Tennessee (1-1), especially if DeMarco Murray is unable to play.
Pick: Seahawks

Giants at Eagles, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Eagles by 6

Coach Ben McAdoo of the Giants (0-2) did not hold back during a conference call this week.
Yeah, we cant keep doing the same thing over and over again, McAdoo said.
Thats insanity.
Its not working.
So we are going to look to make some changes this week, like we did last week.
Maybe it will be a little more drastic this week, to use your word.
It is hardly sunshine and puppy dogs in Philadelphia, as the Eagles (1-1) are struggling to find any sort of offensive balance, and have some key injuries on defense, but playing at home against a team in disarray can do a lot to make a team look like it has everything together.
Pick: Eagles

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Buccaneers at Vikings, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: N/A

No one is sure what to make of this game since the status of Minnesotas starting quarterback, Sam Bradford, has yet to be determined.
The Vikings (1-1) looked terrific in Week 1, with Bradford earning N.F.C.
offensive player of the week honors for his performance against New Orleans, but a knee injury kept him out of Week 2 and the result was a 26-9 loss to Pittsburgh.
If Bradford, who practiced in a limited capacity on Wednesday, is able to play, Minnesota would seemingly be at an advantage, but without him the Vikings will struggle to score, even though his backup, Case Keenum, has a 2-0 record against Tampa Bay (1-0) over the last two seasons.
Pick: Vikings

Broncos at Bills, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Broncos by 3

Denver (2-0) barely escaped with a victory in Week 1, but then absolutely dominated one of the N.F.L.s best teams in Week 2, so figuring out exactly where they fit leaguewide can be difficult.
Trevor Siemian may not be able to reel off four passing touchdowns every week, but if the teams run defense can play as well as it did while humiliating Ezekiel Elliott, then the Broncos will be no fun for opponents.
Buffalo (1-1) will do its best to get something going with LeSean McCoy, but the Bills will eventually need to throw the ball, and its hard to believe that Tyrod Taylor can find openings with Aqib Talib and Chris Harris Jr. roaming the field.
Pick: Broncos

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steelers at Bears, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Steelers by 7.5

Pittsburgh (2-0) has not exactly been setting the world on fire offensively, but it has done enough to win, and provided the team does not fall apart against the lowly Bears, they should have their first 3-0 start to the season since 2010.
It would be easy to be disappointed in the Steelers efforts considering the presence of several of the leagues biggest stars.
But Chicago (0-2) could put on a clinic in disappointment: Mike Glennon has proved his critics correct by not looking even close to being worth his huge salary, and Jordan Howard thus far is struggling to repeat his success from a year ago.
Pick: Steelers

Bengals at Packers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Packers by 9

Even if the Packers (1-1) are still figuring things out defensively, a win at home over the struggling Bengals (0-2) seems like it would be easy enough.
The complicating factor is health.
Green Bay had its roster fall apart last week, with seven starters unable to play by the end of the loss to Atlanta.
If Mike Daniels, the teams versatile defensive lineman, is unable to go because of a hip injury, then this game is far more evenly matched.
It could come down to whether a patchwork offensive line can give Aaron Rodgers some time to work.
Pick: Packers

Chiefs at Chargers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Chiefs by 3

The Chargers (0-2) have kept things close over the first two weeks of the season, but ended both games with a failed field goal attempt by Younghoe Koo and a loss.
If this game comes down to a last-second field goal attempt, it would be a shock, as the Chiefs (2-0), even when playing on the road, appear to have strong advantages on both sides of the ball.
Pick: Chiefs

Saints at Panthers, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Panthers by 6

New Orleans (0-2) has been absolutely cursed in September over the last few seasons, with a record of 1-11 in the month since 2014.
But this year they have certainly earned the losses, giving up 470 yards to Minnesota in Week 1 and 555 to New England in Week 2.
They might not be run quite as ragged this week by a Carolina (2-0) offense has been a bit rusty to start the season (and wont be helped by the absence of Greg Olsen).
But the Panthers do not need to run up the score given how well their defense has been playing.
Pick: Panthers

Bottom-Tier Games

Dolphins at Jets, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Dolphins by 6

The Jay Cutler experiment in Miami got off to a good start in a game in which he did not commit a turnover, got the entire offense involved, and helped lead the Dolphins (1-0) on a game-winning drive.
The potential for turnovers (plural) is always there, and having Lawrence Timmons suspended indefinitely for going missing from the team weakens the defense, but the Dolphins have advantages on both sides of the ball against the Jets (0-2).
Pick: Dolphins

Ravens at Jaguars, 9:30 a.m. on CBS

Line: Ravens by 4

The N.F.L.
has been playing games in London for 10 years now, and no team has played there more than the Jaguars.
Jacksonville (1-1) is still working its way through an agreement that has the team playing one home game a year there until at least 2020, and while their 2-2 record in London since 2013 may not seem impressive, it is certainly better than their 14-48 record outside of the London in the same time span.
Baltimore (2-0) has had a fairly smooth start to the season, and has the look of a playoff team.
The adjustment to international travel in the teams first visit abroad is the only thing putting this games result in doubt.
Pick: Ravens

Rams at 49ers, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday) on NFL Network

Line: Rams by 2.5

The N.F.C.
West is probably the leagues worst division in terms of overall talent, but at least when teams from the division are playing each other things are more evenly matched.
Both Los Angeles (1-1) and San Francisco (0-2) have shown year-to-year improvement, but with Eric Reid and Reuben Foster out, it would be too much to ask for the 49ers defense to do enough heavy lifting to win.
Pick: Rams

Browns at Colts, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Browns by 1

Dear Andrew Luck,

We are underdogs, at home, against a team known mostly for losing in embarrassing fashion.
We might be able to pull this one off, but it would be helpful if you could come back soon.
Sincerely, Colts fans

Pick: Colts

Mondays Matchup

Cowboys at Cardinals, 8:30 on ESPN

Line: Cowboys by 3

Dallas (1-1) is probably trying to pretend last week never happened.
Dak Prescott committed turnovers, Ezekiel Elliott could not find any room to run, and the Cowboys were simply humiliated by the Broncos.
The problems were rampant on both sides of the ball, but a chance to regroup against Arizona (1-1), a team that could barely beat the lowly Colts, could help shake the loss off and get Dallas back to a position of strength.
Pick: Cowboys
Its still too early to know if Hunt is the next Jamaal Charles, circa 2012, but we know enough to feel good about starting him in Week 3 of 2017.
Quarterback

Matt Ryan (ATL at Lions)  While he has only two touchdown passes through two games, he has been in complete control of the Falcons offense and hasnt really needed to do a whole lot in leading his team to two victories.
But in this matchup, he may need to air it out to keep up with Matthew Stafford and the Lions in what the Vegas oddsmakers are predicting to be the second highest scoring game of Week 3.
Im also not sold on the Lions secondary having improved vastly over the unit that allowed the fifth most fantasy points per game to quarterbacks in 2016.
Matthew Stafford (DET vs.
Falcons)  The other side of this potential high-scoring affair is Detroit and Stafford, who wasnt great against the Giants tough secondary, but was against the Cardinals in Week 1.
The Falcons, who gave up the second most F.P.P.G.
to the position in 2016 and helped Aaron Rodgers get back on track in Week 2, should do their part in making this game a true shootout.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Also consider: Cam Newton (CAR vs. Saints); Jay Cutler (MIA at Jets).
Running Back

Isaiah Crowell (CLE at Colts)  It has been a rough start for Crowell, who has 70 yards on 27 carries through the first two games of the season.
But it hasnt really been his fault, as the Browns have fallen behind early in both games, forcing them to shift away from the run.
Chances are that the Colts, who have a combined 21 points over the first two weeks, will be seeing a lot more of Crowell than the Steelers and the Ravens did.
Indianapoliss run defense is nothing to write home about, either, having allowed the sixth most F.P.P.G.
(20.6) to the position in 2016.
It hasnt improved that much in 2017, helping the Rams Todd Gurley to 15.6 fantasy points in Week 1.
C. J. Anderson (DEN at Bills)  No running back had a better fantasy performance than Anderson in Week 1 (118 rushing yards and two total touchdowns), and he did it in what was thought to be one of the tougher matchups for a fantasy back in Dallas.
Next up are the Bills, who yielded the third most F.P.P.G.
to running backs (21.7) last season.
While they have done better this season, they have not faced the type of tough challenge that the Broncos run game poses.
Also consider: Marshawn Lynch (OAK at Redskins).
Wide Receiver

Kelvin Benjamin (CAR vs. Saints)  After a disappointing Week 1, Benjamin last week looked more like the top receiver he showed he could be during the preseason, hauling in six of his eight targets for 77 yards.
Still, he has yet to return much fantasy value to those who drafted him this summer.
That should change against the Saints, who have been lit up by opposing pass offenses this season, including big fantasy performances by the Vikings Adam Thielen and Stefon Diggs in Week 1.
Just keep an eye on Benjamins injury status, as he has been slowed by knee soreness.
Martavis Bryant (PIT at Bears)  Antonio Brown is the obvious receiver to get excited about against the Bears porous secondary, but do not forget about Bryant, who had 91 yards and a touchdown last week against the Vikings.
This performance came after Bryant looked out of sorts in Week 1, his first regular-season N.F.L.
game in over a year.
Expect his chemistry with Ben Roethlisberger to continue growing as the season progresses, and expect him to get some help from a Bears secondary that allowed the sixth most fantasy points to wide receivers in 2016 (25.2 F.P.P.G.).
Also consider: Doug Baldwin (SEA at Titans).
Tight End

Jared Cook (OAK at Redskins)  He saw 11 of quarterback Derek Carrs 60 targets last week, though he converted only four of them into receptions for 25 yards.
Still, it shows that he is a major player in this passing offense, and a very solid streaming tight end option this week against the Redskins, who have allowed the most yards to opposing tight ends so far in 2017.
Defense/Special Teams

Ravens (vs. JAC at London); Patriots (vs. HOU).
Kicker

Giorgio Tavecchio (OAK at Redskins); Graham Gano (CAR vs. Saints).
I think the real Bernie Casey is coming through, he told Life.
There are all sorts of signs.
Just the other day, I was walking through a gallery and a man walked up and said, Are you Bernard Casey, the artist?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey balanced painting abstract oils and fantasy landscapes with acting once he stopped playing football.
He retired after the 1968 season, three years after Jim Brown, the N.F.L.s biggest star, abrupty ended his career with the Cleveland Browns and began to act.
One of Mr. Caseys first roles was in tick  tick  tick , a 1970 thriller with Mr. Brown.
He went on to play J. C. Caroline, a Chicago Bears teammate of the dying Brian Piccolo, in the television movie Brians Song (1971); a C.I.A.
agent working with Sean Connery in the James Bond film Never Say Never Again (1983); and an aging action hero in Im Gonna Git You Sucka (1989), a parody of the blaxploitation genre that reunited him with Mr. Brown.
Mr. Casey also appeared in three of the Revenge of the Nerds movies, a series of comedies about collegiate misfits fighting a jock fraternity.
He played U. N. Jefferson, president of the Lambda Lambda Lambda fraternity.
Photo

In 1973, he portrayed the paralyzed former National Basketball Association player Maurice Stokes in the film Maurie.
Writing in The New York Times, the columnist Dave Anderson praised Mr. Casey for capturing the agonizing effort required by Mr. Stokes to lift a spoon and recalled a conversation he had with Mr. Casey late in his football career.
Just because Im a football player, he told Mr. Anderson, doesnt mean I cant be something else at the same time.
Most of us live on a small portion of our capacity.
I dont want to let the limitation of others limit me.
Bernard Terry Casey was born on June 8, 1939, in Wyco, W. Va. His father, Frank, was a coal miner.
His mother was the former Flossie Coleman.
In addition to playing on the Bowling Green football team, which was voted the small college champion in 1959, Mr. Casey competed in the high hurdles and finished sixth at the 1960 Olympic trials, short of making the team.
He earned a bachelors degree and a masters of fine arts from Bowling Green.
He was drafted by the 49ers, the New York Titans (who became the Jets) of the American Football League and the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League.
He chose the 49ers because, he said, San Francisco would advance his artistic dreams.
He was traded in 1967 to the Atlanta Falcons, which quickly sent him to the Rams.
Photo

Collectors of his paintings have included Sidney Poitier, Burt Reynolds and Maya Angelou, according to the Thelma Harris Art Gallery in Oakland, which had a major show of Mr. Caseys paintings in 2003.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey also published a few books of poetry, including Look at the People (1969) and Where Is the Revolution  and Other Poems (1973).
He is survived by his sister, Frankie Murray.
His marriage to Paula Campbell ended in divorce.
They had no children.
In 1997, Mr. Casey directed, wrote and produced the movie The Dinner, which featured three African-American men talking about slavery, white superiority, black crime and other racial subjects around a dinner table.
It was a departure from the action films and comedies he was known for.
But it was close to his heart and based on conversations with his friends.
None of the characters had names; they were Good Brother (Mr. Casey), Young Brother (Wren Brown) and Brother Man (Doug Johnson).
Most people dont know us, as African-Americans, Mr. Casey said at the time, even those of us who are greatly celebrated.
We are so expendable, we have no history in the context of the nation.
At that moment, he writes, My brain is thinking only lengthen and soften and disperse.
Mr. Brady attributes much of his unusually long N.F.L.
career and the relatively little playing time he has lost to injuries to this kind of gnomic self-talk and his muscular pliability.
But most of us are not pliable, he tells us, and our workouts are not helping.
Standard weight training and conditioning exercises, such as running and sprints, tighten and harden our muscles, he writes, opening us to injury.
Instead, we should do less weight training or conditioning and more of something else.
It involves targeted, deep-force muscle work, Mr. Brady writes.
Think of a deep, rigorous massage, but much more focused, and in my case using complex techniques based on an understanding of the biomechanics of what it takes for me to throw a football and function at peak levels as an athlete who accelerates, decelerates, runs, cuts, and more, as well as the daily acts of living that complement my off-field life.
Got it?
Me, neither.
Thankfully, Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero amplify and simplify their instructions as the book continues.
Mere massage does not produce pliability, they write.
You must contract muscles while also stretching and pummeling them, preferably with high-tech, vibrating foam rollers or vibrating spheres, Mr. Brady writes.
These are available at The TB12 Method online store for $150 and up.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The problem with this notion is that exercise science has never heard of muscle pliability.
Its balderdash, says Stuart Phillips, a professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, and an expert in muscle physiology.
In scientific terms, he says, muscles that are soft tend to be muscles that are sick.
When folks do little or nothing, as, for instance, during bed rest, then their muscles get very soft, he says.
Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero have not conducted or published clinical trials of muscle pliability.
Neither has anyone else.
On the huge PubMed online database of published science, I found only one experiment that contains the words pliability and muscles, and it concerned the efficacy of different embalming techniques.
The books sections on diet and nutrition similarly lack supporting evidence, although not common sense.
Mr. Brady writes that, like him, we should avoid sugary foods and other processed carbohydrates.
The TB12 Method advocates for a plant-based, locally sourced, organic diet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It also, however, strays into the eccentric when it suggests that we eschew foods in the nightshade family, including tomatoes, strawberries, eggplants and potatoes, focus on foods high in alkalinity  such as artichokes, dandelion greens and escarole, and cut back on foods that supposedly raise acid levels in our blood, like beef, salmon, butter and cheese.
Mr. Brady does not explain or justify these dietary choices in this book.
For that, we need to consult the separate TB12 Nutrition Manual (available for $200 at tb12store.com).
Mainstream nutritional science, meanwhile, is fine with tomatoes and does not support alkaline diets.
Artichokes are healthful, but not because they blunt the acidity of our blood (which is what most proponents of alkaline diets claim for these foods).
We have kidneys for that.
Its worth noting that Mr. Guerrero, a self-taught exercise guru, has twice been investigated by the Federal Trade Commission for making unsubstantiated health claims about products he developed, including a nutritional supplement that supposedly protected athletes against concussions.
The book does not mention his past.
Still, the TB12 Method is not without value.
The books tone is humble and encouraging.
Mr. Brady prefaces his more outlandish health claims with such qualifiers as I believe or This is what works for me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most important, the book provides useful photographic and textual instructions for dozens of body-weight resistance training exercises, many done with resistance bands.
(The TB12 Method branded set is available for $160 at the companys website).
These exercises could credibly improve our flexibility  a muscular attribute that actually exists  and joint range of motion, says Malachy McHugh, the director of research at the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.
Interventions that can maintain the functional range of motion of a series of muscle groups are critical to maintaining function as we get older, Dr. McHugh says.
Plus, The TB12 Method physical book weighs about three pounds, according to my bathroom scale, and that is a nice heft for light resistance training.
Mr. Cooksey, Mr. Pettway and Mr. TeBos did not respond to voice mail messages seeking comment on Tuesday.
Phone calls to Mr. Spielman and Mr. Kregel were not answered, and Mr. Kregel did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Mike Swider, who is the head coach and has worked on the Wheaton coaching staff for 33 years, also did not respond to an email seeking comment.
The victim, whose name prosecutors did not release, provided a statement about the episode through his lawyer, Terry A. Ekl.
In the statement, he accused the suspects of abducting him from a dorm room on March 19, 2016; wrapping duct tape around his arms, legs and chest; and transporting him in a vehicle to a baseball field.
On the way there, he said, they beat him; partly stripped him; threatened to rape him; tried to sodomize him with an unidentified object; and took his phone, wallet and one shoe.
They then dumped him half-naked in the field shortly before midnight, he said.
During the assault the assailants played Middle Eastern music on their car radio, put on fake Middle Eastern accents and threatened to rape him, the victim said.
His lawyer said the victim was not Muslim or of Middle Eastern descent and he believed that the assailants pretended to be Middle Eastern to scare the victim.
We have all seen situations where young men engage in foolish and immature conduct, Mr. Ekl said.
What was done to our client in this case is far beyond what is acceptable behavior or which can be dismissed as merely harmless hazing.
After the assault, the victim made his way back to campus and called his mother, who arranged for him to meet his grandparents at a nearby hospital.
Emergency room staff members there called the police and conducted a rape test, which concluded that he had not been penetrated, his statement said.
Photo

The victim said the assault caused a tremendous amount of pain and left him with labral tears in both shoulders that required surgery.
The day after the attack, his father moved his belongings out of his dorm and he now attends a college in Indiana, Mr. Ekl said.
This has had a devastating effect on my life, the victim said in a statement.
What was done to me should never occur in connection with participation in a football program or any other activity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I am confident that the criminal prosecution will provide a fair and just punishment to the men who attacked me, the victim added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Wheaton College is an evangelical Christian institution in Wheaton, Ill., about 25 miles west of Chicago.
The liberal arts college, which has about 2,850 students, describes its mission as providing excellence in Christian education.
Students are required to abide by a community covenant based on what the college views as Christian principles, including the call to pursue holiness in every aspect of our thought and behavior and the call to treat our own bodies, and those of others, with the honor due the very temple of the Holy Spirit.
College administrators were told about the hazing allegations by the coaching staff and members of the football team in March 2016, Ms. Taylor, the college spokeswoman, said in a statement on Tuesday.
She declined to say whether the players were taken off the team at that time or to explain why they were on the 2017 team roster.
Wheaton College aspires to provide an educational environment that is not only free of hazing, but practices our values as a Christian community, the statement from the college said.
As such, we are deeply troubled by the allegations brought by law enforcement against five members of our football team.
After an internal investigation, the players were given a range of corrective actions, the college said.
The school said it was unable to disclose what those correction actions may have been because of federal student privacy protections.
Wheaton College faced controversy last year after it put Larycia Hawkins, a tenured associate professor of political science, on administrative leave after she wrote on Facebook that Christians and Muslims are people of the book who worship the same God.
The college defended itself against criticism that its actions violated academic freedom or displayed anti-Muslim sentiment.
Ms. Hawkins agreed to part ways with Wheaton after the controversy.
The football team was also criticized in 2015 after its members wore Ku Klux Klan robes and carried Confederate flags as part of a team-building activity in a campus gym, according to The Chicago Tribune.
The team later apologized and said the robes and flags had been part of a skit parodying the 2003 Martin Lawrence and Will Smith film Bad Boys II.
The federal Consumer Finance Protection Bureau and the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, have sued a New Jersey-based financial company, RD Legal Funding L.L.C., accusing it of deceiving retired N.F.L.
players and luring them into costly advances on settlement payouts with lies about the terms of the deals.
In July, Brody gave Seeger permission to compel the lenders and law firms to turn over information about how they sought to sign up players.
In all, Seeger pursued documents and information from 36 people or companies, though some firms did not cooperate.
Seeger and a partner, TerriAnne Benedetto, detailed a litany of questionable practices, including charging players thousands of dollars in fees for loans with 50 percent interest rates; lenders paying fees to brokers for referrals; and former players being paid fees to convince those who qualify for the settlement to sign agreements with lawyers and lenders, some of whom promised to introduce the ex-players to doctors who could help them get larger amounts in the settlement.
Benedetto provided several examples, including a player who received $10,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $17,310 from his settlement payout in one year.
Another received $312,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $568,000 once he receives his settlement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Benedetto also mentioned Joe Pisarcik, a former quarterback for the Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles who once led the N.F.L.
Alumni Association and had access to a database of retired players.
Pisarcik received $200,000 from two law firms that wanted to use his name to help sign up former players.
She said Pisarcik was also offered bonuses of up to $75,000 for every 25 players with diagnoses covered under the settlement that he referred to the law firms.
Benedetto said that Pisarcik provided emails that showed that he tried to stop the lawyers from sending a deliberately misleading pitch letter with his name on it to former players.
The law firms represented 92 former players before they retained Pisarcik, then signed up an additional 241 clients after he became a consultant to the firms.
Benedetto said that some lenders had refused requests for documents.
To date, 1,200 claims from former players or their representatives have been filed, out of about 20,000 players who are eligible to file claims.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More than $130 million in claims have been approved so far, mostly for players who had previously received a diagnosis for a condition covered by the settlement.
Some of that money has not been dispersed yet, though, because the settlement administrator must deduct money to repay Medicare and legal fees.
Some awards have also been audited because of potential red flags, including doctors thought to have written incorrect diagnoses for players.
Seeger told the judge he was worried, though, that the administration of the settlement could get bogged down if the lenders or lawyers ask the claims administrator to be paid before players receive their awards.
Seeger said that he may ask the judge to pursue criminal claims against lawyers and advisers who filed false claims or asked doctors to write improper diagnoses for players.
The brain is going through this incredible time of growth between the years of 10 and 12, and if you subject that developing brain to repetitive head impacts, it may cause problems later in life, Robert Stern, one of the authors of the study, said of the findings.
The study is consistent with earlier findings by Stern and others that looked specifically at N.F.L.
retirees.
That research found that retirees who started playing before 12 years old had diminished mental flexibility compared to those who began playing tackle football at 12 or older.
A growing number of scientists argue that because the human brain develops rapidly at young ages, especially between 10 and 12, children should not play tackle football until their teenage years.
Last year, doctors at Wake Forest School of Medicine used advanced magnetic resonance imaging technology to find that boys between the ages of 8 and 13 who played just one season of tackle football had diminished brain function in parts of their brains.
The N.F.L., which long denied that there was any link between the game and brain damage, has in recent years been promoting what it considers safer tackling techniques aimed at reducing head-to-head collisions.
More recently, the league has been promoting flag football as an even safer alternative, an implicit acknowledgment that parents are worried about the dangers of the sport and turning away from it.
Participation in tackle football by boys ages 6 to 12 has fallen by nearly 20 percent since 2009, though it rose 1.2 percent, to 1.23 million, in 2015, according to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Schools across the country have shut their tackle football programs because of safety concerns and a shortage of players.
Large numbers of children have shifted to other sports like flag football, soccer, baseball and lacrosse.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The new Boston University study looked only at behavioral changes, based on the phone and online surveys.
There was no examination of physical changes in the brain.
(A separate study published by researchers at Boston University in July found that 110 out of 111 brains of deceased former N.F.L.
players had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease.)
Still, the findings are yet more evidence that have contributed to an existential crisis for the game, from youth leagues to the N.F.L.
Pop Warner, the most established youth football organization in the country, has reduced the amount of contact in practice  where the majority of head hits occur  and changed game rules, including banning kickoffs, one of the most dangerous plays in the game.
Jon Butler, the executive director of Pop Warner, said in a statement that the sport has changed significantly for the better since the players in the Boston University study participated decades ago.
He said the organizations medical advisory committee will review the study and compare it against the number of recent studies that contradict these findings.
Pop Warner is facing a class-action lawsuit asserting that it knowingly put players in danger by ignoring the risks of head trauma.
Last year, the Ivy League decided to eliminate tackling at practices during the regular season.
The Canadian Football League made a similar announcement last week.
USA Football, the governing body for the sport, is introducing a 7-on-7 version of football that includes measures, like players starting in a two-point stance, designed to reduce the risk of head hits.
Other groups, like Practice Like the Pros, suggest that only flag football be played through the sixth grade and a limited version of tackle football in 7th and 8th grades.
The curiosity about head injuries and the correct age to play full contact is peaking, said Terry ONeil, the groups founder.
Tackling is the culprit.
Everybody associated with the game is worried about the participation numbers.
Photo

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.
When the Giants were embarrassingly inept in their season-opening loss to the Dallas Cowboys, the glaring lack of offense was blamed on an ankle injury that kept the All-Pro wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. out of the game.
It turns out that even Beckhams vast, distinctive talents can be overestimated.
Beckham returned to the Giants lineup to face the Detroit Lions on Monday night, but he could not make up for another shabby performance by his teams offensive line.
He was unable to make the Giants feeble running game potent.
The Giants still struggled to mount sustained offensive drives.
And Beckham himself looked out of rhythm, which was understandable given his injury layoff.
He had little effect on the game, catching just four passes for 36 yards.
The result was a 24-10 Lions victory here at MetLife Stadium, a defeat that perilously set back the Giants season.
They began the year talked up as a Super Bowl contender, but with an 0-2 record and two difficult road games at the Philadelphia Eagles and Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the next two weeks, the Giants could soon be facing a daunting road to contend for a playoff spot.
Detroits victory, spurred by a swarming defense, improved their record to 2-0.
The Giants never led in the game and barely threatened to rally after the Lions took a commanding two-touchdown lead early in the fourth quarter with Jamal Agnews 88-yard punt return for a touchdown.
The Giants did have opportunities.
Two of their drives in the fourth quarter ended with fourth-down failures.
On the first fourth down, near midfield, the officials initially ruled that Giants running back Shane Vereen had picked up the first down with a three-yard reception.
It might seem chaotic, but it is not.
The proof is in the way the unbeaten Steelers are executing.
Through two weeks, Pittsburgh has allowed just 474 total yards, fifth among teams that have played two full games.
Sure, the Steelers have faced a rookie quarterback making his first N.F.L.
start (DeShone Kizer of Cleveland) and another who got the starting assignment minutes before kickoff (Minnesotas Case Keenum), but the team is confident its success is not a mirage.
Everybody can say the quarterbacks or whatever, but were not really worrying about that, Hargrave said.
Were just going out there, playing, trying to get to the quarterback and stop the run.
They did both on Sunday.
In a 26-9 victory over Minnesota, Pittsburgh chased Keenum around the pocket and limited Dalvin Cook, the Vikings rookie running back, to 64 yards on 12 carries, 25 of them coming on one run in the third quarter that set up Minnesotas only touchdown.
It is telling that the units lone major mistake  and not the other 55 offensive plays Minnesota ran to largely minimal effect  is what stuck with the Steelers.
Just 91 rushing yards?
defensive end Cam Heyward said, referring to the Vikings total on Sunday.
Thats still too much.
Weve got to hold ourselves to a higher standard.
And by that, Heyward meant the one that for so long stood among the gold standards in the N.F.L.
The Steelers finished in the top 10 in yards allowed every season from 2000 to 2012, including five times when they were No.
1 over all.
The precipitous slip began in 2013 as the team lost several important figures who had served as the core of three Super Bowl appearances from 2005 to 2010, including safety Troy Polamalu, defensive end Brett Keisel, cornerback Ike Taylor and the Hall of Fame defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the rebuilding process appears to be nearly complete.
When camp opened, Coach Mike Tomlin chose an interesting word to describe the defense, saying it had the talent to be a dominant group.
For a coach who rarely delves into the big picture, it was a startling pronouncement.
It may also end up being accurate.
T. J. Watt, a rookie outside linebacker and J. J. Watts brother, has been a revelation in two games, picking up two sacks and an interception in the opener and swatting down a pass against Minnesota before leaving with a groin injury.
Anthony Chickillo has done something considered nearly impossible for most of the last 12 years  he moved in front of James Harrison on the depth chart.
Harrison, 39, dressed but did not play against Minnesota, staying on the sideline when Chickillo filled in for the injured Watt.
Chickillo finished with four tackles on defense, another on special teams and a hit on the quarterback.
Harrisons day off is more a sign of Chickillos progress, one mirrored in other parts of the defense.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Defensive back Mike Hilton, who made the team off the practice squad, picked up eight tackles and even found a chance to drill Keenum on a well-designed blitz.
Joe Haden, signed at the end of training camp, had another quiet afternoon.
Burns knocked down a pass and recovered a fumble that effectively sealed the competitive portion of things.
All those splash plays start with word of mouth.
When you have communication from multiple guys, theres less room for error, Heyward said.
There have been few mental mistakes.
A trip to Chicago and another quarterback with problems  Mike Glennon  await.
The Steelers understand it is far too early to start thinking that they are back to their old selves.
Maybe thats because they are just simply not that old.
Defensive back William Gay and defensive end Tyson Alualu were the only starters who were 30 or older against Minnesota.
At the same time, Watt was the only rookie to get a significant number of snaps.
Pittsburghs defense is young but also experienced.
After spending the off-season hearing about how it could be the weak spot compared to the Killer B offense, the reality could prove to be considerably different.
Its one of our big goals this year to be one of the best defenses, Hargrave said.
With both the offense and defense clicking, he added, thats a great combination.
Even if the Yankees had won on Sunday, their chances of catching Boston would have remained slim.
But the loss raised the question of how quickly the team would be able to shake off the effects of Saturdays clincher and return to crisp baseball.
Aaron Judge, for one, did not have trouble with that.
He hit two home runs Sunday that gave him 48 for the season, one shy of the major league rookie record set by Mark McGwire in 1987 with the Oakland Athletics.
Photo

Judges first homer of the day came off Toronto starter Marcus Stroman in the sixth inning with the bases empty, and landed in the second deck beyond left field.
The second, a line drive off Ryan Tepera in the seventh, was a two-run shot to left-center.
I was swinging at the right pitches, Judge said, and thats the biggest thing.
Judge said that he was not thinking about breaking McGwires record, but that if he does it, he hopes it comes during a Yankees win.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Were trying to do something special here, he said.
For Toronto, the blowout win provided a fitting stage for the home fans to say goodbye to Bautista, the slugging right fielder who is not expected to be re-signed by the team after 10 productive seasons here that included six All-Star Game appearances.
He received a standing ovation during each at-bat, and in the top of the ninth Manager John Gibbons replaced Bautista in right field, giving the crowd a moment for a final on-field salute.
Bautista hugged teammates as he left the field and also when he reached the dugout.
Then he re-emerged to wave to the fans one last time.
Bautista has 287 home runs for the Blue Jays and 218 doubles.
He also hit six home runs and drove in 16 runs during 20 playoff games over the last two years.
One of those home runs helped Toronto win the American League wild-card game here last season.
A year later, the Yankees were the ones holding a celebration at Rogers Centre, and it was unusually long and wild.
So much champagne and beer flowed in the visitors clubhouse on Saturday that there were standing puddles on the carpet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In light of that, Girardi said he had been wary of how his team would respond the next day.
You think about it, he said after Sundays loss.
You worry about it a little bit as you go through the emotions of last night and clinching a spot.
Starter Jaime Garcia had a particularly rough day, surrendering five runs and walking three batters in only two and one-third innings.
But he refused to use Saturdays celebration as a way to minimize his culpability.
On my part, there is no excuse, Garcia said.
I totally take the blame for this game.
I take a lot of pride when I take the mound to keep us in the ballgame, and I wasnt able to do that today.
Photo

OAKLAND, Calif.  Bruce Maxwell, a rookie catcher for the Oakland Athletics, on Saturday became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel during the national anthem.
Maxwell, 26, dropped to a knee just outside Oaklands dugout before a game against the Texas Rangers, adopting a protest started by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in response to police treatment of black Americans.
Maxwells teammates stood in a line next to him, and Mark Canha put his right hand on Maxwells shoulder.
The Athletics released a statement on Twitter shortly after the anthem, saying they respect and support all of our players constitutional rights and freedom of expression and pride ourselves on being inclusive.
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games but that we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maxwells gesture came after President Trump denounced anthem protests by N.F.L.
players and rescinded a White House invitation to the N.B.A.s Stephen Curry in a two-day rant that targeted top professional athletes.
Photo

For the first time since April 30, the Mets ace, Noah Syndergaard, took the mound in a major league game on Saturday.
As planned, he pitched just the first inning before giving way to Matt Harvey in a 4-3 loss to the Washington Nationals in 10 innings.
Syndergaard, who has been recovering from a partially torn right latissimus muscle, allowed a hit but threw only five pitches in the scoreless inning.
It was great to see him out there, Manager Terry Collins said.
With a week left in the season, Syndergaard was running out of time to rebuild enough arm strength to start a game for the Mets.
He previously made two minor league rehabilitation starts and threw one simulated game.
His fastball registered 99 miles per hour on the radar gun, normal for Syndergaard, a hard-throwing right-hander.
He gave up a single to Jayson Werth but erased Werth from the bases by getting Daniel Murphy to hit into a double play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One inning is all I needed to get my feet wet and go into the off-season healthy, said Syndergaard, who is expected to make one more start this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He added, I felt like I needed it, because Ive put in so much work over the past five months.
Joe Girardi, the Yankees manager, said that the team would pursue the division title, and that the secondary goal would be retaining home-field advantage for the wild-card game.
Photo

I think its important that we keep our foot on the gas and see where we lie, Girardi said.
You dont want guys to lose that edge that theyve had for so long.
The Yankees were committed this season to a balancing act of rebuilding the team while also trying to win now, and they made it work.
Last year they traded away veteran stars like Andrew Miller and Aroldis Chapman to stock the minor league system with prized prospects, hoping to build toward a prosperous future with a core of talented young players already in place, including Greg Bird, Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez and Luis Severino.
But General Manager Brian Cashman also made moves to fortify the team for this years push.
That included bringing back Chapman as a free agent, signing Matt Holliday and later trading for players like Sonny Gray, Todd Frazier, Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson without surrendering the clubs best young players.
Saturdays victory represented the fruit of those decisions.
Gray allowed one run and four hits in six innings, and Bird hit a three-run home run, his third homer in the last seven games.
Chad Green, Robertson and Chapman combined for three hitless innings in relief, and Frazier cemented the win with a solo home run in the eighth.
All we needed was an invitation, Frazier said, referring to the postseason party.
We got that invitation today.
Girardi credited the postseason berth to virtually everyone in the organization, from the owners and Cashman down to the trainers.
When spring training began in February, the Yankees were not considered a top contender.
Photo

Going into spring training, I wasnt sure, Girardi said.
But coming out of spring training, I felt really good about our team.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Pitcher C. C. Sabathia, another long-serving Yankee, was also optimistic about the teams chances, based on the raw talent he saw from the beginning and on the moves Cashman made to reinforce the roster.
Obviously, the front office knew what they were doing, Sabathia said.
The last time the Yankees were in the postseason was 2015, but Sabathia did not attend the wild-card loss to the Houston Astros because he had admitted himself to a rehabilitation center to deal with alcoholism.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Saturday he stood mostly to the side of the clubhouse and watched the revelry with a huge smile on his face.
It feels good, he said, just to be able to get back in the playoffs, obviously, and be able to help the team.
It feels good.
The party raged on as players and coaches soaked in the moment.
Were getting after it a little bit right now, Frazier said.
Well deserved.
Well be back to business again tomorrow.
Weve still got a division to try and win, too.
This is a good team, and we all know what to do.
INSIDE PITCH

Luis Severino was struck in the upper back with a baseball during batting practice, but he said he was O.K.
An intruder got past stadium security on Friday and into the Yankees clubhouse, but he was caught and arrested after trying to steal a helmet and some baseballs.
With one out in the third inning, Frazier was on second base after a double.
Jacoby Ellsbury lined a ball into right field, and Bautista made one of three fine plays in the game  a leaping grab of the ball over his head.
As Frazier scrambled back to the bag, Bautista threw the ball back in to Goins, the second baseman.
Photo

Goins pretended to casually throw back to Estrada, but actually placed the ball in his glove as Frazier stood on the base, looking toward the outfield.
When Frazier stepped of the base by just inches, Goins tagged him for the final out.
Frazier blamed his lack of concentration for the play.
I thought the ball was thrown in, and it was one of those things, he said.
Nothing you can do about it afterward.
Castro also took the blame for his mistake  failing to catch Fraziers throw in the first inning with a runner coming into second base.
Castro said he had rushed to turn the double play, and missed the ball.
The runner, Teoscar Hernandez, ended up at third and scored on a groundout by Bautista.
Perhaps both of those mistakes could have been overcome if Tanaka had pitched better.
But he gave up a bases-empty homer to Hernandez in the third and a two-run shot by the former Yankee Russell Martin in the fourth, and the Blue Jays led, 4-1.
Then in the sixth, Tanaka walked Bautista as the leadoff batter, just as he had done before Martins homer in the fourth.
Kevin Pillar singled, but Tanaka struck out Martin and Miguel Montero, hinting that he still had the stuff to get safely out of the inning.
Photo

But he walked pinch-hitter Kendrys Morales (he said he was not pitching around him to face Goins) to load the bases.
Goins was 0 for 20 against Tanaka coming into the game and had made two outs already, which is why Girardi left Tanaka in to face him.
But this time was different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Goins rocketed a high slider over Judges head and into the seats beyond right field for his eighth homer of the season.
The only other grand slam of his career came in May.
Tanaka has had a difficult season, and the Yankees have been unable to determine the reason.
Tanaka said that it was a mechanical problem and that he would have to analyze videotape of Fridays outing to determine what flaw had doomed him.
Girardi attributed Tanakas troubles to inconsistency throughout the season with his split-fingered fastball and his slider.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tanaka is 12-12, and his E.R.A.
is 4.94.
He has surrendered seven earned runs in two of his last three starts, and should the Yankees make it to the divisional round of the playoffs, his spot in the rotation could be in doubt.
You look at everything, Girardi said.
But I dont want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
We still havent clinched anything.
We need to win games, and we need to play well.
And tonight we didnt.
The Yankees will have more shots to clinch a playoff berth, but their chances to win the American League East grew smaller as the Red Sox beat the Cincinnati Reds, 5-4, increasing their lead over the Yankees to four games with nine to play.
We are still looking to win the division, Frazier said.
We know we have a really good shot at making the playoffs, of course, but we still have an opportunity to win the division, so I think our mind-set is on that.
Choosing a new manager  perhaps Ausmus, Sandy Alomar Jr., or a former Met like Alex Cora, Joe McEwing or Robin Ventura  is likely to be Aldersons first priority this winter.
An easier decision should be replacing the medical and training staff.
No one can say precisely how many of the Mets injuries could have been anticipated, prevented or minimized.
But the sheer volume of debilitating physical problems to major players demands some kind of accountability.
These Mets might have been flawed in their construction.
But with the injuries, they never had a chance to find out.
Remove Noah Syndergaard, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler, Jeurys Familia, Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto and David Wright, and of course the team flatlined.
Solving the health riddle is Aldersons most important task.
He seems open to ideas.
The injuries are not just an objective fact; there are underlying causes and issues that weve wanted to and have examined in connection with those injuries, Alderson said.
Its not going to happen just at the end of the season.
Its been an ongoing review.
As for his own performance, Alderson said, the players he sought at the trading deadline should show where he went wrong earlier.
In dealing several veterans, Alderson sought one asset most: relievers.
This seasons bullpen was too thin from the start.
I think thats sort of a tacit recognition that, look, we need to get better there, he said.
Alderson was right last winter not to match the Atlanta Braves one-year, $12.5 million offer to Bartolo Colon, who had steadied the Mets rotation for three memorable seasons.
Colon looks finished now.
His 6.63 earned run average, with the Braves and the Minnesota Twins, is the worst in the majors for pitchers with at least 20 starts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the Mets were not as deep in starters as they thought.
By Memorial Day, they had given desperate promotions to Tommy Milone, Adam Wilk and Tyler Pill, who have combined to go 0-7.
Clearly, they need more than just bullpen depth.
We also are going to have to look at the rotation and see whether theres some stabilizing addition we can make that will help us bridge some of the uncertainty that comes from pitchers whove been hurt and are coming back, Alderson said.
Well be in a similar situation next year as we were this year, and hoping for better results  but perhaps planning for the possibility that they dont all come back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With few high-impact starters besides Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish on the free-agent market, the Mets might have to overpay for a reliable mid-rotation arm like Andrew Cashner, Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn or Jason Vargas.
Whomever they pursue, Alderson acknowledged that with so much uncertainty in the rotation, the Mets would have to pay closer attention to defense.
Shortstop Amed Rosario has been a revelation in the field, but can the rest of the lineup bash enough to support Juan Lagares, who has a weak bat but a sterling glove in center field?
When your pitchers arent striking everybody out, as weve had the benefit of in the past, the defense becomes a little more important, Alderson said, adding that there has been a recognition after this year that if were going to have pitching that puts the ball in play a little more, then the defense is going to have to be more of a priority.
If only the Mets had forgiven Daniel Murphy his defensive shortcomings, instead of letting him leave after his slugging led them to the 2015 World Series.
Murphy came back to town this weekend hitting .316 with 22 homers in the second season of a bargain three-year, $37.5 million contract with Washington.
Murphy was out of the lineup Friday, easing into another playoff run.
His Mets replacement, Neil Walker, was traded last month to Milwaukee.
Maybe Murphy will start on Saturday to face his old teammates, Syndergaard and Harvey, who will pitch for the Mets.
Syndergaard has not pitched since April 30 because of a torn right latissimus muscle, and he will work the first inning only.
Harvey, who has been shelled in his return from shoulder trouble, will follow.
Not long ago, they were swaggering superheroes, Thor and the Dark Knight.
Their return will be a bittersweet episode of a failed series.
In the back of your mind, youre saying, If we could have had these guys   Collins said.
But you didnt.
Thats the reality of it all.
You try not to get caught up in what could have been, because it didnt.
Photo

TORONTO  Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier, who hit the foul ball that struck a young girl in the face at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, said he spoke to the girls father on Thursday and had been told that she was recovering well in a hospital.
He said shes doing good, Frazier said before the Yankees played the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday night.
He said the family is really happy that shes O.K.
I think they are going to do a couple more tests over the next few days, and hopefully she can get out of there.
Frazier said the girls father told him not to blame himself, and Frazier said he felt a measure of relief after the conversation.
He added that he planned to check in with the family every day, at least until the girl is discharged from the hospital.
He also said he hoped to meet her soon.
Since the incident, three major league teams have announced that they will extend the protective netting at their parks to the full lengths of the dugouts.
Another team, the Colorado Rockies, said it had already been considering the move.
Ten other teams have already extended their netting.
The Yankees, while expressing concern for the girl in public statements, have not specifically addressed whether they will extend their netting.
Frazier said it was time for all teams to do so immediately, even before the regular season ends on Oct. 1.
I think 2018 is already too late, he said.
They should be up sooner than that.
Eppler propped up his offense on Aug. 31  the last day to add players who could be eligible for the postseason  by trading for outfielder Justin Upton and second baseman Brandon Phillips, adding firepower to a lineup led by the peerless Mike Trout.
But the rotation has stayed in constant flux.
Only one pitcher has thrown 150 innings  Ricky Nolasco, whose earned run average is 5.06.
Elbow trouble cost Garrett Richards five months and ended the seasons of J. C. Ramirez and Alex Meyer.
Another starter, Andrew Heaney, is out with a sore shoulder, and the Angels plan to replace him with a procession of relievers, as they did in a seven-man, tag-team victory on Sept. 15.
Given all that, it is no surprise that the Angels have set a club record for victories by relievers.
Their bullpen has been fairly stable, with five pitchers working at least 55 games.
The staff has been helped greatly by impeccable team defense, which FanGraphs ranked as the second best in the majors, behind only the Boston Red Sox.
We laid the blueprint out in the wintertime, as far as understanding theres a run-producing aspect and a run-prevention aspect, Eppler said.
Lets try to grow the distance between those two variables as great as we can.
The Angels two best defenders, according to FanGraphs, have been shortstop Andrelton Simmons and catcher Martin Maldonado.
Eppler acquired Simmons from Atlanta before last season, and Maldonado from Milwaukee last winter.
Those moves and others might help the Angels squeeze into the playoffs, if they make the most of their remaining games against Houston, Seattle and the Chicago White Sox.
If they make it, the Angels could meet a fitting opponent in the American League wild-card game on Oct. 3  the Yankees.
We benefited from Billys baseball I.Q.
for a long time, like the Angels are now, Cashman said last week.
Im not surprised by any success they have, because they hired the right man, and they will benefit for a long time from that decision.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

An Assist From a Button

Sure, he lacked the balletic grace of Byron Buxton, Kevin Pillar or Andrelton Simmons.
But Nick Pivetta, a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies, might have made the catch of the year during his teams recent four-game series victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
With two outs in the sixth inning on Monday, the Dodgers Austin Barnes smoked a liner back up the middle at 106 miles per hour, too fast for Pivetta to get a glove on it.
Instead, his button-down jersey made the play for him.
Had Pivetta been pitching for the Phillies from 1973 to 1986, when the team wore zipper-front jerseys, this would have been impossible.
But Barness hit nestled inside Pivettas shirt, entering between the buttons, and Pivetta stayed upright.
He reached inside his jersey, found the ball and flipped it behind him as he trotted off the field to end the inning.
Actually, its funny, Pivetta told reporters after the game.
My last game in junior college, on one of the outs, I had a ball similar to that.
I caught it in my stomach.
That one hit my forearm, then my stomach.
So thats the second time it happened to me.
I didnt even see the ball.
Technically, Pivetta needed to throw the ball to first to complete the out.
According to Rule 5.09(a): A catch is the act of a fielder in getting secure possession in his hand or glove of a ball in flight and firmly holding it; providing he does not use his cap, protector, pocket or any other part of his uniform in getting possession.
But the umpires ruled it a catch, the Dodgers did not complain  and it was clearly Pivettas night, anyway.
He has a 6.57 earned run average for the season, but on Monday he beat the three-time Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw to earn his sixth victory.
Stamina in the Bullpen

Few playoff teams have a reliever quite like Chris Devenski of the Houston Astros.
Devenski has thrown 78 and one-third innings in relief this season, more than any other pitcher for a division-leading team.
He could be the Astros answer to Clevelands Andrew Miller as a critical multiple-inning weapon for the playoffs.
Photo

Devenski worked more than one inning 17 times before pitching in the All-Star Game, his first, and he has done so far less often since then, which should keep him rested for October.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Astros acquired Devenski to little fanfare in a 2012 trade with the Chicago White Sox for Brett Myers, a veteran who was pitching his last full season in the majors.
Devenski, who had been drafted in the 25th round the year before, was in low Class A with a 4.23 E.R.A.
I had a lot of failure in the minor leagues, and I always learned something from it, he said this summer.
It helps me become better.
The pitcher I am now, he goes out there and he dominates.
Theres going to be rough times, but thats part of the game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Devenski dominates with a changeup he learned in high school but took many years to perfect.
He recognized the pitch as his ticket to the majors shortly after the trade, when he used it for about 60 percent of his pitches in a 16-strikeout, Class A no-hitter.
Even as his E.R.A.
swelled to 6.60 the next year, Devenski kept faith in the changeup.
I had to just continue to throw it and throw it and throw it, Devenski said.
Its like if youre digging for coal and youve got diamonds on the other side of the coal and you continue to dig and continue to dig.
What if you give up, and you were two inches away from the diamonds?
Its kind of like I did the same thing with my changeup.
I was going to continue to throw this and throw this and throw this until something good came out of it.
I always knew I could develop it into something nasty.
Devenski throws his changeup around 83 miles an hour, and his fastball around 94.
He throws both pitches about 40 percent of the time, and also uses a slider.
It is a rare three-pitch mix for a reliever, but useful for one who may face hitters more than once per game.
Devenski spoke with Miller about their roles at the All-Star Game, and the two could meet again in the playoffs.
Not many teams, if any teams, have what he can do for them right now, his flexibility, his length, Miller said in July.
I dont think anybodys looking forward to facing the Astros for a lot of reasons, but hes certainly part of it.
Near-Miss No-Hitters

The Detroit Tigers Matthew Boyd lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning last Sunday when Tim Anderson of the Chicago White Sox lined a two-out double to right.
That was the sixth time this season that a no-hitter had been broken up in the ninth inning or later, the most in the majors since 1989.
Photo

That season, Kirk McCaskill, John Farrell, Tom Browning, Dave Stieb and Nolan Ryan  twice!
lost no-hitters in the ninth.
Ryan had thrown five of his record seven no-hitters by then, Browning had tossed a perfect game the year before and Stieb would get his no-hitter the next season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This years group has never pitched a no-hitter.
After the Miami Marlins lost a combined no-hitter by Wei-Yin Chen, Brad Ziegler and Kyle Barraclough in April, Atlantas Mike Foltynewicz, Colorados Kyle Freeland, Washingtons Gio Gonzalez, the Los Angeles Dodgers Rich Hill (in the 10th inning) and Boyd joined the list.
Only one pitcher has finished a no-hitter this season: Miamis Edinson Volquez against Arizona on June 3.
Alas, the season did not end happily for Volquez, who two months later underwent Tommy John surgery for the second time in his career.
Speaking of Volquez, 34, how many pitchers have experienced as many extremes as he has?
Besides his no-hitter and surgeries, Volquez has been traded for Josh Hamilton (in 2007); made an All-Star team (2008); served a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs (2010); lost his playoff debut, when Philadelphias Roy Halladay threw a no-hitter against him (2010); started on opening day for three teams (San Diego in 2012 and 2013, Kansas City in 2016, Miami in 2017); started Game 1 of the World Series the day his father died, then started the clincher five days later (in 2015); and in various seasons led his league in earned runs, walks, hit batters and wild pitches.
Advertisement

Baseball Diamonds Arent Forever: Bygone Ballparks of New York Much of the games history can be traced through these five ballparks, which have all been torn down.
When shortstop Don Zimmers throw settled into first baseman Gil Hodgess glove to seal a 2-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates 60 years ago this month, the Dodgers had played their final game in Brooklyn.
With the Dodgers gone from Brooklyn, so was professional baseball at their longtime ballpark, Ebbets Field.
Before long, Ebbets Field was gone, too, one in a series of ballparks that nurtured major league baseball in New York City before succumbing to the wrecking ball.
Five New York ballparks built in baseballs modern era, which began early in the 20th century  Hilltop Park (1903-12), the Polo Grounds (1911-63), Ebbets Field (1913-57), Yankee Stadium (1923-2008) and Shea Stadium (1964-2008)  seeded much of the games history before being torn down.
You can trace that history, and even more than baseball, below.
Image The Brooklyn Dodgers in their heyday at Ebbets Field.
The Dodgers won six National League pennants in their final 11 seasons in the ballpark.
Credit Ernie Sisto/The New York Times

Ebbets Field

First game: April 9, 1913.
Philadelphia Phillies 1, Dodgers 0.
Brooklyn Starts Season a Loser.
Benny Meyer Upsets Game by His Errors  Cold Chills 10,000 Fans.
Advertisement

Last game: Sept. 24, 1957.
Dodgers 2, Pittsburgh Pirates 0.
Dodgers Defeat Pirates in Ebbets Field Finale.
MDevitt Victor on 5-Hitter, 2-0.
Other games: An N.F.L.
team played at Ebbets Field from 1930 to 1944, as the Dodgers (1930-43) and the Tigers (44).
The teams had three winning records in 15 seasons.
The Brooklyn Eagles of the Negro National League played one season there, 1935.
Their owners, Abe and Effa Manley, later owned the star-studded Newark Eagles.
Distinguishing architectural feature: 80-foot-high Italian marble rotunda.
Short porch in right field: 297 feet, although with a high wall and, eventually, a scoreboard and a net.
Left-handed-hitting beneficiary: Duke Snider, 175 home runs at Ebbets Field.
Image Fans waiting at Ebbets Field to buy World Series tickets in 1955, Brooklyns only championship season.
Two years later, the Dodgers left; in 1960, the ballpark was razed.
Credit Neal Boenzi/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Dodgers outfielder, playing at Ebbets Field from its opening season, 1913, through 1917.
The teams were mostly terrible, except for a pennant in 1916.
Dodgers manager, 1934-36.
Those teams were also terrible, compiling a record of 208-251.
Babe Ruth connection: Played two games at Ebbets Field for the Boston Braves in his final season, 1935; went hitless in eight plate appearances.
Coach for the 1938 Dodgers .
Subway World Series: Brooklyn faced the Yankees in 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956.
Wait till next year except in 1955.
Music: The Sym-Phony Band, a group of fans who played in the stands during games.
Sample number: Three Blind Mice for the umpires.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: In 1931 a Gaelic football match was played at night under portable lights, seven years before the first night game there.
Image The distinctively shaped Polo Grounds  like a horseshoe or a bathtub?
was home to three major league baseball teams (Giants, Yankees, Mets) and two professional football teams (Giants, Titans/Jets).
Credit Associated Press

Polo Grounds

First game: June 28, 1911.
Giants 3, Boston Beaneaters 0.
Giants Reopen Polo Grounds and Win : The Times reported that more than 6,000 fans in the half-finished ballpark saw Boston perform its customary daily act of being defeated.
Last game: Sept. 18, 1963: Phillies 5, Mets 1.
Era of Mets Ends at Polo Grounds : The Giants had a last game in 1957 before moving to San Francisco.
Then the Mets had a goodbye ceremony for the Polo Ground s in 1962.
But Shea Stadium was not ready for the 1963 season, so they had one more Polo Grounds farewell.
Advertisement

Other games: The Yankees played at the Polo Grounds from 1913 to 1922.
The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1925 to 1955.
The Titans/Jets of the A.F.L.
played there from 1960 to 1963.
College football, especially Army.
The New York Cubans of the Negro leagues played frequently at the Polo Grounds from 1935 to 1950.
Jack Dempsey was knocked out of the ring there (but climbed back in and knocked out Luis Firpo in the next round).
In the waning years of the Polo Grounds, auto racing was conducted.
Richard Pettys father, Lee, raced there.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Horseshoe or bathtub shape, depending on how you looked at it.
Image Credit

Short porch in right field: 258 feet.
Beneficiaries: Mel Ott (323 home runs at the Polo Grounds).
Babe Ruth (85 home runs in 227 games before Yankee Stadium opened).
Short porch in left field: 279 feet.
Beneficiary: Bobby Thomson, who hit the so-called Shot Heard Round the World in 1951 down the left-field line.
Casey Stengel connection: Giants outfielder, 1921-23.
Mets manager, 1962-63.
Babe Ruth connection: Played there three seasons for the Yankees (1920-22) plus in three World Series (losing the first two, in 1921 and 22, when the Polo Grounds was the home for both teams).
Subway World Series: 1921-23.
Music: A chorus of 1,200 and a full orchestra performed Verdis Requiem in June 1916.
The Times called it impressive and interesting and as delightful as could be expected given the open-air acoustics.
The Giants werent playing because it was a Sunday.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: Polo was never played at this version of the Polo Grounds below Coogans Bluff, only at the original site, on 110th Street, in the 1880s.
Image Babe Ruth scoring a run in his final season with the Yankees, in 1934.
Yankee Stadium was already known as the House That Ruth Built.
Credit Associated Press

Yankee Stadium

First game: April 18, 1923.
Yankees 4, Red Sox 1.
74,200 See Yankees Open New Stadium; Ruth Hits Home Run.
Record Baseball Crowd Cheers as Sluggers Drive Beats Red Sox, 4 to 1.
25,000 Are Turned Away.
Gates to $2,500,000 Arena Are Closed Half an Hour Before Start of Game.
Governor Smith Throws Out First Ball  Shawkey, in Great Form, Allows Only Three Hits : It was the first ballpark to be called a stadium.
Last game: Sept. 21, 2008.
Yankees 7, Orioles 3.
A Long Goodbye to an 85-Year Run 

Other games: The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1956 to 1973.
The Stadium was the site of what came to be called  The Greatest Game Ever Played,  the 1958 championship game between the Giants and the Baltimore Colts.
College football, especially Army-Notre Dame games.
Host to a groundbreaking Negro league baseball doubleheader in 1930, then was the frequent home of the New York Black Yankees for much of the time from 1936 to 1947.
Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali fought major fights there; Alis third bout with Ken Norton was the final fight staged at the Stadium.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Frieze decorating the top of the Stadium.
Short porch in right field: Originally 258 feet, then 295 feet.
Advertisement

Left-handed-hitting beneficiaries: Mickey Mantle (266 home runs, though not all left-handed), Babe Ruth (259) and Lou Gehrig (251).
Image The roofline frieze was such an elemental part of the design of old Yankee Stadium that it was incorporated in the new Stadium.
The Yankees didn't recycle all those pillars, though.
Credit Patrick A. Burns/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Played in the first World Series game there as a member of the Giants in 1923, hitting the game-deciding home run in the top of the ninth.
Yankees manager, 1949-60.
They were terrific, winning 10 pennants and seven World Series in 12 years.
Babe Ruth connection: It was called the House That Ruth Built.
He played there from 1923 to 1934.
Subway World Series: 1923, 1936, 1937 and 1951, against the Giants; 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956, against the Dodgers; and 2000, against the Mets.
11-1 in those Series.
Music: The first concert was a 1969 R&B show hosted by the Isley Brothers.
Later artists included U2 and Billy Joel.
Whats there now: Athletic fields, including three diamonds, adjacent to the new Yankee Stadium.
Fun fact: A year after the evangelist Billy Graham attracted 100,000 people, a Jehovahs Witnesses convention drew more than 123,000 people to the ballpark in 1958.
Many of those outside munched hot dogs as they listened to the speeches over amplifiers, The Times reported.
Image Shea Stadium was home to young fans and other baseball staples  peanut shells on the ground and popcorn in hand.
Credit John Orris/The New York Times

Shea Stadium

First game: April 17, 1964.
Pittsburgh Pirates 4, Mets 3.
Shea Stadium Opens With Big Traffic Jam.
Last game: Sept. 28, 2008.
Florida Marlins 4, Mets 2.
Bitter Repeat on.
Stadiums Final Day 

Other games: The Jets played at Shea from 1964 to 1983, and the Giants joined them for the 1975 season.
The Yankees played there in 1974-75 while Yankee Stadium was being renovated.
So in 1975, Shea was home to two major league baseball teams and two N.F.L.
teams.
Not especially good teams: The Mets were 82-80, the Yankees 83-77, the Jets 3-11 and the Giants 5-9.
Thats an overall 173-177 record.
The teams were 88-85 at Shea.
Distinguishing architectural feature: The big apple in center field.
Image The Mayors Trophy exhibition game at Shea in 1964 reunited Casey Stengel, the former Yankees manager who was then managing the Mets, with two of his old Yankees stars, Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra.
Credit Larry C. Morris/The New York Times

Porch in right field: Not short at all, 338 feet.
Left-handed-hitting victim: Darryl Strawberry (127 home runs at Shea.
With a fence 40 feet closer, how many?).
Advertisement

Casey Stengel connection: Managed the Mets there in 1964-65.
Subway World Series: 2000.
The Yankees won.
Music: The Beatles ushered in the era of arena concerts, playing at Shea on Aug. 15, 1965 , and Aug. 23, 1966.
The Police drew 70,000 there in 1983.
Whats there now: A parking lot for Citi Field.
Fun fact: A dome was proposed for Shea in March 1965, and the citys sports commissioner said it could be ready in 1966.
Turns out, however, that the stadiums foundation could not stand the weight.
Image Hilltop Park in its final season, 1912.
The Highlanders, who became the Yankees, lost 102 games that season and never won a pennant while playing in the ballpark.
Credit George Grantham Bain Collection, via Library of Congress

Hilltop Park

First game: April 30, 1903.
Highlanders 6, Senators 2.
Baseballs Big Crowd.
Auspicious Opening of American League Grounds in This City.
Home Team Won From Washington  New York National League Nine Lost in Philadelphia.
Last game: Oct. 5, 1912.
Yankees 8, Senators 6.
Senators Force Yankees to Win.
With Second Place Safe, Griffith Sends Nick Altrock Into the Box on Hilltop.
Other games: The National League Giants spent two months playing at Hilltop Park after the Polo Grounds burned down before the start of the 1911 season.
Columbia Universitys football team rented the ballpark for its game against Williams on Oct. 8, 1904, forcing the baseball team then known as the Highlanders to relocate a doubleheader to Boston in the heat of a pennant race.
The Highlanders lost both games and also lost the pennant to the Pilgrims (now Red Sox) by one and a half games.
Columbia, however, won the football game .
Image Credit

Distinguishing architectural feature: The ballpark was built on high ground in Washington Heights, thus earning its name.
Distant porch in right field: 400 feet.
Center field was even more unreachable: 542 feet.
Victim: Everyone.
The best Highlanders slugger in that Dead Ball Era: Hal Chase, 20 home runs at Hilltop Park.
Whats there now: Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Fun fact: The ballpark was originally, if briefly, called American League Park.
And The Times called the team the Greater New York Club and the Greater New Yorks on opening day.
They quickly became the Highlanders and before long the Yankees.
That will leave more than a dozen teams with netting that goes beyond Manfreds 2015 recommendation.
More and more, the Twins have company.
From our perspective, it was simply the right thing to do, St. Peter said of the 2016 extension.
Im happy to report, over time, theres no doubt in my mind our nets here have prevented some injuries.
Its hard to quantify just how many.
Mostly batted balls, but sometimes even bats that sometimes fly out of batters hands.
The Twins allowed season ticket-holders to check out the sight lines behind the new netting before the 2016 season and to request a seat relocation if they found the view unacceptable.
St. Peter said roughly 10 customers took the Twins up on the offer.
For our season-ticket base, netting is part of their new reality, he said.
Target Field was built on a tight, eight-acre parcel, bordered by two bridges, an interstate highway and a garbage incinerator.
Railroad tracks had to be relocated.
The close quarters gave Target Field, which opened in 2010, an intimate feel.
But it also left fans closer to hard-hit foul balls.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
St. Peter said the club was discussing whether to add even more netting.
The Mets added netting this summer at Citi Field that stretches halfway into the outfield, and St. Peter wouldnt rule out some clubs eventually deciding to run netting all the way to the foul poles.
I think over time youre going to see more netting across the industry, with hopes of doing everything we can to prevent the types of injury that took place yesterday, St. Peter said.
We still have injuries in our ballpark and weve added more netting.
It isnt a perfect system.
Thats why its something we always need to continually evaluate and find ways to get better.
I have to tell you, he added, were not married to our current net configuration.
We expect over time it will probably grow.
St. Peter also noted that he had watched video replays of Wednesdays incident and had been shaken by what he witnessed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yankee Stadium has netting that only runs to the beginning of each dugout.
If it ran the length of the dugouts, as it does at Target Field, the line drive that struck the girl would have almost certainly been deflected away.
On Thursday, Manfred that in light of Wednesdays incident, baseball would redouble its efforts to get more teams to add protective netting in their ballparks.
He also said he was encouraged by the number of conversations his office had with various clubs on Thursday about installing more netting.
So a trend the Twins began may be gathering more momentum.
This summer, they stretched the netting at Citi Field halfway into the outfield.
In response, Trost offered what amounted to a verbal shrug.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, he said of any additional netting at Yankee Stadium beyond what Manfred had asked for.
Trosts statement certainly suggested that the Yankees were as mindful of their high-paying fans who didnt want extra screens interfering with their views as they were with keeping everyone safe.
At that time, in late July, Trost said that the Yankees were consulting with the architectural firm that built their stadium about the feasibility of installing extra netting.
He said the Yankees would think about it and study it and look at it.
We dont think this is a three-day job, he said.
Well, then, is it a 60-day job?
Because thats about how long it has been since Trost made that statement.
I bet it could be a three-hour job if that little girl in the stands on Wednesday night was your child.
Yes, the Yankees also put a statement on their website in early August saying that they were seriously exploring additional netting, but they have said little on the matter since then.
On Thursday, they issued a statement saying their thoughts and prayers were with the injured girl and that they were in contact with her family.
But thoughts and prayers are not enough.
Meanwhile, across town, the Mets look like champions for extending their netting and doing so proactively before something awful happened.
After all, safety changes in sports almost always seem to happen only after disasters happen.
It was only when a 13-year-old girl was killed by a flying puck at an N.H.L.
game in 2002 that the league called for mandatory netting to be installed at both ends of the rink.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So now the question is what it will take for Major League Baseball to make every team do what some teams already have and extend the protective netting even more.
Youd figure that a toddler getting hit in the face would be the tipping point and there were signs on Thursday that maybe it will be, with three teams  Cincinnati, Seattle, San Diego  all saying they would extend the netting now in their ballparks.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It is worth remembering in all this that, for decades, there have been harrowing incidents at baseball games in which fans were injured.
In 1970, a 14-year-old boy was killed by a foul ball at Dodgers Stadium.
Many years and many injuries later, a Red Sox fan in 2015 was hit with a broken bat at Fenway Park and suffered serious injuries.
Following the Fenway incident, Manfred stated that the sports first and foremost concern remains the safety of our fans.
He also noted that the issue was complicated, since some fans want to sit close to the field.
And when Manfred subsequently made the suggestion to all 30 teams that they add some additional netting, he cited another complication  that each stadium is designed differently.
These complications all have the feel of an excuse.
And in the end, safety issues never go away.
Consider what Nascar has been through.
For years, Nascar officials and racetrack owners have struggled to balance fan safety with the desire of some to sit as close as possible to the track.
In 2013, in what certainly wasnt the first big crash at Daytona International Speedway that injured spectators, more than 30 fans were hurt when debris flew into the stands.
One of the injured fans said he suffered a traumatic brain injury, and this year finally settled a lawsuit with Nascar.
After that 2013 crash, the speedway was renovated.
Its website touted that the front row will be moved up 12 feet to improve trackside views.
Unsaid, likely on purpose: to improve the chance you wont be hit by a flying tire.
No sport wants to acknowledge that its fans arent safe.
What it should acknowledge is its duty to do everything in its power to keep them safe.
And thats where baseball should find itself right now.
On Thursday, Manfred took note of Wednesdays incident in a statement and said that baseball officials would redouble our efforts on this important issue, although how much pressure he will ultimately apply on reluctant teams is unclear.
He did tell reporters on Thursday night in San Diego that he was encouraged by how many conversations his office was now having with teams about adding more netting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Players know putting in more netting is the right thing to do.
Many, including the Yankees C. C. Sabathia, say they wont let their families sit in the stands without netting in front of them.
Theyve called for ballparks to be safer for fans.
If you saw the look on Todd Fraziers face on Wednesday after his line drive hit the little girl, you would know why.
Frazier, who has two children who are younger than 3, crouched.
He rested his head on his bat.
He looked like he was about to cry.
Its time for teams, all the teams, to have those human emotions, too  and act on them.
Its called doing the right thing.
Photo

MIAMI  Giancarlo Stanton hit his 56th homer, the most in the major leagues, and drove in three runs as the Miami Marlins completed a three-game sweep of the Mets with a 9-2 victory on Wednesday.
Stanton connected in the eighth inning for his 30th home run since the All-Star break.
It was his 35th career homer against the Mets, including eight this year.
He kills us.
He literally kills us, Mets Manager Terry Collins said.
You cant hang stuff.
We had him down and away all series long when we made pitches.
When you make mistakes on the plate, he kills you, and he did today.
Stanton also hit a run-scoring single, giving him 120 R.B.I.
on the season.
He made a fine catch, too, against the right-field fence to rob Asdrubal Cabrera.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A. J. Ellis and Miguel Rojas hit back-to-back homers off Mets reliever Erik Goeddel to start the eighth.
With one out, Stanton pulled a breaking pitch over the left-field fence for a two-run homer.
Under the prodding of Commissioner Rob Manfred in 2015, all 30 teams agreed to extend the traditional protective netting behind home plate to at least the inner edge of both dugouts.
About a third of the teams have extended the netting further, to at least the far end of the dugout, and the Mets added netting even beyond that.
However, the Yankees have yet to expand their nets, although they did issue a statement in August that said they were seriously exploring that option.
Photo

If Yankee Stadium had netting in place that did stretch to the far end of the third-base dugout, Fraziers line drive, in all likelihood, would not have reached the stands.
As a result, Wednesdays incident will almost certainly increase pressure on the Yankees to act quickly to make their netting longer.
New York City Councilman Rafael Espinal, who introduced legislation in May to require all New York City baseball stadiums to have protective netting all the way to the foul poles, said after Wednesdays episode that he would hold a public hearing on the issue on Oct. 25.
I commend the Mets for stepping to the plate and leading the country by extending their netting farther than any other team, Espinal said in a statement.
We have been waiting to hear from the Yankees on their plans on how they will move forward and urge them to let the public know as soon as possible where they stand.
According to a Yankee Stadium paramedic, who was not authorized to publicly discuss fan injuries, the girl appeared to have been struck by the ball in the nose and right eye and was bleeding when she was carried by her grandfather to a first aid station behind the stands.
That was a screaming line drive, said Tom Barton, a fan from San Francisco who said he was seated three rows behind the girl.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I just wanted to cry for this little kid, he added.
There was so much blood.
Steve Beattie, who lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, said he was sitting about eight rows behind the girl and described what he witnessed as brutal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

According to the stadium scoreboard, the ball left Fraziers bat at 106 miles per hour.
It was terrible, Frazier said afterward.
It was something I wish had never happened.
Very unlucky, man.
I have two kids under 3 years old and I thought of them.
I just hope shes all right.
Frazier and his teammates Chase Headley, Brett Gardner and C. C. Sabathia were in agreement that protective netting needed to be extended at Yankee Stadium, echoing statements that Mets players made after the Citi Field netting was expanded.
Photo

I feel like we need to get the net, said Sabathia, who said he insists his own children sit behind netting whenever they come to a game.
I think every ballpark should have it.
Twins second baseman Brian Dozier said he cried when he saw the girl get hit.
I still have a knot in my stomach, he said.
Every stadium needs to have nets.
I dont care about the damn view of the fan.
Its all about safety.
Back in late July, after the Mets used the All-Star Game break to extend their protective netting about halfway into the outfield, the Yankees were asked for their reaction.
Lonn Trost, the teams chief operating officer and general counsel, responded by saying the Yankees had begun talking to the Yankee Stadium architects about the feasibility of more netting.
But he also noted that he received complaints from some fans who sit in box seats and who would have their views affected by additional netting.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, Trost said.
Not long after Trost made that comment, a fan at Yankee Stadium was hit in the head by a foul ball off the bat of Aaron Judge.
And, coincidence or not, the Yankees a short while later published a statement on their website saying they were looking closely at a netting extension.
The third incident at Yankee Stadium this season occurred in May, when the barrel of a shattered bat struck a boy sitting about six rows from the field, just past the third-base dugout.
He was taken from the stands holding a towel to his forehead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trost did not respond to request for comments after Wednesdays incident.
The Yankees issued a statement noting the girl had been given first aid at the stadium and then taken to an area hospital.
The team said federal patient privacy laws prevented them from providing more information.
So after Matz missed the first two months of the 2017 season with what the Mets described as elbow inflammation, it seemed like more of the same.
Still, the Mets did not express concern that there was something seriously wrong with his arm.
Matz said team doctors told him the inflammation might have been a side effect from the bone spur surgery the previous fall, and they prescribed rest and platelet-rich plasma injections.
Matz then returned to the rotation in early June and pitched fairly well in his first five starts.
But he then began to pitch less effectively, his earned run average ballooned, and by the second half of August, the Mets medical staff decided to take another look.
This time, on Aug. 21, they concluded that he had ulnar nerve irritation in his elbow.
Two days later, Matz underwent surgery to reposition the nerve  the same operation Jacob deGrom underwent last fall and from which he has made a successful comeback this season.
Matz said in a recent interview that he was glad the teams medical staff had figured out this issue, and took heart in the notion that he, like deGrom, would recover well.
Still, questions linger, particularly in a lost season in which so much has gone wrong for the Mets on the injury front.
Isnt it reasonable to think the ulnar nerve issue was bothering Matz for some time?
If so, could the problem have been detected sooner?
Should Matz have been pitching at all from June to August, if, as he later admitted, he was dealing with discomfort off and on that began in spring training?
Photo

These are, of course, the kinds of questions the Mets have been confronted with as other players, like Noah Syndergaard and Yoenis Cespedes, ended up with their seasons derailed.
And the questions are never easily answered.
Sandy Alderson, the Mets general manager, declined to talk about the way Matzs case unfolded.
But what is known is that only after it was announced that he would undergo surgery for the ulnar nerve problem was it revealed that he had been skipping numerous bullpen sessions between starts this season.
And that he was limiting the use of a secondary pitch, a slider, in hopes of lessening the strain on his troublesome elbow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if that was the case, was he healthy enough to pitch in the first place?
Ultimately, it was my decision, Matz said recently in an interview when asked about the 13 starts he made this season before he was shut down.
I wanted to go out there and pitch because Im so sick of being on the D.L.
And I did everything I could.
Matzs frequent injuries have frustrated some within the Mets organization, something Matz is no doubt aware of.
He tries to keep himself in top physical shape and seems careful about what he puts in his body.
For instance, when his bone spur was discovered early last season, he resisted taking anti-inflammatory medicine.
And this season, Matz said he received only a couple of shots of the anti-inflammatory drug Toradol for his balky elbow.
Some guys take it more, he said.
It definitely helps.
Matz said that when he did pitch this season he felt more discomfort between starts than when on the mound, when adrenaline kicked in.
His average fastball velocity was 93.1 miles per hour, similar to last years average of 93.6.
As Matzs pitching deteriorated this summer, he tried to push through the pain, in part because the diagnosis he received in spring training concluded that there was no structural damage to his elbow.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In my mind, he said, Im like: The M.R.I.
is clean, so this is something Im going to have to deal with.
I either have an arthritic elbow or whatever it is, but Im going to have to get past it.
Last season, after the Mets assured him he would not do additional damage to his elbow by pitching through the bone spur, surgery was pushed off until a shoulder injury short-circuited his season.
This time around, with his elbow barking, he took the same approach.
He said his elbow felt better on some days than on others.
He could extend his elbow as far as it could go, but he said it bothered him a little bit to twist his arm properly, which was perhaps affecting the movement and location of his pitches.
Even that admission, during the interview, took a bit of prodding.
Like most players, Matz is competitive and had convinced himself that discomfort was inevitable as a pitcher.
Photo

I definitely respect him for trying, deGrom said.
Youre not going to feel good every time you go out there  its a lot of games and a lot of pitches  even when there is nothing wrong.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We knew all along that it was irritating and he was unable to do his bullpens most of the time, Dan Warthen, the Mets pitching coach, said.
He wanted to pitch through it.
Doctors kept saying that physically it was O.K.
and there was nothing wrong in there; it was just an irritation.
We werent going to shut him down unless he wanted to.
Matz, meanwhile, denied that he received any pressure from the Mets to stay on the mound this season.
I didnt feel any pressure from the team, he said.
Did I feel pressure from myself?
I want to be out there competing and pitching.
But after he allowed six earned runs over three and a third innings against the Yankees on Aug. 17, Matz said that he decided it was time to see a doctor again.
He had developed a hunch that he might be dealing with the same problem  the ulnar nerve  that had afflicted deGrom and Mets reliever Erik Goeddel.
In this instance, Matz received a computed tomography examination that involved numbing the nerve with an anesthetic.
Once that happened, he said, the pain was almost instantly gone.
One reason Matz thinks his ulnar nerve issue was not detected sooner, assuming it could have been, was that he was not experiencing telltale symptoms.
The doctor said the symptoms I was getting were nontypical for nerve problems, Matz said.
I had no tingling or numbness.
In deGroms case, his ulnar nerve irritation started as tingling in his fingers before it became sharp pain.
DeGroms performance tailed off near the end of his 2016 season, just before he had the surgery.
Now the Mets can only hope Matz recovers as well from this surgery as deGrom did, because their pitching staff, which has one of the worst earned run averages in baseball, is in serious need of rehabilitation.
Syndergaard has yet to return from his early-season latissimus tear.
Matt Harveys return from his latest injury setback has been marked by ugly outings that have been demoralizing for both him and the team.
Zack Wheeler last pitched in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And then there is Matz, with his repositioned ulnar nerve.
Maybe he can help in 2018, after he first files away 2017 as a season to forget.
This edition of the Twins, with its young and unheralded roster, has exceeded the expectations of its own front office, which dealt away several veterans in late July, to remain in playoff contention.
But they have hardly looked the part in two games here, being limited to one run in five and two-thirds innings on Monday by Jamie Garcia  whom the Twins traded to the Yankees earlier this summer  and then seeing their deficiencies repeatedly exposed on Tuesday in a game that was delayed by an hour because of rain.
A wild pitch by Minnesota reliever Alan Busenitz in the fourth inning led to a run, and first baseman Joe Mauer misplayed a two-out grounder in the fifth that allowed another.
The Yankees ran repeatedly on right fielder Max Kepler, and three Yankees who scored reached base via a walk or getting hit by a pitch.
When the Twins had an early chance to assert themselves, loading the bases in the first inning with none out against Sabathia with two bunt singles and a base hit, they wilted.
Eduardo Escobar grounded into a double play, scoring one run, but the Twins got no more after Byron Buxton tapped one back to Sabathia.
Kepler provided Minnesotas only other run with a third-inning homer into the right-field seats that put the Twins ahead by 2-1.
The Yankees, who had a steady parade of base runners, were hardly opportunistic  they left 14 runners on base  but on this night they did not need to be.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They jumped in front for good in the fourth.
Jacoby Ellsbury sliced a double into the left-field corner and, after Jose Berrios struck out Todd Frazier, he walked Greg Bird on a nine-pitch at-bat.
Gardner followed with a single, scoring Ellsbury to tie the score and chase Berrios.
Busenitz then bounced a pitch to Aaron Judge, allowing both runners to move up, which put Bird in position to score  which he did on Judges fly ball to right.
It gave the Yankees a 3-2 lead, which Sabathia, Chad Green, David Robertson and Aroldis Chapman carried to the finish line.
A sign of the Yankees conflicting priorities came before the game, when Manager Joe Girardi reversed course and announced that his ace, Luis Severino, would take his regular turn in the rotation on Wednesday in the series finale against the Twins instead of pitching Friday at Toronto, which Girardi had initially decided to do earlier in the week.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That gives the Yankees the option of using Severino on the final day of the regular season  if they have a chance of finishing ahead of the Red Sox.
That possibility grew a little more dim on Tuesday when the Red Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles, 1-0, in 11 innings.
It was the Red Soxs third extra-innings victory in the last five days.
While the Yankees have won five of their last six games, they have gained no ground on the Red Sox, who they do not play again in the regular season.
I think everybody knows the situation, Green said.
We obviously know theyre going to have to lose games and were going to have win, but we can only control what we do.
When the Red Sox won in extra innings on Friday and on Monday, the Yankees returned to the clubhouse TVs to watch after they had won their game.
With their game running late on Tuesday because of the rain delay, the Yankees kept an eye on the scoreboard.
It stinks.
Its terrible, said Frazier after pulling in vain for the Orioles.
You see it  oh, God almighty, find a way to win.
But thats what happens when you need help.
Sometimes you dont get it.
Its tough to watch.
You cant really rely on hope sometimes.
The feats have come with startling regularity.
On Sept. 12, the Minnesota Twins became the first team ever to homer in each of the first seven innings of a game.
On June 24, three Oakland Athletics rookies  Franklin Barreto, Jaycob Brugman and Matt Olson  became the first trio of teammates in more than a century to each hit their first major league homers in the same game.
And 108 players have hit at least 20 home runs, close to last seasons record of 111.
I still think hitting 20 home runs is a big feat, to be honest with you, said the Yankees Todd Frazier, who has 26.
I dont care if theres a lot of guys doing it, its awesome.
Its pretty neat, man, from a hitters standpoint.
We love home runs.
The trend has been well-documented: More and more hitters are tailoring their swings to hit fly balls, which have a much better chance to go for extra bases than ground balls.
More slugging means more run production, which helps the players team  and, usually, his earning power.
The spike in home runs has happened relatively quickly.
Baseball last expanded in 1998, and starting that year there were at least 5,000 home runs every year for nine seasons.
But in the next nine seasons, through 2015, only one featured at least 5,000 homers.
The low point in the last two decades was 2014, when just 4,186 home runs were hit.
The total climbed to 4,909 in 2015, then 5,610 last year, making for a curious trend line.
An undetected, large-scale increase in performance-enhancing drug use could still be an explanation for the current surge in home runs, but the stricter testing and penalties in place would argue against that notion.
If you want to use the 2000 analogy, we know what was going on there, said the broadcaster Al Leiter, an All-Star left-hander for the Mets in 2000 who neutralized power hitters with inside cutters, keeping opponents from extending their arms at the plate.
The assumption now is that steroid testing is legit, and its working, so a lot of it has to do with approach, Leiter added.
You dont see two-strike approaches anymore.
Guys dont care if they strike out, and its basically turn and burn.
It used to be turn and burn for three or four guys in the lineup.
Now its seven.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Leiter, who calls games for the YES Network and works as an analyst for the MLB Network, said too many players who should be hitting eight to 10 homers per season were now hitting 15 to 20.
Bert Blyleven, the Hall of Fame pitcher and Twins broadcaster, echoed Leiter, saying that even bottom-of-the-order hitters are willing to risk strikeouts for the chance to go deep.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But, Blyleven added, the problem really starts on the mound.
I would have to say the bottom line is the lack of quality pitching, he said.
We see a lot of it.
A lot of guys come up so quick, all they do is throw as hard as they can.
I dont care how hard they throw, if the balls right there, these guys are going to hit it.
As for the balls themselves, Major League Baseball has said repeatedly that extensive testing has shown them to conform to normal specifications.
But if the balls are wound tighter  even within an acceptable range  they could be harder, with lower seams, and less prone to resistance when airborne.
Theories abound, said Twins Manager Paul Molitor, a Hall of Famer who had 3,319 hits but just one season with at least 20 home runs.
Baseball, bats, velocity  in some ways its tougher, but in some ways it provides some of the power  and Im not sure which one has the most merit.
I do see that the ball seems to soar, from people that are hitting it farther than maybe they did a year ago, and they kind of look like the same person.
For me, theres something in there.
Whatever the cause, there is little doubt that modern hitters have noticed the rapid transformation of some of their peers.
Hitters like Martinez, Josh Donaldson, Daniel Murphy and Justin Turner have all made a dedicated effort in recent years to hit more balls in the air.
Data on launch angles and exit velocity is readily available to show the precise bat path needed to hit a ball hard and far.
Rhys Hoskins, a rookie for the Philadelphia Phillies, recently belted his 18th home run in just his 34th career game  by far the fastest anyone has ever reached 18 homers.
When Hoskins was in the low minors, he added a leg kick as a timing mechanism that helped him hit balls far over the infield.
At 6 feet 4 inches and 225 pounds, he said, he will not leg out many infield hits.
Theres not a lot of hits on the ground here, especially for a guy like me, Hoskins said recently.
So I think, to maximize success, youve got to hit the ball in the gaps.
In the gaps is a good start.
Over the gaps and the fences is where the game has gone, at an unprecedented pace.
But is it good for the sport?
Well, people do like home runs, because thats exciting, Leiter said.
But I dont know how exciting it is to watch a combined 18 to 20 strikeouts a game between the two teams, and theres four home runs and nine combined hits.
I dont know how exciting that is.
An all-or-nothing game becomes largely a feat of strength, often at the expense of daring baserunning, acrobatic fielding and a faster pace of action.
Leiter has boundless enthusiasm for his sport; at 51, he is far from an old crank pining for days gone by.
But the home run binge has left him somewhat resigned to the sports new reality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trust me, Im a fan of the game, Leiter said.
But I dont know how, if and ever, its going to change.
The only thing Ive gotten use to, Suzuki told reporters recently when asked about pinch-hitting, is that I dont think Ill ever get used to it.
Even so, Suzuki has dedicated himself to creating a routine that gives him the best chance to excel.
Menechino noted that many pinch-hitters start warming up later in the game, but Suzuki has adopted a different habit.
He hits in the indoor cage in the first and third innings, Menechino said.
No one else does that.
Early on, I had to write it on my hand, bottom of the third, because I would get caught up in something else and before I knew it, Id forgotten to meet him in the cage.
By starting early, he knows hell never get caught with his pants down.
Suzuki is not the hitter he once was  he was hitting .265 on the season going into Tuesday nights game in Miami against the Mets  and his large number of pinch-hits this season are, in part, a reflection of the fact he has been put in that role so often by Marlins Manager Don Mattingly.
Hes easy to use, Mattingly said before Tuesdays game.
You always feel hes going to give you a quality at-bat.
Going into Tuesdays game, Suzuki had 100 plate appearances as a pinch-hitter this season, and 91 actual at-bats.
Both are major league records, with two former Mets (Rusty Staub, 94 plate appearances in 1983, and Lenny Harris, 83 at-bats in 2001) holding those marks until now.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The 26 hits Suzuki has in those 91 at-bats translates into a solid .286 average and includes three doubles and a home run.
Back in 1995, Van der Wal got his 28 hits in 72 at-bats, for a dazzling .389 average.
Van der Wal was 29 when he pulled off his feat, 14 years younger than Suzuki.
The pinch hits that Suzuki has compiled this season are not his only statistical achievement.
On Sept. 8 in Atlanta, a Suzuki single was the 2,500th of his major league career.
Afterward, one of his teammates, Dee Gordon expressed his amazement when told what Suzuki had done.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Are you kidding me?
Gordon exclaimed.
I cant believe that.
Ichis amazing.
To me, as a similar leadoff-type hitter, 2,500 singles is incredible because I understand how difficult that is to do.
2,500 singles?
Thats crazy.
Most guys cant even dream of getting that many hits of any kind in a whole career.
Indeed, just 100 players in history have recorded at least 2,500 total hits and Suzuki is now just the sixth player to hit that many singles.
The Yankees Derek Jeter was the last player to do it, in 2014.
He finished his career with 2,595, joining Pete Rose (3,215), Ty Cobb (3,053), Eddie Collins (2,643), and Willie Keeler (2,513) in that group.
With home runs on the rise in baseball and sluggers like Giancarlo Stanton and Aaron Judge capturing huge amounts of attention, the fact that Suzuki has reached the 2,500 mark for singles is not exactly a major headline.
Still, there are plenty of baseball people who appreciate the art of the single and one of them, Don Sutton, the Hall of Fame pitcher and Atlanta Braves radio broadcaster, extolled Suzuki.
Were in an era of the home run and there is no shame in falling down on your butt swinging away trying to get one, Sutton said.
If Ichiro had a big ego, do you think hed be happy having 2,500 singles?
No, hed want 500 homers.
Thats why I say its not just fantastic hand-eye coordination, but its also the ability to be content with a less sexy, but tremendously important, result.
If things go Suzukis way in the final two weeks of the season, perhaps a couple of singles off his bat will come as pinch-hits, giving him one more record.
He is making $2 million this season with the Marlins and the team has a $2 million option to keep him in a Miami uniform in 2018.
Suzuki, for his part, has given no indication he is about to retire.
Somewhere in the major leagues, Miami or elsewhere, more singles and pinch-hits probably await.
Second-place Miami is 10 games under .500, and Atlanta and the Mets are worse.
The Phillies, at 59-91, are the second-worst team in baseball.
The last team to win a division by at least 20 games was the 2008 Los Angeles Angels.
It has happened four other times in the six-division era: the 1999 Indians, 1998 Yankees and the 1995 Braves and Indians.
Two of these five teams, the Yankees and Braves, won the World Series.
Four of the five won their division the next year as well.
Most of them also benefited from playing in a division with no other winning teams.
The exception was the 1998 Yankees.
The Red Sox were 92-70 that season and won the wild card.
But the Yankees were 114-48, the most wins in more than 90 years.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That 1995 Indians team deserves special mention.
While most of these teams won their titles by 20, 21 or 22 games, the Indians managed to take their title by a mind-boggling 30 games, a record.
Their 100-44 record in a strike-shortened schedule trounced runner-up Kansas Citys 70-74 mark.
In the four-division era it was even harder to win by 20 games.
Only three teams did  the 1986 Mets, 1983 Chicago White Sox and 1975 Cincinnati Reds.
Before the leagues broke into divisions in 1969, as you might expect, romping to a 20-game victory was extraordinarily difficult.
Even Babe Ruths Yankees couldnt do it.
(The 1927 team, sometimes cited as the best in history, won by 19 games.)
But two teams somehow did.
The 1902 Pirates finished 27 games ahead of the Brooklyn Superbas.
Perhaps this outstanding team is not remembered because the World Series did not start until next year.
The 1906 Chicago Cubs are usually remembered for their 116-36 record, the best in history.
The New York Giants, in second place, were a more-than-respectable 96-56 and finished 20 games out.
And honorable mention goes to the 1884 St. Louis Maroons of the Union Association, which is considered by some to be a major league.
A dazzling 94-19 record gave them a 21-game margin over the Cincinnati Outlaw Reds.
The league went out of business after a year, and the Maroons moved to the National League, but didnt fare well there, finishing last.
And who was on the mound for the Yankees?
Why, Garcia, of course, looking to deal a blow to his former team  and perhaps win the confidence of his current manager along the way.
Asked before the game if he thought facing the Twins might give Garcia extra motivation, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said: I sure hope so.
I think thats an interesting twist to this.
And if there had been any regret on the part of Minnesota for prematurely trading away Garcia, his performance Monday night probably intensified it.
Although he was again deprived of a victory  that went to David Robertson, who came in to get the final out of the sixth inning and pitch a clean seventh  Garcia pitched effectively in the Yankees 2-1 win in the first game of an important three-game series at Yankee Stadium.
Jaime was just fabulous, an outstanding start on his part, Girardi said after the game.
Just last week, Garcia was visibly angered when Girardi removed him in the fifth inning of a game against the Tampa Bay Rays at Citi Field, depriving him of the chance to get his first win since that July 28 victory over the Athletics as a Twin.
But on Monday night, he left the Yankee Stadium mound with his head up, having delivered five and two-thirds innings of quality pitching.
The game was tied at 1-1 at the time, but the single that Garcia allowed to Joe Mauer just before leaving the game was only the Twins fourth hit of the game.
However, unlike last week, when he avoided making eye contact with Girardi while muttering to himself, Garcia nodded to Girardi, calmly handed the ball over and strode off the field to a warm ovation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Garcias outing was notable, too, for the nine strikeouts he notched, including five in the first two innings.
After he departed in the bottom of the sixth, the Yankees scratched out a run on singles from Chase Headley and Starlin Castro and a sacrifice fly by Todd Frazier.
That was enough for the victory.
It gave the Yankees a five-game cushion ahead of the Twins in the wild-card race and moved the Yankees to within two and a half games of the American League East-leading Boston Red Sox, pending the outcome of their game against the Orioles in Baltimore late Monday.
I didnt get to know Jaime all that well, Twins Manager Paul Molitor said before the game.
Its just one of those things; I dont know if Ive ever been part of something so short-lived.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Garcia baffled the Twins with his slider, which accounted for seven strikeouts, and probably kept himself in the game by inducing Twins catcher Jason Castro to rap into a double play to end the fifth.
The Yankees had to weather a white-knuckle eighth inning in which reliever Dellin Betances once again struggled with his control, loading the bases on a hit batter and two walks.
Girardi replaced him with Aroldis Chapman, who quelled the threat with four pitches, all more than 100 miles per hour  a three-pitch strikeout of Mauer and a first-pitch fly ball by Byron Buxton.
Chapman then pitched a perfect ninth inning to earn his 19th save of the season.
I wish I had his arm, Robertson said of Chapman.
Its unfair what he throws.
Throwing like that and getting five outs, that could be a game-changer come playoff time.
Although Girardi maintained that he trusted Garcia, and said there were no lingering resentments from his quick hook last Wednesday in Flushing, he got his bullpen up early on Monday.
Chad Green began warming up when Garcia allowed two singles to start the fifth and Robertson quickly got ready to go into the game after Ehire Adrianza led off the sixth by lining out hard to Brett Gardner in left.
The Yankees had taken a 1-0 lead on a solo home run by Aaron Judge off Twins starter Ervin Santana in the first inning.
It was Judges 44th homer of the season, which not only leads the American League but is the most hit by a Yankee in a single season since Alex Rodriguez hit 54 in 2007, when he won his third Most Valuable Player Award.
The Twins tied it in the fifth, partly because of Judges error in right field.
His misplay of Eduardo Escobars single allowed Eddie Rosario, who had led off with a single, to advance to third, from where he scored on Robbie Grossmans groundout.
Cashman could not find a match with the Diamondbacks to work out a trade but wondered if another team could.
That August, Shane Greene, then a rookie right-hander with the Yankees, had thrown two gems against the powerful Detroit Tigers, allowing two runs in 15 innings.
Cashman told Dave Dombrowski, then the Tigers general manager, that he would give him Greene if Dombrowski could get Gregorius.
Dombrowski has a reputation for quick, decisive action, and he came through within two days, trading pitcher Robbie Ray and an infield prospect to Arizona for Gregorius, and flipping Gregorius to the Yankees for Greene.
Ray is now an All-Star for the Diamondbacks, and Greene is closing for the rebuilding Tigers after fizzling as a starter.
At the time, I felt like we were pitching-deficient, and we were depleting one area of need to shore up another area of need, Cashman said.
It was a difficult decision.
I was so desperate for a shortstop, I had to step up and put an important piece on the table to get it done.
Cashman said he remembered the wisdom of front-office mentors like Gene Michael, Bill Livesey and Brian Sabean, who had always emphasized the importance of strength up the middle  catcher, shortstop, second base and center field.
He insisted he liked Greene despite his ordinary minor league track record, but he prioritized the everyday player.
The deal looks like a heist, because Gregorius, now 27, has developed into a worthy heir to Jeter.
On Sunday he matched Jeters club record for homers by a shortstop (Jeter hit his 24 in 1999) and only one major league shortstop, Clevelands Francisco Lindor, has hit more homers this season.
Gregorius is also hitting .292 with 81 R.B.I.
after going 0 for 4 on Monday.
Photo

Just hitting line drives, thats all Im trying to do, said Gregorius, who hit 20 homers last season.
Im not trying to do anything different, just trying to be the same player.
Im just working on my swing, trying to make it shorter and quicker and stronger.
Gregoriuss minor league high in homers was seven, which he did twice in the Cincinnati Reds system.
He signed with the Reds out of Curaao for $50,000 in 2007, the same year they drafted Todd Frazier in the first round.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When I first saw him, he was skin and bones, man, said Frazier, now the Yankees third baseman.
It was crazy.
He was only 17  I started growing at 18, so he probably started sprouting around that time  and next thing you know he started lifting a little more.
And now look at him: Hes one of the best shortstops in the league.
Hes underrated, and thats the best part about him.
He doesnt look for accolades, he doesnt look for praise.
All he wants to do is win.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Frazier said he had been impressed by Gregoriuss adjustments within at-bats, as well as by his willingness to choke up at times and trust his hands.
People dont understand how hard it is to trust that, and to commit to it, Frazier said.
It took me six years and Im finally doing it now with two strikes.
Gregoriuss power is not a product of the cozy dimensions in right field at Yankee Stadium.
Through Sunday, he had 11 homers and a .435 slugging percentage at home, with 13 homers and a .548 slugging percentage on the road.
We envisioned that he was going to impact the baseball; we envisioned that he would hit some home runs, Manager Joe Girardi said.
I dont know if any of us put a number on it, but what Ive seen is what you see from a lot of players  they just continue to mature and get better and better and understand who they are.
The Yankees have continued to supplement their lineup with other players still in that process of discovery.
Second baseman Starlin Castro  acquired from the Chicago Cubs in a December 2015 trade  is also 27.
He made the All-Star team this season and is hitting around .300.
Catcher Gary Sanchez and Judge are pillars of the future.
First baseman Greg Bird and outfielder Clint Frazier might be, too.
All are 25 or younger.
Barring a total collapse, they will soon reach the playoffs together.
Everybody sees what we can do, Gregorius said.
We were doubted in spring training, that were going to be in last, and now were here.
Its a surprise for everybody, but I knew we had a good team since the second half of 16, when they traded away all their best guys and then called the young guys up.
Its basically the same young guys from 16 thats playing right now and having a really great year.
Gregorius was the first of the young guys to arrive in the lineup, and his impact keeps growing more powerful.
