A photo illustration shows the Uber app on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph in central London, Britain September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

LONDON (Reuters) - Ubers [UBER.UL] new boss Dara Khosrowshahi apologized to Londoners for the taxi apps mistakes and pledged to make changes as the Silicon Valley firm tries to overturn a decision to strip it of its license in one of its major markets.
The British capitals transport regulator on Friday deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service and decided not to renew its license to operate, which will end this week, citing the firms approach to reporting serious criminal offences and background checks on drivers.
Mayor Sadiq Khan, a Labour politician who has criticized the firm in the past, said on Monday he had asked Transport for London (TfL) to be available to meet CEO Khosrowshahi.
Ubers 40,000 drivers, one third of the citys total number of private hire vehicles, will continue to take passengers until an appeals process is exhausted, which is likely to take several months.
London police complained this year that the app, which is backed by Goldman Sachs (GS.N) and BlackRock (BLK.N), was either not disclosing, or taking too long to report, serious crimes including sexual assaults and that this put the public at risk.
Its ... true that weve got things wrong along the way.
On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes weve made, Khosrowshahi wrote in an open letter to Londoners.
We will appeal the decision on behalf of millions of Londoners, but we do so with the knowledge that we must also change, he said.
The loss of the San Francisco-based start-ups license in one of the worlds wealthiest capitals comes after a tumultuous few months that led to former CEO and co-founder Travis Kalanick being forced out.
Khosrowshahi, who is less than a month into his new job, did not specify which mistakes Uber had made in London.
Ubers UK head of cities, Fred Jones, said the firm was working with the police to work out how it can better report incidents.
He also said TfL, which declined to comment on Monday, had not been clear about it concerns.
Once we understand them we can work with them to figure out what is it that they would like us to do and how can we move forward and I think thats the important next step, Jones told BBC radio.
ARMY OF LAWYERS

Khan, who backed TfLs decision, said the transport body was open to meeting Ubers boss but attacked the Silicon Valley companys response to losing its license.
I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers, theyve also made aggressive threats about taking us to court and the rest of it, he told BBC radio.
You cant have it both ways: on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner for all sorts of things but on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said, adding companies that played by the rules were welcome in London.
The firm has until Oct. 14 to formally appeal TfLs decision and the case is likely to be filed at Westminster Magistrates Court in London.
Uber, which began operating in London in 2012, has faced regulatory and legal setbacks around the world amid opposition from traditional taxi services, and has been forced to quit several countries including Denmark and Hungary.
However, it has also managed to overturn bans and other crackdowns.
Earlier this year, Italy briefly blocked Uber from operating, citing unfair competition, but lifted the prohibition a week later, while in Taiwan it resumed services in April after talks with the islands authorities, ending a two-month suspension.
A petition calling on London to overturn its decision not to renew Ubers license had gathered more than 750,000 signatures at noon on Monday.
This ban shows the world that London is far from being open and is closed to innovative companies, who bring choice to consumers and work opportunities to those who need them, the petition says.
Offices of Deloitte are seen in London, Britain, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Hannah McKay

LONDON (Reuters) - Global accountancy firm Deloitte [DLTE.UL] said on Monday it had been hit in a cyber attack that had compromised the data of a small number of its clients, but gave few details about how its systems had been breached.
Attackers had accessed data from the companys email platform, the company said in statement, confirming a report by the Guardian newspaper.
Deloitte, one of the big four accountants, said it had mobilized a team of cyber-security experts to review its systems and to discover what information had been put at risk.
It said the review had found only a very few clients had been affected.
No disruption has occurred to client businesses, to Deloittes ability to continue to serve clients, or to consumers, a spokeswoman said in a statement.
The firm, which provides auditing, tax advice and consultancy to multinationals and governments, did not say when the attack occurred or how its defenses had been breached.
Offices of Deloitte are seen in London, Britain, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Hannah McKay

The Guardian said the firm discovered the hack in March, but the cyber attackers could have had hacked into its systems as long ago as October or November 2016.
The attack was believed to have been focused on the U.S operations of the company, the Guardian report said.
Slideshow (2 Images)

Deloittes statement did not say when the attack took place or who was targeted.
Deloitte, which also provides cyber-security and consulting services, including helping businesses analyze potential acquisition targets, also did not say which units were affected.
It said it had implemented its comprehensive security protocol and began an intensive and thorough review including mobilizing a team of cyber-security and confidentiality experts inside and outside of Deloitte.
The firm said it contacted government authorities immediately after it became aware of the incident, and it had contacted each client that had been affected.
An FBI representative declined to comment, saying it was bureau policy not to confirm or deny the existence of any investigations.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Microsoft Corps Teams application will be replacing Skype for Business as the companys primary teamwork software, Microsoft said on Monday, in its latest effort to defend against the threat of upstart Slack in the workplace collaboration software market.
The company announced new Skype voice and video technology that adds advanced calling capabilities to Teams, the instant messaging tool for professionals that is bundled in Microsoft Office 365.
Microsoft Teams will evolve as the core communications client, said Ron Markezich, Microsofts corporate vice president of Office 365, in a press briefing.
We will make Microsoft Teams the hero and primary experience for all voice, video and meetings.
With Skype for Business and Yammer, Microsoft has made it possible for years for professionals to work together online, but since the arrival of Slack in 2014 the workplace collaboration market has become more competitive.
From 2015 to 2016, the market grew by 13.6 percent, and it is expected to be worth more than $22 billion by 2021, according to IDC, the market research firm.
Microsoft remains the leader with 36.8 percent market share, but since 2014, Slack has shown fast growth and claims 5.3 percent of the market, according to IDC.
With Slack entering into classic Microsoft territory, this is a bit of pride and a bit of opportunity, said Johnny Won, founder of Hyperstop, a tech consultancy firm.
Microsoft plans to continue supporting Skype for Business, especially for companies that run the software on their own data centers, but Microsoft expects its subscription-based Office 365 users to migrate to Teams over time as more communication features are added.
We think the vast majority of our customers will go toward Microsoft Teams as that hub for teamwork, Markezich said in an interview.
Microsoft launched Teams, a Slack look-alike software, in March, and says it has been adopted by 125,000 organizations.
Slack, by comparison, says it is used by 50,000 paying groups.
Microsoft did not say how many organizations use Skype for Business.
There is no question that Microsoft is making a very big push with Teams, said Mary Hanzberg, executive vice president of investments at AnalyzeWallStreet.com, an investment advisory service.
The pressure Slack faces is something that every tech startup has to deal with.
Microsoft announced the decision to replace Skype for Business with Teams during the keynote of its Ignition conference in Orlando, Florida.
(Reuters) - German automaker Daimler AGs trucks division said it would test on U.S. roads a new technology called platooning, which allows large digitally-connected trucks to save fuel by driving close to each other in a row.
Portland, Oregon-based Daimler Trucks North America LLC said on Monday it received permission from the regional regulatory body, Oregon Department of Transportation, after successful trials in its proving ground in Madras, Oregon.
In truck platooning, connectivity and automated driving improve safety within the vehicle convoys, support drivers and enhance efficiency with closer distances between the connected trucks, the company said.
Daimler Trucks would test its platooning technology in two connected Cascadia, Freightliners heavy duty semi-trailer truck, in the first step called pairing, the company said.
Some companies, including Silicon Valley startup Peloton Technology, are working on this technology.
Peloton is working with several truck makers, including Volvo, on its platooning system, which it sees as a precursor to autonomous systems.
Tesla Inc, which has been a leader in developing self-driving technology for its luxury cars, is developing a long-haul, electric semi-truck that can drive itself and move in platoons, Reuters reported last month.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Internet giants, including Alphabets Google (GOOGL.O) and Facebook (FB.O), are moving to compromise on several major policy issues as they adjust to an abrupt shift in the political winds in Washington.
Just last week, the U.S. Senate took a big step toward advancing legislation that would partially strip away the internet industrys bedrock legal protection, a 1996 law that shields companies from liability for the activities of their users.
At the same time, Democratic senators are writing legislation that would create new disclosure rules for online political ads after Facebook this month revealed that suspected Russian trolls purchased more than $100,000 worth of divisive ads on its platform during the 2016 election cycle.
The U.S. Federal Election Commission is considering bringing in Facebook and other tech firms for a public hearing.
Unlike in Europe, where they have faced a bevy of new rules and billion-dollar fines, internet giants have avoided virtually all types of government regulation in the United States, even as their market power continues to grow.
Amazon (AMZN.O), for example, controls more than a third of U.S. online commerce, while Google and Facebook combined account for more than sixty percent of the U.S. digital ad market.
Internet firms have from their inception urged U.S. politicians in both parties to treat their industry as a nascent sector in need of unique protections.
These firms enjoyed an especially close relationship with the Democratic administration of former President Barack Obama, which saw several officials go to work for Google upon leaving the White House.
But some Democrats, still bitter over Russias alleged meddling in the 2016 election, are now expressing alarm at the industrys power.
Virginia Senator Mark Warner, the vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, this month compared political ads on social media to the wild, wild West and is working on legislation to require more disclosure.
On the Republican side, President Donald Trump has been hostile to the tech industry in many of his public remarks.
Google and Facebook have been repeatedly attacked from the right for alleged liberal bias and a globalist outlook.
Now, the Internet firms are backpedaling from earlier positions as they seek to avoid regulation, according to congressional aides, industry lobbyists and company sources.
Tech is no longer the golden goose, said one technology industry source, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Maybe its a good thing we start behaving like a rational part of the economy.
Silicon Valley lobbyists and congressional aides in both parties were quick to temper talk of a sweeping regulatory crackdown, in part because the government agencies that could move against the industry, notably the Federal Trade Commission, remain severely understaffed.
But the shift in tone is palpable.
FILE PHOTO: A 3D plastic representation of the Facebook logo is seen in this photo illustration May 13, 2015.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo

On Thursday, Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said the company, for the first time, would make it possible for anyone to see details about political ads that run on Facebook, which, unlike television ads, do not fall under U.S. law requiring disclosure of who pays for them.
Requiring such transparency is one of the key provisions of the proposed legislation on online political ads.
The company also said it would turn over to congressional investigators political ads that it says were likely purchased by Russian entities during and after the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
The moves marked an about-face for Zuckerberg, who after the November election said it was a crazy idea to think that activity on Facebook swayed the vote.
Facebook has also shifted its stance on proposed changes to the liability protections for internet companies, formally known as Section 230 of the 1996 Communications Decency Act.
The legislation, which is aimed at stopping online sex trafficking, has been fiercely opposed by companies that see it as a threat to openness and innovation on the internet.
FILE PHOTO: Sen.
Rob Portman, R-Ohio, addresses the media outside the art center, at Wyoming High School in Wyoming, Ohio, U.S. June 22, 2017.
REUTERS/John Sommers II/File Photo

But after an emotional hearing last week featuring testimony from the mother of a murdered sex-trafficking victim - which followed two big tech companies, Oracle (ORCL.N) and Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE.N), breaking ranks with industry peers on the issue - Facebook and Google have opened the door to negotiation on the bill, according to congressional aides and industry sources.
In a statement, Erin Egan, Facebooks vice president of U.S. policy, said the company believed a legislative solution was possible to address this terrible problem while ensuring that the internet remains open and free and that responsible companies can continue to work to stop sex trafficking before it happens.
The tech industry in recent years has neutralized other ideas percolating in the halls of Congress that it perceived as threatening, including calls to weaken encryption and demands that social media companies report terrorist activity to the government.
But the effort to amend Section 230 is seen as different.
The fast progress of legislation, introduced in August, has alarmed lobbyists and company representatives who initially predicted it would not go far in an otherwise gridlocked Congress.
The bill comes after years of law enforcement lobbying for a crackdown on the online classified site backpage.com, which is used for sex advertising.
The measure would make it easier for states and sex trafficking victims to sue social media networks, advertisers and others who fail to keep exploitative material off their platforms.
Republican Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, the lead architect of the Section 230 legislation, said in an interview with Reuters that he was confident his measure would become law this congressional term, with or without Silicon Valleys cooperation.
The bill has attracted bipartisan support from nearly a third of the Senate; a companion measure has similar backing in the House of Representatives.
Portman said he had met with Trumps daughter and advisor, Ivanka Trump, who expressed strong support.
Frankly, I am disappointed (that) more in the technology industry are not joining us on this effort, Portman said.
It is in their interest to be supportive of a solution on this problem.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Online retailer Lazada Group said it will sell select items from Alibaba Group Holding Ltds Taobao marketplace in three more countries in Southeast Asia, expanding the partnership between the two e-commerce firms.
Taobao Collection will be offered in Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand in the next few weeks through Lazadas platform, it said in a statement on Monday.
Lazada began selling Taobao products in Singapore and Malaysia earlier this year.
In June, Alibaba invested an additional $1 billion in Lazada to boost its stake to 83 percent.
This is a true testament to the way the Lazada and Alibaba teams have come together to build the business in a fast and efficient way combining consumer insights, technology know-how and local expertise, said Aimone Ripa di Meana, Lazadas chief marketplace officer.
The products are curated to appeal to local tastes in the different countries and will be offered in the respective local languages on the Lazada sites, the company said.
Lazada, launched in 2012, is headquartered in Singapore and also operates in Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam.
Southeast Asia is becoming a new battleground for e-commerce companies that are hoping to grab a piece of the market of 600 million people where only a fraction of total retail sales are currently conducted online.
Amazon.com Inc launched its Prime Now quick delivery service in Singapore in July, while JD.com Inc and top Thai retailer Central Group are forming a $500 million joint venture in e-commerce and financial technology.
(Reuters) - The main listed unit of Chinese technology conglomerate LeEco said on Sunday that it plans to buy investment and financial service assets from an affiliate for up to 3 billion yuan ($455.24 million) as part of a restructuring exercise.
Leshi Internet Information & Technology, a video content company, said in a filing it would have the assets transferred from Leshi Investment Management (Beijing) Limited for no more than 3 billion yuan.
[bit.ly/2wfwECT]

Leshi said the move, a financial arrangement between the listed company and its affiliate, fits its strategy and would help it provide internet finance to Leshis users.
Leshi Investment Management is LeEcos finance arm with businesses in online payment, online transaction and asset management.
It is applying for licenses in banking, securities brokerage, and finance leasing, in addition to various licenses it already owns, according to the filing.
Leshi has been suspended from trading on the Shenzhen stock exchange since April pending a major asset restructuring.
Its founder, Jia Yueting, has been battling financial problems facing his LeEco group, whose businesses, from a Netflix-like video website to electric cars, were seen to have expanded too rapidly in recent years.
Jia resigned from all posts at Leshi in July, with new investor Sunac Chinas chairman Sun Hongbin taking over as Leshis new chairman.
LONDON (Reuters) - British food delivery company Deliveroo has raised $385 million in private funding, it said on Sunday, as it prepares for expansion to help it compete with publicly traded rivals such as Delivery Hero and Just Eat.
The funding values the business at more than $2 billion and will allow Deliveroo to enter new markets, enlarge its technology team and expand its concept of delivery-only restaurants run out of centralized kitchens it operates, the company said.
The number of Deliveroo locations has risen by 60 percent over the past year and it now operates in more than 150 cities in 12 countries, a spokesman said.
He declined to comment on its next expansion moves.
Besides Britain, where it operates in 60 cities and towns, it also offers food delivery in eight European countries, Australia, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates.
Its closest rival is the Foodora unit of Germanys Delivery Hero.
The new investment in Deliveroo is led by funds associated with T. Rowe Price Associates and Fidelity Management & Research, the company said.
Existing investors DST Global, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel Partners are also making follow-on investments, increasing their positions in the company, Deliveroo said.
There is a lot of room to rethink how we eat, said Martin Mignot, a partner at venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has invested in four previous Deliveroo funding rounds.
The company has raised $474.6 million since its founding in 2012, according to venture funding data from Crunchbase.
Like taxi app Uber, which was stripped of its London operating license on Friday, Deliveroo has been criticized by unions that say it is exploiting staff by not offering basic protections.
Some of its delivery riders are pursuing legal action to push for workers rights.
Deliveroo has previously said it would give its self-employed riders insurance and sick pay if the government changed the law so that it could offer some, rather than all, the entitlements enjoyed by full-time staff members.
Deliveroo increased revenue by more than 600 percent last year while operating losses mounted, albeit at a slower rate, parent company Roofoods said in a Sept. 20 regulatory filing.
Revenue grew to 128.56 million pounds ($173 million) but delivery costs and administrative expenses resulted in an operating loss of 141.05 million pounds, up 367 percent year on year, it said in a filing with UK Companies House.
Though the company trumpeted a $2 billion-plus valuation, that remains less than half those of its listed rivals.
Delivery Heros market capitalization is 5.95 billion euros ($7.11 billion) while UK-based Just Eats valuation is 4.66 billion pounds
The logo of Valu, web-based virtual exchange where people can raise bitcoins by 'listing themselves', is seen at their compnay office in Tokyo, Japan July 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Issei Kato

TOKYO (Reuters) - On Japans newest exchange, fame can pay off.
That may not be so great for investors though.
Last month, Hikaru, a Japanese YouTube star so famous he can go by a single stage name, listed himself on Valu, a platform for people to raise money, often for personal projects or businesses, by essentially selling shares in themselves.
Unlike many crowdsourcing sites, which are platforms for people or businesses to raise money online from large groups of individuals, the exchange also allows the trading of those who list their Valus on the exchange.
That means that prices can rise and fall.
And rise and fall Hikaru did.
Soon after listing, Hikaru, whose YouTube channel boasts 2.6 million subscribers, soared on the market as his fans dived in.
But then, just a week after going public, Hikaru and two friends, who go by the stage names Ikkun and Raphael, cashed out, according to officials from the exchange.
That made his Valu drop precipitously, prompting howls of outrage on the Internet.
I was a fan of Hikaru so I bought his Valu partly to support him and this is what happened, said one tweet from someone calling themselves Hikaru Valu Victim.
I want my money back.
Hikaru said in a video that he and his friends had been competing to make the most money off the exchange.
Many people listing on the exchange often cite altruistic aims for doing so - like one person raising funds for a project to encourage young people to move to rural Japan.
But Hikaru has said that he listed on the exchange just to get attention.
He apologized for the move that may have ended his career, but noted that his actions did not constitute wrongdoing under the rules of the exchange.
Those rules just say that members should not post untrue or deceptive information.
There is also nothing illegal about driving up Valus and cashing in, since they are not considered a financial product by the Financial Services Agency.
An official from the watchdog said it had been watching the Valu exchange, but would only advise it to inform investors that listings did not require financial disclosure.
Since the Hikaru debacle, Valu has added restrictions on the frequency of trading to prevent similar occurrences.
Hikaru and his two fellow YouTubers did not respond to requests for comment.
VAZ Inc, a company that represents Japanese YouTubers, including Hikaru and his two friends, said the star and friends made a total profit of about 50 million yen ($444,000) in bitcoins, the currency of the exchange.
Employees work at the company office running Valu, web-based virtual exchange where people can raise bitcoins by 'listing themselves' in Tokyo, Japan July 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Issei Kato

He bought back an unspecified number of Valus in an effort to make amends, he said on Twitter, which VAZ and the exchange confirmed.
But his Valus never recovered their highs.
His shares, which hit a peak of 0.090 bitcoin, or around $387, before he sold out, tanked to as low as 0.0075 bitcoin.
They last stood at 0.014 bitcoin on Friday, or about $50 at the current bitcoin rate.
The exchange declined to comment on how much his supporters lost.
The incident was a rude awakening for Valu, which was launched this summer and has so far attracted about 60,000 members.
Fund raisers sell Valus to the members, who are free to buy and sell their stakes.
Valus operator, a subsidiary of a company called Party Co, makes clear in its rules that listings have no intrinsic value.
Slideshow (3 Images)

There are also no requirements for reporting results, or any other information.
There are no voting rights, or dividends.
That means the sole basis for rising shares is speculation.
What Valus represent is a big question, said Makoto Sakuma, a researcher at NLI Research Institute.
Despite their name, Valus have little economic fundamental value.
Party Co says buying Valus should be seen as a donation or show of support rather than an investment.
Our service can directly support people in any places across the globe, said Kohei Ogawa, president of Valu Inc.

Kenta Toshima, 30, listed himself on the exchange to raise funds for equipment for a project to help rehabilitate elderly people with virtual reality.
He said he had raised about 200,000 yen from about 40 people within a few weeks after listing himself.
The exchanges operators say they will keep going.
But the backlash against Hikaru appears to have taken its toll on the YouTuber.
In early September, Hikaru posted a video in which he appeared with Ikkun and Raphael, and said he would halt his YouTubing activities.
($1 = 112.64 yen)
FILE PHOTO: A woman who was pushed down by police is helped by a protester while police try to disperse a crowd, after a not guilty verdict in the murder trial of Jason Stockley, a former St. Louis police officer, charged with the 2011 shooting of Anthony Lamar Smith, who was black, in St. Louis, Missouri, U.S. on September 15, 2017.
REUTERS/Lawrence Bryant/File Photo

ST. LOUIS (Reuters) - Protests in St. Louis over the acquittal of a white former policeman who killed a black man could impede the citys bid to attract Amazon.coms second headquarters, academics and business executives said.
Marked by scuffles, teargas and property damage, the protests have been unfolding as the city, which has a history of social unrest, is vying for the lucrative Amazon deal.
There is no good timing for something like this and it will have an impact, said Didi Caldwell, founding principal with Global Location Strategies in South Carolina, which helps companies choose locations for new businesses and expansion.
Amazon, the worlds biggest online retailer, said this month that it planned to build a $5 billion second headquarters that could bring 50,000 new jobs to the winning city.
An Amazon spokesman declined to discuss the site search.
In its call for proposals from cities, Amazon said a compatible cultural and community environment that included diversity, a high quality of life and stable business climate were key.
The company intends to make a decision in 2018.
William Collins, a Vanderbilt University economic historian who has studied the aftermath of the 1960s race riots in the United States, said the impact on a citys ability to draw new employers depended on how companies view such incidents.
Does it suggest a deeply rooted problem thats likely to make living, working, and investing in a particular location less attractive or less profitable than alternatives?
If so, it can have lasting implications, Collins said.
A September 16 ruling found former St. Louis policeman Jason Stockley, 36, not guilty of first-degree murder in the 2011 killing of Anthony Lamar Smith, 24.
NATIONAL ISSUE

In August, after clashes in Charlottesville, Virginia, over plans to remove a statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee, regional economic development officials wrote to site selection companies saying the violence did not define the city.
St. Louis Economic Development Partnership officials said they were aware of racial tensions highlighted by the protests but argued that the problem was not unique to St. Louis.
FILE PHOTO: A Black Lives Matter protester stands in front of St. Louis Police Department officers equipped with riot gear after the not guilty verdict in the murder trial of Jason Stockley, a former St. Louis police officer, charged with the 2011 shooting of Anthony Lamar Smith, who was black, in St. Louis, Missouri, U.S. on September 15, 2017.
REUTERS/Lawrence Bryant/File Photo

The protests, although the timing of them was not the best for St. Louis, are really indicative of a national issue that needs to be looked at, the partnerships Chief Executive Sheila Sweeney said on Thursday.
The day before, protesters at a high-end shopping mall blocked traffic and chanted, No justice, no profits.
Other cities that have indicated they are in the running for the Amazon site include Seattle, Dallas, Houston and Denver.
Charlotte, North Carolina, which saw riots last year after the fatal shooting of a black man by a police officer, has not seen business opt against moving there.
Officials, who noted that the citys efforts to break down bias led to the protests, said quantifying any lasting impact was difficult.
Its a troubling challenge of our time, said Dianne Chase, spokeswoman for the Charlotte Regional Partnership, a public/private economic development organization trying to attract Amazon.
Were not alone, its most unfortunate to say.
St. Louis Mayor Lyda Krewson declined to speak on the issue, but told reporters this week that the city had a legacy of institutional racism and needed to move forward with more jobs and stronger civilian oversight of the police.
St. Louis is touting its central U.S. location, riverways, interstate highways and rail lines, vibrant technology environment and urban setting, as its main attractions.
While the city is a transportation hub with a low cost of living, good housing stock and access to research universities, the unrest could hurt its chances even if it made Amazons final list, said Global Location Strategies Caldwell.
Companies looking for locations will never announce they have eliminated a city for reasons like racial unrest, but that would likely be the case, she said.
St. Louis residents expressed concern on social media over economic impact related to the unrest.
People were saying, Unless the city cleans up its act, well never get Amazon,' said Lindenwood University economics professor Howard Wall.
Sometimes the economics are sort of a wash and it just becomes about where am I more comfortable doing business and living, Caldwell said.
The St. Louis metro area has been a hot spot for the national debate over racial bias in law enforcement since Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, was killed in 2014 by a white police officer in nearby Ferguson.
The Brown shooting sparked riots and the rise of the Black Lives Matter movement.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows hydrocarbon compounds splitting into carbon and hydrogen inside ice giants, such as Neptune, turning into a "diamond (rain) shower."
Hide Caption 1 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This striking image is the stellar nursery in the Orion Nebula, where stars are born.
The red filament is a stretch of ammonia molecules measuring 50 light-years long.
The blue represents the gas of the Orion Nebula.
This image is a composite of observation from the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explore telescope.
"We still don't understand in detail how large clouds of gas in our Galaxy collapse to form new stars," said Rachel Friesen, one of the collaboration's co-Principal Investigators.
"But ammonia is an excellent tracer of dense, star-forming gas."
Hide Caption 2 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is an illustration of the Parker Solar Probe spacecraft approaching the sun.
The NASA probe will explore the sun's atmosphere in a mission that begins in the summer of 2018.
Hide Caption 3 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe See that tiny dot between Saturn's rings?
That's Earth, as seen by the Cassini mission on April 12, 2017.
"Cassini was 870 million miles away from Earth when the image was taken," according to NASA.
"Although far too small to be visible in the image, the part of Earth facing Cassini at the time was the southern Atlantic Ocean."
Much like the famous "pale blue dot" image captured by Voyager 1 in 1990, we are but a point of light when viewed from the furthest planet in the solar system.
Hide Caption 4 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope, using infrared technology, reveals the density of stars in the Milky Way.
According to NASA, the photo -- stitched together from nine images -- contains more than a half-million stars.
The star cluster is the densest in the galaxy.
Hide Caption 5 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This photo of Saturn's large icy moon, Tethys, was taken by NASA's Cassini spacecraft, which sent back some jaw-dropping images from the ringed planet.
Hide Caption 6 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is what Earth and its moon look like from Mars.
The image is a composite of the best Earth image and the best moon image taken on November 20, 2016, by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The orbiter's camera takes images in three wavelength bands: infrared, red and blue-green.
Mars was about 127 million miles from Earth when the images were taken.
Hide Caption 7 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe PGC 1000714 was initially thought to be a common elliptical galaxy, but a closer analysis revealed the incredibly rare discovery of a Hoag-type galaxy.
It has a round core encircled by two detached rings.
Hide Caption 8 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Cassini spacecraft took these images of the planet's mysterious hexagon-shaped jetstream in December 2016.
The hexagon was discovered in images taken by the Voyager spacecraft in the early 1980s.
It's estimated to have a diameter wider than two Earths.
Hide Caption 9 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A dead star gives off a greenish glow in this Hubble Space Telescope image of the Crab Nebula, located about 6,500 light years from Earth in the constellation Taurus.
NASA released the image for Halloween 2016 and played up the theme in its press release.
The agency said the "ghoulish-looking object still has a pulse."
At the center of the Crab Nebula is the crushed core, or "heart" of an exploded star.
The heart is spinning 30 times per second and producing a magnetic field that generates 1 trillion volts, NASA said.
Hide Caption 10 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Peering through the thick dust clouds of the galactic bulge, an international team of astronomers revealed the unusual mix of stars in the stellar cluster known as Terzan 5.
The new results indicate that Terzan 5 is one of the bulge's primordial building blocks, most likely the relic of the very early days of the Milky Way.
Hide Caption 11 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's conception of Planet Nine, which would be the farthest planet within our solar system.
The similar cluster orbits of extreme objects on the edge of our solar system suggest a massive planet is located there.
Hide Caption 12 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An illustration of the orbits of the new and previously known extremely distant Solar System objects.
The clustering of most of their orbits indicates that they are likely be influenced by something massive and very distant, the proposed Planet X.
Hide Caption 13 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Say hello to dark galaxy Dragonfly 44.
Like our Milky Way, it has a halo of spherical clusters of stars around its core.
Hide Caption 14 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A classical nova occurs when a white dwarf star gains matter from its secondary star (a red dwarf) over a period of time, causing a thermonuclear reaction on the surface that eventually erupts in a single visible outburst.
This creates a 10,000-fold increase in brightness, depicted here in an artist's rendering.
Hide Caption 15 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Gravitational lensing and space warping are visible in this image of near and distant galaxies captured by Hubble.
Hide Caption 16 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe At the center of our galaxy, the Milky Way, researchers discovered an X-shaped structure within a tightly packed group of stars.
Hide Caption 17 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Meet UGC 1382: What astronomers thought was a normal elliptical galaxy (left) was actually revealed to be a massive disc galaxy made up of different parts when viewed with ultraviolet and deep optical data (center and right).
In a complete reversal of normal galaxy structure, the center is younger than its outer spiral disk.
Hide Caption 18 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Crab Nebula and its "beating heart," which is a neutron star at the right of the two bright stars in the center of this image.
The neutron star pulses 30 times a second.
The rainbow colors are visible due to the movement of materials in the nebula occurring during the time-lapse of the image.
Hide Caption 19 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured an image of a hidden galaxy that is fainter than Andromeda or the Milky Way.
This low surface brightness galaxy, called UGC 477, is over 110 million light-years away in the constellation of Pisces.
Hide Caption 20 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe On April 19, NASA released new images of bright craters on Ceres.
This photo shows the Haulani Crater, which has evidence of landslides from its rim.
Scientists believe some craters on the dwarf planet are bright because they are relatively new.
Hide Caption 21 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows the millions of dust grains NASA's Cassini spacecraft has sampled near Saturn.
A few dozen of them appear to have come from beyond our solar system.
Hide Caption 22 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image from the VLT Survey Telescope at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile shows a stunning concentration of galaxies known as the Fornax Cluster, which can be found in the Southern Hemisphere.
At the center of this cluster, in the middle of the three bright blobs on the left side of the image, lies a cD galaxy -- a galactic cannibal that has grown in size by consuming smaller galaxies.
Hide Caption 23 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the central region of the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
The young and dense star cluster R136, which contains hundreds of massive stars, is visible in the lower right of the image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.
Hide Caption 24 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe In March 2016, astronomers published a paper on powerful red flashes coming from binary system V404 Cygni in 2015.
This illustration shows a black hole, similar to the one in V404 Cygni, devouring material from an orbiting star.
Hide Caption 25 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe new map of the Milky Way was released February 24, 2016, giving astronomers a full census of the star-forming regions within our own galaxy.
The APEX telescope in Chile captured this survey.
Hide Caption 26 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the elliptical galaxy NGC 4889, deeply embedded within the Coma galaxy cluster.
There is a gigantic supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy.
Hide Caption 27 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of 2MASS J2126, which takens 900,000 years to orbit its star, 1 trillion kilometers away.
Hide Caption 28 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Caltech researchers have found evidence of a giant planet tracing a bizarre, highly elongated orbit in the outer solar system.
The object, nicknamed Planet Nine, has a mass about 10 times that of Earth and orbits about 20 times farther from the sun on average than does Neptune.
Hide Caption 29 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An international team of astronomers may have discovered the biggest and brightest supernova ever.
The explosion was 570 billion times brighter than the sun and 20 times brighter than all the stars in the Milky Way galaxy combined, according to a statement from The Ohio State University, which is leading the study.
Scientists are straining to define the supernova's strength.
This image shows an artist's impression of the supernova as it would appear from an exoplanet located about 10,000 light years away.
Hide Caption 30 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers noticed huge waves of gas being "burped" by the black hole at the center of NGC 5195, a small galaxy 26 million light years from Earth.
The team believes the outburst is a consequence of the interaction of NGC 5195 with a nearby galaxy.
Hide Caption 31 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's illustration shows a binary black hole found in the quasar at the center of the Markarian 231 galaxy.
Astronomers using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope discovered the galaxy being powered by two black holes "furiously whirling about each other," the space agency said in a news release.
Hide Caption 32 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of what a black hole might look like.
In February, researchers in China said they had spotted a super-massive black hole 12 billion times the size of the sun.
Hide Caption 33 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Are there are oceans on any of Jupiter's moons?
The Juice probe shown in this artist's impression aims to find out.
Picture courtesy of ESA/AOES Hide Caption 34 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers have discovered powerful auroras on a brown dwarf that is 20 light-years away.
This is an artist's concept of the phenomenon.
Hide Caption 35 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Venus, bottom, and Jupiter shine brightly above Matthews, North Carolina, on Monday, June 29.
The apparent close encounter, called a conjunction, has been giving a dazzling display in the summer sky.
Although the two planets appear to be close together, in reality they are millions of miles apart.
Hide Caption 36 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Jupiter's icy moon Europa may be the best place in the solar system to look for extraterrestrial life, according to NASA.
The moon is about the size of Earth's moon, and there is evidence it has an ocean beneath its frozen crust that may hold twice as much water as Earth.
NASA's 2016 budget includes a request for $30 million to plan a mission to investigate Europa.
The image above was taken by the Galileo spacecraft on November 25, 1999.
It's a 12-frame mosaic and is considered the the best image yet of the side of Europa that faces Jupiter.
Hide Caption 37 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This nebula, or cloud of gas and dust, is called RCW 34 or Gum 19.
The brightest areas you can see are where the gas is being heated by young stars.
Eventually the gas burst outward like champagne after a bottle is uncorked.
Scientists call this champagne flow.
This new image of the nebula was captured by the European Space Organization's Very Large Telescope in Chile.
RCW 34 is in the constellation Vela in the southern sky.
The name means "sails of a ship" in Latin.
Hide Caption 38 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured images of Jupiter's three great moons -- Io, Callisto, and Europa -- passing by at once.
Hide Caption 39 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A massive galaxy cluster known as SDSS J1038+4849 looks like a smiley face in an image captured by the Hubble Telescope.
The two glowing eyes are actually two distant galaxies.
And what of the smile and the round face?
That's a result of what astronomers call "strong gravitational lensing."
That happens because the gravitational pull between the two galaxy clusters is so strong it distorts time and space around them.
Hide Caption 40 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Using powerful optics, astronomers have found a planet-like body, J1407b, with rings 200 times the size of Saturn's.
This is an artist's depiction of the rings of planet J1407b, which are eclipsing a star.
Hide Caption 41 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A patch of stars appears to be missing in this image from the La Silla Observatory in Chile.
But the stars are actually still there behind a cloud of gas and dust called Lynds Dark Nebula 483.
The cloud is about 700 light years from Earth in the constellation Serpens (The Serpent).
Hide Caption 42 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is the largest Hubble Space Telescope image ever assembled.
It's a portion of the galaxy next door, Andromeda (M31).
Hide Caption 43 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA has captured a stunning new image of the so-called "Pillars of Creation," one of the space agency's most iconic discoveries.
The giant columns of cold gas, in a small region of the Eagle Nebula, were popularized by a similar image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope in 1995.
Hide Caption 44 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers using the Hubble Space pieced together this picture that shows a small section of space in the southern-hemisphere constellation Fornax.
Within this deep-space image are 10,000 galaxies, going back in time as far as a few hundred million years after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 45 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Planetary nebula Abell 33 appears ring-like in this image, taken using the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope.
The blue bubble was created when an aging star shed its outer layers and a star in the foreground happened to align with it to create a "diamond engagement ring" effect.
Hide Caption 46 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This long-exposure image from the Hubble Telescope is the deepest-ever picture taken of a cluster of galaxies.
The cluster, called Abell 2744, contains several hundred galaxies as they looked 3.5 billion years ago; the more distant galaxies appear as they did more than 12 billion years ago, not long after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 47 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's NuSTAR telescope array generated the first map of radioactivity in the remnants of an exploding star, or supernova.
Blue in this image of Cassiopeia A represents radioactive material.
Hide Caption 48 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A supernova was spotted on January 21 in Messier 82, one of the nearest big galaxies.
This wide view image was taken on January 22.
Hide Caption 49 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The M82 supernova, seen here, has been designated SN2014J because it is the 10th supernova detected in 2014.
At 11.4 million light years from Earth, it is the closest Type Ia supernova recorded since systematic studies with telescopes began in the 1930s.
Hide Caption 50 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Is that a giant hand waving at us?
Actually, it's what's left of a star that died and exploded a long time ago.
Astronomers nicknamed it the "Hand of God."
NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR , took this image in high-energy X-rays, shown in blue.
The image was combined with images from another space telescope, the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Hide Caption 51 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Southern Pinwheel Galaxy, one of the largest and closest galaxies of its kind.
The center of the galaxy is mysterious , researchers say, because it has a double nucleus -- a supermassive black hole that may be ringed by a lopsided disc of stars, giving it the appearance of a dual core.
Hide Caption 52 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Hubble scientists say this is the best-ever view of the Tarantula Nebula, which is located in one of our closest galactic neighbors, the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Hide Caption 53 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Those spots on our sun appear small, but even a moderate-sized spot is about as big as Earth .
They occur when strong magnetic fields poke through the sun's surface and let the area cool in comparison to the surrounding area.
Hide Caption 54 of 55
Jackson Gordon is no ordinary 21-year-old.
By day he is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University, but Gordon has another side to him -- a side altogether darker, tougher and more enigmatic.
Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Five years ago and 154 million miles away, NASA's Curiosity Mars rover successfully landed on the planet.
Take a look back at what the rover has been up to these past five years, including this selfie it took on January 19, 2016.
Hide Caption 1 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The bright blue speck in the middle of this image is NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The image was taken from another NASA spacecraft, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is in orbit above the planet, on June 6, 2017.
Hide Caption 2 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity has temperature and humidity sensors mounted on its mast.
Calculations in 2015 based on Curiosity's measurements indicate that Mars could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night.
Hide Caption 3 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity does a test drill on a rock dubbed "Bonanza King" to determine whether it would be a good place to dig deeper and take a sample.
But after the rock shifted, the test was stopped.
Hide Caption 4 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Wheel tracks from Curiosity are seen on the sandy floor of a lowland area dubbed "Hidden Valley" in this image.
Hide Caption 5 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover recently encountered this iron meteorite, which NASA named "Lebanon."
This find is similar in shape and luster to iron meteorites found on Mars by the previous generation of rovers.
A portion of the rock was outlined by NASA scientists.
Hide Caption 6 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity took this nighttime photo of a hole it drilled May 5 to collect soil samples.
NASA said this image combines eight exposures taken after dark on May 13.
Hide Caption 7 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the twilight sky and Martian horizon, taken by Curiosity, includes Earth as the brightest point of light in the night sky.
Earth is a little left of center in the image, and our moon is just below Earth.
A human observer with normal vision, if standing on Mars, could easily see Earth and the moon as two distinct, bright "evening stars."
Hide Caption 8 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The lower slopes of "Mount Sharp" are visible at the top of this image, taken on July 9, 2013.
The turret of tools at the end of the rover's arm, including the rock-sampling drill in the lower left corner, can also be seen.
Hide Caption 9 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rock on the left, called "Wopmay," was discovered by the rover Opportunity, which arrived in 2004 on a different part of Mars.
Iron-bearing sulfates indicate that this rock was once in acidic waters.
On the right are rocks from "Yellowknife Bay," where rover Curiosity was situated.
These rocks are suggestive of water with a neutral pH, which is hospitable to life formation.
Hide Caption 10 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity shows the first sample of powdered rock extracted by the rover's drill.
The image was taken by Curiosity's mast camera on February 20, 2013.
Hide Caption 11 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover drilled this hole, in a rock that's part of a flat outcrop researchers named "John Klein," during its first sample drilling on February 8, 2013.
Hide Caption 12 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity's first set of nighttime photos include this image of Martian rock illuminated by ultraviolet lights.
Curiosity used the camera on its robotic arm, the Mars Hand Lens Imager, to capture the images on January 22, 2013.
Hide Caption 13 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity A view of what NASA describes as "veined, flat-lying rock."
It was selected as the first drilling site for the Mars rover.
Hide Caption 14 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity used a dust-removal tool for the first time to clean this patch of rock on the Martian surface on January 6, 2013.
Hide Caption 15 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity recorded this view from its left navigation camera after an 83-foot eastward drive on November 18, 2012.
The view is toward "Yellowknife Bay" in the "Glenelg" area of Gale Crater.
Hide Caption 16 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Three "bite marks" made by the rover's scoop can be seen in the soil on Mars surface on October 15, 2012.
Hide Caption 17 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The robotic arm on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity delivered a sample of Martian soil to the rover's observation tray for the first time on October 16, 2012.
Hide Caption 18 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what the rover team has determined to be a piece of debris from the spacecraft, possibly shed during the landing.
Hide Caption 19 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover's scoop contains larger soil particles that were too big to filter through a sample-processing sieve.
After a full-scoop sample had been vibrated over the sieve, this portion was returned to the scoop for inspection by the rover's mast camera.
Hide Caption 20 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity cut a wheel scuff mark into a wind-formed ripple at the "Rocknest" site on October 3, 2012.
This gave researchers a better opportunity to examine the particle-size distribution of the material forming the ripple.
Hide Caption 21 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA's Curiosity rover found evidence for what scientists believe was an ancient, flowing stream on Mars at a few sites, including the rock outcrop pictured here.
The key evidence for the ancient stream comes from the size and rounded shape of the gravel in and around the bedrock, according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech science team.
The rounded shape leads the science team to conclude they were transported by a vigorous flow of water.
The grains are too large to have been moved by wind.
Hide Caption 22 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity completed its longest drive to date on September 26, 2012.
The rover moved about 160 feet east toward the area known as "Glenelg."
As of that day the rover had moved about a quarter-mile from its landing site.
Hide Caption 23 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows the robotic arm of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity with the first rock touched by an instrument on the arm.
The photo was taken by the rover's right navigation camera.
Hide Caption 24 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers used the Curiosity rover's mast camera to take a photo of the Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer.
The image was used to see whether it had been caked in dust during the landing.
Hide Caption 25 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers also used the mast camera to examine the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the rover to inspect its dust cover and check that its LED lights were functional.
In this image, taken on September 7, 2012, the imager is in the center of the screen with its LED on.
The main purpose of Curiosity's imager camera is to acquire close-up, high-resolution views of rocks and soil from the Martian surface.
Hide Caption 26 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the open inlet where powdered rock and soil samples will be funneled down for analysis.
The image is made up of eight photos taken on September 11, 2012, by the imager and is used to check that the instrument is operating correctly.
Hide Caption 27 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the calibration target for the imager.
This image, taken on September 9, 2012, shows that the surface of the calibration target is covered with a layor of dust as a result of the landing.
The calibration target includes color references, a metric bar graphic, a penny for scale comparison, and a stair-step pattern for depth calibration.
Hide Caption 28 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the three left wheels of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity combines two images that were taken by the rover's Mars Hand Lens Imager on September 9, 2012, the 34th day of Curiosity's work on Mars.
In the distance is the lower slope of "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 29 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The penny in this image is part of a camera calibration target on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity.
The image was taken by the Mars Hand Lens Imager camera.
Hide Caption 30 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover captured this mosiac of a rock feature called 'Snake River" on December 20, 2012.
Hide Caption 31 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The left eye of the Mast Camera on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity took this image of the rover's arm on September 5, 2012.
Hide Caption 32 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image one of three shows the rover and its tracks after a few short drives.
Tracking the tracks will provide information on how the surface changes as dust is deposited and eroded.
Hide Caption 33 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image two shows the parachute and backshell, now in color.
The outer band of the parachute has a reddish color.
Hide Caption 34 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image three shows the descent stage crash site, now in color, and several distant spots (blue in enhanced color) downrange that are probably the result of distant secondary impacts that disturbed the surface dust.
Hide Caption 35 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An image released August 27, 2012, was taken with Curiosity rover's 100-millimeter mast camera, NASA says.
The image shows "Mount Sharp" on the Martian surface.
NASA says the rover will go to this area.
Hide Caption 36 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity moved about 15 feet forward and then reversed about 8 feet during its first test drive on August 22, 2012.
The rover's tracks can be seen in the right portion of this panorama taken by the rover's navigation camera.
Hide Caption 37 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA tested the steering on its Mars rover Curiosity on August 21, 2012.
Drivers wiggled the wheels in place at the landing site on Mars.
Hide Caption 38 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity moved its robot arm on August 20, 2012, for the first time since it landed on Mars.
"It worked just as we planned," said JPL engineer Louise Jandura in a NASA press release.
This picture shows the 7-foot-long arm holding a camera, a drill, a spectrometer, a scoop and other tools.
The arm will undergo weeks of tests before it starts digging.
Hide Caption 39 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity With the addition of four high-resolution Navigation Camera, or Navcam, images, taken on August 18, 2012.
Curiosity's 360-degree landing-site panorama now includes the highest point on "Mount Sharp" visible from the rover.
Mount Sharp's peak is obscured from the rover's landing site by this highest visible point.
Hide Caption 40 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This composite image, with magnified insets, depicts the first laser test by the Chemistry and Camera, or ChemCam, instrument aboard NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The composite incorporates a Navigation Camera image taken prior to the test, with insets taken by the camera in ChemCam.
The circular insert highlights the rock before the laser test.
The square inset is further magnified and processed to show the difference between images taken before and after the laser interrogation of the rock.
Hide Caption 41 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An updated self-portrait of the Mars rover Curiosity, showing more of the rover's deck.
This image is a mosiac compiled from images taken from the navigation camera.
The wall of "Gale Crater," the rover's landing site, can be seen at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 42 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what will be the rover's first target with it's chemistry and camera (ChemCam) instrument.
The ChemCam will fire a laser at the rock, indicated by the black circle.
The laser will cause the rock to emit plasma, a glowing, ionized gas.
The rover will then analyze the plasma to determine the chemical composition of the rock.
Hide Caption 43 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, with a portion of the rover in the corner, shows the wall of "Gale Crater" running across the horizon at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 44 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, taken from the rover's mast camera, looks south of the landing site toward "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 45 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 46 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 47 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Two blast marks from the descent stage's rockets can be seen in the center of this image.
Also seen is Curiosity's left side.
This picture is a mosaic of images taken by the rover's navigation cameras.
Hide Caption 48 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This color full-resolution image showing the heat shield of NASA's Curiosity rover was obtained during descent to the surface of Mars on August 13, 2012.
The image was obtained by the Mars Descent Imager instrument known as MARDI and shows the 15-foot diameter heat shield when it was about 50 feet from the spacecraft.
Hide Caption 49 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This first image taken by the Navigation cameras on Curiosity shows the rover's shadow on the surface of Mars.
Hide Caption 50 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image comparison shows a view through a Hazard-Avoidance camera on NASA's Curiosity rover before and after the clear dust cover was removed.
Both images were taken by a camera at the front of the rover.
"Mount Sharp," the mission's ultimate destination, looms ahead.
Hide Caption 51 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The four main pieces of hardware that arrived on Mars with NASA's Curiosity rover were spotted by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The High-Resolution Imaging Science Experiment camera captured this image about 24 hours after landing.
Hide Caption 52 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the landscape to the north of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity was acquired by the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the first day after landing.
Hide Caption 53 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is one of the first pictures taken by Curiosity after it landed.
It shows the rover's shadow on the Martian soil.
Hide Caption 54 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows Curiosity's main science target, "Mount Sharp."
The rover's shadow can be seen in the foreground.
The dark bands in the distances are dunes.
Hide Caption 55 of 56
This feature is part of Vision Japan , a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here .
(CNN) Japan is building the world's fastest supercomputer, which it hopes will make the country the new global hub for artificial intelligence research.
The supercomputer is expected to run at a speed of 130 petaflops, meaning it is able to perform a mind-boggling 130 quadrillion calculations per second (that's 130 million billion).
Once complete (the target date is April 2018), the AI Bridging Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI) will be the most powerful supercomputer in the world, surpassing the current champion, China's Sunway TaihuLight, currently operating at 93 petaflops.
What makes a computer 'super'?
While the ABCI will not have a mouse or screen, it's not vastly different from a personal computer -- just souped-up, a whole lot faster, and much, much bigger.
"The current supercomputer system is one million times faster than your personal computers," explains Satoshi Sekiguchi, a director general at Japan's National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology.
Sekiguchi calculates that it would take 3,000 years for a personal computer to achieve what a supercomputer can do in just one day.
In terms of size, Japan's supercomputer will be comparable to a parking lot with space for 30 to 40 cars.
"The supercomputer that is currently under development would take up about 1,000 square meters of floor space," says Sekiguchi.
What will it be used for?
The ABCI could help Japanese companies develop and improve driverless cars, robotics and medical diagnostics, explains Sekiguchi.
"A supercomputer is an extremely important tool for accelerating the advancement in such fields," he says.
Its supersonic speed will also help Japan develop advances in artificial intelligence technologies, such as "deep learning."
But supercomputers are to thank for smaller everyday inventions too.
"The initial design of paper diapers was actually done using a supercomputer," explains Sekiguchi.
"However, mothers continue to use them without knowing that fact."
Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Sunway-TaihuLight  Chinese supercomputer Sunway-TaihuLight is currently the fastest supercomputer in the world, operating at 93 petaflops.
That means it's able to perform 93 quadrillion (million billion) calculations per second.
China uses the supercomputer for weather forecasting, pharmaceutical research, and industrial design.
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers K Computer  Fujitsu's K Computer, housed at the RIKEN institute in Japan, clocks in at 10 petaflops.
It was the fastest in the world from June to November 2011.
The supercomputer draws almost 10 megawatts of power  about the same as 10,000 suburban homes.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers IBM Roadrunner  The $130-million IBM Roadrunner was the first computer to break the petaflop barrier in 2008.
Operating at around 1 petaflop (performing 1 million billion calculations per second), the IBM Roadrunner was the fastest supercomputer in the world from June 2008 to June 2009.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers ASCI Red  This US-built supercomputer was the first to break the 1 teraflop barrier (performing 1 trillion calculations per second).
It was the fastest supercomputer in the world from 1997 to 2000, and also the first supercomputer installation to use more than 1 megawatt of power.
Pictured here, VP Rick Stulen and Intel designer Stephen Wheat look at the innards of an ASCI Red rack.
Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Cray 2  The Cray-2 was the world's fastest computer between 1985 and 1989, capable of 1.9 gigaflops.
This was the first supercomputer to break the gigaflop barrier (1 billion calculations per second).
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers CDC6600  The world's very first supercomputer, the Control Data Corporation (CDC) 6600, only had a single CPU.
Released in 1964, the CDC 6600 achieved a peak performance of 3 million floating point operations per second (3 megaflops).
Hide Caption 6 of 6

$173m key to the future

Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry will spend 19.5 billion yen ($173m) to build the ABCI and two research centers.
Photos: How Japan is living in the future High-tech aquarium  It may look like sci-fi, but in Japan, this is reality.
Often Japanese technology offers a glimpse into the future, and in the futuristic world of Japanese tech, just about anything is possible.
At this aquarium in Tokyo -- the EPSON Aqua Park Shinagawa -- touch panel exhibits, neon lights and audiovisual displays transform the encounter with sea creatures into a psychedelic, multi-sensory experience.
Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Hydrogen cars  Currently, only three auto manufacturers in the world sell hydrogen-powered cars -- and they're all Japanese.
In 2016 Honda launched the world's first commercially available hydrogen powered car -- called Clarity -- for the Japanese market.
Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Futuristic cemetery  A Buddhist burial building in downtown Tokyo houses over 2,000 neon glass Buddha statues.
Each statue corresponds to a drawer containing the cremated remains of the deceased.
When a visitor enters the building they swipe an electronic pass card, which makes a single Buddha glow a different color, guiding the visitor to their loved one's statue.
Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bullet train  Looking like something out of Star Wars, Japan's high-speed bullet trains run on the Shinkansen network, which stretches across 2,740 km.
They can hit speeds of 320 km/h.
Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Maglev train  Even faster is Japan's maglev train.
In 2015 it hit 603 km/h on an experimental track -- a new world record.
Maglev trains use magnets to float above the tracks and move forward.
However, Japan's won't actually open to passengers for another decade.
Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart toilets  High-tech toilets in Japan can check your blood pressure, urine, protein, weight and body fat.
That's over and above offering the standard front and rear spray features.
All of these options can be found on the control panel of the "Intelligence toilet," pictured, designed by Japan's largest toilet maker, Toto.
Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart Mirror  Not your ordinary looking glass -- this mirror detects wrinkles, redness, pores and sun damage, and offers a range of suitable products to address them.
This Panasonic device also lets you virtually try out a variety of makeup looks -- and mustaches -- in the mirror.
You can event print out the makeup, set on a sheet like a temporary tattoo, from a 3-D printer and stick it on your face.
The Smart Mirror debuted in October 2016 at the Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies in Japan.
Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dementia tagging  In order to keep track of senior citizens with dementia, Iruma, a Japanese city north of Tokyo, has tagged tagged the fingers and toes of the elderly with scannable barcodes.
Each nail sticker carries a unique identity number to help families find loved ones who are prone to getting lost.
Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows  Many countries have winter fairs.
Many countries have light shows.
But they don't look like this.
Huge light shows have become a winter institution in Japan and the Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki has particularly eye-catching illuminations, featuring millions of light bulbs ...
Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows  ... it even has a neon boat that sails over Technicolor water.
Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Future fashion  Walk down the street in Tokyo's Akihabara district and you may spot people dressed like it's the 22nd century, decked out as future retro sci-fi steam punks.
And also maids.
Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Kirobo Mini  Japan is the home of robotics, and there more than anywhere else, robots have found a place in society.
Toyota's Kirobo Mini companion robot is small enough to be carried around or sit in a car's cup holder.
It is able to strike up a conversation encourages safe driving by saying "Oops" when the driver brakes suddenly.
Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Hotel  In Japan, robots turn up in unexpected places.
At the five-star Henn-na Hotel in Nagasaki Prefecture, humanoid robots greet Japanese-speaking guests at reception, while English-speaking guests are met by a robotic dinosaur.
Naturally.
Droids cart luggage to the hotel's 72 rooms and clean up after you.
Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot front of house  Humanoid robot Pepper has taken over from human front of house staff at Hamazushi, a chain of sushi restaurants in Japan.
Pepper handles your seating, escorts you to your table and lets you order from a touch screen menu on its chest.
Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Restaurant  But the robots at Tokyo's famous "Robot Restaurant" aren't quite what they seem.
Here, dancers in robot suits stage mock battles.
Performances have included fembots with Thor hammers, dinosaurs battling robots and a giant neon tank.
Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dancing holograms  At Tokyo's Madame Tussauds wax museum, a special exhibit allows visitors, or rather, their holograms, to dance with the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio, Marilyn Monroe or Beyonc.
Visitors get a 3D face scan, which is transposed onto a hologram dancer for the 90-second dance performance.
Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Vending machines  Vending machines aren't uniquely Japanese -- but Japan's vending machines are definitely unique.
From draft beer to batteries, bras to fishing bait, just about anything can be found in them.
A growing number of restaurants use vending machines as ordering systems.
Customers can browse through photos of the meals on offer before making a selection, paying at the machine, taking a ticket and choosing a seat.
Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Three-wheeled vehicles  The Toyota i-Road is a three-wheeled, two-seat (driver and passenger sit in tandem) electric "personal mobility vehicle."
The little car has a 37-mile range and is able to squeeze into tiny parking slots and weave through traffic, while reducing congestion and carbon emissions.
Test drive pilots at the Toyota Tokyo Design Research Laboratory are in the process of trying out the technology.
Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Orphe smart shoes  Wearable tech is big in Japan -- these smart shoes incorporate 100 LED lights and smart motion sensors in sneaker soles so the wearer can create patterns just by moving their feet.
The idea is to give dancers and performers another level of artistic expression.
Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Archelis wearable chair  The Archelis chair is a wearable seat specially designed to provide surgeons with support during long surgeries.
The chair wraps around the legs and buttocks and is designed to support pressure points in the back, feet and legs without limiting range of motion.
Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV  As well as the technology already on the market, Japan has a bunch of game-changing innovations waiting for commercial release.
At the flick of a switch, Panasonic's OLED television turns into a transparent pane of glass.
The OLED display doesn't need a backlight to give it a picture as each pixel lights itself .
Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV  ... and the TV can serve as a glass pane of a cabinet.
You can slide it to access the shelves behind it, or adjust the height of the display.
The transparent television was first unveiled in Japan at the Consumer Electronics Show in 2016.
Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Artificial meteor showers  Japanese space start-up ALE is getting ready to deploy a satellite into orbit, which will enable the company to paint the sky with artificial meteors.
Still undergoing research and development, the company plans to launch its first meteor show in 2018.
Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bendy batteries  In the future this bendable lithium ion battery could be used in smart clothing, watches and fitness bands.
It can bend and twist up to 25 degrees without damaging the battery.
Unveiled at Japanese technology fair Ceatec in 2016, Panasonic's bendable battery could further provide scope for curved designs and foldable smartphones.
Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i  Unveiled at tech show CES 2017, Toyota's super intelligent car will be tested on the streets of Japan in the next few years.
While the car has autonomous driving features, it still needs a human in the driving seat.
Its built-in artificial intelligence is designed to grow with the driver.
The front of the vehicle displays whether the Concept-i is in automated or manual drive.
The rear of the vehicle shows messages to let trailing cars know about upcoming turns ...
Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i  ...
The doors are made almost entirely of glass to give passengers a better view of the road beneath them.
The rear wheels are built into the car's sleek white frame.
Hide Caption 26 of 26

"They [the government] recognize that artificial intelligence will be a key to the future, or the key to the competitiveness of the industry," says Sekiguchi.
Japanese firms often turn to the likes of Amazon, Microsoft and Google when looking to crunch big numbers.
But once it's running, Japanese researchers and companies will be able to pay to use the ABCI, rather than renting cycles on public clouds like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.
Race to the top?
Japan's K computer, which runs at just over 10 petaflops, claimed the title of world's fastest supercomputer for six months in 2011, before it was outperformed by the United States and China.
The K computer is named after the Japanese word "kei", which stands for 10 quadrillion.
But for Sekiguchi, it is not about the race to build the fastest supercomputer.
"Before, there was a competition in the computer industry itself, however, from now on, it is going to be more about what you can do with the computers," he said.
"It is no longer about which computer becomes the best in the world, but rather, creating an environment in which these new applications can be used properly."
Ingrem, a Chinese company has created the "husband pod," an arcade booth intended to stave off boredom for men who accompany their partners to the mall.
Source: CNN
Scientists have figured out how to grow organs from skin cells.
CNN's Rachel Crane explores a lab that is using this technique to revolutionize cancer treatments.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights "Int-Ball" will make astronauts' work hours more efficient

The drone facilitates more real-time communication with crew on Earth

(CNN) The Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency has released the first set of images and videos taken by its debut zero-gravity fully-autonomous camera drone.
Functionally, the JEM Internal Ball, or "Int-Ball" for short, will optimize communication between astronauts in space and scientists on Earth.
Aesthetically, it is the cutest little orb since Star Wars' BB-8 droid.
Star Wars actor Oscar Isaac poses alongside BB-8.
Int-Ball arrived in space at "Kibo," which is the Japanese Experiment Module on the International Space Station, on June 4 this year.
The photos were disclosed by JAXA on July 14.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Corporate titans converge at Sun Valley Conference

Apple CEO Tim Cook, right, walks with Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services, at the Allen & Co. Sun Valley Conference on Wednesday, July 12.
The annual weeklong conference, held in Sun Valley, Idaho, brings together some of the world's most wealthy and powerful businesspeople.
See some of the corporate titans attending the event this year.
Beneath its heavy cloud cover, Jupiter has been able to keep its secrets from astronomers.
Now, first results from NASA's Juno mission are challenging researchers' beliefs about the gas giant.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights Japanese scientists are developing a system to capture and remove space debris

They plan to use magnets to catch and force debris down to burn up in Earth's atmosphere

This feature is part of Vision Japan, a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here.
(CNN) Japan's Space Sweepers are taking it upon themselves to do a little spring cleaning in space.
One hundred and seventy million pieces of space debris currently orbit the Earth, according to estimates from the European Space Agency (ESA).
Defunct satellites and other man-made objects rocket around the atmosphere at eight kilometers per second -- 10 times faster than a bullet.
Some chunks are as big as a truck, others smaller than a dime.
But even the tiniest piece of cosmic junk poses an enormous threat to other satellites and spacecraft.
A collision with a one centimeter speck of space debris at orbital velocity, for example, has the equivalent energy force of an exploding hand grenade, according to Heiner Klinkrad, head of the space debris office at the ESA.
When an accident like this occurs, fragments scatter around space, increasing the risk of further accidents.
Read More
Thursday's news that Yahoo suffered a hack of 500 million of its user accounts may have many people taking a new look at how to keep their own email accounts and personal information secure.
One easy way to protect yourself from hackers is by regularly updating your software.
"Hackers are always finding new vulnerabilities to exploit," said Consumer Reports Editor Jerry Beilinson.
(Published Friday, Sept. 23, 2016)

How to Protect Yourself From Hackers

Hackers breached the filing system of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and may have accessed "nonpublic information" for profit, the agency said in a statement late Wednesday.
The SEC, which regulates the financial securities industry, gave few details on the hack but said the hackers may have made "illicit gain through trading," NBC News reported.
It is not believed that any personally identifiable information or SEC operations were compromised, the agency added.
The hack was first detected in 2016, but the SEC didn't realize until last month that the hackers may have benefited from the data accessed.
With more factory jobs now demanding education, technical know-how or specialized skills, many US plants are struggling to fill positions.
(Published Tuesday, Aug. 15, 2017)

Some companies are so set on having workers who know just how their computer systems work that they're partnering with schools to start or invest in job training programs of their own, NBC News reported.
Call it "new collar" jobs, as opposed to white collar and blue collar.
They require some specialized education to get the job, but not a four-year degree.
For example, Delta has partnered with 37 aviation maintenance schools to help shed light on the often-technical aviation maintenance technician job.
A company executive said that the curriculum required by the Federal Aviation Administration is "very generic" and that it takes at least a year of working at Delta even with certification to be able to sign off on anything as an AMT.
Nationwide, there were 6.2 million job openings at the end of June, a record high, and many of these openings are "new collar jobs that are unfilled as a result of an unskilled and under-skilled workforce," said Eugene Giovannini, chancellor at Tarrant County College in Texas.
To celebrate the Blu-ray release of Wonder Woman, 300 drones flew over downtown Los Angeles in an illuminated, choreographed art show creating some stunning visuals.
Patty Jenkins has signed on to direct the sequel, and the deal will make her the highest-paid female director of all time.
FILE - A Kaspersky employee shuffles tokens around a table-top display at the company's stand at a cybersecurity conference in Lille, northern France, Jan. 25, 2017.
Federal agencies have been ordered to stop using software made by Kaspersky Lab because of concerns about the companys ties to Russian intelligence.
The Department of Homeland Security said Wednesday that the "risk that the Russian government, whether acting on its own or in collaboration with Kaspersky, could capitalize on access provided by Kaspersky products to compromise federal information and information systems directly implicates U.S. national security."
The move came after mounting concerns about Kaspersky, which is the subject of an ongoing FBI counterintelligence investigation.
FBI agents in June paid visits to at least a dozen employees at home, asking questions about that company's operations as part of the inquiry, multiple sources familiar with the matter told NBC News.
A Kaspersky spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Apple has unveiled the iPhone X, a new flagship model that coincides with the tenth anniversary of the popular device.
The new phone has an edge-to-edge screen that eliminates the "home" button to unlock it, in favor of a biometrics sensor called Face ID.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
Let's face it - that was awkward.
Apple had an embarrassing moment during the tech giant's much-hyped reveal of its new iPhone X Tuesday when a key facial recognition feature failed to work during a demonstration, CNBC reported.
The new Face ID feature is supposed to allow you to unlock the $1,000 gadget with a glance, but an Apple exec needed to enter a passcode to get it to work while on-stage Tuesday in California.
Check out how the facial recognition feature flopped during Apple's demo in the below video.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
A data breach discovered in July may have affected as many as 143 million U.S. consumers, credit tracker Equifax said Thursday.
And three of the company's executives sold nearly $2 million in Equifax shares days after the cyberattack was discovered, SEC filings show.
It was unclear whether their share sales had anything to do with the breach, CNBC reports.
An Equifax spokeswoman didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Leaked data includes names, birth dates, Social Security numbers, addresses and some driver's license numbers, CNBC reported.
The company added that 209,000 U.S. credit card numbers were also obtained.
Equifax said it is alerting customers whose information was included in the breach via mail, and is working with state and federal authorities.
Its private investigation into the breach is complete, the company said.
Consumers who think their personal information may have been compromised in this incident can find out more here.
FILE - In this April 18, 2017, file photo, conference workers speak in front of a demo booth at Facebook's annual F8 developer conference in San Jose, Calif.
It is likely Russian political operatives spent $100,000 on Facebook ads with divisive messages between June 2015 and May 2017, the company said Wednesday.
In a blog post on the issue and the companys internal investigation, Facebook said the operation involved 3,000 separate ads purchased over a two-year period and appears to have been run out of Russia.
In addition, Facebook found 470 affiliated fake accounts and pages.
About $50,000 of the funds  about 2,200 ads were potentially related to U.S. politics.
The majority of the ads did not reference the U.S. presidential election, voting or a specific candidate.
Zuckerberg: Facebook Has More Work To Do on Safety

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg made his first public comments since the Cleveland murder case, saying that the social media giant has more work to do when it comes to policing disturbing content online and making its online community safer.
(Published Tuesday, April 18, 2017)

As CNBC reports, the ads focused on "divisive social and political messages" about hot-button topics including LGBT rights, race, immigration and gun rights.
Facebook has shared its findings with U.S. authorities.
Advanced hackers have successfully broken into core operations systems after targeting energy companies in the United States and Europe, according to new report from a cybersecurity firm.
Reuters reported that Symantec researchers found malicious email campaigns helped a group, apparently one called Dragonfly, gain entry into U.S. energy firms, as well as in Turkey and Switzerland and likely elsewhere.
The researchers believe the cyberattacks are probably the work of a foreign government, and while their report didn't name Russia, some code strings were in Russian.
The research adds to concerns that utilities and other industrial firms could be susceptible to damaging cyberattacks in a global conflict.
In June, the U.S. government alerted firms about a hacking campaign targeting the nuclear and energy sectors.
Trump Says Russia, Others Could Have Been Involved in Election Hacking
The Trump administration on Tuesday decided to scrap from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, triggering ripple effects throughout Silicon Valley.
Scott Budman reports.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2017)

The Trump administration on Tuesday decided to scrap the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, triggering ripple effects throughout Silicon Valley.
The tech industry is known as a place where immigrants have risen to, and often started, successful companies.
The loss of DACA, which gives renewable, two-year permits to immigrants who entered the United States as undocumented minors, is expected to heavily cost Silicon Valley.
This has a very real impact on the bottom line of companies, said Peter Leroe-Munoz, the vice president of tech and innovation policy at the Silicon Valley Leadership Group.
He said certain industries have especially benefited from young immigrant employees.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea

President Trump is hitting North Korea with severe new sanctions and issuing an ultimatum to the world: If you do business with Kim Jong Un the United States will not do business with you.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

Whether in autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence or cyber security, there is a source of intellectual capital that can help grow those technologies here in the US and increase American jobs, he stressed.
Meanwhile, at the Asian Law Alliance, the phone rang off the hook, with young immigrants from all over the world reacting to the uncertainty of their future.
"There are people who came here from Asian countries, African countries, European countries, obviously people who crossed the southern border from Mexico to California, but the population of DACA recipients (is) very diverse, said Richard Konda, with the Asian Law Alliance.
The movers and shakers of the tech world on Tuesday vocalized their support for DACA.
"The decision to end DACA is not just wrong, said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
It is particularly cruel to offer young people the American Dream, encourage them to come out of the shadows and trust our government, and then punish them for it."
Dara Khosrowshahi, who was recently named the chief executive of San Francisco-based ridesharing company Uber echoed the sentiment.
GOP Still Split on Graham-Cassidy Health Care Bill

Republicans expect to vote next week on a health care bill known as Graham-Cassidy, named for the senators who wrote it, which would scale back Medicaid.
Some GOP lawmakers are split on the newest effort to undo Obamacare, while Democrats are planning for more demonstrations against it.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

It's against our values to turn our backs on #DREAMers.
Everyone deserves a chance to work, study and contribute - the #AmericanDream!
he wrote on Twitter.
NBC Bay Area's Rhea Mahbubani contributed to this report.
FILE - In this Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2011 file photo, an Apple logo is seen during an announcement at Apple headquarters in Cupertino, Calif.

Apple will host its iPhone 8 event on Sept. 12, CNBC reported.
The company sent invites out to the press with a note: "Let's meet at our place.
Please join us for the first-ever event at the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino."
Apple is expected to unveil three new iPhones, including the iPhone 7s, iPhone 7s Plus and iPhone 8.
A 4K Apple TV is also reportedly on the docket, according to CNBC.
Apple provided few details in its announcement but has previously rolled out new iPhones at its September events.
One in five women are sexually assaulted or raped while in college.
Take a look at these new tools that aim to help combat the problem through technology.
Warning: Details in this story may be disturbing for some users

A suburban Chicago dad has issued a now-viral warning to parents after he made a disturbing discovery on a popular app being used by his 7-year-old daughter.
Brad Summer, of Batavia, said he and his wife allowed their daughter to use the app Musical.ly on their phones while under supervision by an adult.
She used this app to connect with her cousins and make goofy duets of songs together, he wrote on Facebook.
But what he said was a fun, family-friendly game, quickly made him furious.
Summer said someone pretending to be 9 years old had messaged his daughter via the app and his daughter alerted him to the disturbing exchange.
First I want to say how proud of our daughter I am and want this to be a warning to your families, he wrote.
In screenshots posted by Summer, the messages show someone identified only as Jessy asking the young girl how old she is.
The person then asks the girl to send a photo of herself.
When the girl sends a selfie, the person says looking nice and send me your pics without t-shirt.
I like to see your body without t-shirt, one message read.
The girl tells the person she cant, but they continue to press for photos, saying dont tell to anyone and its secret between us only.
Then, the young girls father chimes in.
I am her father and I am a police officer, the message reads.
We have documented your ip address and location.
I recommend that you refrain from any other contact.
Summer said he called police and handed the phone over so they could pull information in hopes of tracking the person down.
He said he knows some might criticize his parenting but said we never thought like predators and I guess we were nave in thinking our daughter safe on what we thought to be a kid friendly app.
We live and learn and I continue to do so everyday as a parent, he wrote.
This post is meant as a warning call to others that let their children use this app.
This post wasn't meant for people telling me how to raise my child.
My child came and told me and it didn't get any further luckily.
She followed what I taught her.
I'm sure that others families aren't so lucky.
The world we live in needs focus on these types of things, say what you will.
Summers post has been shared more than 80,000 times and liked more than 18,000 times.
Musical.ly did not respond to NBC Chicagos request for comment, but the apps rules prohibit anyone under the age of 13 from using it.
The apps website also provides resources for parents on internet safety and cyberbullying and details how to change message settings so only approved followers can message an account.
If youd like to make sure that only approved followers can send messages via direct.ly, we recommend enabling the only friends can direct.ly me on the settings page, the website reads.
With these private settings enabled, only approved followers can view your teens videos and send them messages.
Summer said since his posting, hes received support from parents across the world.
This story has spread through almost every continent and the replies have been overwhelmingly touching, he wrote.
From those who comment, to those of you who send me a PM, I read each and every one.
I have been given advice, other sites to look out for and most appreciated, the encouragement to keep fighting.
Japanese telecommunications company Softbank has built a robot programmed to fulfill religious duties.
The robot, named "Pepper," is on display at a funeral and cemetery expo in Tokyo.
Samsung announced its newest smartphone, the Galaxy Note 8, on Aug. 23.
The new phone is the successor to the Galaxy Note 7, which was recalled when dozens caught fire because of a battery problem.
In a quest to end cookie-cutter health care, U.S. researchers are getting ready to recruit more than 1 million people for an unprecedented study to learn how our genes, environments and lifestyles interact  and to finally customize ways to prevent and treat disease.
Why does one sibling get sick but not another?
Why does a drug cure one patient but only cause nasty side effects in the next?
Finding out is a tall order.
Today, diseases typically are treated based on what worked best in short studies of a few hundred or thousand patients.
"We depend on the average, the one-size-fits-all approach because it's the best we've got," said Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health.
That's changing: The NIH's massive "All Of Us" project will push what's called precision medicine, using traits that make us unique in learning to forecast health and treat disease.
Partly it's genetics.
What genes do you harbor that raise your risk of, say, heart disease or Type 2 diabetes or various cancers?
But other factors affect that genetic risk: what you eat, how you sleep, if you grew up in smog or fresh air, if you sit at a desk all day or bike around town, if your blood pressure is fine at a check-up but soars on the job, what medications you take.
Not to mention differences based on age, gender, race and ethnicity, and socioeconomics.
Layering all that information in what's expected to be the largest database of its kind could help scientists spot patterns, combinations of factors that drive or prevent certain diseases  and eventually, researchers hope, lead to better care.
"The DNA is almost the easiest part," Collins said.
"It's challenging to figure out how to put all that together to allow somebody to have a more precise sense of future risk of illness and what they might do about it."
Pilot testing is under way, with more than 2,500 people who already have enrolled and given blood samples.
More than 50 sites around the country  large medical centers, community health centers and other providers like the San Diego Blood Bank and, soon, select Walgreens pharmacies  are enrolling patients or customers in this invitation-only pilot phase.
If the pilot goes well, NIH plans to open the study next spring to just about any U.S. adult who's interested, with sign-up as easy as going online.
It's a commitment.
The study aims to run for at least 10 years.
The goal is to enroll a highly diverse population, people from all walks of life  specifically recruiting minorities who have been under-represented in scientific research.
And unusual for observational research, volunteers will get receive results of their genetic and other tests, information they can share with their own doctors.
"Anything to get more information I can pass on to my children, I'm all for it," said Erricka Hager, 29, as she signed up last month at the University of Pittsburgh, the project's first pilot site.
A usually healthy mother of two, she hopes the study can reveal why she experienced high blood pressure and gestational diabetes during pregnancy.
Heading the giant All Of Us project is a former Intel Corp. executive who brings a special passion: How to widen access to the precision medicine that saved his life.
In college, Eric Dishman developed a form of kidney cancer so rare that doctors had no idea how to treat him, and predicted he had months to live.
Only two studies of that particular cancer had ever been done, on people in their 70s and 80s.
"They didn't know anything about me because they'd never seen a 19-year-old with this disease," said Dishman.
Yet he survived for two decades, trying one treatment after another.
Then, as he was running out of options, a chance encounter with a genetics researcher led to mapping Dishman's DNA  and the stunning discovery that his kidney cancer was genetically more like pancreatic cancer.
A pancreatic cancer drug attacked his tumors so he could get a kidney transplant.
"I'm healthier now at 49 than I was at 19," said Dishman.
"I was lucky twice over really," to be offered an uncommon kind of testing and that it found something treatable.
Precision medicine is used most widely in cancer, as more drugs are developed that target tumors with specific molecular characteristics.
Beyond cancer, one of the University of Pittsburgh's hospitals tests every patient receiving a heart stent  looking for a genetic variant that tells if they'll respond well to a particular blood thinner or will need an alternative.
The aim is to expand precision medicine.
"Why me?"
is the question cancer patients always ask  why they got sick and not someone else with similar health risks, said Dr. Mounzer Agha, an oncologist at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.
"Unfortunately I don't have answers for them today," said Agha, who says it will take the million-person study to finally get some answers.
"It's going to help them understand what are the factors that led to their disease, and it's going to help us understand how to treat it better."
And NIH's Collins expects surprises.
Maybe, he speculates, Type 2 diabetes will turn out to be a collection of genetic subtypes that require varied treatments.
"This looks at individual responses to treatment in a way we couldn't do previously with smaller studies."
The study starts simply: Volunteers get some standard health checks  weight, blood pressure and heart rate.
They answer periodic questionnaires about their health, background and habits, and turn over electronic health records.
They give a blood sample that, if they agree, will undergo DNA testing sometime next year.
Eventually, researchers will ask some participants to wear sensors that may go beyond today's Fitbit-style health trackers, such as devices that measure blood pressure while people move around all day, or measure environmental exposures, Collins said.
In Pittsburgh, the Rev.
Paul Abernathy made a health change after signing up for the pilot study: Surprised to learn his BMI was too high despite regular weight-lifting, he began running.
"I'm praying I have the discipline to continue that, certainly in midst of a busy schedule," said Abernathy, who directs the nonprofit Focus Pittsburgh that aids the poor and trauma victims.
"We have a chance really to influence history, to influence the future of our children and our children's children," added Abernathy, who hopes the study will help explain racial disparities such as lower life expectancies between African-Americans and whites who live in the same areas.
At NIH, Collins plans to enroll, too.
He's had his DNA mapped before but can't pass up what he's calling a one-in-a-million experience to be part of a monumental study rather than the scientist on the other side.
"I'm curious about what this might teach me about myself.
I'm pretty healthy right now.
I'd like to stay that way."
This Associated Press series was produced in partnership with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education.
The AP is solely responsible for all content.
This story is part of Genetic Frontiers, AP's ongoing exploration of the rapidly growing understanding of DNA and new attempts to manipulate it.
The new CEO of Uber offered contrition for past mistakes on Monday, just days after London's transport authority said it would scrap the company's operating license.
Dara Khosrowshahi issued a letter to London's Evening Standard newspaper acknowledging that the company "has got things wrong along the way" as it expanded.
He confirmed the company will appeal the London decision but will do so "with the knowledge that we must also change."
"We won't be perfect, but we will listen to you; we will look to be long-term partners with the cities we serve; and we will run our business with humility, integrity and passion," he wrote.
London mayor Sadiq Khan welcomed the apology and said he was pleased to see the company acknowledge the issues it faced in London.
"Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked (Transport for London) to make themselves available to meet with him," Khan said.
The city's transportation agency said last week it would not renew Uber's license when it expires Sept. 30, citing a lack of corporate responsibility and concern for public security.
The company has been subject to scandals over its management style from accusations of sexism to the illegal use of software to trick regulators.
The regulator said it was not fit to keep operating in London, where it has 3.5 million passengers and 40,000 drivers.
Uber has long been a target of complaints from taxi drivers and companies.
Cab drivers say Uber drivers don't have to comply with the same licensing standards, giving the ride-hailing service an unfair advantage.
The apologetic letter comes after days of tense exchanges between Uber representatives and Khan, who said any operator of taxi services in the city "needs to play by the rules" and that people angry about the decision should blame the ride-hailing company.
The federal government on Friday told election officials in 21 states that hackers targeted their systems before last year's presidential election.
The notification came roughly a year after U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials first said states were targeted by hacking efforts possibly connected to Russia.
The states that told The Associated Press they had been targeted included some key political battlegrounds, such as Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.
The AP contacted every state election office to determine which ones had been informed that their election systems had been targeted.
The others confirming were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas and Washington.
Being targeted does not mean that sensitive voter data was manipulated or results were changed.
A hacker targeting a system without getting inside is similar to a burglar circling a house checking for unlocked doors and windows.
Even so, the widespread nature of the attempts and the yearlong lag time in notification from Homeland Security raised concerns among some election officials and lawmakers.
For many states, the Friday calls were the first official confirmation of whether their states were on the list  even though state election officials across the country have been calling for months for the federal government to share information about any hacks, as have members of Congress.
"It is completely unacceptable that it has taken DHS over a year to inform our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for information," California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement.
"The practice of withholding critical information from elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy."
U.S. Sen. Mark Warner, of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that's investigating Russian meddling in last year's election, has been pushing the department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states.
He said states need such information in real time so they can strengthen their cyber defenses.
"We have to do better in the future," he said.
Homeland Security said it recognizes that state and local officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election infrastructure.
"We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners," it said in a statement.
The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide details about what had been sought.
But election officials in several states said the attempts were linked to Russia.
The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the state's systems were targeted by "Russian government cyber actors."
Alaska Elections Division Director Josie Bahnke said computers in Russia were scanning election systems looking for vulnerabilities.
A spokeswoman for Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson, the president of National Association of Secretaries of State, said Lawson requested a list of the states where there were hacking efforts.
In most cases, states said they were told the systems were not breached.
Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states the targeting was preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.
The targets included voter registration systems but not vote tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks but most were unsuccessful.
Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter systems.
Other states said their cybersecurity efforts turned back efforts to get to crucial information.
"There are constant attempts by bad actors to hack our systems," Iowa Secretary of State Paul Pate, a Republican, said in a statement.
"But we continue to deflect those attempts."
Colorado said the hacking wasn't quite a breach.
"It's really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would break into your computer," said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado secretary of state's office.
"It's not an attack.
I wouldn't call it a probe.
It's not a breach, it's not a penetration."
Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that hackers obtained information from a company that provided software to manage voter registrations in eight states.
The May report said hackers sent phishing emails to 122 local election officials just before the November 2016 election in an attempt to break into their systems.
The latest disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel investigates whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between Russia and associates of Donald Trump.
Trump, a Republican who defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax.
He says Russian President Vladimir Putin "vehemently denied" the conclusions of numerous American intelligence agencies.
For states that were told they were not targets, the news brought relief.
"This is one time we like being at the bottom of the list," said Lisa Strimple, a spokeswoman for Nebraska's secretary of state.
Associated Press statehouse reporters around the country contributed to this report.
Follow Mulvihill and Pearson at http://www.twitter.com/geoffmulvihill and https://twitter.com/JakePearsonAP



This story has been corrected to show that a spokeswoman for the president of the National Association of Secretaries of State said a request had been made for the list of states that were targeted, not a spokeswoman for the organization.
The topography of Mexico City played a pivotal and devastating role in the amount of damage done to the city during Tuesday's 7.1 magnitude earthquake.
Dozens of buildings were leveled by the quake, which has killed over 200 people.
On Wednesday, rescuers could be seen digging through the rubble throughout the city, frantically searching for survivors.
EPA

Mexico City, which has a population of just under 9 million people, is located directly on a large sedimentary basin with loose soil, which amplifies the ripple effects from earthquakes.
Mexico City is more vulnerable than any other typical city because it was built in what used to lake, so the soil is soft and wet and because of this, it behaves like a jelly bowl when shaking arrives, Dr. Pablo Ampuero, a professor of seismology at CalTech University, said.
It keeps ringing like a bell so it makes the shaking stronger and longer.
In both Tuesday's earthquake and an even deadlier quake that killed thousands in 1985, the epicenter of the earthquake was well outside the boundaries of the city -- roughly 75 miles and 250 miles away, respectively.
But because of where the city sits, the effects of both quakes were magnified.
"A very large earthquake that hits very far away can have the same impact as a small earthquake that hits closer to you," Ampuero said.
Dr. Lucy Jones, the founder of the Dr. Lucy Jones Center for Science and Society and a former scientist at the U.S. Geological Survey, explained that the seismic waves from earthquakes travels underground through rock, and the density of the rock impacts the speed at which the waves moves.
When the wave reaches less dense ground, like the loose soil beneath Mexico City, it slows down abruptly but then the waves still have all that energy so the amplitude of those of those waves gets bigger.
That increased amplitude means the ground is moving a greater distance.
Mexico City is not alone in being built in a potentially catastrophic location -- Los Angeles was constructed above a similar basin.
However, Jones said that downtown Los Angeles only has an amplification factor of five, while Mexico City has an amplification factor of 100.
Though Mexico City's deadly earthquake in 1985 left at least 9,500 people dead, Ampuero said many of the buildings that survived that quake have not been retrofitted in the years since to reinforce them against such natural disasters.
He said that retrofitting buildings was likely not mandatory, which is the case in other cities, including in California.
One could expect that the old and still-vulnerable buildings could still collapse, he said.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
Especially if a baby is watching.
Children around 15 months old can become more persistent in pursuing a goal if they've just seen an adult struggle at a task before succeeding, a new study says.
The results suggest there may be value in letting children see you sweat.
"Showing children that hard work works might encourage them to work hard too," researchers conclude in a report released Thursday by the journal Science.
The babies in the study didn't simply imitate what the grown-ups did.
They faced a different challenge, showing they had absorbed a general lesson about the value of sticking to a task.
Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology conducted three experiments that included a total of 262 children ages 13 months to 18 months, with an average of 15 months.
The basic procedure was this: Two groups of children first watched a researcher remove a rubber frog from a clear plastic container, and also unhook a key chain from a carabiner, a metal ring with a hinged side.
For one group, the researcher succeeded only after 30 seconds of appearing to struggle to figure out how to do the task.
For the other, success came easily, within just 10 seconds, and she demonstrated the answer three times in 30 seconds.
In both cases, she kept up a narration ("Look there's something inside of there!
I want to get it out!
Does this work?
No, how about this ...")

After seeing the adult solve the challenges, the babies were shown that a felt-covered box could play music, and they were encouraged to turn the music on.
The box had a large red button to press, but it was inactive.
The question was how long the children would persist in pushing the button.
Across the three experiments, children consistently pressed the button more often if they'd seen the researcher struggle than if she had solved her tasks easily.
In one experiment, for example, they pushed it an average of 23 times after seeing her struggle but only 12 times if the researcher had not displayed much effort.
That smaller number is about what other babies did if they were just handed the cube in the first place, without seeing an adult fiddle with anything.
The effect was much stronger if the researcher had actively engaged the child while doing her own tasks by making eye contact, using the child's name, and adopting the high-pitched, exaggerated-melody style of speech that adults typically use to hold a child's attention.
Results show such young children "can learn the value of effort from just a couple of examples," said study senior author Laura Schulz.
The study could not determine how long the effect lasts, nor does it show that parents could get the same result with their children.
But "it can't hurt to try in front of your child," said Julia Leonard, another author.
Elizabeth Gunderson, an assistant professor of psychology at Temple University in Philadelphia who did not participate in the work, called the results compelling.
It is surprising that such young children picked up on the general idea of continued effort toward a goal, she said in an email.
Follow Malcolm Ritter at @MalcolmRitter His recent work can be found at http://tinyurl.com/RitterAP
This hurricane season is showing how wild and varied storms' life cycles can be.
Most storms seem to be tracked for days while others appear to pop out of nowhere.
And some just linger around.
Hurricane Jose is pushing the two-week mark as it meanders off the U.S. East Coast.
Lee, named a tropical storm last Saturday, is barely hanging on as a tropical depression.
Harvey formed, died and then came back to life as a major hurricane, dumping a record amount of rainfall on south Texas last month.
Hurricane Katia seemed to just pop up in the Gulf of Mexico days before hitting the Mexico coast.
Forecasters for days watched Harvey, Irma, Jose, Lee and now Maria make steady marches west off Africa before they got named.
About four out of five major hurricanes  those with winds of at least 111 mph  start out similarly: They form off the African coast as unstable waves or patches of storminess.
The National Hurricane Center monitors them, giving them yellow, orange or red letter Xs on forecast outlook maps.
Not all of these waves survive the trip west.
They need favorable winds, warm water and moist air to get stronger.
Some get strong immediately; others intensify over the Caribbean or the Gulf of Mexico.
Some even don't get their acts together until they cross over the Pacific, said Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach.
The rest of the storms usually form in the warm and unstable waters of the Gulf of Mexico, popping up from mid-latitude normal storm fronts, often early or late in hurricane season, Klotzbach said.
During the peak of hurricane season  mid-August to mid-October  it's Africa that acts as the chief Atlantic storm generator.
Even those less common ones that form in the Gulf of Mexico aren't total surprises with meteorologists monitoring storm clouds clustering together a couple days before they become named storms.
Once a named storm forms, "it's hard to get rid of it" and it'll keep going until it's stopped, Klotzbach said.
Four things generally kill a hurricane: High-level winds, dry air, cold water and land.
And it's pretty much just chance if they run into any of those four storm-killers, said MIT meteorology professor Kerry Emanuel.
High-level winds  called shear  are a major issue.
These winds at about 10,000 feet high can decapitate a hurricane.
Maria, the latest storm, has almost no shear and so it can get more powerful, but a wall of shear hit and is killing Lee, Klotzbach said.
Warm water is a hurricane's fuel  the temperature needs to be 79 degrees (26 degrees Celsius) or warmer.
When the water cools, the storm runs out of gas.
Sometimes the storm runs into cold water and other times it makes the cold water itself by not moving much and churning it up from the depths.
When storms go over land, they lose fuel and eventually disappear.
That happened to Harvey and Irma.
On average, Atlantic named storms last about six days.
But there are exceptions.
One almost lasted 28 days in 1899.
Hurricane Ginger made it to 27 days in 1971.
Five years ago, Hurricane Nadine lasted for 22 days.
Starting off from Africa, Nadine made three loops in the unpopulated central Atlantic, forming a track that looks like a long-tailed bird.
It became a hurricane twice, a record 13 days apart.
Follow Seth Borenstein on Twitter at @borenbears .
His work can be found here .
Australia announced on Monday it will create its own space agency to increase its share of the $330 billion space economy.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the agency would be part of Australia's development of an innovation and science economy.
But the government has provided few specifics.
"It's a small agency to coordinate and lead," Turnbull told reporters.
"The space sector, of course, is one of enormous potential."
Acting Minister for Industry, Innovation and Science Michaelia Cash said the agency's charter would be developed by the end of March.
"The global space industry is growing rapidly and it's crucial that Australia is part of this growth," Cash said in a statement.
"A national space agency will ensure we have a strategic long-term plan that supports the development and application of space technologies and grows our domestic space industry," she added.
The opposition Labor Party said such an agency was needed to increase Australia's share of a global space economy from less than 1 percent of what the government estimates is worth $330 billion.
Labor said Australia and Iceland were the only countries in the 35-member Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that do not have a space agency.
Australia in 1967 became one of the first countries to launch a satellite and images of astronaut Neil Armstrong's first steps on the moon were transmitted by NASA's Honeysuckle Creek tracking station in Australia.
But successive governments have baulked at establishing a space agency because of cost.
The government has yet to announce how much it will invest in the new agency.
Facebook is slowly acknowledging the outsized  if unintended  role it played in the 2016 U.S. presidential elections.
Bowing to pressure from lawmakers and the public, the company said it will provide the contents of 3,000 ads bought by a Russian agency to congressional investigators, while also pledging to make political advertising on its platform more "transparent."
"I don't want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy," CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a Facebook video and wrote in an accompanying post .
"That's not what we stand for."
The moves Thursday come amid growing pressure on the social network from members of Congress, who pushed Facebook to release the ads after the company disclosed their existence in early September.
Facebook has already handed over the ads to the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
Facebook's reluctance to be more forthcoming with information that could shed light on possible election interference has prompted the chairman of the Senate intelligence committee to call for the company to testify in its election-meddling probe.
A MORE TRANSPARENT FACEBOOK

In one of the first steps Facebook has ever taken to open up its secretive advertising system to observation, the company will now require political ads to disclose both who is paying for them and all ad campaigns those individuals or groups are running on Facebook.
That's a key step that will allow outsiders to see how many different variants of a given ad are being targeted to various groups of individuals, a tactic designed to improve their effectiveness.
At the moment, there's no way for anyone but Facebook to track these political ads, or for recipients to tell who is sponsoring such messages.
Since average users "don't know if you're seeing the same messages as everyone else," Zuckerberg said, Facebook will "make it so you can visit an advertiser's page and see the ads they're currently running to any audience on Facebook."
The company will hire 250 more people in the next year to work on "election integrity," Zuckerberg said.
The top Democrat on the Senate intelligence panel would go farther.
Virginia Sen. Mark Warner is writing a bill that would require social media companies to disclose who funded political ads, similar to rules on television broadcasters.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Warner said he hoped to work with social-media companies on the bill.
AND YET STILL SECRETIVE

Zuckerberg suggested that the company may not provide much information publicly, saying that the ongoing federal investigation will limit what he can reveal.
The leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee have sought to bring Facebook executives before their committee for the past couple of weeks.
But critics say Facebook should go further.
They say the company should tell its users how they might have been influenced by outside meddlers.
The nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center, for instance, stressed again on Thursday that the company should make the ads public, "so that everyone can see the nature and extent of the use of Facebook accounts by Russia."
Zuckerberg also warned that Facebook can't catch all undesirable material before it hits its social network.
"I'm not going to sit here and tell you we're going to catch all bad content in our system.
We don't check what people say before they say it, and frankly, I don't think our society should want us to," Zuckerberg said.
But those who break the law or Facebook's policies, he added, "are going to face consequences afterwards."
Facebook won't catch everyone immediately, he added, but it can "make it harder to try to interfere."
FACEBOOK HAS COMPANY IN THE HOT SEAT

Zuckerberg's move came a day after Twitter confirmed that it will meet next week with staff of the Senate intelligence committee, which has been scrutinizing the spread of false news stories and propaganda on social media during the election.
Warner said the committee wanted to hear from Twitter to learn more about the use of fake accounts and bot networks to spread misinformation.
"Twitter deeply respects the integrity of the election process, a cornerstone of all democracies, and will continue to strengthen our platform against bots and other forms of manipulation that violate our Terms of Service," the company said in a statement.
LoBianco reported from Washington.
Associated Press Writers Mary Clare Jalonick and Chad Day contributed to this story from Washington.
Space station astronaut Joe Acaba is getting a double dose of hurricanes  even in orbit.
Harvey flooded his home in Houston last month.
Now Maria has slammed into Puerto Rico, his family's homeland.
In an interview with The Associated Press on Wednesday, the first astronaut of Puerto Rican heritage offered words of comfort to family members and everyone else during the wrath of Hurricane Maria.
"My parents were born there, so a lot of relatives, cousins, godparents" are still in Puerto Rico, Acaba said.
"I hope everyone's doing well and that you take care of yourselves."
Acaba, a former teacher who arrived at the International Space Station last week, said he had not yet seen the hurricane from space.
The storm made landfall at Puerto Rico an hour before the TV interview.
"It's kind of hard to believe, but you get so busy in the day working so hard that at times you forget to look out the window," said Acaba, who is on his third spaceflight and his second visit to the space station.
Acaba was in Russia then, getting ready for his launch, when his home flooded in Houston.
Friends and colleagues came to his rescue, yanking out walls and drying out his house.
"It was a huge relief to know that there were people at home, taking care of me," he said.
Fellow NASA astronaut Mark Vande Hei's home in Houston fared much better.
It's tough being in space when you want to help those back home, he said, but all the help to the astronauts' families from Johnson Space Center colleagues has been "hugely appreciated."
Acaba, Vande Hei and Russian cosmonaut Alexander Misurkin rocketed from Kazakhstan on Sept. 12.
They joined American Randy Bresnik, Italian Paolo Nespoli and Russian Sergey Ryazanskiy already at the orbiting outpost.
Acaba took Puerto Rican flags up with him.
"No Puerto Rican can travel without their Puerto Rican flags, so I have my share of those.
And pretty soon, the space station's going to start looking like Puerto Rico with all the flags," he said.
Acaba's parents were from Hatillo, Puerto Rico, and, while young, moved to the U.S. Born and raised in Southern California, Acaba served in the Marine Corps Reserves, volunteered for the Peace Corps in the Dominican Republic and worked as a hydro-geologist before becoming a science and math teacher in Florida.
NASA chose Acaba in its first official group of astronaut-educators in 2004 along with Richard Arnold, who will make another trip to the space station in March, a month after Acaba departs.
The two will make short video clips and use social media to reach out to youngsters.
"For all of us, it's a dream come true and we want them to believe the same," he said.
He added: "As much as we can do to help the great teachers out there, we're going to try to do that."
Meanwhile, Nespoli, in orbit since July, said he misses sharing pizza with friends.
He recently dug out the space station's espresso machine, an Italian experiment from two years ago.
He brought up some coffee capsules to try.
After weeks of instant space coffee, "a really good espresso would make a difference."
Online:

NASA: https://www.nasa.gov/missionpages/station/main/index.html
Researchers say Islamic State supporters have found an ephemeral platform to share propaganda: Using Instagram's "stories" feature, which causes posts to disappear in 24 hours.
With successive military defeats in Iraq and Syria, many of its recruits dead or on the run and its Twitter and Facebook accounts being shut down, the group's propaganda drive is increasingly homemade.
But a recent analysis found the networks of people inspired by the group remain strong elsewhere.
The software analysis identified more than 50,000 accounts linked to Islamic State supporters posting Instagram stories, according to Andrea Stroppa, who is part of the software research group called Ghost Data.
Of those 50,000, just over 10,000 are described as strongly-linked to IS  they follow core IS accounts and are followed back, and about 30 percent of their posted content is about the group.
"They send a message that they know will disappear but they know who the audience is.
They are using these stories because they know it is a safe channel to share information," said Stroppa, who is also affiliated with the World Economic Forum.
There is no sign that the majority of the posts are from Islamic State's central propaganda units  rather, they tend to be personal snapshots with little production value, like a clip of the IS trademark black flag, or a bloody photo showing what happens to "traitors."
Instagram is owned by Facebook, which came under pressure to close accounts linked to Islamic State supporters after governments said it was being used as a propaganda and recruitment tool.
At the height of Islamic State's recruitment drive in the West in 2014 and 2015, the group's propaganda was of a quality unseen in other extremist groups.
On Wednesday, the U.N. General Assembly was focusing on extremist content on the internet, with social media front and center.
In a statement Wednesday, Instagram said "There is no place for terrorists, terrorist propaganda, or the praising of terror activity on Instagram, and we work aggressively to remove content or an account as soon as we become aware of it."
The company said its policy prohibits terrorist content, and that it has specialized teams that work to stop the spread of such posts from its platform.
Seamus Hughes, deputy director of the Program on Extremism at George Washington University, said the crackdown by Twitter and Facebook is a big reason why the content is moving elsewhere.
On places like Instagram and Tumblr, "you are usually looking at supporter-driven creations," he said.
"I just don't see guys in Raqqa building Instagram stories."
Nathan Patin, who analyzes extremist social media for the website Bellingcat and reviewed the report and database, said the ability to scrape social media for geotags offers new insight into Islamic State supporters.
IS supporters still rely primarily upon the encrypted app Telegram, but Patin said they "will use every platform that's available."
The difference with Instagram stories, he added, is that they're public and in "one post they're posting Islamic State propaganda and in the next they're posting at a restaurant that's geotagged."
The analysis bolsters a conclusion this week by Policy Exchange, a British think tank, that Islamic State's ability to reconstitute its online networks is undiminished.
Policy Exchange found that Islamic State places a premium on speed and agility to move between platforms.
It also said IS output of online activity remains consistent, even when the group is under pressure militarily, by finding a "dispersed and resilient form."
AP Technology Writer Barbara Ortutay in New York contributed.
The World Wildlife Fund filed a lawsuit Monday over extensive pollution to the coastline outside Athens following the sinking of a tanker near Greece's largest port.
The environmental group's Greek branch filed the lawsuit in the port city of Piraeus against "anyone found responsible," a common practice when a party that could be held legally accountable has not been identified formally.
The Agia Zoni II tanker sank Sept. 10 while anchored in calm seas and carrying 2,200 tons of fuel oil and 370 tons of marine gas oil.
The ship's cargo spilled into waters where dolphins, turtles, seals and a variety of fish and sea birds feed and live.
Oil slicks have extended from the island of Salamina, near where the tanker went down, to the entire length of the Athens coast.
The World Wildlife Fund said it considered the case to be "an environmental crime deserving exemplary punishment."
The Greek government has faced criticism for what many observers said was a slow, inadequate response that allowed leaking oil to spread along the greater Athens area's coastline.
The tanker sank very near Piraeus, the country's largest and best-equipped port.
The government has rejected the criticism, insisting it did everything possible to contain and clean up the slick.
"The effort to tackle the pollution is a difficult affair that requires the immediate mobilization of all the responsible bodies," Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras told his Cabinet ministers in televised comments Monday.
"Already, all available counter-pollution means have been mobilized and great efforts are being made."
Demetres Karavellas, chief executive of the World Wildlife Fund's Greece office, said it was essential to identify where responsibility lies.
"Through a thorough analysis of the causes, we will emerge better prepared to avert or control similar accidents in the future," Karavellas said.
Transcript for Ordering hot food from Amazon

In today's tech sites ordering hot food from Amazon getting online retailer will soon be delivering orders from chipotle five guys and shake shack among others.
After teaming up with an online order in company that represents 200 brands a few weeks ago Amazon also launched one hour beer wine or alcohol delivery on the competition is on Wal-Mart is teaming up with the maker of a Smart.
Home security system to deliver groceries.
Write to your fridge even when you're not halt the delivery would be monitored by security cameras and homeowners can watch on a special app.
It's being tested in Silicon Valley.
And a little girl is caught on camera hopelessly trapped in the technology time more than toddlers trying to play with an old game boy but she is baffled by the lack of a touch screen.
She never even tries the big manual buttons or the upper down arrows hard to believe the game boy was all the rage and it debuted back in nineteen he was ahead of its time.
Those are separate.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: Distracted Teen Drivers a Major Factor in Deadly Accidents

Now Playing: Trump faces backlash after blasting NFL players

Now Playing: Colin Kaepernick's friend speaks out about anthem controversy

Now Playing: J.Lo donates $1M to hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico

Now Playing: NFL star speaks out on the league's unity after Trump comments

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran performs his smash hit 'Shape of You' live on 'GMA'

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran rocks out to a special performance of 'Perfect' live on 'GMA'

Now Playing: Suspect arrested in Tennessee deadly church shooting

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran reveals how he landed a role on 'Game of Thrones'

Now Playing: Freddie Highmore dishes on 'The Good Doctor'

Now Playing: How to make extra cash outside of your day job

Now Playing: What to know about the new 'clever gut diet'

Now Playing: Meghan Markle supports Prince Harry at Invictus Games

Now Playing: Elizabeth Moss, Jim Parsons read mean but hilarious tweets about them on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Now Playing: GOP releases new version of health care bill

Now Playing: New technology offered for teen drivers

Now Playing: Colin Kaepernick remains unsigned amid national anthem controversy

Now Playing: NFL owners lock arms with players during national anthem

Now Playing: President Trump issues new travel ban
Transcript for Facebook to turn over Russian-linked political ads to Congress

New developments in the Russia investigation.
Facebook is admitting Russia agents bought thousands of ads during the election.
Now, the social media giant says it will turn over those ads to congress.
Our chief investigative correspondent Brian Ross is here with that story.
Good morning.
Reporter: Good morning.
For months Facebook had been stonewalling congress on turning those over but now caved with Mark Zuckerberg finally acknowledging the scope of the issue and saying his company will provide copies with Russian ads.
I don't want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy.
That's not what we stand for.
Reporter: Russian companies spent more than $100,000 on Facebook ads during the campaign.
Many of them praising Donald Trump or attacking Hillary Clinton and others dealing with controversial issues.
But Facebook has refused to let congress keep copies of even the few ads they showed them.
They showed the senate staff seven of those ads and they didn't allow us to even keep them and that was just with stats -- Took them back?
Took them back.
Reporter: Millions saw those ads and Clinton said Facebook has to own up to the problem.
I don't think anybody can with a straight face say that the Russians did not set out to influence our election and they did so.
This latest revelation about the way they bought ads on Facebook and targeted them, we're going to find out a lot more.
Reporter: Zuckerberg did not say Facebook would prohibit the Russians from buying political ads again but he said the company will at least make it clear who paid for them.
We can do better.
Reporter: It was not just ads.
Investigators say they have also found huge numbers of fake Facebook pages linked to the Russians.
Like this one discovered by "The New York Times" supposedly an anti-clinton father in Pennsylvania but he didn't ex-he is.
The picture was actually of someone in Brazil.
Now even with the new concession senator Warner says the time may have come for Facebook and other social media sites to face restrictions about who can buy political ads and what must be disclosed.
Zuckerberg called senator Warner with his change of heart.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for iPhone 8 release day announced

In today's tech bike its iPhone eight day Apple's new device hits the market six weeks before the iPhone ten a move bush.
Many experts say could hurt sales and Australian man with sites for today's release he waited in line eleven day is to be the first person to get his hands on that song.
There is celebrating in Sydney while and you cannot use its rams face filters for live video streaming.
Through this program and a bit visual effects can be added before you start streaming ordering your broadcast his defense says it could take a couple weeks for the upgrade to be available around the world.
And Porsche is unveiling a sleek new model offering style and speed but.
You can't taken on the road it's the first ever Porsche super yacht the high tech all aluminum vessel with two electric motors.
As for cabins and us Bob we'll of course only seven will be made price tag not a bad sixteen million dollars does your tech bytes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Equifax breached months prior than admitted

It today sect Mike's new concern over that Equifax data breach the Wall Street Journal reports hackers broke into Equifax computers in March.
That's two months earlier than the company disclosed.
Beckett hackers more time to eventually gain access to the data possibly.
A 143 million people.
He may have to wait a little longer for the iPhone ten according to reports production of the phone has been delayed.
Meaning there'll be fewer phones available once they finally go on sale in November pre orders of the thousand dollar foam begin on October 27.
And Bill Gates is apologizing for Ctrl+Alt+Del.
And he says he now is.
It's awkward the former Microsoft chairman tried to have the three key function.
As a single Peabody says the designer of they IBM keyboard wasn't on board with his ideas so we wound up with a Ctrl+Alt+Del.
Thanks IBM this.
Does your check back.
All over the place.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Amazon mistakenly sends baby registry email

It's a sect likes an apology from Amazon and random Amazon customers receive email notices telling them a gift from their baby registry had been purchased.
Problem is most of those recipients don't have a registry and don't have a baby Amazon blames a glitch for those emails what some customers are fuming calling them insensitive.
And returning items that were actually purchased on Amazon is about to get a whole lot easier now starting next month Coles will start accepting returns for Amazon.
At 82 of its stores across Chicago and Los Angeles packing and shipping them for free.
And McAfee antivirus software company has compiled a list of the most dangerous celebrities online today or the celebs with the highest percentage search engine results was.
Malignant.
And link it's easier less top five idol Levine Bruno Mars Carly ray Jackson Zain mallet.
And Celine Dion.
They say the lizard tech bikes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple CEO talks Dreamers, augmented reality

back now with apple's CEO Tim cook.
Here for his first interview since the launch of the highly anticipated and revolutionary new iPhones 8 and X with facial recognition and cutting-edge augmented reality technology.
Something you can have in your hands and use for the first time today.
It's going to be downloaded today in all these phones you have here and Tim says it could change our lives and so wonderful to have you here live with us, Tim cook, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you, thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for the live demo yesterday and earlier this morning ginger and some kids had a great time with ar.
They were playing with various games and people want to know, augmented reality.
It's different.
It's new.
That's on apple right now, in fact, it's going to be downloaded later today.
Tell us why it's a big deal.
This is huge because it's the first time that hundreds of millions of customers actually later today hundreds of millions of customers will be able to use ar for the first time.
So we're bringing it to mainstream.
If you have an iPhone 6s or later you have augmented reality today.
We've made it really simple for developers to design apps with their passion and bring it to everybody.
Explain what it is, ar.
It's taking the virtual world and overlaying it to physical world.
And so you saw a Democrat Poe earlier to position chairs in a living room.
We're seeing that right now.
It's a fantastic way to shop.
It's a fantastic way to learn.
You might even want to look at your favorite car and actually go in the car and so you have to do that in a showroom today, you can now do that right from your living room.
It's unbelievable.
Well, it's fun.
Face it as you're talking about we're look at the set and looking at how we just saw it -- see, that's what we're seeing right now and then when we had the demonstration earlier it shows such a difference.
Now we have to admit ar has been around for awhile but apple is putting its stamp on it.
What's making it different.
We're taking the complex and making it simple.
I mean, this is what apple is so fantastic at.
We want everybody to be able to use ar and so we've taken the complexity that developers would normally have to do in their apps and made it simple for them to convert all of their apps to an ar experience.
And the thing that's very different about apple is in one day, we can make ar available for hundreds of millions of people and that will happen in a few hours from now.
Get ready for the download.
You know when it says a download that's what's going to happen on your phone.
This is a day to remember.
This is a day to remember.
This is a profound day.
Let's talk a little about the 8 and 10.
The two new phones and wonderful options part of it.
But there's one facial recognition that's getting a lot of attention.
People are saying, wait a minute here.
What is the potential of -- because we're talking about this facial data, millions of people and the potential that it could be misused or hacked.
Should people be concerned about that, Tim?
Not with us.
Because we're about your privacy.
We want to protect your data because we know it's yours, not ours.
And so once you place your face in the phone, it's in the phone.
Apple doesn't have it.
We've encrypted on your device.
You make the decisions about who has it.
Not us.
We're very protective of our customers' data because we believe that privacy is very important in this world, that there are hackers everywhere trying to steal your information.
We want it to be yours.
It is not ours.
That's been the hallmark of apple from the very beginning.
We fought very hard for it.
The headphone jack gone.
Now the home button gone.
I know you said the space is a premium on the phone.
What's next?
Why the home button.
You know, the home button is belogged but we think having an edge-to-edge display such that the whole phone is a display will be loved even more and so we're doing that for all of us.
Well, we have a couple of questions from our viewers but I do want to ask you one question, though, your response to when president trump announced that he was going to change the laws that protect d.r.e.a.m.ers, DACA, you mentioned to your beloved apple employees that there were 250 d.r.e.a.m.ers that you have and you encouraged them and said you were dismayed by that but now that the president seems to be willing to at least compromise with the Democrats are you encouraged by that at all?
I am encouraged about it.
These folk, I think this is really important for everybody to understand, these folks came to the country when they were very young.
Most of them don't even remember coming to the country because they were 1, 2, 3 years old at the time and these kids, if you talk to them, they deeply love this country.
They have great jobs.
They pay taxes.
These guys are our neighbors, they're our co-workers and so we feel it's essential that we not only allow them to stay in our country but we welcome them, that we desire that they be here.
I hope everyone reaches out and meets some of the d.r.e.a.m.ers, because it will really warm your heart in meeting them.
And so I am encouraged that congress will pass a law to make this permanent and we're doing everything we can to advocate for that.
Good we're having this dialogue.
Thank you for discussing that.
Back to the phone and the questions from -- they didn't hold back.
You know that.
You know they never hold back.
One viewer asks, you knew this was coming.
I understand inflation, et cetera, but don't you find the price tag for the iPhone X out of reach for the average American?
Well, it's a value price actually for the technology that you're getting and as it turns out, you know, most people are now paying for phones over long periods of time.
And so very few people will pay the price tag of the phone initiay.
Also most people actually trade in their current phone and so that reduces the price further and some carriers even throw in subsidies and discounts.
And so when we look at it, the phone -- the iPhone in particular has become so essential in our daily lives, people want it to do more and more and more and so we built more and more technology in to be able to do that.
I love how you told me you don't want to sell the most, you want to sell the best.
Apple has never been about selling the most of anything.
We don't -- that is not our objective.
Our objectives are not big revenues.
Our objective is to make the best product that enriches people's lives.
All right.
We want to help people.
I know you do.
Here's another question.
This one says about face I.D.
Can more than -- can more than one person use facial re krechlt on the same phone.
Kids on parents' phone, spouses, for instance?
Oh, that's a good question.
I wouldn't recommend that one.
I wouldn't recommend that.
So just leave it at that.
I'd leave it at that.
I wouldn't recommend that.
Steve jobs, when you had your announcement last week you got really emotional.
His DNA is still so much of apple.
I walked in the theater that day and from the moment I walked in there, I know this may strange to your viewers, but I could feel him there.
His DNA is very much the DNA of apple.
And the way that his philosophy of life is how we run the company.
We don't sit and think about what would Steve do?
But we think about the principles that apple is based on, a values-based company that is making insanely great products that are simple to use for the technology takes the backseat, not the front seat.
The user experience is top for us.
We want users to be happy.
And so this company still runs like that today.
And you can feel him in there.
You can feel him in the products and in everything and I love it that way.
Very grateful and appreciate your passion and creativity.
You and your team.
Get ready for that download.
You guys are going to love it check it out.
Tim cook, thank you very much.
Always a pleasure to see you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple iOS 11 operating system will start rolling out to iPhone users

In today's tech site it's time for Apple's new operating system iPhone users should get a notification today telling them it's time to download the new IOS eleven.
Those who've already is a beta version say IOS eleven has a new control center and a more natural sounding teary.
Video gamers will feel right at home on board the navy's newest submarines the Paris goes.
We'll be operated by Xbox-360.
Controllers at.
Which cost the navy a lot less edit your stuff I get to buy for that next baby shower.
Here's an option Lander over has come up with then all terrain stroller.
The baby buggy was unveiled at a German motor show its seats even have fancy sitting just like the vehicles it set to go on sale early next year for about 2000 dollars.
2000 power wind and I would hope this insect bites out of anything.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Scam found to be connected to the Equifax hack

In today's tech sites to scam connected to the Equifax tack get these are contacting consumers claiming they want to verify accounts and then they steal information.
Officials say never give out info to anyone who calls or emails he Equifax breach potentially impacted 143.
Million people.
Of course is showing off its first all electric car the mission eight.
The company says it'll go zero to sixty in just over three seconds the mission he will go on sale in about two years a price tag around 80000 dollars.
And as expected the Emmys dominated social media overnight twitters at the moment that drove the most tweets was one Elisabeth Moss won best lead actress in a drama the star most we did about on the red carpet Millie Bobby brown and the most likely end to Graham post.
Was this image by Melissa McCarthy with her husband.
On the way to the show.
Tebow a room there to protect my.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Cassini spacecraft goes out in a blaze of glory

And explore exceeding all expectations.
Tonight Cassini is gone sent in to saturn's atmosphere for a fiery finale.
Of its twenty year mission of discovery.
The first craft circling saturn's rings sending spectacular images Cassini was running out of fuel snapping a final photo as it descended.
Until silence we have a lot.
The spacecraft responsible for striking scientific breakthroughs finding oceans on two of the planet's moons suggesting the possibility of life disintegrated with its teams saying farewell to the faithful explorer.
I'm going to call this the end of mission.
Project manager often that.
A celebration unsuccessfully.
Incinerating Cassini to avoid contaminating saturn's moons the hope to someday return to Saturn and build on the cosmic accomplishments.
Of Cassini.
In opening up a new world.
David Curley ABC news Washington.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple pre-orders for IPhone 8 and Plus are now live

It's a basic rights pre orders for Apple's iPhone aide added plus.
Dollars and they'll be the most advanced I've phones on the market.
Very exactly six rigs until the iPhone ten is released on November 3 Ani for android fans Samsung's latest edition of its flagship Smartphone goes on sale today.
And it got you know eight has already received its first update improving cameras stability and wireless charging prices start at 930 dollars.
And FaceBook has come up with a new way to keep over sharing friends off your news speed temporarily without hitting the un friend button.
FaceBook assessing our news news feature that can temporarily block a person group or page you can hide them.
And their post for 24 hours a week for an entire month I'd give him a little probation jury exactly does your tech bikes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for NASA's Cassini spacecraft sends final image

I.
Awesome feeling a little and one wireline forcing me.
Point ESPN's Allan hands these could.
Project manager on him so large blue Libya and you're losing and she left.
Just turn these political and on Aaron.
Next 45 seconds old special news.
And I hope to hear all.
This leave early rounds.
It's an amazing accomplishment.
Congratulations to you all.
This is spinning many tuning in and liberated and out and you're all an incredible team.
I think all this didn't mean.
Project man you're non and then.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Microsoft, through its research into artificial intelligence, has created a virtual assistant that can be used by companies to respond to customer service requests.
At the company's Ignite conference in Orlando, CEO Satya Nadella said Monday that Macy's and Hewlett-Packard have already begun to use the technology.
In a push to prioritize its year-old workplace chat software, Microsoft Teams, the company also said Monday that it's folding Skype for Business into Teams.
The software is competing with other online services from upstart Slack and bigger rivals like Google.
Microsoft is also launching new workplace software for people who don't typical work from a desk.
Australia announced on Monday it will create its own space agency to increase its share of the $330 billion space economy.
Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the agency would be part of Australia's development of an innovation and science economy.
But the government has provided few specifics.
"It's a small agency to coordinate and lead," Turnbull told reporters.
"The space sector, of course, is one of enormous potential."
Acting Minister for Industry, Innovation and Science Michaelia Cash said the agency's charter would be developed by the end of March.
"The global space industry is growing rapidly and it's crucial that Australia is part of this growth," Cash said in a statement.
"A national space agency will ensure we have a strategic long-term plan that supports the development and application of space technologies and grows our domestic space industry," she added.
The opposition Labor Party said such an agency was needed to increase Australia's share of a global space economy from less than 1 percent of what the government estimates is worth $330 billion.
Labor said Australia and Iceland were the only countries in the 35-member Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that do not have a space agency.
Australia in 1967 became one of the first countries to launch a satellite and images of astronaut Neil Armstrong's first steps on the moon were transmitted by NASA's Honeysuckle Creek tracking station in Australia.
But successive governments have baulked at establishing a space agency because of cost.
The government has yet to announce how much it will invest in the new agency.
Image copyright Getty Images

Corporate finance giant Deloitte suffered a cyber-attack that compromised confidential data, including the private emails of some of its clients, the company has confirmed.
Its system had been accessed via an email platform and "very few" clients had been affected, Deloitte said.
The Guardian reported the attack had been discovered in March but could have happened months earlier.
Deloitte said it had contacted those whose data had been accessed.
It did not confirm exactly how many people had been affected or how much information had been compromised.
Deloitte carries out auditing, consultancy, tax and financial advice services for clients worldwide.
For the year ending on 31 May, it reported revenues of of 3.38bn ($4.6bn).
Email addresses

Prof Alan Woodward, cyber-security expert at Surrey University, told the BBC that private email addresses alone were valuable data for hackers.
"Many people expect their email address to be in the public domain," he said.
"But what most people have done when dealing with confidential matters is they have a second address - and it looks like it is that one that may have been let out here.
"Is it immediately going to be mean people's data will be breached?
Not really - but the secondary, more confidential email addresses mean phishing can become much more sophisticated."
Phishing is an attempt by criminals to get valuable information, such as banking login details, by pretending to be emailing from an official source.
It is more likely to succeed if it is sent to an address that regularly receives correspondence from the real organisation.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is phishing?
Deloitte said it had reviewed the email platform accessed and had determined there had been "no disruption" to the work of its clients.
However, Tony Pepper, chief executive of data security company Egress, said that compromised email servers could be full of sensitive information.
"This is why multi-factor access control such as two-factor authentication is important, especially for administrators," he said.
"It makes it much harder to gain illicit access in the first place, and provides a warning if someone is trying to log in without your knowledge."
Two-factor authentication involves providing extra information before logging in - for example, an access code sent by text message.
Mr Pepper added that individual emails should also be encrypted.
In a statement, Deloitte said it had informed government authorities and regulators of the breach.
"Deloitte remains deeply committed to ensuring that its cyber-security defences are best in class, to investing heavily in protecting confidential information and to continually reviewing and enhancing cyber-security," it said.
Image copyright Getty Images

Sports drink Gatorade has agreed to pay $300,000 (220,000) to the state of California over an app called Bolt!
which featured a character based on Olympic medallist Usain Bolt.
In the game Bolt had to drink Gatorade to enhance his performance while water slowed him down.
Attorney General Xavier Becerra said the game made "misleading statements" about water.
The app was released in 2012 and is no longer available to download.
It was only available on Apple's operating system and was downloaded 2.3 million times from 2012 to 2013.
It was briefly made available again in 2017.
Players were told to "keep your performance high by avoiding water" in a tutorial that accompanied the game, the Attorney General's office said.
In a statement Gatorade's parent company PepsiCo said the game was designed to "highlight the unique role and benefits of sports drinks in supporting athletic performance".
"We recognize the role water plays in overall health and wellness," it said, adding that it also markets bottled water brands.
Youth audience

Bolt!
had an audience of mainly young people aged 13 to 24, the state added.
"Making misleading statements is a violation of California law.
But making misleading statements aimed at our children is beyond unlawful, it's morally wrong and a betrayal of trust.
"It's what causes consumers to lose faith in the products they buy," said Mr Becerra.
Almost half the settlement ($120,000) will be used to fund research and education into water consumption and nutrition in young people.
PepsiCo said in a 2014 statement that it does not advertise in spaces where children aged under 12 make up more than 35% of the audience.
Analyst Jack Kent, from IHS Markit ,told the BBC the app store market had moved away from "branded entertainment" and games connected to a particular ad campaign.
"Mobile is a primary channel for reaching a youth audience, and the rise of branded apps highlighted that, but now there is more focus on reaching users through existing mobile social, entertainment and media platforms rather than just through dedicated apps," he said.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Cyber-attacks to aid IS's aims have not been very successful, said a security researcher

Hackers working for the so-called Islamic State are bad at coding and hiding what they do, suggests research.
They produce buggy malware and easily crackable encryption programs, said senior security researcher Kyle Wilhoit at security conference DerbyCon.
In particular, he called three attack tools created by one large IS hacker collective "garbage".
Their poor skills meant IS groups had switched to online services and the dark web for attack code, he said.
Little harm

While IS was very proficient at using social media as a recruitment and propaganda tool, its cyber-attack arm was nowhere near as effective, said Mr Wilhoit, a cyber-security researcher at Domain Tools, while presenting his work at the conference in Kentucky.
"ISIS is really, really bad at the development of encryption software and malware," he told tech news outlet The Register, adding that the vulnerabilities found in all the tools effectively rendered them "completely useless".
As part of his research, Mr Wilhoit analysed three separate types of tools created by hackers who were part of what is known as the United Cyber Caliphate (UCC).
This was set up as an umbrella organisation for 17 hacker groups that had declared their support for IS.
All the tools had problems, he said.
the group's malware was full of basic bugs

a secure email system it developed leaked information about users

the UCC's web attack tool failed to take down any significant target

In addition, attempts to raise cash via donations of bitcoins have been diluted by fraudsters cashing in on the IS name and producing websites mimicking the appeals for funds.
Image copyright HO Image caption Drone strikes are believed to have been aided by poor IS security

"As it stands ISIS are not hugely operationally capable online," Mr Wilhoit added.
"There's a lack of expertise in pretty much everything,"

IS also had a lot to learn when it came to hiding its activities online, he said.
There were many examples of it sharing pictures of successful attacks, or which lauded its members, that still held metadata that could identify where the photos were taken.
Mr Wilhoit said that, during his research, he had found an unprotected IS server online that served as a repository of images the group planned to use for propaganda.
"You can basically mass export metadata from each of the pictures and get literally up-to-the-second information on where people are operating, because they are not really that great at operation security," he said.
Many of the people involved with the cyber-arm of IS had been killed in drone strikes, said Mr Wilhoit adding that it was open to speculation about how location data to aid the drones was found.
Over the last year UCC had begun moving to attack tools used by Western cyber-thieves, he said.
"They know they cannot develop tools worth a damn, so they are going to use stuff that works, is minimally cheap and is easy to use."
Image copyright Stefan Rousseau Image caption London Mayor Sadiq Khan chairs Transport for London

London Mayor Sadiq Khan has asked the city's transport regulator to be available to meet Uber's boss after the firm apologised.
Uber chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi said he was sorry for the "mistakes we've made" after the taxi-hailing firm lost its London licence.
He said in an open letter that Uber would appeal against the city's decision, but accepts it "must change".
On Friday, Transport for London (TfL) denied Uber a new licence to operate.
Mr Khan said: "I welcome the apology from Dara Khosrowshahi, the Uber CEO.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London.
"Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him."
TfL cited concerns over public safety and security in its decision not to renew Uber's London licence.
However, Uber says it has followed the regulator's rules and works closely with the Metropolitan Police.
Mr Khosrowshahi, who took over at Uber less than a month ago, wrote on Monday: "While Uber has revolutionised the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way.
"On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologise for the mistakes we've made."
In a letter addressed to Londoners, the new Uber boss said the firm "won't be perfect, but we will listen to you".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dara Khosrowshahi took over as Uber boss last month after Travis Kalanick resigned

Earlier, the Mayor of London said Uber had put "unfair pressure" on TfL, with an "army" of PR experts and lawyers.
Mr Khan, who is also chairman of TfL, told the BBC: "What you can't do is have a situation where unfair pressure is brought on a quasi-judicial body, where there are officials working incredibly hard.
"I appreciate Uber has an army of PR experts, I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers - they've also made aggressive threats about taking us to court."
Uber-TfL talks

When asked if he would meet Uber personally, the mayor said it would be "improper for politicians to interfere with a quasi-judicial matter".
The mayor's office said Mr Khan would not be directly involved in discussions or meetings with Uber if they took place.
While Mr Khan chairs the TfL board, according to the organisation he was not involved in the process of deciding whether to issue Uber with a licence.
That is handled by TfL's taxi and private hire department.
Uber is keen to hold talks with officials from that department "as soon as possible", Fred Jones, a senior executive with Uber in the UK, told the Today Programme.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Over 750,000 people have signed an online petition to keep Uber operating

Mr Jones said that Uber was "not clear" about the issues raised by TfL when it denied the company a licence.
One of the points raised by TfL was Uber's "approach to how Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks are obtained" for its drivers.
That part of the process was not even handled by Uber, said Mr Jones.
Instead, the drivers organised their own DBS check and took that paperwork to TfL.
TfL then reviews that application before giving the driver a licence allowing them to drive for Uber.
TfL would not elaborate further on its issue with the way in which Uber organises DBS checks, because that would be likely to come up when Uber appealed against the decision.
It would only repeat that it was Uber's "approach" to DBS checks that was the problem.
More than 750,000 people have signed an online petition in a bid to keep Uber operating in London after its licence expires on 30 September.
Image caption The judge told Brian Thompson that "all sentencing options" were open

A Middlesbrough shop owner has admitted selling modified TV boxes that allow access to subscription content such as Premier League football and films.
Brian Thompson, 55, had originally denied any offences and set up the prospect of a landmark court case relating to the sale of Kodi boxes.
However, at Teesside Crown Court he changed his plea to admit two charges related to their sale and advertising.
Kodi developers have said boxes should not be used to access blocked content.
Judge Peter Armstrong told Thompson, of Barnaby Avenue in Middlesbrough, that "all sentencing options" were open.
Thompson admitted one count of selling and one count of advertising devices "designed, produced or adapted for the purpose of enabling or facilitating the circumvention of effective technological measures".
He was granted unconditional bail ahead of his sentencing on 20 October.
Judge Armstrong told him: "I don't know what the sentence will be, all options to the court will be open."
What is Kodi?
Image copyright Getty Images

Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner used a private email account to carry out official White House business, his lawyer said.
Mr Kushner is a senior presidential adviser and is married to Ivanka Trump.
His lawyer confirmed the existence of the personal email account in a statement on Sunday.
During his campaign, Mr Trump repeatedly criticised rival Hillary Clinton for using a personal email account while secretary of state.
The president frequently encouraged crowds at rallies to chant "lock her up", and vowed to imprison Mrs Clinton over concerns she may have mishandled classified information.
An investigation into the matter was closed without charges.
Dozens of emails were exchanged between Mr Kushner and other White House officials on topics including media coverage and event planning, according to Politico, which first published the story.
There is no indication that Mr Kushner shared classified or privileged information through his private email account.
"Mr Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business," his lawyer, Abbe Lowell, said in a statement.
"Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account."
"These usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal, rather than his White House, address."
Federal regulations specify how records related to the president and other government activities should be maintained.
The use of private accounts can put official records beyond the reach of journalists, lawmakers, and others who seek publicly-available information.
Video

Bees in Manchester are having computer chips glued to their bodies, to help beekeepers track when they enter and exit the hive.
Rory Cellan-Jones visited the project to find out how it works.
Britain will need to boost its generation of electricity by about a quarter, Scottish Power has estimated.
The energy firm said electric cars and a shift to electric heating could send demand for power soaring.
Its chief executive also said there would have to be a major investment in the wiring necessary to handle rapid charging of car batteries.
Keith Anderson was speaking as the firm reached the milestone of 2,000 megawatts of wind power capacity.
That equates to about an eighth of the British total.
The figure includes Whitelee wind farm, on Eaglesham Moor, south of Glasgow, which has more than 200 turbines.
Believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm, it is capable of generating enough power for all of Glasgow's homes.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Whitelee is believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm

In the past 18 months, the Spanish-owned company has been installing nearly a quarter of the British total, but the pipeline of work is coming to an end.
Attention is turning to offshore wind.
But Mr Anderson told BBC Scotland there would have to be a renewed surge in the building of onshore wind turbines if consumer demand was to be met.
He warned that past experience with technology change had shown consumers could make the move faster than governments or companies expect.
Once the price of electric cars falls to that of petrol or diesel, which it is thought will happen between 2022 and 2025, there could be a rapid shift in buying patterns and electricity usage.
Earlier this month, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced a target of shifting from petrol and diesel-fuelled cars to battery power by 2032, while the UK government intends to make that shift by 2040.
'Worst position'

Mr Anderson said: "The worst position for this country to be in and the worst position for customers is that we get huge enthusiasm, people rushing out to buy electric cars because the price has come down, and then we can't allow people to plug them in because we haven't invested in the infrastructure.
"So one of the things we're looking at now is how we plan what has to happen to the distribution system."
The estimate of a 20%-30% increase in demand for electricity comes after years of gradually declining power use, much of that due to growing energy efficiency and the closure of older, energy-intensive industries.
Image copyright Getty Images

At the same time, old power stations - including Scottish Power's coal-burning plants at Longannet in Fife and Cockenzie in East Lothian - have been closed down.
The added challenge of cars is the change in technology from an eight-hour overnight charge to a rapid charge of 15 to 20 minutes.
If several car owners on a residential street plug those in at the same time, the system could not cope.
Mr Anderson said: "The system that takes the wires into the house, down the street, to local businesses - how do we make sure it can cope with that level of demand?
It'll take a long time to plan and deliver."
'Let's keep going'

Heating is the next frontier in the energy revolution, which has barely begun.
In place of gas and oil-fired boilers in each home, electric central heating can be powered by renewable generation.
What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success Keith Anderson, Scottish Power chief executive

However, it is likely to require not only removal of a boiler, but the replacement of radiators and hot water heating pipes throughout a home.
Mr Anderson said: "What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success.
"We have been able to develop these projects faster and faster, and to deliver them more efficiently, at much lower cost.
"Keep going, because that will bring costs down and make us more efficient for the future.
"If you stop now, the technology development stops, the innovation stops: the new jobs, the new roles, they all stop.
You stop that for two or three years, and trying to restart it becomes more difficult and more expensive."
Most of the recent onshore wind developments have been in Scotland, focused on the south west.
The UK government has allowed much less onshore wind developing, in response to anti-turbine campaigners.
It has also left onshore wind out of the auctions which offer generators a minimum price for their energy.
These auctions have helped drive down the cost of renewable power, with offshore wind nearly halving in price.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Apple introduced new iOS on Tuesday

Android devices as well as Apple computers have Persian keyboards, but until this week the option wasn't available on Apple phones or iPads.
For years Persian speakers used the Arabic keyboard on the iPhone, which was not really ideal for writing quickly or accurately in Persian.
There were lots of petitions to Apple, pressing them to add a Persian keyboard to mobile phones.
That finally paid off with the latest release.
Arabic and Persian keyboards are very similar.
But there are two major issues - the four extra letters in Persian - and the "half space" feature needed for a well-edited Persian message.
In order to type the extra four letters in our alphabet we had to press and hold another letter and wait for a window to pop up so we could drag our finger on it and see it on screen.
Yet that was still doable.
The "half space" was the more serious issue.
In Persian, the letters in a single word are joined-up.
Some words we make by combining two words together.
These compound words should be near but not attached to each other.
On Apple and Microsoft computers, as well as in Android devices we have long been able to use a "half space" to separate words but keep them close enough.
A hyphen does almost a similar task in English.
But the half space is used far more in Persian.
Image caption First line is typing without half space and the second line has the half space.
Extra Persian letters are circled in Red.
Half space button has a blue circle around it.
For example: "I work for the BBC."
If I want to write this sentence in Farsi, I use the "half space" three times to keep the BBC letters close to each other and to join two parts of the verb.
For several years, many Iranians and Afghans signed petitions, hoping to add the keyboard.
One of my friends personally wrote to Steve Jobs twice, but never heard back.
Even though Apple could have given us this option sooner, I took the joy of having a proper keyboard to Twitter and wrote about it there.
Some Android enthusiasts replied to me, saying their devices had it for "ages".
Others wondered why Apple would add the keyboard as they abandoned Iranian apps.
Recently Apple has removed some apps developed in Iran from their stores.
Snapp, a popular ride-hailing app like Uber, was one of those affected.
Apple said it was deleting them due to US sanctions, but some Persian cooking apps or video streaming apps developed outside Iran were also deleted.
Google did not take the same measures.
Even though many see Apple's recent moves as a double standard, I still think having a Persian keyboard is good for our language.
Persian written in the Persian alphabet is common in only two countries: Iran and Afghanistan.
During the time of the Soviet Union, Iranian elites often sent their sons to Europe and the USSR to study.
Image copyright Getty Images

Amazed by the Western world, some suggested we should change our alphabet to Latin, much like Turkey did.
Others argued we would cut our ties with our literary heritage, and those arguments won out.
We ended up keeping our alphabet.
Then came the era of computers and smartphones.
Early technology did not support the Persian alphabet.
So my generation, who grew up in the 80s and 90s, started writing Persian with a Latin alphabet on computers and early phones, calling it Farglish.
Because of the sanctions, Apple and other major tech companies do not have any legal presence in Iran and as some of these smartphones are considered expensive, they don't have a big market in Iran and Afghanistan.
One may wonder why it was important for us to have a Persian keyboard on devices that not many Iranians own.
The answer is that we do care about our cultural heritage and appreciate any attempt to have a better connection with our great poets and writers - masters like Sa'di, Rumi, Hafiz, Ferdowsi, Khayyam and others.
A text for me is like a wall.
Every word is like a brick.
If I want to build a sturdy and beautiful wall I cannot use broken bricks.
I don't want any extra space between the pieces of a brick.
As a journalist or even as a user on Twitter, I would like to make a good impression on my audience.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Apple uses Imagination's technology in its iPhones

UK technology firm Imagination, which designs graphics chips for smartphones, is being bought for 550m by a Chinese-backed investment firm.
Imagination put itself up for sale in June after Apple, its largest customer, said it would stop using its products.
The boss of Imagination, Andrew Heath, said the takeover by China-backed Canyon Bridge was a "very good outcome" and would ensure it remained in the UK.
It becomes the latest UK chip designer to be bought by a foreign investor.
Last year, ARM, which designs microchip technology used in Apple and Samsung smartphones, was bought by Japan's Softbank for 24bn.
Canyon Bridge recently raised $1.5bn (1.1bn) from Chinese investors and has offices in Beijing and San Francisco.
'British innovation'

The firm said it currently has no plans to cut jobs at Hertfordshire-based Imagination after the takeover.
Ray Bingham, a partner at Canyon Bridge, said: "We are investing in UK talent and expertise in order to accelerate the expansion of Imagination, particularly into Asia, where its technology platform will lead the continued globalisation of British-developed innovation."
Imagination saw its shares halve in value when Apple said in April that it would end a deal to use its products.
The two firms are still engaged in a dispute over the move - with Imagination questioning Apple's "assertions" that it would be able to develop its own computer chip designs without breaching Imagination's intellectual property rights.
Apple's royalty payments for the chip technology, used in its iPhones, iPads and iPods, accounted for about half of Imagination's revenues.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Trump administration blocked Canyon Bridge's attempts to buy a US tech firm

Mr Heath said: "Imagination has made excellent progress both operationally and financially over the last 18 months until Apple's unsubstantiated assertions and the subsequent dispute forced us to change course.
"The acquisition will ensure that Imagination - with its strong growth prospects - remains an independent IP licensing business, based in the UK, but operating around the world."
It is not Canyon Bridge's first deal for a Western tech company.
The firm is seeking approval for a $1.3bn deal to buy US chipmaker Lattice Semiconductor.
Last week, the Trump administration barred the sale of Lattice to the Chinese-backed company, citing national security risks.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Drivers and passengers react to news that Uber's licence in London will be revoked

Uber will not be issued a new private hire licence, Transport for London (TfL) has said.
TfL concluded the ride-hailing app firm was not fit and proper to hold a London private hire operator licence.
It said it took the decision on the grounds of "public safety and security implications".
Confirming it would appeal against the decision, Uber said it showed the world "far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies".
TfL's concerns include Uber's approach to carrying out background checks on drivers and reporting serious criminal offences.
What does the ruling mean?
Seven things Londoners will miss if Uber goes

Now what next for Uberisation?
Your views: Uber London loses licence

Uber's current licence is due to run until 30 September.
It has 21 days to appeal against TfL's decision and can continue to operate while any appeals are ongoing.
Some 3.5 million passengers and 40,000 drivers use the Uber app in London.
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said: "I fully support TfL's decision - it would be wrong if TfL continued to license Uber if there is any way that this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety and security."
Image copyright PA Image caption Taxi drivers have been campaigning against Uber, such as engaging in this "go slow" protest in 2014

Fred Jones, head of cities for Uber across the UK and Ireland, told the BBC Uber drivers had to pass the same safety checks as black cab and mini cab drivers in London.
There had been growing speculation that the app could be banned from London.
Opponents of the firm claim it causes gridlocked roads and does not do enough to regulate its drivers.
But one driver with Uber in London said: "I don't think it is a fair decision.
Uber offers a flexible schedule, and a weekly income."
Uber controversies

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Some 3.5 million passengers and 40,000 drivers use the Uber app in London

Uber's general manager in London Tom Elvidge said: "By wanting to ban our app from the capital, Transport for London and the mayor have caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
"If this decision stands, it will put more than 40,000 licensed drivers out of work and deprive Londoners of a convenient and affordable form of transport.
"To defend the livelihoods of all those drivers, and the consumer choice of millions of Londoners who use our app, we intend to immediately challenge this in the courts."
He said Uber operated in more than 600 cities around the world, including more than 40 towns and cities in the UK.
Analysis: From BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones

Throughout its short, tempestuous life, Uber has clashed with regulators around the world - and more often than not it has come out on top.
Its tactic has often been to arrive in a city, break a few rules, and then apologise when it's rapped over the knuckles.
Some regulators have backed down, others have run the company out of town.
In London, despite protests from angry taxi drivers, the company has had a relatively easy ride until now.
But a wave of bad publicity about its corporate culture, its lax attitude to checks on its drivers and its treatment of this freelance army seems to have spurred TfL into action.
Make no mistake, Uber will use every legal avenue to fight this ban.
It will argue that consumers, in the shape of the millions of mainly young Londoners who rely on its service, will be seriously let down if it can no longer operate.
But the courts will have to balance that with the serious concerns about public safety raised by TfL.
On social media, a fierce debate has broken out over the decision.
An online petition launched by Uber urging Sadiq Khan to reverse the decision to strip its London licence has been signed by tens of thousands of people in the space of a few hours.
Twitter user @Gabbysalaza_ said that she was "annoyed" at the decision as Uber allowed to her to get out of "uncomfy" situations if out at night.
Labour MP Wes Streeting, chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Taxis, called the decision "courageous" in a tweet.
James Le Lacheur called the decision a "victory" on Twitter.
Skip Twitter post by @JamesLeLacheur I've never felt the need to use the ethical colander that is #Uber Not once.
And I always make it home safely and cheaply.
This is a victory  Mx James Le Lacheur (@JamesLeLacheur) September 22, 2017 Report

General secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association Steve McNamara said it was the "right call" not to re-license Uber in London.
"This immoral company has no place on London's street," he said.
Across the world, Uber has been pushed out or denied access by local licensing laws.
Legislators in Darwin, in Australia's Northern Territory, are debating whether to allow Uber to return after a raft of reforms designed to open up the ride-sharing market were announced.
Uber is currently fighting a test case in Denmark after four if its drivers were found to be in violation of the country's laws requiring taxi meters.
'Devastating blow'

David Leam, of London First which campaigns for business in the capital, said London needed to be open to new ideas, business and services.
He said: "This will be seen as a Luddite decision by millions of Londoners and international visitors who use Uber, and will also hit London's reputation as a global tech hub."
James Farrar, chairman of the Independent Workers' Union of Great Britain's United Private Hire Drivers branch, said it was a "devastating blow" for the drivers who now face losing their jobs.
"To strip Uber of its licence after five years of laissez-faire regulation is a testament to a systemic failure at TfL," he said.
Image copyright Pact

Fitness app Pact, which promised members financial rewards for meeting their health goals, has settled accusations that it broke its promises.
The app let people set exercise and dietary goals, and charged them a penalty between $5 (3.70) and $50 if they failed to meet their target.
It pledged to share some of the "fines" with members who did reach their goals.
But the US Federal Trade Commission said Pact had now started to return money wrongly taken from subscribers.
Pact - originally known as GymPact - was launched in 2012 to help people meet fitness goals.
Pledges were verified by using smartphone location data and photographs to prove members had been to the gym.
Image copyright PAct Image caption Pact used smartphone data to prove people were genuinely exercising

People could choose how much they would be "fined" if they failed to meet their own targets.
The FTC alleged that the company had broken its promises and charged "tens of thousands" of people a penalty even if they had met their fitness goals, or cancelled their subscription.
It also said the app did not pay out the rewards it had promised,

"Unfortunately, even when consumers held up their end of the deal, Pact failed to make good on its promises," said the FTC's Tom Pahl.
As part of the settlement, the company will return $940,000 to members who earned cash rewards or were incorrectly charged.
The BBC has attempted to contact principals of the Pact team.
Image copyright die-phalanx Image caption It's still not clear what the attack code does on compromised machines

Hackers who booby-trapped widely used security software also used their malware to infiltrate machines at tech firms, suggests analysis.
Evidence that other companies had been compromised came to light as Cisco researchers probed how attackers got at the popular CCleaner programme.
Millions of people downloaded a Windows version that hackers had laced with malicious code.
Cisco said the attackers were seeking valuable intellectual property.
Cleaning up

Last week CCleaner creator Piriform revealed that attackers had managed to place a hijacked copy of version 5.33 that works on Windows on some download servers.
The booby-trapped code was available for about a month between August and September,

Millions of people downloaded the compromised version of CCleaner but damage was limited because whoever created it had not updated it to include elements that could scan machines and steal data.
However, Cisco said its analysis suggested that attackers had taken that extra step on machines at tech firms they had managed to infiltrate.
Hi-tech giants including Cisco, Intel, Google, Samsung and Microsoft were among the 20 or so companies believed to have been hit in this way.
"These new findings raise our level of concern about these events, as elements of our research point towards a possible unknown, sophisticated actor," wrote the Cisco researchers.
Cisco said it was likely that a lot of other firms had been hit by whoever was behind the sophisticated and wide-ranging attack.
It recommended that anyone cleaning up after finding they had been compromised restore machines from backup as it was not clear what other code the attackers had installed on those computers.
It said it was still analysing the code to find out exactly what it did.
Cisco said it was not yet clear who carried out the sophisticated attack on CCleaner and the other technology firms.
The Xbox One X is nearly here - and fans in the UK have just been able to play it for the first time.
People at the EGX games expo in Birmingham have been playing demos of new games for the follow-up to the Xbox One.
Microsoft promise a more powerful processor which will be able to run games in 4K ultra-HD.
Here's what gamers thought - after being some of the first in the UK to try the console.
Ashley and Omick

"Wow.
It's mind-blowing," says Ashley, who was playing Assassin's Creed.
"The game really does pop out at you, whereas before you didn't get that depth of field that you get now."
Omick adds: "It's definitely leaps and bounds ahead of what's currently out there.
"It's just a matter of using the power to take it to new gaming heights.
And they don't have any qualms paying around 500 for the console - they've both pre-ordered it.
"It's a case of if you want that PC-level quality experience but don't want the complexity of setting it all up," says Omick.
Christina and Myles

Having just played the new console, Christina and her boyfriend Myles are both slightly more reserved.
"The game we played showed off the 4K really well, and showed the potential of the new Xbox," says Christina.
"Definitely going from 720p to 4K is nicer.
It ran really well.
No latency at all," agrees Myles.
But they're both concerned about the price - and not just of the console.
"To get the 4K and the top graphics, you need to buy the 4K TV as well," says Christina.
"PlayStation already do 4K, so Xbox needed to step up.
They are, but you have to look at the price and see what else they can give us [for that price]".
Matt and Matt

One of the Matts isn't really buying the claims of the Xbox One X being more powerful than ever.
"Apparently the PS4 Pro was the most powerful one as well.
They can say what they want, it's just marketing gimmicks."
He's not sure the console will take off because 4K TVs are still relatively new and expensive: "When they become a lot cheaper, people will appreciate the ability of the consoles," he says.
The other Matt dopes admit the game play was "really good" with impressive graphics, but is still "a Sony fanboy" at heart.
He's more into indie games, so "it's more about the games than power for me.
"I don't have a 4K TV, so at the minute it's fun but not realistic."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright EPA

Credit rating firm Equifax has apologised after it mistakenly directed some customers to an imposter website via its Twitter page.
The firm recently disclosed a data breach affecting more than 143 million people, and set up a new website to share information with customers.
But it mistakenly tweeted the wrong web address several times, leading some customers to a fake website.
One security researcher told the BBC it was a "massive faux-pas".
Image caption The fake Equifax website looked just like the real thing, but was critical of the company

Following its data breach, Equifax set up a new website - equifaxsecurity2017.com - to let people find out more information.
The website also let people register for a credit monitoring service, by entering personal details into a form.
Many security researchers said Equifax should have hosted this information on its main website - equifax.com - rather than setting up a new one.
They pointed out that the new web address looked like one a scammer might set up to try to fool victims.
Security researcher Nick Sweeting tweeted: "Yeah... no thanks... it would take me literally 20 mins to build a clone of this site."
He then did exactly that, creating an almost identical version of the website at securityequifax2017.com.
His fake version of the website also let people fill in their personal information - but then told them they had been "bamboozled".
Staff operating the Equifax twitter feed shared the fake website with customers several times.
Image copyright Twitter.com/Equifax Image caption The incorrect tweets have since been deleted

In a statement, Equifax said: "All posts using the wrong link have been taken down.
We apologise for the confusion.
"Consumers should be aware of fake websites purporting to be operated by Equifax.
Our dedicated website for consumers to learn more about the incident and sign up for free credit monitoring is equifaxsecurity2017.com and our US company homepage is equifax.com."
Faux-pas

"Clearly, the social media team has not been thoroughly briefed," said Ken Munro from the security firm Pen Test Partners.
"That's a massive faux-pas, they should not be pointing people to a website that is not the real one.
"They are lucky the person behind it was a well-intentioned security researcher, it could easily have been somebody harvesting credentials."
Criminals often use a widely-publicised data breach to try and fool victims into handing over more of their personal data.
"People have to be careful after a data breach.
Hackers often email victims trying to spoof the affected organisations," said Mr Munro.
"You might get phone calls from people pretending to be from the support team.
We see this all the time - be on your guard."
Image copyright Fingopay Image caption The system could be handy if you have forgotten your purse or wallet

A supermarket in London is trialling a biometric payment system that uses the unique vein pattern in fingertips to pay for goods.
Costcutter said it would consider rolling Fingopay out more widely if the test, at Brunel University, was successful.
An electronic reader maps the user's finger veins, generating a unique key.
But one expert questioned whether biometric systems had any benefit over traditional methods of payment.
During registration, users need to link their finger pattern to their credit or debit card and then they can pay for goods without the need to be carrying any cash or cards.
The technology has been developed by electronics giant Hitachi, with biometric payments company Sthaler licensed to roll it out in the retail sector.
Nick Dryden, chief executive of Sthaler, said the system would appeal to young people.
"Today's millennial generation now expects a higher level of ease, security and efficiency from the way that we pay," he said.
James Budkiewicz, assistant director of the commercial directorate at Brunel University London, said that it would give students "the opportunity to take cash off campus, benefiting not just customers, but our retailers too".
A spokeswoman for Costcutter said: "We will be interested to see the results and will decide on next steps at that point."
Finger change

Barclays bank introduced the same Hitachi-developed technology in 2014 when a similar finger vein desktop reader was rolled out to its corporate customers.
Fingopay was also trialled at a bar in Camden earlier this year, with 2,000 customers signed up.
Sthaler says its method is "the safest form of biometrics with no known breaches".
Security consultant Graham Cluley said: "There have been fingerprint biometric systems in the past that have been easily tricked.
"The problem with biometrics is that you can't change it, so if someone gets hold of your information and reproduces it, what are you going to do?
You can't change your finger.
"I do wonder why there is such an urgent push to use this technology rather than the traditional methods of identifying yourself."
Prof Alan Woodward, a computer scientist from the University of Surrey, said a system that relied on vein patterns was more secure than previous biometrics.
"This is a good thing to do," he said.
"With this system, blood needs to be flowing through the veins so you can prove it is a real, live person using it, which is much harder to spoof."
Image copyright AFP

Losses have risen sharply at the gig economy food delivery firm, Deliveroo, according to its latest accounts.
The company, incorporated under the name Roofoods, made a worldwide loss of 129m in 2016, up from 30m in 2015.
Deliveroo made sales of 128.56m, up from 18.1m, but the cost of getting the goods to customers was 127.47m, leaving it a wafer-thin profit margin.
On top of that the company has been funding an international expansion plan.
Deliveroo is now in 12 countries, including Germany and Singapore.
It connects thousands of bike couriers to customers wanting food from restaurants that do not have their own delivery system.
Deliveroo does not employ its riders directly, but pays them per delivery - hence the term "gig".
In July the company said it would pay sickness and injury benefits to its 15,000 riders in the UK if the laws were changed.
Deliveroo said UK employment rules should be changed so that people who work for companies like Deliveroo can receive enhanced benefits and not lose the flexibility to work when they want.
'Heavy investment'

Last year the number of Deliveroo riders worldwide rose from 5,700 in 2015 to 26,500, a number that has carried on rising.
That rapid expansion was behind rising administrative expenses, which ballooned to 142m last year.
Its accounts also show it raised 208m from shareholders in 2016, representing 29% of the company.
A company spokesman said in a statement: "Deliveroo is investing heavily in new technology and new sites across the world.
'We are extremely proud that in only four years Deliveroo now works with over 30,000 riders and 20,000 restaurants to deliver great-tasting food in over 140 cities around the world."
Video

BBC Click's Nick Kwek looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including:

Apple releases a new operating system.
An electric bus broke a world record by travelling more than 1,000 miles on a single charge

An all terrain security robot has been unveiled

See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

The space race of the Cold War pitted the world's two superpowers against one another to explore what lies beyond Earth.
Now anyone with enough money and enterprise can get there.
But this new race isn't between countries - it's between companies.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Philippa Goodrich; Reporter: Tim Bowler
Video

Destiny 2 is the big-budget sequel to one of 2014's best-selling computer games.
The first game won the Bafta award for Best Game and it made over 350m in its first week of release.
While popular, the first Destiny received extensive downloadable upgrades to improve the experience.
BBC Clicks Marc Cieslak had a chance to blast his way through Destiny's 2 campaign mode to find out if the developers had improved on the first games' campaign.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

The small satellite industry is the fastest growing part of the space sector "and they all require launch" says New Zealand's Rocket Lab boss Peter Beck.
His firm aims to disrupt the established space sector by launching its commercial satellite-carrying rockets once a week.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Adrienne Murray; Cameraman: Mauricio Olmedo-Perez
Burger robot rolled out to US restaurants

BBC Click's Stephen Beckett looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories.
Video

One of Google's most senior executives has defended the company's response to terrorist propaganda appearing online.
General counsel Kent Walker told the Today programme the company is working to improve the quality of machine learning so it can identify and remove material it finds.
But he added that the government and the police must work with the firm.
His interview coincides with a demand by Prime Minister Theresa May that tech firms take down terrorist material within two hours or face fines.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Weiner looked sombre as he left US Federal Court following his sentencing

Weiner jailed for sexting underage girl

Ex-New York congressman Anthony Weiner burst into tears as he was sentenced to 21 months in jail for sending sexually explicit messages to an underage girl.
He pleaded guilty in May to transferring obscene material to a minor and agreed not to appeal against a prison sentence of 27 months or less.
Weiner, 53, quit Congress in 2011 over a sex scandal and was again exposed in his 2013 run for New York mayor.
His lawyers had asked a US District Judge for probation instead of jail.
But in sentencing Weiner, Judge Cote said: "This is a serious crime that deserves serious punishment."
"Anthony Weiner, a former Congressman and candidate for Mayor, asked a girl who he knew to be 15 years old to display her naked body and engage in sexually explicit behaviour for him online," Acting Manhattan US Attorney Joon H Kim said in a statement on Monday.
"Justice demands that this type of conduct be prosecuted and punished with time in prison."
In addition to jail time, Weiner was sentenced to three years of supervised release, according to a statement from the US Attorney's Office.
Weiner's attorneys contended the former politician had acted out of the "depths of an uncontrolled sickness" and was now seeking treatment.
In a letter to US District Judge Denise Cote, Weiner said he felt "profound" regret for his crimes and his "continued acting out over years crushed the aspirations" of his wife, Huma Abedin, and ruined their marriage.
Ms Abedin filed for divorce on the same day her husband was found guilty in May.
She did not attend the sentencing, but asked for leniency on their son's behalf in a letter to the judge.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Anthony Weiner (L) and Huma Abedin split last year

An investigation into Weiner's sexting case played a role in last year's 2016 presidential election, when authorities found emails on his laptop from Ms Abedin, who was a senior aide to Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
A separate FBI investigation into Mrs Clinton's private use of email while she was secretary of state was closed after officials said nothing incriminating was found.
The FBI began investigating Weiner last September after the Daily Mail reported that he had exchanged obscene messages with a North Carolina teenager.
The 15-year-old girl said he had asked her to undress on camera.
A month earlier, Ms Abedin announced she was separating from her husband after it emerged he sent a photo of himself in his underpants with his toddler son nearby.
The New York Post reported that Weiner had sent sexual messages along with the photo to an unidentified woman in 2015.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Anthony Weiner: "You're my judge?
What rabbi taught you that?"
Once a rising Democratic star, he stepped down from Congress in June 2011 after a graphic image sent from his Twitter account went public.
Initially claiming his account was hacked, he eventually confessed to having lied.
Weiner also admitted indulging in explicit online exchanges with at least six other women and pledged to seek therapy.
He tried to revive his political career in 2013 by running for mayor of New York.
But his campaign imploded amid reports of further graphic online messages.
Image caption Joe Sugg has just released his third graphic novel of a trilogy

Joe Sugg may be one of YouTube's biggest stars (and the brother of another - Zoella), but he still doesn't see himself as a celebrity.
"You could probably ask any YouTuber in the UK if they'd class themselves as a celebrity, and I guarantee they'd all say no," he tells BBC News.
"And I think that's because we never knew it would get this big, we never knew it would become this scale, at all.
"If you've got someone who wants to be a singer and actor, they already know the pros and cons of that job, whereas we never knew we were getting into something this big, so it's been harder for us to sort of deal with and go along with it."
While he may be slightly embarrassed to admit it, Joe is one of countless YouTubers who have reached the big leagues of fame.
Image caption Joe's sister Zoe (Zoella) has appeared on a celebrity edition of Bake Off

Earlier this year, he, Zoella and her boyfriend Alfie Deyes had to leave the launch of a pop-up shop in Covent Garden because the sheer number of fans that had turned up caused security concerns.
Joe's own YouTube channel has more than eight million subscribers, who watch the 26-year-old do impressions, pranks and dares.
His most popular video to date sees Zoella applying his make-up.
Today, Joe is speaking to the BBC at Forbidden Planet in London as he launches his new book Username: Uprising - the third in a trilogy of graphic novels (the first became the fastest-selling ever for a debut writer in the genre).
He talked to us about writing, vlogging, roof-thatching, and trying to perfect his Donald Trump impression.
Joe hasn't written the book on his own

There was a bit of a palaver when Zoella released her debut novel Girl Online under her own name in 2014, only for it to emerge later that she had co-authored it with a ghostwriter.
Joe is avoiding any such issues by being open about the fact that he works with a team on his series of graphic novels, including a colourist and illustrator.
"I would've liked to have drawn it myself obviously, but time wise, because I've got so many projects going on, three channels to run, I knew it would be impossible, but the great thing with a graphic novel is that it's a collaborative process," he says.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Joe Sugg: Graphic novel provides 'escapism'

"We're all in contact, they'd send me over a few pages at a time and I'd go through and be like 'This is great, but can we change this slightly, or change the expression on this face', and it's been great going back and forth and getting a feel of it being a team effort."
He thinks it's sensible for YouTubers to branch out of YouTube

"I think a lot of YouTubers will go into different avenues because I think that's the smart thing to do - you can't just rely on the one thing," he says.
"We don't know what's going to happen to social media, it could be all shut down one day - not that it will I hope, but you never know.
"So I think it's important to try out different things.
So if you've ever had an interest or a hobby, like me with the graphic novels, explore that, see what you can do with it."
He's got his sister to thank for getting into vlogging

"Zoe started off as a blogger, didn't want to be on camera - and that eventually turned into vlogging.
I was aware of what she was doing at the time, but I was still working five days a week as a roof thatcher," Joe explains.
"So she was starting to get bigger on YouTube and she showed me a lot of the male YouTubers, like Alfie [Deyes], Marcus [Butler], Jim [Chapman], and I'd watch them and think 'This is the sort of stuff I can do, and have been doing throughout my childhood'.
Image caption Zoe was named best British vlogger at BBC Radio 1's Teen Awards in 2014

"I appeared in one of Zoe's videos, that was my entrance to YouTube, and the majority of the comments were saying 'Joe should start his own channel', and that for me was like, okay yeah, if they want it, I'll do it."
He has no plans to release an autobiography

YouTubers have been cranking out books almost as quickly as videos in recent years, many of them autobiographies - but Joe doesn't have any plans to join them just yet.
"I would love to release a memoir at a later date.
I don't think it's right for me yet," he says.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Joe Sugg: An autobiography 'not right for me yet'

"Although I'm 26 now, I just feel like I want to make the book thicker.
But I can understand why a lot of YouTubers have done that - because we don't have ordinary lives."
He jokes: "I've got lots of fun stories to tell but I think I'll wait it out, wait until I can grow facial hair, so could be quite a while off yet!"
He misses working as a roof thatcher

Joe's YouTube channel - Thatcher Joe - isn't a tribute to our former prime minister, but rather a reference to his pre-vlogging days as a roof thatcher.
"It was very much an arty job, making the ornate ridges, the patterns, I did genuinely love the job," he says.
"It was such an important part of what I do now.
"There are a lot of YouTubers who have always thought 'I want to be a YouTuber', and they've gone into it and gotten carried away with that side of it, whereas because I've worked and know what it's like to do a normal job...

"I don't know what it is, but it kind of helps you keep it real, and know how good you've got it."
Joe's musical talents are no threat to Ed Sheeran

"A lot of my audience wanted me to sing, and I was like, why not give it a go - because you never know.
"But nobody heard it," he laughs.
"Which is great; it's been done and dusted, had a go, decided it's not for me, moved on to the next thing."
Image copyright Getty Images

7.
His impressions are both the most popular and most unpopular videos he does

One of Joe's most popular series of videos is his impressions - usually of fictional characters from shows like Family Guy and Sesame Street.
"I like to think of ideas which can become a series," he says.
"I think it's really important to create structures and formats within my videos; things I can to return to later on.
"It's almost like a safety net of having a string of ideas which have more longevity than just a one-off."
But impressions are also some of the most difficult to get right, with Joe describing them as "my most criticised videos".
"There's always one saying 'Oh that was a bit dodgy'.
I never really get that much criticism on my videos, but on the impressions videos, you do get a lot of people that are like 'That wasn't as great as it could be', because it's something where they can compare it to something else."
But there's one impression he still hasn't been able to perfect

"I really wanted to learn how to do Donald Trump properly, purely because of that space of time [when he was elected]," Joe says.
Image copyright AFP

"I thought, there's so much comedy you can get out of that, mastering people who are in the 'now', whoever's got big exposure in the media at the moment, to learn them, but it takes time.
"By the time I've mastered them it's like 'Great, they're irrelevant now', so by the time I've mastered Donald Trump he won't even be president anymore."
Username: Uprising by Joe Sugg is out now

Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video

BBC Click's Marc Cieslak looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories including:

The latest tests of Nasa's Dream Chaser spacecraft

Hyperloop pod reaches top speeds of 355km/h (220mph)

Google and Apple battle it out to be top of the augmented reality world

See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

Cyber-security has become an increasing concern following a number of recent high profile computer hacking cases around the world.
Quantum encryption could offer much more security.
But how close are we to quantum computing becoming the norm?
BBC Click finds out more.
Video

BBC Click visits a test lift shaft where they are showing off a lift that goes sideways as well as up and down.
The elevators are being developed by Thyssenkrupp.
Instead of using a steel rope, the cabin is carried by linear motors - the same technology that drives some amusements rides and high-speed trains.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

India's railways move millions of people around the country every day.
And now thanks to optic fibre the are moving data too.
Some 45,000km (28,000 miles) of cable run alongside India's rail tracks taking high speed free wi-fi to some 115 stations on the network in a scheme made possible by Google.
Wi-fi is transforming the railway stations turning them into digital as well as railway hubs and giving businesses a boost too.
BBC Click's David Reid went to Jaipur station to find out more.
You can see Click: India's internet on rails over the weekend of 26 and 27 August 2017 on BBC World News and the BBC News Channel and after on BBCiPlayer (UK only)

This programme was first transmitted in March 2017.
Read and watch more stories from India
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption If a hacker managed to switch off a life-support machine, the results could be fatal

Imagine a hacker remotely turning off a life support machine in a hospital, or shutting down a power station.
These are the nightmare scenarios we face because many organisations haven't a clue how many unsecured devices are connected to their networks, cyber-security experts warn.
It was an ordinary day at a busy hospital - doctors, nurses and surgeons rushed about attending to the health of their patients.
For Hussein Syed, chief information security officer for the largest health provider in New Jersey, it was the health of his IT network that was keeping him busy.
And today, he was in for a surprise.
He knew he presided over a complex web of connected medical devices, computers, and software applications spread across RWJBarnabas Health's 13 hospitals.
This included about 30,000 computers, 300 apps, a data centre, as well as all the mobile phones hooking up to the hospitals' wi-fi networks.
Company mergers had only added to the complexity of these sprawling IT systems.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hussein Syed discovered that there were around 70,000 devices connected to his network

But when he used a specialist IoT cyber-security program to carry out a full audit, he discovered that there were in fact 70,000 internet-enabled devices accessing the health firm's network - far more than he'd expected.
"We found a lot of things we were not aware of," Mr Syed tells the BBC, "systems that weren't registered with IT and which didn't meet our security standards."
These included security cameras and seemingly innocuous gadgets such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) - units that provide back-up battery power in the event of a power cut.
"These unidentified devices could definitely have been access points for hackers who could have then found high-value assets on our network," says Mr Syed.
Hack in to a UPS and you could potentially switch off life-critical machines, he explains.
Or hackers could steal patient data, encrypt it, then demand a ransom for its safe return.
On the black market "health data is worth 50 times more than credit card data", says Mr Syed.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hospitals like this RWJBarnabas Health one in New Jersey are also complex IT networks

The audit "helped us protect our network," he adds, preferring not to dwell on what might have been.
Mike DeCesare, chief executive of ForeScout, the software provider Mr Syed brought in, says: "Businesses typically underestimate by 30% to 40% how many devices are linked to their network.
It's often a shock when they find out.
"With the proliferation of IoT [internet of things] devices the attack surface for hackers has increased massively.
"Traditional antivirus software was designed on the assumption that there were just a few operating systems.
Now, because of IoT, there are thousands."
ForeScout's software monitors a company's network and indentifies every device trying to access it, "not just from its IP [internet protocol] address, but from 50 other attributes and fingerprints", says Mr DeCesare.
The reason for these other layers of security is that it is "relatively easy" for hackers to mask the identity of a particular device - known as MAC [media access control] spoofing.
So ForeScout's software takes a behavioural approach to monitoring.
Image copyright ForeScout Image caption ForeScout boss Mike DeCesare says his company can spot rogue devices on the network

"We look at the traffic from all those different devices and analyse whether they are behaving like they should," he says.
"Is that printer behaving like a printer?
So why is it trying to access other devices on the network and break in to the system?
"If we spot aberrant behaviour we can disconnect the device from the network automatically."
Services from network monitoring firms - ForeScout, Solar Winds, IBM, SecureWorks, Gigamon and others - are becoming increasingly necessary in a world where everything - from lamp-posts to lawn sensors - is becoming internet-enabled.
According to Verizon's latest State of the Market: Internet of Things report there are now 8.4 billion connected devices - a 31% increase on 2016 - and $2tn (1.5tn) will have been spent on the technologies by the end of 2017.
But as Verizon points out, lack of industry-wide standards for IoT devices is giving businesses major security concerns.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is the internet of things?
Stories of cyber-attacks mounted on the back of insecure devices such as video cameras have highlighted the issue.
"IoT security is one of the biggest challenges we're facing right now," says Darren Thomson, chief technology officer and vice president, technology services at cyber-security firm Symantec.
The difficulty is that IoT devices are generally simple, cheap and low-powered, without the capability of running the antivirus programs operated by traditional computers.
"The challenge with critical infrastructure is that it wasn't built with security in mind," says Tom Reilly, chief executive of Cloudera, the IoT and data analytics platform.
"Smart cities are a great playing field for hackers - changing traffic lights, turning elevators on and off - there are many security exposures.
"We need to get ahead of them."
This necessitates a different approach to security, a growing number of experts believe.
In April, telecoms giant Verizon launched what it calls its IoT "security credentialing" service, whereby only trusted, verified devices are allowed to access a company's network.
Meanwhile, Cloudera has formed a strategic partnership with chip maker Intel.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

"Intel makes the chips that are being used in many IoT sensors," explains Mr Reilly, "and all that data being created needs to land in a database like ours residing in a data centre.
"We authenticate all the devices - we're creating an end-to-end platform for the IoT world."
Rival GE Digital, a subsidiary of the global engineering giant GE, has also developed its own IoT and data analytics platform called Predix which it is outsourcing to big clients such as British Airways and oil giant Exxon.
IoT sensors are fitted to big machines, from gas turbines to aero engines, and these transmit "petabytes of data in real time that helps us work out how to optimise their maintenance", says Bill Ruh, GE Digital chief executive.
"We get all that data back via virtual private networks mostly in a highly secure encrypted fashion."
But if you don't have the resources to commit to an entire IoT ecosystem operated by a major tech company, behavioural network monitoring may be your next best bet.
Just bear in mind that your organisation's defences are only as strong as the weakest part.
Beware the invisible network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The European Cybercrime Centre is just one part of Europol

The UK government's "future partnership" paper made a strong case for "a bespoke relationship with Europol" after the UK leaves the European Union.
It looked at the scenarios of:

no agreement being reached on future cooperation with Europol

current cooperation being wound down before a new arrangement was put in place

It said: "Consideration would need to be given to ensuring that any ongoing investigations would not be affected in such a way that criminals might escape prosecution or vulnerable individuals might be rendered less safe."
And it would be difficult to find anyone in the EU who would disagree with the importance of fighting cross-border crime.
EU funding

Europol, the European Union's law enforcement organisation, was founded in 1999 and employs more than 1,000 people at a cost of about 100m a year.
It is an EU-funded agency, and when the UK completes the Brexit process and no longer pays into the EU budget, it will cease to be a member.
The EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, used an article in the French newspaper Le Monde to make it clear the UK could not continue to be a member.
He said: "The British defence minister will no longer be able to sit at the council of defence ministers, London will leave the European Defence Agency and Europol."
Prime Minister Theresa May has previously said she wants the UK to retain its security co-operation with Europol post-Brexit.
And a number of countries that are not part of the EU, such as Norway, Switzerland and the US, have operational agreements with Europol that allow access to intelligence.
But Europol itself say this does not equate to formal membership, which means these countries do not have a say over operations and decisions.
Europol also points out that such agreements take a number of years to negotiate.
Image caption Every EU member state, plus 14 other nations, has staff in the Europol headquarters in The Hague

One precedent that might act as a future model is Denmark, an EU member but no longer in Europol.
In December 2015, Denmark voted in a referendum against more integration of security operations.
In May this year it formally left Europol, but an agreement was reached that allowed the Danish police and Europol to continue to share information and analysis.
Denmark is able to participate in Europol board meetings, but it has only "observer status" and no decision-making rights.
Could a similar agreement be made with the UK?
Europol seems to think not.
In a statement, it said: "The agreement between both Denmark and Europol is based on the fact that Denmark is a full member of Schengen [group of countries that allow passport-free travel] and has implemented all EU data protection standards.
"It therefore allows for a sufficient level of co-operation, including the exchange of operational data and the deployment of liaison officers."
Prof Alan Woodward, a British cyber-crime expert and adviser to Europol, said the issue of the UK's future relationship with Europol needed to be resolved sooner rather than later.
"I very much hope that a solution is found to allow the UK to remain active participant with Europol - simply because it is in everybody's interest," he said.
"Europol is the best organisation to tackle cross-border law enforcement issues, especially in cyber-crime."
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
A number of shows at London Fashion Week trialled a system where clothes are made available for sale immediately after appearing on the catwalk.
Gigi Hadid modelled the outfits she'd collaborated on with designer Tommy Hilfiger in Camden.
The brand is one of five which used the "see now, buy now" model.
It's a big change for high fashion brands.
They typically take six months to make collections available to buy but social media's shifted all that.
Collaborating with a celebrity like Gigi Hadid, who has more then 37 million Instagram followers, certainly gets more attention for the brand.
"Fashion Week before was an event that happened behind closed doors.
Technology has smashed open those doors," says Matthew Drinkwater from London College of Fashion.
"Social media has allowed consumers to see in real time what's happening at Fashion Week."
Burberry was one of the first brands to launch see now, buy now, at London fashion week, in its September show last year.
Topshop, Mother of Pearl and Nicopanda also did it this week, the latter in a collaboration with Amazon which made its collection available for delivery in an hour.
Matthew Drinkwater says fast-fashion retailers like Asos and Zara have increased the pressure on luxury brands to make clothes available immediately.
"The time from idea to production in fast fashion is now three weeks," he explains.
"Fashion week has always been more inspirational, more forward thinking than that."
It's too early to know whether see now, buy now is increasing the profits of luxury brands, but the UK's overall spend on fashion online is going up.
The UK spent 12.4bn on fashion online in 2015, up from 10.7bn in 2014, according to researchers Mintel.
Another way designers are trying to guarantee attention for their shows is by filling the front row with online influencers.
The guests at Topshop's show included Kate Moss, Vogue editor Edward Enninful and pop stars like Charli XCX and Anne-Marie.
Matthew says big brands can make clothes available straight away because they've got shops to sell them in, and plenty of money.
Tommy Hilfiger sold $6.5bn (around 4.8bn) of clothes, footwear and accessories in 2015.
Matthew says he's worried about the pressure see now, buy now is putting on smaller designers.
"I don't want our young, emerging talent to be worried about fulfilling mass orders.
I want them to be experimenting.
"If you love what they're making, and the quality, you'll be prepared to wait."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyota blazed a trail in hybrid car design with its Prius

Are electric cars really about to take over from the old-fashioned internal combustion engine?
Judging by some of the headlines we've seen recently, you could be forgiven for thinking petrol and diesel engines were about to be consigned to the scrap heap.
Yet the reality is rather different.
There is no question that the car industry is undergoing a radical change.
At this year's Frankfurt Motor Show - currently under way in the German city - the buzzword throughout the cavernous exhibition halls has been "electrification".
The day before the show, for example, Volkswagen said it would build electrified versions of every model in its range - including those sold under the Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche brands - by 2030.
The same evening, Mercedes' parent company Daimler said it would have electrified versions of its own models by 2022.
Image copyright EPA Image caption It's not just new cars, countries will need to invest in new infrastructures for fuelling electric vehicles

Other companies, including Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover and Honda have made similar pledges.
These are undoubtedly ambitious plans - but it is important to recognise their limitations.
They are not saying they will get rid of diesel or petrol cars completely.
They are simply promising to make electrified versions of them available.
It is also important to recognise what "electrified" actually means.
It can, of course, refer to fully electric battery powered vehicles.
But it can also be used to describe hybrids - and hybrids come in many forms.
A plug-in hybrid, for example, has a large battery capacity and is often capable of running entirely on electric power at least part of the time, though it will have a petrol engine as well.
One type of plug-in hybrid, often referred to as a range-extended EV, is essentially an electric car with a small petrol engine that acts as an on-board generator."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mercedes unveils its F1-derived hybrid hypercar

A strong or full hybrid, like the Toyota Prius, uses a relatively powerful electric motor alongside a conventional engine, but you don't need to plug it in for a recharge.
A mild hybrid, meanwhile, is effectively a conventional car, equipped with a small electric motor that allows the engine to shut down temporarily when the car is stopped at traffic lights, for example.
It can also be used to improve acceleration and power auxiliary systems.
To fulfil their commitments, carmakers could simply offer a range of mild hybrids.
They are cheaper to produce than full hybrids, yet they can offer significant benefits in terms of performance and fuel consumption.
More and more cars are already being built in this way.
Although their pledges may sound a bit more dramatic than they really are, it is true that carmakers are investing a great deal of money in new electric models.
Volkswagen, for example, says that by 2025, one in four of its cars could be battery powered.
BMW says it will be offering 12 pure-electric models by the same date.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "A hydrogen society needs to be created," says Toyota's Johan van Zyl

So what is driving the move towards electric vehicles?
There are several factors at play.
The launch of the Tesla Model S in 2012 proved that electric cars could perform as well as their petrol equivalents and have a decent battery range, albeit at a high price.
Since then the cost of lithium-ion batteries has fallen significantly, while battery management technology has improved, making that kind of performance more affordable.
Secondly, anti-pollution legislation is being tightened in key markets.
Here in Europe, for example, there will be new limits in force for emissions of carbon dioxide from 2021.
Those limits are much stricter than the current ones, and they are based on the average level of pollution produced by a manufacturer's entire fleet.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe

So by producing zero-emissions cars, manufacturers will find it much easier to meet the targets.
The same logic applies to building more hybrids.
Both of these factors were already affecting the major manufacturers' long term thinking, when in September 2015, another factor came into play.
The diesel emissions scandal cast an unwelcome spotlight on the industry - exposing not just sharp practice, but the fact that diesel cars in particular routinely produced far more harmful pollution than official figures would suggest.
The result was a backlash from politicians and consumers - while Volkswagen, the architect of the scandal, tried to restore its reputation by becoming a leader in electric car technology.
As the VW Group chief executive Matthias Mueller told me in Frankfurt: "We've got the message of course.
Consumers want clean vehicles.
People want clean air, and we want to make our contribution."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption VW is still having to deal with the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal

Electrification was on the cards long before the VW scandal erupted.
But the events of two years ago may well have helped to accelerate the process.
Now, it seems that carmakers are making a virtue out of a necessity, trying to gain some useful PR mileage from a process that was, in reality, more or less inevitable.
So, too, are politicians.
Talk of banning petrol and diesel cars may sound dramatic, draconian even.
But here in the UK, for example, the proposed ban doesn't cover hybrids.
Industry experts say that by 2040 - the date when the ban is due to take effect - it is highly unlikely there will be any non-hybrid cars left on the market anyway.
Then there is the question of infrastructure.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

There are currently about 7,300 charging points for electric cars in the UK, and the number is increasing at a rate of about 10 per day, according to ZapMap.
Globally, the figure is around two million, according to the International Energy Agency.
Clearly, if millions of petrol and diesel cars are to be replaced by electric versions, then we will need a huge investment in charging infrastructure, or they won't be going anywhere.
They will also need batteries - a lot of batteries.
And the power to charge them has to be generated somewhere.
That will take time and money.
Meanwhile, hybrid cars offer a convenient and effective stop-gap.
As BMW's chief executive Harald Krueger puts it, petrol and diesel cars "are not dead yet".
"You will see a transition time, with investments in combustion engines - petrol engines, diesel engines, very efficient engines," he says.
"But long term, we will see sustainable mobility with e-mobility."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Audi's Aicon autonomous electric concept - but will such concepts really become reality soon?
VW Group's Matthias Mueller agrees.
"There will be a coexistence between internal combustion engines and electric drive systems for a certain period.
I can't tell you how long that will be," he says.
"And that's because we do have to get the right infrastructure in place... we have to create the battery capacity.
"We're talking about enormous capacity here, and it has yet to be created."
Image copyright Sulky Doll Image caption Fashion stylist Donna McCulloch says Instagram "is your shop front"

Instagram, the Facebook-owned photo app, has become a lucrative shop window for many small entrepreneurs.
So what are the secrets of its success?
When Facebook bought the photo app Instagram in 2012 for a cool $1bn (760m), eyebrows were raised at the value the tech giant had placed on this 18-month-old start-up.
Fast forward to 2017, and while Instagram may still be Facebook's little sister, it has built a sizeable community of 700 million users - dwarfing both Twitter and Snapchat.
With improved photo filters and the addition of Instagram Stories, a feature that lets users upload short videos that disappear after 24 hours, the platform has become a big hit with freelancers and small organisations looking to reach new audiences.
So how can you use it to make money?
"Instagram is your shop front," says Donna McCulloch, a fashion stylist who works under the name Sulky Doll.
"People don't ask for business cards any more - they ask for your 'handle' [Instagram nickname].
It's instant - you both get your phones out, and you're connected."
Image copyright Cat Meffan Image caption Yoga enthusiast Cat Meffan was "shocked and excited" by Instagram's marketing power

For yoga instructor Cat Meffan, the glamorous images she posts of herself in impressive yoga positions in picturesque locations around the world are intended to inspire and motivate her 77,000 followers.
But they also help her to build her business.
"I sold out my first yoga retreat in five days and all I did was put up one Instagram post," she says.
"I was extremely shocked and excited.
That's the power of Instagram."
Cat says she'll spend up to an hour crafting the captions alongside her photos - sometimes more than she'll spend on taking the photo itself.
"Sometimes I'll go out and do a photoshoot with my partner.
But usually it's me with a self-timer or holding the phone."
Like Donna, Cat finds adding hashtags to her photos a useful way of reaching a new audience.
A search for #yoga, for example, will bring up her images, along with those of others, while Donna's #OOTD (Outfit of The Day) are by far her most popular.
"It's a nice way of finding like-minded people," says Cat.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Singer Selena Gomez has 126 million followers on Instagram

Both women also use the Stories feature to post videos which, they say, show them as they really are - an antidote to the artificial gloss that many Instagrammers are notorious for adding to their images.
"Stories allow people to get more of a handle on you as a person and a brand," says Donna.
"Stories are like peeking behind the net curtains.
The biggest compliment is when people say you come across the same in real life as you do on your feed [Instagram page]."
Both Cat and Donna have built their Instagram pages tightly around a very specific theme - yoga/wellness and fashion, respectively.
That's important if you want to grow the number of people who follow you says Danny Coy, a photographer with 173,000 followers who now also works as an Instagram consultant.
For 300 a month his firm Vibrance says it can "typically" grow an account by 2,000 followers every four weeks.
Techniques for attracting followers include posting regularly and having a bank of interesting images to hand.
"You don't have to post every day, but engagement peaks - after 24 hours it's done," he says.
"It's important to stick to your niche."
Image copyright Danny Coy Image caption Photographer Danny Coy thinks Instagrammers should stay focused on what they do best

That's Instagram's advice, too.
"If you tell a different story every time you come to Instagram people will struggle to understand what you're trying to communicate," says Jen Ronan, the firm's head of small business for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
"Make sure you're thoughtful about what you want your customers to know and ensure that you're consistently reinforcing this over time."
Many of Danny's clients are companies, he says, who want to boost their numbers in order to look "legitimate" on the platform.
"From time to time it'll be an up-and-coming photographer who feels they can't get the numbers they deserve," he says.
"Everyone has to start somewhere."
Instagrammers with a significant number of followers may be approached by brands seeking "influencers" or "ambassadors" to represent them - for a fee.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

Incorporating brand products and imagery into photos and videos can be a lucrative sideline, although you have to make clear which content is sponsored under Instagram rules.
Donna McCulloch doesn't do it: "I think I would lose my integrity," she says, although she does admit to wearing clothes she's been given.
"But it's because I wanted it," she maintains.
And Cat Meffan says she spends a lot of time "saying no" to brands she doesn't think are right for her - but she does accept some.
"There's no set fee in the Instagram world," she says.
"You have a discussion [with the brand] and you have what you think you're worth."
Danny Coy says: "Eighteen months ago I could easily be turning over 2,000-3,000 a month in terms of influencer content."
But he says the market is tailing off because brands have wised up.
If an Instagrammer tags a brand in a post independently, the brand can use the image without payment.
"Most will ask first," he says.
"But once you've tagged them and put it on Instagram they don't have to ask your permission."
Image copyright Mariann Hardey Image caption Mariann Hardey thinks the Instagram community doesn't mind branded content if it's entertaining

But isn't it a bit of a turn-off being marketed to by people whose content you admire?
And do viewers sometimes not realise they are looking at paid-for content?
Mariann Hardey, assistant professor of marketing at Durham University, thinks the Instagram community isn't that gullible.
"It's easy to get het up that influencers are taking over and people don't understand they are seeing paid content, but the main users of Instagram are extremely savvy at being able to filter content that is branded or sponsored," she says.
What's most important is "whether the post is fun" and the pictures are "pretty", she adds.
So, the consensus seems to be that if the sponsored Instagrammer is well-liked and engaging, and the content is entertaining, Generation Instagram doesn't mind.
Video

Apple has announced a new iPhone that will cost 999, or $999 in the US.
Is it worth the money?
The BBC's Dave Lee got hands on with the much anticipated device at the company's new "spaceship" headquarters in Cupertino, California.
Video journalist: Cody Melissa Godwin
Video

LG's latest handset is attracting plaudits at Berlin's Ifa tech expo, where it was unveiled.
Reviewers are praising its OLED display and advanced camera features.
To many it represents a "back to basics" approach after past flagships that focused on unusual features such as second displays and snap-in modules - and then failed to become bestsellers.
The BBC's Joe Miller was given an early look at the handset and quizzed the company about its strategy.
The augmented reality apps for your home

BBC Click's Lara Lewington looks at some of the latest tech to help you decorate your home.
Video

Samsung has revived its Galaxy Note brand with one of the biggest mainstream handsets to have ever been launched.
The Note 8 smartphone has a 6.3in (16cm) screen - a significant step up over the Note 7's already-large 5.7in display.
It is also considerably more expensive.
The previous model is best known for self-combusting in a series of fires that led to two recalls.
The BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones found out how Samsung now hopes to put that disaster behind it.
Read more in Rory's blog
Instagrams still growing at a rapid pace, having added 100 million new monthly active users in just a month since it last reported a new figure.
It now has 800 million users engaging with the service on at least a monthly basis, the company revealed on Monday at an event in NYC, and it has 500 million using the service on a daily basis, too.
Instagram announced the 700 million monthly active user milestone in August.
It grew from 600 million to that in four months, meaning it accused its latest 100 million at an even faster clip.
Despite the social networks huge user population, its growth is currently accelerating, putting it on a path to potentially catch up to parent network Facebooks user number down the road.
Instagram also told TechCrunch that it now has 2 million advertisers on the platform, which is up from 1 million in March.
Most of that growth has come from SMBs, the company says.
The company also said that time spent by users viewing video on Instagram is up over 80 percent year over year.
Further, users are producing more video  four times as many per day as they were last year, in fact.
These stats are encouraging for anyone investing in Instagram as a platform, and for Facebooks larger ambitions.
But theyre likely discouraging to Snapchat, one of Instagrams main rivals for user attention.
Instagrams skyrocketing growth has come as the company copied and implemented a number of Snapchat product experiences, including Stories.
Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
CBSs big bet on Star Trek: Discovery, the first Star Trek TV series since Star Trek: Enterprise wrapped in 2005, is also serving the networks big bet on its over-the-top streaming service.
While its too soon to know if the show will hold up over time, the early numbers are promising, the network says today.
According to CBS, the shows launch has led to the highest sign-up day ever for CBS All Access, the streaming service that will be the exclusive home to the series following last nights streaming and broadcast premiere.
CBS says the shows debut broke a new record for subscriber sign-ups in a single day, passing the prior record held by the 2017 Grammy Awards.
In addition, the launch of the new series helped CBS achieve its largest sign-up week and month ever for CBS All Access.
Of course, some of those sign-ups can also be attributed to the fall kick-off of the NFL on CBS via the streaming services live local feeds, and to some smaller extent, the season finale of Big Brother.
But Star Trek: Discovery is CBSs first big attempt at wooing cord cutters to its otherwise under-the-radar offering in terms of streaming services.
Unlike the big guys  Netflix, Hulu and Amazon, which are spending billions on original content  CBS to date had done very little in this area, beyond a spin-off of The Good Wife called The Good Fight, and reality show Big Brother: Over the Top.
Instead, its hoping that the built-in Star Trek fanbase will be enough to build a solid audience for CBS All Access.
The network is also promoting the show with an orginal live after-show, called After Trek, which airs immediately after Star Trek streams.
The talk show, hosted by Matt Mira, originally of the Nerdist, includes guest appearances from Star Treks stars and features discussions of the episode and recaps.
Viewers can engage with the show via social media, as well, using the #aftertrek hashtag, says CBS.
Its unclear for now how the Star Trek bump translated to actual subscriber numbers, as the network didnt release any updated figures.
However, CBS in August had forecast that it would have over 4 million subscribers by year-end for its over-the-top services  CBS All Access and Showtime combined.
And it said it was ahead of schedule on meeting its 2020 forecast of 8 million subscribers.
Those numbers were up from the 1.5 million that Showtime had, and CBS All Access was nearing, back in February  numbers that then represented a 50 percent increase over the past seven months.
The first episode of Star Trek: Discovery aired on CBS alongside its streaming debut in order to entice viewers to subscribe to All Access.
Future episodes will be available on-demand weekly after 8:30 PM ET on Sundays on CBS All Access in the U.S., following the live stream.
Outliers founder Abe Burmeister is a designer who joined the world of clothing manufacturing over five years ago.
His clothing  creating with cutting edge fabrics  is touted as high-tech and very chic but what frustrates Burmeister is how slowly the clothing industry is moving.
His latest creation, a rolltop knapsack, uses a unique material to create one of the lightest and strongest backpacks available.
The fact that Burmeister is even using this material  a nonwoven composite of Dyneema brand ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE)  is odd in an industry that hasnt changed much in the past 100 years.
I asked Burmeister about trends in clothing materials, why he makes stuff out of UHMWPE, and what we can expect from materials in the future (including whether or not well wear stuff made by spiders with hooves.)
Enjoy.
Technotopia is a podcast about a better future by John Biggs.
You can subscribe in Stitcher or iTunes and download the MP3 here.
Over a year after Google showed off its connected jean jacket designed for bike commuters at last years Google I/O developer conference, the company today is unveiling the final product, which goes on sale on Wednesday for $350.
Designed in partnership with Levis, the new smart jacket takes advantage of technology from Googles Advanced Technology and Projects group (ATAP), which involves weaving multi-touch sensors into clothing.
At Google I/O, the companies demonstrated how a bike commuter could instead touch their jackets cuff and use gestures to control various functions that they would otherwise have needed to pull out their phone for  like handling calls and messages, adjusting the volume, or navigating with Google Maps, for instance.
In todays announcement, Google says the new Levis Commuter Trucker Jacket will allow its wearers to do things like stopping or starting their music, getting directions, or reading incoming text messages just by swiping or tapping on the jackets sleeve.
This works because the gesture-sensing sensors (Jacquard Threads) are woven into the jackets cuff, and are then wirelessly connected to the wearers mobile phone using tiny electronics embedded inside the sleeve in a flexible snap tag, Google explains.
This tag will also alert you to incoming calls and texts using haptic feedback and light.
The gestures you use to do things like start or stop the music, get your ETA or next direction, receive updates on calls or texts, and other tasks are configurable using an accompanying mobile app, so you can customize the jacket to your needs.
The jacket works with iOS or Android devices, even though its from Google.
On Levis website, the apparel maker notes that when you remove the tag from the cuff, the entire jacket itself is washable  just like regular denim.
However, you can tell theres a bit of stiffness to the cuff where the sensors are woven in which could be uncomfortable.
But the jackets denim nature  also a tough, sturdy fabric  keeps this from being too obvious, at least compared with a softer fabric, like cotton.
Yet the tag appears to be more than a bit obtrusive, and not all that fashionable.
Despite the interesting use of technology here, its unclear at launch if there will be high demand for this jacket, given that much of what it can do  like taking calls, listening to music, or getting directions  can be replicated using a smartphone and a pair of bluetooth earbuds.
(Apples AirPods, for example, can invoke Siri who can aid with a number of tasks, hands-free.)
Of course, fiddling with your phone while on your bike can be difficult, but using one hand to swipe and tap the sleeve on the other arm is only a bit better.
And perhaps its not $350 worth of improvement over the current experience.
That being said, the Levis Commuter Trucker jacket is maybe less about selling a product in large numbers, and more about proving the concept can be brought to market.
Its a sort of beta test to see how people will react to wearable technology embedded in their clothing, and whether theyll actually adopt such a thing.
At Google I/O, the company had said it would work with other apparel makers in the future to expand Jacquards reach, including athletic clothing companies and those who design business wear.
Its presentation then saw the Cintas brand logo appear on a slide, but Google didnt mention them by name.
Theres no word today on future plans as todays focus is all on the Levis launch.
Well learn a lot from this launch, and thats what were most excited about right now, a Google spokesperson said.
Whats next is right now  were going to listen to feedback.
From those learnings, we have the opportunity to evolve abilities within the jacket since Jacquard is a platform and to consider the next version of the jacket, or other items.
The jacket itself will be sold in select shops starting on Wednesday, including Kinfolk in Brooklyn, NY, Fred Segal in West Hollywood, CA and Concepts in Boston, MA.
On October 2nd, it will be sold online and in select Levis stores (Santa Monica store in CA; Michigan Ave store in Chicago, IL; Meatpacking district store in NY, NY; and Market St. store in SF, CA).
Those whove been eagerly awaiting Fitbits first real foray into the world of smartwatches will be able to get their hands on the thing in a matter of days.
The company announced this morning that the Ionic will hit retailers October 1, along with the Flyer Bluetooth headphones.
Fitbit CEO James Park talked the device up at every opportunity possible ahead of its release  understandably so, as the company invested years and acquired three startups in order to bring the Ionic to market.
The end result is a bit of a mixed bag.
Theres are definitely things to like about the smartwatch, but it has many of the trappings of a first generation device, including a nascent app store and a design that probably wont fit smaller wrists.
Still, Fitbit definitely has the market presence and the fitness know how to get people on board.
And as the company handily pointed out ahead of launch, the Blaze rocketed to the top of Amazons Android-ready smartwatch charts, in spite of being more of a halfway point between a fitness tracker and smartwatch.
Theres a pretty good chance the Ionic will do the same, being of particular interest to Android users.
The Flyer headphones felt more like a late addition to the line.
Fitbit clearly realized that it could sell Ionic buyers a pair of bluetooth headphones with the promise of device compatibility and on-the-go music.
Theyre not a bad pair of workout headphones, but theres nothing particularly compelling about them either.
They can be used for audio coaching when connected to the Ionic, but Fitbit didnt, say, build any kind of fitness tracking into the product.
The devices are priced at $300 and $139, respectively.
Theres no bundle available at present, but I wouldnt be too surprised if Fitbit were to go in that direction ahead of the holidays.
You are about to activate our Facebook Messenger news bot.
Once subscribed, the bot will send you a digest of trending stories once a day.
You can also customize the types of stories it sends you.
Click on the button below to subscribe and wait for a new Facebook message from the TC Messenger news bot.
Thanks,

TC Team
Moving lots of data to the cloud can take a long time and cost quite a bit, even over fast connections.
Like its competitors  and especially AWS  Microsoft has long allowed its Azure users to import data to its cloud by shipping hard drives to its data centers.
Its now going a step further with the preview launch of the 100 TB Azure Data Box, its answer to AWSs 50 and 80 TB Snowball boxes.
The 45 pound Azure Data Box is meant to allow enterprises to quickly and securely move their data into the cloud.
Microsoft describes it as a ruggedized, tamper-resistant and human-manageable applications that will help organizations overcome the data transfer barriers that can

block productivity and slow innovation.
Users order the box from the Azure portal, load it up with their data and then ship it to Microsoft for ingestion into the Azure cloud.
Like the AWS Snowball, the Data Box also features a e-paper display that functions as the shipping label.
The box plugs right into the data center network and supports standard protocol like SMB and CIFS.
Data on the box itself is secured with with a 256 bit AES encryption.
Given that were talking Microsoft here, it doesnt come as a surprise that the company is also working with partners like Commvault, Veritas, NetApp, Avid, Rubrik and CloudLanes, who will all integrate their services with the Data Box.
Micrososft also tested the box with the help of Oceaneering International, a company that, among other things, offers ROV-based subsea inspection services for the oil industry.
Those robots can easily create multiple terabytes of data per day but arent always connected to the internet.
In Oceaneering Internationals use case, the company stores its data on the Data Box, upload the data to Azure and then prepare it for its own customers.
Ubers new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi has written an open letter apologizing for mistakes weve made following the announcement on Friday by Londons transport regulator that it was withdrawing licensing from Uber  having deemed it is not fit and proper to operate.
In the letter Khosrowshahi thanks Uber users for support over the last few days  likely an indirect reference to the Uber-initiated online petition calling for a reversal of TfLs decision which has now racked up more than 750,000 votes (though its unclear how many of those are from actual users of Uber in London)  and goes on to concede the company has got things wrong before saying sorry.
He also writes that Uber must also change, and says his intention for the company is to run our business with humility, integrity and passion.
In an internal email sent to staff on Friday, which was leaked to Mike Isaac of the New York Times, Khosrowshahi also told Ubers workforce: Going forward, its critical that we act with integrity in everything we do, and learn how to be a better partner to every city we operate in.
While the new CEOs tone is markedly different from Uber co-founder and ousted CEO Travis Kalanick, whose strategy can be summed up as aggressively ignoring rules to aggressively accelerate expansion, Khosrowshahis response to Ubers business crisis in London risks looking rather similar to when Travis was at Ubers wheel  given that, on the one hand hes accepting culpability in London, whilst simultaneously reaching for a legal brake and hoping to reverse TfLs decision, with only a vaguely worded concession that we do so with the knowledge that we must also change.
Heres the letter in full:

We want to thank everyone who uses Uber for your support over the last few days.
Its been amazing to hear your stories of Uber improving lives across the city  from drivers who use our app to earn a living, to riders who rely on us to get home safely after a night out.
While Uber has revolutionised the way people move in cities around the world, its equally true that weve got things wrong along the way.
On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologise for the mistakes weve made.
We will appeal the decision on behalf of millions of Londoners, but we do so with the knowledge that we must also change.
As Ubers new CEO its my job to help Uber write its next chapter.
We wont be perfect but we will listen to you; we will look to be long term partners with the cities we serve; and we will run our business with humility, integrity and passion.
Here in London wve already started doing more to contribute to the city.
Wheelchair accessible vehicles are on the road and our Clean Air Plan will help tackle pollution.
You have my commitment that we will work with London to make things right and keep this great global city moving safely.
Meanwhile, in an interview on BBC Radio 4s Today program this morning, Uber managed to distribute more mixed messages.
Fred Jones, head of cities for the company in the UK and Ireland, claimed it does not understand why Londons transport regulator decided to withdraw its license in London, and said it wants to sit down with TfL to understand these concerns.
(TfL said on Friday it will not be commenting further on its decision pending any appeal.)
Although he also went on to concede that Uber made a mistake in its handling of a customer complaint regarding one of its drivers  a driver who subsequently went on to commit an attack on a different passenger.
We apologize to everyone involved, he said on that specific incident.
Pressed on why Uber only notifies TfL when customers report serious incidents with drivers on its platform, and why it does not also notify the police, Jones said: Were working with the police to figure out how we can do this in a way thats helpful to them.
This is absolutely an area where we want to go further, he added.
Concerns about how Uber approaches reporting serious crimes was one of the four areas listed by TfL in its announcement that it would not be renewing Ubers license, after the Met Police contacted the regulator detailing significant concern that Uber only reports less serious allegations and deliberately avoids reporting more serious complaints made by its users to try to avoid damage to its reputation.
My concern is twofold, firstly it seems [Uber] are deciding what to report (less serious matters / less damaging to reputation over serious offences) and secondly by not reporting to police promptly they are allowing situations to develop that clearly affect the safety and security of the public, wrote the Met Polices Neil Billany in the letter to TfL.
We were surprised by that letter from the Met Police because they havent raised any concerns direct to us, said Jones on that, while also admitting to the aforementioned mistake in one instance.
We just didnt realize when the passenger wrote in how serious it was, he added on that.
The company previously fought against a series of proposed changes to private hire vehicle rules in London  including a requirement for operators to have a fixed landline telephone number available for passengers to contact them at all times.
Other problem areas listed by TfL on Friday are: Ubers approach to how medical certificates are obtained; its approach to how Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks are obtained (which relates to carrying out background checks to ensure workers do not have a criminal record); and its approach to explaining the use of Greyball in London (aka an alleged internal software program the company created seeking to evade regulatory oversight).
Also speaking to Radio 4 this morning, Londons mayor Sadiq Khan said he wants the city to be a place for new technology  but added that operators need to play by the rules.
Uber claims to have some 3.5 million users in London, and 40,000 drivers on its platform in the UK capital.
Featured Image: Scott Eells/Bloomberg via Getty Images
Microsoft, just like many of its competitors, has gone all in on machine learning.
That emphasis is on full display at the companys Ignite conference this where, where the company today announced a number of new tools for developers who want to build new A.I.
models and users who simply want to make use of these pre-existing models  either from their own teams or from Microsoft.
For developers, the company launched three major new tools today: the Azure Machine Learning Experimentation service, the Azure Machine Learning Workbench and the Azure Machine Learning Model Management service.
In addition, Microsoft also launched a new set of tools for developers who want to use its Visual Studio Code IDE for building models with CNTK, TensorFlow, Theano, Keras and Caffe2.
And for non-developers, Microsoft is also bringing Azure-based machine learning models to Excel users, who will now be able to call up the AI functions that their companys data scientists have created right from their spreadsheets.
The Experimentation Service is all about helping developers quickly train and deploy machine learning experiments.
The service supports all of the usual open source frameworks (PyTorch, Caffe2, TensorFlow, Cahiner and Microsofts own CNTK)and can scale from a local machines to hundreds of GPUs in the cloud (thanks to the use of Docker containers and the Azure Batch AI Training service).
The tools also supports Apache Spark on Azure HDInsight clusters.
The service keeps track of all the models, configurations and data (using Git repositories) to give developers full versioning for their experiments.
The Machine Learning Workbench is a desktop client for Windows and Mac (and yes, in this brave new world, Mac apps from Microsoft really arent a big deal anymore) that, in Microsofts words, is meant to be the control panel for your development lifecycle and a great way to get started using machine learning.
It features integrations with Jupyter Notebooks and IDEs like Visual Studio Code and PyCharm and allows developers to build models in Python, PySpak and Scala.
As Microsofts Joseph Sirosh notes in todays announcement, the most interesting feature here, though, may just be the tools ability to automatically transform your data so that the machine learning algorithms can work with it.
Like the Experimentation Service, the new Model Management service uses Docker containers to help developers and data scientists to deploy and manage their models to virtually anywhere a Docker container can run (including Microsofts own Kubernetes-based Azure Container Service).
The main takeaway from these announcements is that Microsoft continues to expand its toolbox for developers who want to build machine-learning based applications  both for their internal and external customers.
Whats especially nice to see here is that these tools support a wide variety of non-Microsoft frameworks.
A few years ago, that probably wouldnt have been the companys approach, but every one of these frameworks has its own advantages and disadvantages and thankfully Microsoft has understood that its focus shouldnt be on excluding some frameworks but to offer a platform that supports all of them.
The money here isnt in offering open source frameworks, after all, but in providing the cloud services that developers will want to use to train, deploy and manage them.
Featured Image: Bloomberg/Getty Images
Last year, Microsoft bought LinkedIn for $26.2 billion, but even though the acquisition has long closed, Microsoft hasnt yet done much with all of the data it gets from the social network.
At its Ignite conference in Orlando, Florida, the company announced some first steps in integrating LinkedIns social graph with its Office products.
Now dont get too excited yet.
What were talking about here is the integration of LinkedIn data with Office 365 profile cards.
So assuming you dont know much about your professional contacts and colleagues yet, you can now see more information about them right in Office 365 without having to go to their LinkedIn profiles (and potentially showing up as that one person who looked at their LinkedIn profile that week, which will surely trigger yet another LinkedIn email for them).
As Microsoft spokesperson Frank X. Shaw noted during a press briefing ahead of the event, the idea behind integrating the Microsoft Graph and the LinkedIn Graph is about creating a more modern workplace.
This will result in experiences like having LinkedIn content integrated with the Office 365 profile card, he said.
So for example, before you go into an interview, information about that person from LinkedIn will show up in their contact card inside your Outlook Calendar in Office 365.
All of this sounds a bit like Microsoft spent $26.2 million to save you a click.
But there is more.
Soon, Dynamics 365 for Sales, Microsofts CRM solution, will get the same profile integration and its users will be able to send LinkedIn InMails and messages directly from within Dynamics.
Do I hear you saying that this is evidence that sometimes dreams really do come true?
Well, yes, indeed.
They do.
Ignite is Microsofts main annual conference for bringing together its enterprise users and IT community.
Its no surprise then, that security is one of the main topics at the event, with about almost 150 sessions dedicated to the topic.
And just as unsurprisingly, Microsoft is also using the event to announce a number of new security features, largely around its Microsoft 365 offerings.
What ties many of these updates together is that they rely on security services and machine-learning based risk assessments that run in the cloud.
Microsoft 365 is a relatively new program, but its essentially a subscription offering that gives businesses of any size access to Office 365, Windows 10, Microsofts enterprise mobility services and other tools (based on the subscription tier).
Lets start with some more general security updates, though.
Azure Active Directory (AAD), Microsofts identity and access management system, currently manages 450 billion authentications per month and because those authentications are all running through Microsofts cloud, the company probably has a better view of whats happening with identity than virtually any other company.
This Intelligent Security Graph, as Microsoft calls it, form the basis of a number of updates the company is announcing today.
One of the most valuable things that weve built ever is the intelligent security graph and thats where we bring all of this data together.
In that graph, every enterprise identity now has a risk score attached to it, Microsofts Brad Anderson, CVP Microsoft Enterprise Mobility + Security, told me ahead of todays announcements.
Having a lot of data is great, but having the right unique data is incredible.
Conway also noted that over 10 terabyte of data flow through this algorithm every day.
The most important of these is probably Cloud App Security, which allows IT to monitor and control how employees use their cloud-based applications.
Typically, IT doesnt have much insight here and while admins may be able to control how documents flow through an internal email system, its harder to control the documents a user may share through a third-party file storage service in the cloud.
With this, IT can decide that its ok for a user to access a certain cloud app from an unmanaged device, but that the user isnt allowed to download a document from that service.
Microsoft is also making it easier for IT to give conditional access to some files and its implementing support for two-step authentication from RSA, Duo and Trusona.
Moving on to the Microsoft 365 world, one of the most interesting updates here an enhancement to Office 365 message encryption that will allow you to send encrypted messages to users outside of Office 365, including those who use consumer services like Gmail and Outlook.com.
Sadly, the details here remain a bit vague, but Microsofts Andrew Conway, the general manager of product marketing for its enterprise mobility and security solutions, tells me that the idea here is to make the experience seamless for everybody involved.
Email is also the main vector for phishing attacks, so the company today also launched an update to the Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection service that now also covers links and files shared in SharePoint Online, OneDrive for business and Teams, the companys Slack competitor.
At some point, even the best security system will see a breach, though.
At that point, its about detecting unusual activity as soon as possible.
Using the Security Graph and Microsofts on-premises threat detection tools, the new Azure Advanced Threat Protection service now looks at who is accessing which files at what time and from where to scan for unusual behavior.
For Windows machines, Microsoft has now also built Hexadites AI tech, which it acquired for $100 million earlier this year, into the Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection service (these names definitely follow a certain pattern, but nobody is going to say they roll off the tongue).
In addition to these Active Directory and Office updates, Microsoft is also launched a new security tool for Azure, the Azure Security Center.
This new tool watches over workloads that can run across clouds and automatically looks for potential threats.
Featured Image: Bloomberg/Getty Images
Unless youre a regular Bing user, chances are you havent thought about Microsofts search engine all that much in recent years.
While Microsoft has kept adding features to the service over time, its market share has remained pretty stable.
At Microsofts Ignite enterprise conference in Orlando, Florida, however, Bing took center stage for a little while because the company today launched the private preview of Bing for Business, as well as a few new tools for developers.
The idea behind Bing for Business, which is now in private preview, is to integrate data from the Microsoft Graph (that is all of your social graph inside your company, as well as your documents, emails and other data) to give you more personalized and contextual search results on Bing.
Microsoft communications chief Frank X. Shaw explains that Bing for Business uses AI and the Microsoft Graph to deliver more relevant search results in the Bing search page with a browser on any device based on your organizational context.
This means that when one of your colleagues has a very common name, Bing will prioritize search results about your colleague over those of others with the same name.
Microsoft has been using this internally over the past year or so and Shaw described it as insanely useful.
In addition to this, Microsoft is expanding the Bing developer APIs (which are part of the Microsoft Cognitive Services set of machine learning-based APIs) with a new custom search feature that lets developers create a customized search experience for a specific slice of the web, and an updates Bing Search API that promises to introduce more relevant search results and support for autosuggest and spellcheck.
The private preview of Bing for Business is now live and Microsoft plans to open these tools up to more businesses over time.
Featured Image: Neilson Barnard/Getty Images
Microsoft today announced a major expansion to its Microsoft 365 offerings.
The idea behind Microsoft 365 is to provide a single integrated solution that combines subscriptions to Office 365, Windows 10 and (depending on the plan you choose) the Enterprise Mobility and Security suite into a single bundle with prices that start around $12.50 per month and employee for the most basic tier.
Today, the company is adding two new tiers to the service: Microsoft 365 F1 for frontline workers and a plan for education users.
The idea behind all the Microsoft 365 plans is essentially the same, though Microsoft is clearly aiming to offer a wider range of solutions for different businesses and institutions by creating a wider range of targeted bundles.
Microsoft 365 for education comes with the usual fixings (Office 365 for Education, Windows 10, Enterprise Mobility and Security) but also includes the Minecraft Education Edition.
Microsoft 365 F1, unsurprisingly, doesnt include Minecraft, but does come with all the other standard tools.
As Microsoft notes, these firstline workers have not been served all that well by most technology companies, yet they are often the most important touch points for customers.
F1 isnt all that different from the other 365 plans, but Microsoft notes that F1 includes support for new devices (though I assume those also work with every other 365 plan), updates to Windows 10 for more locked-down single-purpose experience and support for Microsoft StaffHub, its software tool for firstline workers (which I assume is bundled into this plan).
Featured Image: Billy H.C. Kwok/Bloomberg/Getty Images
Cloudflare turns seven this week and it wants to give your network a present.
Should your website come under Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack, it will never charge you additional fees, or (and this is important) kick you off the network.
Cloudflare CEO Matthew Prince has pledged unmetered DDoS mitigation, regardless of the size of the attack and no matter what level of service you have from the free tier all the way up to the enterprise level.
As Prince explained, this is a pretty radical move by the company, but he feels like its the right way to go and will actually help grow his business.
Thats because the new policy is removing a big fear companies feel in an age when DDoS attacks are becoming increasingly common occurrences and it costs a lot of money to defend against them.
A lot of folks in this space, as you get larger and larger attacks, have traditionally charged you more.
This is practical because they cost more [in time and resources] to defend against, Prince explained.
Typically when you have a DDoS attack, no matter which service you have been using, the vendor charges based on the network bandwidth you are using at the peak of the attack.
The trouble is that these attacks are sending 100s of gigabits of attacks per second, and the bill could be hundreds of thousands of dollars on bandwidth charges alone, Prince said.
The end result is customers often got kicked off the services before the bill got so big, and the network resources became so great.
Prince says kicking people off his service felt gross.
Thats partly because he was giving up on a customer but also because he was giving into the attackers and he didnt see a big difference between the attackers trying to extort money and companies like his presenting the victim with a huge bill after the attack was over.
Several years ago on the companys birthday, they made a decision to offer free encryption, a move that was highly unusual at the time.
When we turned on encryption by default and for free, people thought we were crazy, and we couldnt pull it off.
Four years later, its pretty much an industry standard, he said.
Princes hope is that that his companys shift to unmetered mitigation will have a similar impact.
If you fast-forward four years from now, it could just be something that DDoS providers dont charge more for.
It will make the internet better, he said.
Featured Image: Andrew Brookes/Getty Images
In case you didnt know, Microsoft is hosting its annual Ignite conference in Orlando, Florida this week and while a lot of the event focuses on the companys productivity apps, it wouldnt be a Microsoft event without lots of talk about the Azure cloud computing platform, too.
Among the updates to Azure today are the launch of reserved instances and the integration of Cloudyn, which Microsoft acquired earlier this year, into a new cost-management tool.
A key aspect of trusting the cloud is fully understanding the costs.
No one wants a surprise bill, Microsofts Scott Guthrie noted in todays announcement.
Yet its no secret that its often hard to figure out the exact costs of a cloud deployment ahead of time.
The new Cloudyn-based Azure Cost Management services will be available for free to all Azure customers and will help users maximize their cloud investments and give them a better view of how they are using their cloud computing resources and manage their cost.
Reserved instances have long been a feature of Amazons AWS cloud, so the concept here is anything but new and its actually a bit of a surprise that Microsoft waited this long to bring this feature to Azure.
With reserved instances, users lock themselves into longer-term contracts of one to three years, but in return, they get savings of up to 72 percent of using on-demand instances.
Microsofts twist here is that it allows you to cancel or refund your reserved instances at any time.
On AWS, you typically have to find a third-party buyer if you want to cancel your contract ahead of its expiration date.
Featured Image: Nicolas McComber/Getty Images
Microsoft Teams, the companys Slack competitor with deep integrations into the Office 365 apps, has seen a lot of pickup over the last few months, with over 125,000 organizations now using it in one form or another.
Maybe its no surprise, then, that the company today announced it is going all in on Teams as its core communications platform for the enterprise.
Until now, Skype for Business was the companys product for this.
Over the course of the last few years, Microsoft improved the Skype infrastructure to allow for better and faster text chats, calls and video conferences (though some Skype users would surely argue that the quality hasnt actually improved all that much).
But as Ron Markezich, the companys corporate VP for Office 365 noted ahead of todays public announcement, Microsoft Teams will evolve as the core communications client for its cloud-connected users running Office 365.
Teams will become the hero and primary experience for all voice, video and meetings.
Over time, Teams will replace the current Skype for Business client.
Microsoft obviously knows that enterprises dont move fast, so for those who dont want to do away with their existing PBX systems and calling capabilities to the cloud, itll launch a new version of the Skype for Business server in 2018.
Given that Teams and Skype for Business use the same infrastructure, it doesnt really come as a surprise that both will also work well together and feature universal presence, as well as messaging and calling interoperability.
For those who do make the transition to Teams, Microsoft promises lots of new calling features and meeting enhancements with outbound and inbound calls to and from regular phones, support for voicemail, call holding, call transfers and other standard telephony features.
Chinas Didi Chuxing is already well-known for making investments, but this time around the ride-sharing company has stepped beyond backing companies in its core industry with its latest deal.
Thats because Didi has backed RenRenChe, China-based online peer-to-peer car marketplace, via a strategic investment that is confirmed at $200 million.
Its not clear what its valuation is post-money, but in its last round, a year ago, the company was valued at $500 million, so doing some straight math and assuming RenRenChe has not raised at a down-round, its now at at least $700 million.
Didi is valued at over $50 billion and its on-demand car empire stretches beyond China, where it remains in the process of buying Ubers local business.
The firm has links in Europe, South America, India, Southeast Asia, the U.S. and the Middle East thanks to investments in the likes of Taxify, 99, Ola, Grab, Lyft and Careem.
With the RenRenChe deal, Uber is adding peer-to-peer trading to its stack of services in China, which spans basic taxi services, buses, test driving, dock-less bikes and more.
Three-year-old RenRenChe is a classified site that allows car owners to sell directly to other consumers.
It covers over 80 Chinese cities, and it claims 100,000 car listings.
As part of the deal, Didi said it will look to integrate RenRenChes service into its apps, while it will contribute to helping with R&D and technical development.
A spokesperson confirmed that there is no plan to take the integration overseas with Didis global partners, however.
RenRenChes other investors include Redpoint, Tencent and Shunwei Capital, among others.
The company, according to Crunchbase, has raised about $460 million to date (including this latest round).
Elon Musk revealed the Spaceship Interplanetary Spaceship and Rocket at last years International Astronautical Congress (embedded below), detailing a very ambitious plan to get humans to Mars  and to help them stay there and colonize, and even commercialize, the red planet.
This Friday, hell reveal updated details on SpaceXs interplanetary plans.
Last years presentation detailed Musks Mars ambitions in more detail than ever previously revealed, including the physical design of the rocket and spacecraft that would ferry cargo and crew to the planet.
It also showed a bit of information about how he hoped to pay for the trip, though a lot of that was still left an open question by the end of the plan.
Mostly, Musk hoped to decrease costs exponentially through advances like the reusable rocketry that it such a massive part of SpaceXs business model.
Musk teased not only major improvements to be revealed at this years IAC, along with some new, unexpected applications of the interplanetary launch system.
These are the ones to watch: The big focus last year was still on how SpaceX intended to pay for the incredibly ambitious plan, and additional applications of the tech, including for potentially lucrative commercial purposes, could help.
We may also get some more info on SpaceXs proposed plan to launch and operate its own constellation of satellites providing low-cost broadband around the world, which is another way the company hopes to drive revenue.
SpaceX recently filed for a trademark likely related to this project.
Well have all the news on TechCrunch as it happens.
Accelo, a six-year old startup, is trying to solve a big problem for project-driven small businesses like architects, accountants and designers.
These companies, which typically have less than 100 employees, dont usually have access to software to get a complete view of their business operations.
Thats where Accelo comes in.
It has designed a set of tools specifically for these cost-sensitive project-driven businesses.
CEO Geoff McQueen says he walked in their shoes when he was running his own digital agency in Australia for 10 years.
While he could peer at month-end financial reports to get one dimension of the companys financial health, he couldnt understand the businesss daily operational picture and that frustrated him.
If it was a pain point for him, he reckoned that other small businesses were feeling it too and Accelo was born in 2011.
Today, the company announced a $9 million Series A led by by Level Equity with participation by from Fathom Capital and existing investor Blackbird Ventures.
Over the years, Accelo has built a suite of tools that now includes CRM, project management, customer service and accounting pieces.
An uber tool that combines all of these tools into a single interface is being rebranded today from PSA to ServOps.
McQueen says the ServOps product gives customers insight across their entire business.
As he points out, small businesses have very little room for error when it comes to bidding, winning and running a project.
They have to bring it in at or under budget, and the only way to do that is to keep the entire process under control throughout the project, something thats really difficult to do when you are only looking at monthly financial reports.
The company strives to pull as much data as it can from external sources like calendar entries or email to automate as much data entry as possible.
It includes a timer customers can turn on when they start working on each project, so they can easily track project work inside the program.
Accelo was launched in Australia, where it still houses its engineering team.
The rest of the team is in San Francisco (not far from TechCrunchs offices).
The company was bootstrapped from inception until 2015 when it received $2 million in seed investment.
McQueen said the Series A comes at a time when the company is actually profitable, not something you usually see with an early round like this.
He believes thats because they are solving a real problem for small service businesses and helping to keep them organized and running profitably.
And in case youre wondering, McQueen says his company, which has 60 employees, uses its own products to run the company.
Featured Image: Kelvin Murray/Getty Images
Last week, I slipped away from Disrupt for a couple of hours to watch a Giants game at nearby AT&T park  or, more precisely, watch a Giants game through an iPad.
It was a small gathering hosted by Major League Baseball that points toward a possible future for fandom thats exciting and fascinating, all while bringing out the crotchety old tech journalist in me thats hidden not too far below the surface.
Its a strange experience, and one that could lay the groundwork for a future in which stadium seats are full of spectators holding up iPad and iPhones.
Though, unlike many of todays smartphone sporting audience members, the forthcoming ARKit enabled update has the potential increase engagement, offering up contextual information to give users a deeper understanding of the game.
Baseball is the perfected candidate for this kind of augmented reality experience for two reasons.
First, theres a lot of downtime  even the staunchest of baseball apologists will cop to the fact that the game can be extremely slow.
Second, baseball is a game of stats.
From the baseball cards we collected as kids to the explosion of Sabermetrics/moneyball over the past decade, numbers are fundamentally important to the modern game.
MLB was showing the feature off in an early beta.
The league is still very much in the testing phases, and this early press preview was the first time its really demoed the thing outside its own staff.
In essence, its a bit like watching TV broadcast in person, with information overlaid on the action as it happens in real-time.
The data is gathered from Statcast, MLBs in-house analytics tool.
Statcast is available in all 30 major league parks  its a sort of big, black box that houses cameras and sensors that capture all of the on-field action at high speeds.
Its a been a pretty major boon for stats nerds, allowing fans to drill down on all sorts of fascinating minutiae, including things like launch angle and exit velocity for batted balls.
Like sabermetrics before it, statcast has offered a new level of insight into the game that goes well beyond the batting average and ERA numbers that have long graced the backs of baseball cards.
Given the share amount of data currently available for any given play, AR implementation is a bit of a balancing act.
You want to maximum the information offered up without completely obscuring the action.
The rough demo MLB showed off last week seemed like a solid start.
Like a television broadcast, much of the relevant data is displayed on a sort of chyron at the bottom of the screen, so as to not block the field.
Players on the field, meanwhile, get small, square popups featuring their faces that can be tapped open to offer up personalized player information.
Statcast is already set up to identify players without the use of beacons, based on things like field positioning, so its perfectly set up to offer up this sort of information.
The app also traces hit paths, while higgling their velocity.
The version we looked at was still a bit buggy, but the idea came across pretty clearly.
Over the coming months and years, were going to see an AR land rush.
Every company is going to demand some kind of augmented reality layer in their app, and most are going to be AR for ARs sake.
But like Ikea before it, MLBs implementation makes perfect sense.
Augmented reality enhanced the At Bats core purpose and leverages Statcast in a clever and interesting way.
Whats more up in the air, however, is what this means for the future of live games.
Its no surprise that MLB is embracing technology to engage a younger portion of its audience  baseball fans have, after all, been aging out.
But its hard to shake the feeling that this points to a future where every single fan in the stands is watching a game through a smartphone or tablet.
People are already using their phones, and we dont think this is all that different, MLB Product VP Chad Evans told us at the event.
Of course, in a sport where small spherical objects are regularly projected into the stands at high speeds, its a good idea to keep your eye on the field.
Perhaps popping up an alert on screen when a ball approaches would be a good start.
Whats interesting about this implementation, however, is that it simultaneously puts the focus on the device while increasing engagement with whats happening on field.
In a sport that relies on racing president mascots to keep fans interested, augmented reality could go a ways toward increasing focus on the game itself.
And it could serve as a good way to get new fans up to speed, so you dont find yourself constantly explaining every aspect to the significant other you dragged along with you.
There will some interesting challenges, too.
MLB reps have already tested the tech in three locations, Dodgers Stadium, Oakland Coliseum and AT&T Park, where we caught the game (all notably in California).
With 30 teams in the league, each location could present some interesting problems, based on vastly different geographic features  Fenways massive Green Monster comes to mind.
Not to mention the number of different vantage points at each field  Dodgers Stadium, for example, has 56,000 seats  and youre going to need the app to work perfectly in each one.
Hopefully MLB will get all of those kinks worked out in time for next season.
The stands are going to be filled with people looking at their mobile device regardless of what occurs  so they may as well be using them to actually watch the ball game.
Cellphone dangers

Q: Every time I hold my phone up to my head, I wonder if its giving me cancer.
A: Like many daily activities, using cellphones has prompted some startling, albeit inconclusive, research.
The bottom line is that cellphones do emit certain levels of radiation, and there are simple and effective ways to reduce your exposure to it.
You want to text instead of call and use the speaker when possible.
Click here to learn more about this controversial subject.
Outsmart flight-booking sites

Q: I want to buy airline tickets for the holidays.
Is it true that the airline sites track where you go online?
A: Websites do have the ability to track your interests, based on cookies and your IP address.
They know where you visited and what you did there.
Do the online booking sites algorithms use this intel to change airfares?
Whether they do or dont, there are ways to browse ticketing options without anyone knowing who you are, and this technique may help your chances of landing a good price.
Click here to learn what you can do to prevent price hikes and get the best deal.
Get a faster router

Q: I need a new router.
Which one should I buy?
A: If you spend a lot of time on the internet and you need a good deal of broadband, be on the lookout for multi-band routers.
You might also consider a mesh network, which will expand the coverage inside your home.
Pro tip: No matter which router you choose, buy it outright over renting one from an internet provider, because you are certain to save money in the end.
Click here for a list of my recommended routers.
Listen to Echos audio archive

Q: I have an Amazon Echo.
How do I hear everything it has recorded?
A: Many Echo veterans are confused about the devices habit of recording every command they utter.
Is this true?
And where are these recordings stored?
Im guessing you already know that Echo does record you and store your commands.
Youll be relieved to know that they are very easy to access, listen to and even delete.
Click here to find out how to listen to everything your Amazon Echo has ever heard.
End social media rants

Q: Certain family members are driving me crazy on Facebook with their political and stupid posts.
How can I stop seeing the posts without unfriending them?
A: This is a rough time for social media.
No matter how easygoing most of your Facebook friends are, you have probably run into an unpleasant meme or didactic post.
You can absolutely filter the political rants of close friends and family without them ever knowing what youve censored from your wall.
The only thing you will ever have to worry about is when that hostile uncle asks you, Hey, whatd you think of that article I posted?
Click here to find out how to silence political rants on Facebook.
What questions do you have?
Call my national radio show and click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer.
From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.
Copyright 2017, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment.
All rights reserved.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
Most of us know about circadian rhythms and the sleep cycle.
We have a basic idea of REM.
We know its best not to wake up during a deep sleep.
But all of this used to be academic.
It wasnt like you could watch yourself sleep.
Alarm clocks were set for a certain time, and that time had nothing to do with how deeply you were snoozing.
But now, a wave of technology is helping everyday people understand their unconscious lives.
Thanks to sophisticated apps, watches and even mattresses, you can independently adjust the way your body behaves at night.
An entire branch of medical science  polysomnography  helps diagnose sleep disorders, and its hard to say whether a free app can rival a specialists advice.
As researchers at the University of Washington put it in a report, Consumer Sleep Technologies: A Review of the Landscape: These technologies have the potential to both improve and impair collective and individual sleep health depending on method of implementation.
In other words, the jury is still out.
Still, many people believe that the right technology can positively affect sleep patterns, especially when used in a thoughtful and methodical way.
Heres some tech, including apps, trackers, gadgets and special smart mattresses, that may help you catch more Zs.
Sleep apps

Sleep apps are handy because theres no need for extra hardware; you can download them onto your smartphone.
The apps use the accelerometer in your phone to figure out what your body is doing.
You place the phone near your body in bed, it detects when you toss and turn and it makes an educated guess about what sleep stage youre in.
Ever wonder how your phone knows which way is up or how that digital compass can point west?
Thats all your accelerometer.
It detects which way your phone is oriented and can determine whether your body is moving around.
The app gathers data based on your movements and gives you a report at the end of each cycle.
Perhaps the most helpful feature is the alarm clock.
Just set a window of time that you want to wake up, and the app will determine when youve entered your lightest sleep.
Unlike an old radio clock, the alarm tones are gentle and soothing, drawing you effortlessly from your dreams.
The Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock, with its sensitive movement detection, its range of low-key alarms and its easy-to-read sleep reports, is a popular option.
Click here for more details and links to it in the Apple App or Google Play store.
Another option is the Sleep Time app, which uses a similar cycle-based alarm.
Sleep Time also has a catalog of soundscapes, which replicate the noise of a natural environment, like a beach or a rainforest, to help you to fall asleep and wake up.
Soundscapes also be helpful for people with insomnia.
Click here for direct links to Sleep Time in the Apple and Google stores.
Some people live in noisy buildings or neighborhoods, and they need an alternative to the sounds of honking horns and slamming doors.
The Relax Melodies app offers a range of subtle sounds, such as music, ambient noise or meditation sessions.
All of these soundscapes are designed to put the listener in a restful mood and even encourage sleep.
Click here to check it out.
Fitness watches

Sign up for any race, and youll find hundreds of runners synchronizing their fitness watches.
But theyre not just for athletes: Millions of people are investing in high-tech watches to help them track their steps, monitor their heart rates and improve

their sleep patterns.
Even the cheapest models, like Letscom Activity Tracker and Wesoo K1 Fitness Watch, have built-in sleep monitors.
There are lots of advantages to fitness watches: They feel very natural on your body, so you dont have to share a bed with your phone.
And if youre active, youre already downloading your data, so you can add your sleep report to your miles run and calories burned.
The market is saturated with fitness watches, but the two dominant brands, Fitbit and Apple Watch, make sleep tracking easy:

Fitbit, thanks to its early development and sleek designs, is still the best-known name.
Like a phone app or high-quality sleep monitor, it detects your movements while you sleep.
Like the Sleep Cycle app, it figures out your particular sleep stages.
When youve gathered enough data, Fitbit provides insights into how your sleep patterns compare to others of your age and gender.
Apple Watch, curiously, doesnt have a sleep tracker built into it, but you can download the app of your choice from the iTunes store.
Sleep trackers

Sleep trackers are everywhere, and they come in a range of designs: Some are panels that you stick under your bed.
Others are bracelets, sculptures and even a glowing sphere.
Unlike your

phone, the trackers are specifically designed to study your sleep patterns, and as unobtrusively as possible.
Click here for a list of the best non-wearable sleep trackers you can buy.
Each device uses actigraphy to document your physical movements during the night.
For example, the Beddit Sleep Monitor is a long white strap that you can fasten to your bedsheets.
You barely notice its presence, and it senses when youre shifting or rolling over.
Many trackers also can also record your heart rate and whether you snore.
Smart beds

The idea of a smart bed may seem like science fiction, but if youre willing to spend the extra money, these high-tech mattresses can change their firmness based on your physical needs.
The leading brand is Sleep Number, whose mattresses are famous for changing their firmness.
Sleep Number uses a matrix of smaller pockets that inflate and deflate as the night wears on.
These mattresses can isolate certain parts of your body, providing a firm surface for your shoulders and a softer surface for your legs, or vice versa.
One of the most significant advancements is the elevating mattress, which can be a lifesaver for people with severe snoring and even sleep apnea.
When the bed detects snoring, it will rise

automatically toward the top, shifting the sleepers head.
When you download your data, Sleep Number will even give you a score for how well you slept.
The sleep tracker by Eight Sleep is a cover that you pull over an entire mattress.
In addition to a smart alarm system, it has a warming feature that can be set on a timer.
You can use the Eight Sleep app to monitor sleep patterns and recent exercise.
You can even connect your Eight Sleep mattress to your Amazon Echo.
Feeling a little chilly?
Just tell Alexa to warm up your mattress, and the temperature of your cover will rise.
Welcome to the future!
How else can you use tech to better your body, mind and spirit?
Be sure to listen to or download my podcasts, or click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer.
From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
Hate putting away groceries?
Walmart and smart home device maker August are teaming up to eliminate this chore from your life.
The companies on Friday announced they are testing a new in-home delivery concept: dropping off packages inside your home  even if you're not there  and putting your groceries away in your refrigerator.
Here's how it will works: you'll place an order on Walmart.com for whatever you need, including groceries.
When your order is ready, a driver from the same-day delivery service Deliv will bring the items to your home.
If you know you'll be away when they arrive, you can authorize a one-time passcode for your August Smart Lock so the delivery person can enter your home and put your groceries away.
To placate inevitable security fears, Walmart in a blog post said homeowners are "in control of the experience the entire time."
You'll get a notification on your smartphone as soon as the Deliv driver rings your doorbell.
If you have a home security camera, you can "watch the delivery take place in real-time  or view a recording of it any time through the August app," August wrote in a blog post.
You'll get a second notification on your phone when the delivery is completed and your door is locked.
"When I enter my house later that day, it's like magic  the items I purchased from Walmart.com are waiting for me, and my groceries are nice and cool in the fridge, as if they never left their display in the store," Walmart wrote.
"And the best part is that I didn't even have to unpack anything."
Walmart is testing this concept with "a handful of August Home customers" in Silicon Valley, who have opted to participate.
"What might seem novel today could be the standard tomorrow," the retail giant teased.
The new collaboration comes just days after Amazon announced it's partnering with Kohl's for easy returns.
Meanwhile, August this week unveiled two new Smart Locks and a new Doorbell Cam, all of which include DoorSense, an integrated sensor that can tell you if your door is open or closed.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
So you've bought a new iPhone 8 Plus or iPhone 8, and you're ready to set it up and replace your older model.
But if your older iPhone is updated to iOS 11 you should use a brand new hidden feature inside Apple's newest iOS release to speed up the entire process.
The feature is called Quick Start, and it's a mix of AirPods and Apple Watch setup processes, but for iPhones and iPads.
All you need to do to fly through the setup process on the new iPhone 8 is to power your iPhone 8 near your existing iPhone.
Rather than going through the setup process that you already know, just go forward with Quick Start.
Once you do that, an image should appear on the older iPhone that shows the old model has detected the iPhone 8 -- this is the same animation you see on the iPhone when it detects AirPods.
Press the Configure button on the old iPhone, and the new iPhone will generate an image on the screen that needs to be scanned by the older model.
If this sounds familiar, that's because it's the same pairing process as the one used on Apple Watch.
Once that it's done, the iPhone 8 will grab all of your setup data from the old phone.
Now, that only fixes the setup process, but it's certainly quicker than the regular version.
Quick Start also works on any other iOS devices that ships with iOS 11, including iPhone X that launches in early November 3rd.
Mind you, after the setup process is complete, you'll still have to restore from an iPhone backup to also get all your apps on the new device.
When Quick Start is over, you can choose to restore from the most recent iPhone backup if you so desire.
A video from Apple Insider shows the entire Quick Start process:
Instagram used a user-generated image which included the text "I will rape you before I kill you, you filthy whore!"
to advertise on parent company, Facebook, the latest sign that Facebook's algorithm needs tweaking.
Guardian reporter Olivia Solon tweeted a picture of the offensive ad, noting that it was one of her "most 'engaging' posts."
According to the Guardian, which first reported the story, Solon posted the screenshot nearly a year ago.
Instagram selected the post, using it to her advertise to her sister, adding the caption See Olivia Solons photo and posts from friends on Instagram.
We are sorry this happened -- its not the experience we want someone to have," an Instagram spokesperson told Fox News.
"This type of notification is intended to let someone on Facebook know what their friends are up to on Instagram.
Posts are generally received by a small percentage of a persons Facebook friends.
We are working to make sure that this doesnt happen again.
FACEBOOK USED ANTI-SEMITIC AD CATEGORIES, REPORT SAYS



Earlier this week, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg said the company would be revamping its ad-targeting policies after the company received notification from Pro Publica that it was able to purchase ads targeting anti-Semitic categories.
"First, we're clarifying our advertising policies and tightening our enforcement processes to ensure that content that goes against our community standards cannot be used to target ads," Sandberg wrote in a post on her Facebook account.
"This includes anything that directly attacks people based on their race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, sex, gender or gender identity, or disabilities or diseases.
Such targeting has always been in violation of our policies and we are taking more steps to enforce that now."
The tech exec also said the company would be adding more human review and oversight to a process that is largely automated.
Lastly, Facebook will create a program "to encourage people on Facebook to report potential abuses of our ads system to us directly."
"We hope these changes will prevent abuses like this going forward," Sandberg continued.
"If we discover unintended consequences in the future, we will be unrelenting in identifying and fixing them as quickly as possible.
We have long had a firm policy against hate on Facebook.
Our community deserves to have us enforce this policy with deep caution and care."
FACEBOOK REVAMPS POLICIES AFTER ANTI-SEMITIC AD TARGETING SCANDAL

Earlier this month, ProPublica said it paid Facebook $30 to display three "promoted posts" in the news feeds of people who expressed interest in topics like "Jew hater," "How to burn jews," or, "History of 'why jews ruin the world.'"
ProPublica found that the ads were approved by Facebook in 15 minutes.
The categories have since been removed.
Fox News' Chris Ciaccia contributed to this report.
This story has been updated to include Instagram's comment.
In a tweet on Friday morning, President Donald Trump intimated that the Facebook ad controversy was part of the "Russia hoax" dispute that has been a sore spot for his administration.
"The Russia hoax continues, now it's ads on Facebook," the President tweeted.
"What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?"
Trump's Facebook-related tweet was part of a larger "tweetstorm" this morning, slamming Sen. Rand Paul over healthcare, Kim Jong Un and the North Korea regime, and the aforementioned "Russia hoax."
FACEBOOK WILL RELEASE RUSSIA-LINKED ADS TO CONGRESS, MARK ZUCKERBERG SAYS

On Thursday, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the social network would hand over to Congress the political ads purchased by Russian operatives.
Coming back from paternity leave after the birth of his second child, Zuckerberg held a Facebook Live chat and said the company would "strengthen our ad review process for political ads."
One senior source familiar with discussions told Fox News there is a deal with Facebook.
However, another senior source close to the negotiation disputes says there is no agreement on the breadth of material Facebook may provide.
Separately on Thursday, Facebook wrote a blog post outlining the steps it would be taking.
After an extensive legal and policy review, today we are announcing that we will also share these ads with congressional investigators, wrote Colin Stretch, the companys general counsel.
We believe it is vitally important that government authorities have the information they need to deliver to the public a full assessment of what happened in the 2016 election.
FACEBOOK UNCOVERS $100K IN FAKE AD SPENDING TIED TO RUSSIAN OPERATIVES DURING 2016 US ELECTION

Earlier this month, Facebook uncovered approximately $100,000 spread over approximately 3,000 ads in fraudulent ad spending across its network tied to the 2016 U.S. Presidential election.
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia.
Fox News' Brooke Singman and Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
Apple has packed the iPhone X with enough cool technology that it appears destined to become Apples most important iPhone since it reinvented the phone a decade ago.
The iPhone X (pronounced "ten") is being hailed as a futuristic iPhone that Apple is delivering now, say analysts.
Given that the iPhone X represents such a big departure from existing Apple designitll take Apple at least 2 years to refine the technology and components before making the iPhone X mainstream, Wayne Lam, IHS Markit analyst, told Fox News via email.
Lam said that while the iPhone 8 "is clearly an evolution or refinement" of what has served Apple well in the past, the iPhone X is much more than that.
"The iPhone X [is] intended to showcase the design language Apple wants to use for the next decade, he added.
APPLE UNVEILS NEW IPHONE 8, IPHONE X

So, what makes the iPhone X so special  and pricey (it starts at $999) to buy?
Here are five of the best features of the upcoming iPhone.
The notch: That very conspicuous notch at the top of the iPhone X display is jam-packed with sensors, chips, and cameras and houses the most sophisticated technology Apple has ever developed, including the hardware that enables Face ID.
For starters, inside the notch theres the 7-megapixel selfie camera.
But what makes the notch special is other stuff like the Dot Projector that throws out more than 30,000 invisible dots onto your face to build a facial map.
There is also a Flood Illuminator that uses invisible infrared light to identify your face when its dark.
Face ID: More than any single thing, this is what everyone is talking about.
Touch ID is Apples past and Face ID is the future.
Face ID allows you to unlock the phone and make payments based on a detailed depth map of your face.
It's unclear if Apple can execute, as the product, slated to ship Nov. 3, has not been reviewed yet.
But when face recognition works well, its amazing.
HP's EliteBook x360 laptop with Windows 10 Hello, for example, uses a series of infrared cameras to do an instant unlock by scanning your face in a variety of lighting and facial conditions.
And it works as advertised.
Once you use a well-executed face recognition system, theres no going back to touch.
WILL APPLE'S NEW FACE ID SECURITY FEATURE HELP COPS UNLOCK YOUR IPHONE?
Different display: Physically, the 5.8-inch organic light-emitting diode (OLED) display is what makes the iPhone X so different.
In addition to being Apples first OLED and its largest smartphone display yet, the display fills the entire front of the phone, effectively eradicating the bezels.
In a video discussing the iPhone X, Apple's chief design officer Jony Ive said, For more than a decade, our intention is to create an iPhone that is all display.
Save the notch, Apple pretty much achieved that.
Best camera yet: The rear camera is Apples most advanced, besting even the iPhone 8 Plus advanced camera.
Both the iPhone X and iPhone 8 Plus have 12-megapixel wide-angle and telephoto cameras with optical zoom.
But the iPhone X has improved telephoto aperture (f/2.4 on the iPhone X vs. f/2.8 on the iPhone 8 Plus -- for photo buffs out there).
That makes the iPhone X better in low-light conditions.
It also has dual optical image stabilization, whereas the 8 Plus has optical image stabilization only on the wide angle.
PHOTOS: APPLE UNVEILS ITS NEW IPHONES

A11 Bionic chip: Apple has become a world-class processor designer.
And Apple is trying to drive that home with a new Bionic processor that has a neural engine capable of up to 600 billion operations per second.
The neural engine is used for machine learning (artificial intelligence that enables computers to learn from observation) and is designed to handle the super-fast computations needed to recognize people, places and objects.
On Monday, it was revealed that Nintendo is shipping every Switch console with a hidden copy of the 1984 NES game Golf running in an emulator.
Nobody knew why, and Nintendo wasn't (and still isn't) saying anything.
But the mystery has now been solved.
The game is hidden on the Switch as a tribute to the late Satoru Iwata, Nintendo's fourth president and CEO.
He died due to complications from a tumor on July 11, 2015 at the age of 55.
Iwata was the programmer on Golf, which Shigeru Miyamoto and Kenji Miki designed.
And so it is a fitting game to include as a tribute to the much-loved man.
Getting to play it isn't exactly easy, though.
A BBC video reveals how it is done.
First, you need a Switch that has never been connected to the Internet.
The date on the Switch must be set to July 11 to match the day Iwata died.
Then navigate to the Home screen and using both Joy-Cons perform Iwata's well know arms up, hands thrust forwards gesture.
This will trigger the game to load.
When setting the date, it is only the day and month that need to be changed.
By doing that, Nintendo allows the game to become playable every year on July 11 as a way of remembering Iwata.
It's a lovely gesture.
It has also been suggested that the inclusion of the game is an "omamori" from Iwata.
In Japan, omamori are amulets thought to provide luck or protection.
I think it's best to see this as both: a tribute to the man and a lucky charm.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
I know Im a bad mother, but how bad?
I wonder for the hundredth time as I watch Gus deep in conversation with Siri.
Obsessed with weather formations, Gus has spent the last hour parsing the difference between isolated and scattered thunderstorms  an hour when, thank God, I dont have to discuss them.
After a while I hear this:

Gus: Youre a really nice computer.
Siri: Its nice to be appreciated.
Gus: You are always asking if you can help me.
Is there anything you want?
Siri: Thank you, but I have very few wants.
Gus: OK!
Well, goodnight!
Siri: Ah .
Its 5.06 p.m.

Gus: Oh, sorry.
I mean, goodbye.
Siri: See you later!
That Siri.
She doesnt let my communication-impaired son get away with anything.
Indeed, many of us always wanted an imaginary friend  and now we have one.
Only shes not entirely imaginary.
This is a love letter to a machine.
Its not quite the love Joaquin Phoenix felt in Her, the Spike Jonze film about a lonely man who has a romantic relationship with his intelligent operating system (played by the voice of Scarlett Johansson.)
But its close.
In a world where the commonly held wisdom is that technology isolates us, its worth considering another side of the story.
It all began simply enough.
Id just read one of those ubiquitous internet lists called 21 Things You Didnt Know Your iPhone Could Do.
One of them was this: I could ask Siri, What planes are above me right now?
and Siri would bark back, Checking my sources.
Almost instantly there is a list of actual flights  numbers, altitudes, angles  of planes above my head.
I happened to be doing this when Gus was nearby, playing with his Nintendo DS.
Why would anyone need to know what planes are flying above their head?
I muttered.
Gus replied without looking up, So you know who youre waving at, Mommy.
It was then that I began to suspect maybe some of the people who worked on Siri were on the spectrum too.
(Fun fact: Dag Kitlauss, the original co-founder and CEO of Siri, is from Norway and reportedly named the app after Siri Kalvig, a beautiful Norwegian meteorologist; Kitlauss has mentioned in interviews that he is a total weather freak.)
Gus had never noticed Siri before, but when he discovered there was someone who would not just find information on his various obsessions  trains, buses, escalators and, of course, anything related to weather  but actually semi-discuss these subjects tirelessly, he was hooked.
And I was grateful.
Now, when I would rather stick forks in my eyes than have another conversation about the chance of tornadoes in Kansas City, Missouri, I could reply brightly, Hey!
Why dont you ask Siri?
And not only would Siri happily give him tornado reports for the entire Midwest, but upon being thanked shed chirp back, I live to serve.
Its not that Gus believes Siri is human.
He understands she isnt  intellectually.
But like many autistic people I know, Gus feels that inanimate objects, while maybe not possessing souls, are still worthy of consideration.
I realized this when he was 8 and I got him an iPod for his birthday.
He listened to it only at home  with one exception.
It always came with us on our visits to the Apple store.
Finally, I asked why.
So it can visit its friends, he said.
So how much more worthy of his care and affection is Siri, with her soothing voice, charm, helpfulness, puckish humor and capacity for talking about whatever Guss current obsession is for hour after hour after bleeding hour?
Siri is also wonderful for someone who doesnt pick up on social cues: Siris responses are not entirely predictable, but they are predictably kind  even when Gus is brusque.
I heard him talking to Siri about music and Siri offered some suggestions.
I dont like that kind of music, Gus snapped.
Youre certainly entitled to your opinion, Siri replied.
Siris politeness reminded Gus what he owed Siri.
Thank you for that music, though, Gus said.
You dont need to thank me, Siri replied.
Oh yes, Gus replied emphatically, I do.
Siri even encourages polite language.
When Henry egged Gus on to spew a few choice expletives at Siri, she replied, Now, now.
Ill pretend I didnt hear that.
My sons practice conversation with Siri is translating into more facility with actual humans.
Recently I had the longest conversation with him that Ive ever had.
Admittedly, it was about different species of turtle and whether I preferred the red-eared slider to the diamondback terrapin.
This might not have been my choice of topic, but it was back and forth and it followed a logical trajectory and I can promise you that for most of my beautiful sons years of existence that has not been the case.
Developers of intelligent assistants have already recognized their uses to those with speech and communication problems  and some are thinking of new ways the assistants can help.
It is a slow process, but I am accepting that the things that give my guy happiness are not necessarily the same things that give me happiness.
Right now, at a time when humans can be a little overwhelming even for the average kid, Siri makes Gus happy.
She is his sidekick.
One night as he was going to bed there was this matter-of-fact exchange:

Gus: Siri, will you marry me?
Siri: Im not the marrying kind.
Gus: I mean, not now.
Im a kid.
I mean when Im grown up.
Siri: My end user agreement does not include marriage.
Gus: Oh, OK.

Gus didnt sound too disappointed.
This was useful information to have  and for me too since it was the first time I knew that he had actually thought about marriage.
He turned over to go to sleep:

Gus: Goodnight, Siri.
Will you sleep well tonight?
Siri: I dont need much sleep, but its nice of you to ask.
This story originally appeared in the New York Post.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the social network would hand over to Congress the political ads purchased by Russian operatives.
On his first day back from paternity leave, Zuckerberg held a Facebook Live chat and said the company would "strengthen our ad review process for political ads."
One senior source familiar with discussions told Fox News there is a deal with Facebook.
However, another senior source close to the negotiation disputes that, saying there is no agreement on the breadth of material Facebook may provide.
FACEBOOK REVAMPS POLICIES AFTER ANTI-SEMITIC AD-TARGETING SCANDAL

Separately on Thursday, Facebook wrote a blog post outlining the steps it would be taking.
After an extensive legal and policy review, today we are announcing that we will also share these ads with congressional investigators, wrote Colin Stretch, the companys general counsel.
We believe it is vitally important that government authorities have the information they need to deliver to the public a full assessment of what happened in the 2016 election.
At the same time, we will continue our own review and investigation, and to do our part to make sure investigators have the information they need, Stretch added.
We look forward to their comprehensive assessment, and to a greater public understanding of what took place.
Earlier this month, Facebook uncovered approximately $100,000, spread across approximately 3,000 ads, in fraudulent ad spending across its network tied to the 2016 U.S. Presidential election.
These "potentially politcally-related ads" were bought from accounts with U.S. IP addresses, but the language was set to Russian, Facebook noted.
Facebook noted the ads did not necessarily violate any policy or law.
FACEBOOK UNCOVERS $100K IN FAKE AD SPENDING TIED TO RUSSIAN OPERATIVES DURING 2016 US ELECTION

In detailing the findings, Facebook Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos wrote that the vast majority of the ads did not specifically reference the U.S. presidential election, but rather focused on "divisive social and political messages across the ideological spectrum  touching on topics from LGBT matters to race issues to immigration to gun rights."
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia.
Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
If you're on the fence about paying an extra $6 a month to watch some TV shows without ads, 21st Century Fox would like to make a more persuasive case: It is adding a bunch of additional inventory to its FX+ service.
In narrow terms, that means that FX+ subscribers will now be able to stream some shows the service didn't have when it launched earlier this month, including older seasons of "The Americans."
Fox says it now has every season of 31 different original FX productions available on the service.
FX+ is available to some pay TV customers  but only in addition to the pay TV packages they're already buying.
That still doesn't mean FX+ subscribers get everything that's been on FX.
Notably absent is "The People v. O.J.
Simpson," perhaps FX's most popular show ever, which is currently running on Netflix.
Meanwhile some shows that will run ad-free on FX+ will also run on other platforms, at least for now: You can also watch the first four seasons of "The Americans" on Amazon's Prime video service.
Bigger picture: Fox, like other big studios/networks, has been making noise about reclaiming its old shows from other people  namely, Netflix  and it is starting to do that: If you want to watch old Fox shows, you increasingly have to watch them on Fox properties (or Hulu, partly owned by Fox).
That's definitely a negative for Netflix, which has to spend more money creating its own shows to replace the ones being hoovered back up by their original owners.
And it's hard to argue that it's a positive for viewers, who increasingly have to do more thinking about what streaming service their favorite show is on.
But it may be worth it to the Hollywood guys, if it slows down the erosion of their own value.
By Peter Kafka, Recode.net.
CNBC's parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Recode's parent Vox, and the companies have a content-sharing arrangement.
Disclosure: Comcast, which owns CNBC parent NBCUniversal, is a co-owner of Hulu.
The price of bitcoin rose sharply on Monday with its price spiking up 7 percent Monday morning, according to Coindesk market data.
The price of the cryptocurrency is up nearly 300 percent year to date.
It was unclear what was behind Monday's sudden move higher.
Bitcoin is still under the $4,000 level, which it broke through after JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said bitcoin is a 'fraud' that will eventually blow up on Sept. 12.
In addition, mid-month reports regulators in China have ordered bitcoin exchanges to close hurt the digital currency's price.
Instagram said Monday that it's added another 100 million monthly users.
That brings the photo-sharing app to 800 million monthly active users, up from 700 million in April, according to Carolyn Everson, vice president of global marketing solutions at Facebook, who spoke at an Advertising Week event in New York City.
Five hundred million of those are daily active users, the company said.
That means that Instagram is still ahead of rival Snap in terms of users, based on Snap's last report.
Snap said in August that it had 173 million daily active users.
The announcement from Facebook-owned Instagram further solidifies Facebook as one of the most dominant companies in online advertising, posing a challenge for underdogs.
Time spent watching video on Instagram is up more than 80 percent year over year, the company also said on Monday, and four times as many videos are being produced every day on Instagram compared with a year ago.
Instagram also said that it has doubled the number of advertisers on its platform since March, growing its advertiser base to 2 million.
General Motors' strong competitive position in autonomous vehicle (AV) technology is widely underestimated by investors, according to a Wall Street firm.
Deutsche Bank raised its rating for the automaker's shares to buy from hold, saying the company will attain a large market share of the new AV market.
"GM's AV's will be ready for commercial deployment, without human drivers, much sooner than widely expected (within quarters, not years), and potentially years ahead of competitors," analyst Rod Lache wrote in a note to clients Sunday.
"We believe that businesses built off of this platform will ramp much faster than is widely expected.
A fast ramp could perpetuate sustainable advantages.
And we believe that this will be material, even to a company of GM's size."
Shares of General Motors, incorporated in 1908, are up 13 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
Lache raised his price target for General Motors shares to $51 from $36, representing 29 percent upside from Friday's close.
The analyst has just a hold rating on the more popular car of the future play on Wall Street, Tesla.
The analyst estimates up to 60 percent of U.S. households in cities may find it better to use autonomous vehicle services instead of owning a car.
He forecasts more than 2 percent of U.S. miles driven in 2025 will be through "autonomous on demand mobility" offerings, then rising to 10 percent share by 2030.
Lache believes General Motors can attain 17.5 percent share of the market.
He cited how the company has said the autonomous vehicle and mobility business could be a potential $7 trillion global market.
"This is a massive market opportunity," he wrote.
"The monetization model is recurring in nature (vs. the transactional/cyclical model that automakers live in today), and likely to receive a healthy valuation."
The analyst predicts General Motors' autonomous vehicle could be deployed within the next six quarters.
"GM management believes that their AV's, which are being tested in some of the most complex urban environments (the City of San Francisco), will be ready for commercial deployment much sooner than is widely expected," he wrote.
General Motors shares rose 2.9 percent shortly after Monday's market open.
CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.
A cyberattack at Deloitte, one of the "big four" accounting firms, may have revealed confidential client information, according to a statement from the firm.
The company believes hackers gained access through Deloitte's email server.
Deloitte is still investigating the incident, but said in a statement to CNBC that the review of the email platform is complete.
The company contacted governmental authorities immediately after discovering the attack and notified each of the "very few" clients impacted, a Deloitte spokesman said in the statement.
"Deloitte remains deeply committed to ensuring that its cybersecurity defenses are best in class, to investing heavily in protecting confidential information and to continually reviewing and enhancing cybersecurity," the spokesman said.
The firm is registered in London and has its headquarters in New York and boasts clients including Morgan Stanley, Berkshire Hathaway, Starbuck's, Boeing and Microsoft, along with global banks, media organizations and government agencies.
Deloitte offers tax services, auditing, consulting and cybersecurity advice to clients.
T-Mobile and Sprint are entering due diligence in a stock-for-stock deal that is expected to make Deutsche Telekom the controlling owner, sources tell CNBC's David Faber.
The exchange ratio for the stocks is expected to be at market, the sources said.
The companies are hoping to reach an agreement by the third week of October.
Faber said a deal "seems likely" at this point, and the two companies would be able to wring significant costs out of a combined operation.
But a merger of the nation's third- and fourth-largest mobile phone carriers would raise questions about whether regulators would allow the combination or block it on antitrust grounds.
Shares of T-Mobile were 1.6 percent lower on Monday to about $63.04, but are still up about 10 percent this year.
Shares of Sprint fell more than 6 percent Monday and are now down more than 5 percent for the year, at $7.97.
T-Mobile is the bigger company in terms of market value, at $53 billion versus $32 billion, according to FactSet.
T-Mobile is owned by Deutsche Telekom while Sprint is controlled by SoftBank, which had also explored a possible combination of Sprint with Charter Communications.
That latter transaction was put on hold given the T-Mobile-Sprint talks.
Minority owners would own about mid-30 percent of the combined company, sources said.
The two sides have had on-again, off-again talks.
While T-Mobile's CEO John Legere seems likely to lead a combined company, SoftBank's Masayoshi Son is expected to want a say in how the company is run.
Shares in meal kit delivery service Blue Apron rose 3 percent Monday after an upgraded 'buy' rating from Guggenheim.
Blue Apron leads the meal kit delivery service sector, which the rating firm estimates will grow at a rate of 25 percent to $10 billion in the next 3 years, according to a note released Monday.
Blue Apron controls approximately 20 percent of the market share for the sector, the note said.
"Given their proof of concept and evolving management strategy, we think they can effectively compete and sustain the brand's leadership position," Guggenheim said.
Before the open Monday shares of Blue Apron were trading around $5.34.
Microsoft on Monday introduced a software bundle for so-called front-line workers like cashiers, truck drivers and factory employees.
The announcement at Microsoft's Ignite conference in Orlando, Florida, could help the company boost its usage and revenue numbers for some of its most important products at a time when it's dealing with competition from Google's Chrome OS and productivity apps like Google Docs.
Called Microsoft 365 F1, the new offering includes StaffHub, a recently launched app for managing shifts so that employees don't need to call in or stop by the main office to check a weekly schedule printed on a piece of paper.
It also comes with the Office 365, Windows 10 and Microsoft's Enterprise Mobility and Security suite, which companies use to manage and secure devices.
Those products have been sold in other bundles in the past.
But while Microsoft 365 F1 might seem like just the latest attempt to put a new package around existing software, Kirk Koenigsbauer, corporate vice president for Microsoft's Office 365 client applications, suggested it's more than the sum of its parts.
"Internally we're totally changing the way we work to really revolve around this idea of Microsoft 365  the Windows, the Office and the Enterprise Mobility and Security teams are planning together, and we're laying out cadences in terms of when we plan to ship together," Koenigsbauer said.
For one thing, he said, the group decided to integrate the administrative portals for Enterprise Mobility and Security and Office 365.
To make StaffHub more appealing, Microsoft will also be enhancing the app in a few ways.
Employees will be able to clock in and clock out from within the app, as well as view tasks that managers have assigned to them.
The push for front-line workers also extends to hardware.
Microsoft says Acer, HP, Fujitsu and Lenovo will be coming out with devices that would be well suited for front-line workers.
They'll start at $275, making them considerably more affordable than Microsoft's own $999 Surface Laptop, and they'll be running Windows 10 S, the edition that meant to be more secure because it can run apps downloaded only from the Windows Store.
In some cases, though, it might not make sense to equip every last front-line worker at a company with a new HP laptop running Windows 10.
That's the case at Jackson Family Wines, whose wineries includes Kendall-Jackson.
The company recently issued iPhones to its vineyard workers, who are using Office 365 services.
"Their focus is to prune grapes, spray them, take care of them throughout the year and make sure they're producing the plentiful berries that they need for the wine and not working on a Windows 10 machine, if you will," said Doug Brown, Jackson Family Wines' director of IT operations.
Managers and associates at the tasting rooms also need to coordinate and be informed of corporate announcements  and that communication happens in StaffHub.
"They're less interested in getting email," Brown said.
Microsoft is also doubling down on the education market with a version of Microsoft 365 for education customers that comes with the Microsoft-owned game Minecraft, in addition to StaffHub.
Microsoft on Monday announced updates to its Azure public cloud that make it a more formidable challenger to market leader Amazon Web Services.
Microsoft unveiled a piece of hardware full of hard drives that companies can fill up with data before sending it off to Microsoft data centers.
Companies would use this service for sending massive amounts of data they want Microsoft to host, but that would be too slow or costly to upload over the internet.
AWS did something like that in 2015.
Microsoft is also introducing a service that will ease the migration of databases from on-premises data centers into its cloud, and it will start letting people reserve computing resources for future use  at lower prices than they would ordinarily pay.
AWS announced a database migration service in 2015 and reserved instances in 2009.
And following the 2016 introduction of AWS' Shield service, which stops applications from being overwhelmed by distributed denial-of-service attacks, Microsoft is now coming out with a comparable tool  the same technology that Microsoft uses to keep Office 365 and Xbox Live running.
AWS held 34 percent of the market for cloud infrastructure services in the second quarter, and Azure, its closest competitor, had 11 percent, according to Synergy Research Group.
Microsoft has consistently sought to keep up with AWS by matching prices for core computing and storage in Azure, and making its cloud services available from more places around the world alongside AWS.
Earlier this year Alphabet's Google cloud  which had 5 percent of the cloud infrastructure market, according to Synergy  showed off Cloud Dataprep, an app for easily cleaning up data and getting it ready for deep analysis.
Now Microsoft is responding with a data cleaning tool of its own that "learns your data preparation steps as you perform them," a Microsoft spokesman wrote in an email.
Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi admitted the firm "got things wrong" Monday in a plea to London after the ride-hailing app was stripped of its license to operate in Britain's capital city.
"While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way," Uber's CEO said in an open letter published in the U.K.'s Evening Standard newspaper Monday.
Khosrowshahi added: "On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes we've made."
His apology follows a decision by London transport authority Transport for London (TfL) to revoke the taxi start-up of its license to operate in the city last Friday.
The former Expedia CEO, who has served as Uber's CEO for almost a month, said Uber would "work with London to make things right."
TfL's shock decision not to renew Uber's private hire vehicle license dealt a huge blow to the start-up.
Uber said it would appeal the decision, and has reportedly hired a top British lawyer, Thomas de la Mare, to fight its case.
Apple's rollout of two major iPhone models this year may cause short term issues for the company, according to one Wall Street firm.
Citi Research lowered its earnings and sales estimates for the Apple's September quarter, predicting lower than expected demand for the iPhone 8 will cause the company to miss the Wall Street consensus.
"We are reducing our F4Q17 (Sept) to reflect more modest iPhone 8 and 8 Plus demand.
Checks in US/Europe indicated similar demand patterns to those observed in Asia and Australia  i.e.
modest crowds but definitely thinner than in the past while ship times for the devices ordered online were also quicker," analyst Jim Suva wrote in a note to clients Monday.
"We are not surprised that current ship times are quicker and lines shorter than prior launches, as we believe users will wait to compare to iPhone X before making a final purchase."
The iPhone X will be available on Nov. 3 at a base model price of $999, while the iPhone 8 launched last week.
Suva reiterated his buy rating and his $170 price target for Apple shares, which is 12 percent higher than Friday's close.
Relations between Iran and the U.S. grew more strained over the weekend after the Middle Eastern country successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 kilometers.
The Khorramshahr missile test took place Saturday; Iran state media said it could carry several warheads.
The weapon was first seen during a military parade Friday, during which Iran's President Hassan Rouhani promised to boost his country's missile arsenal.
"We will increase our military power as a deterrent.
We will strengthen our missile capabilities," Rouhani said Friday in a speech broadcast on state television, according to Reuters.
The country's determination to expand its missile capabilities will remain a main source of friction between Washington and Tehran, according to Torbjorn Soltvedt, principal MENA analyst at Verisk Maplecroft.
"As Iran's missile program is beyond the scope of the 2015 nuclear agreement, both sides have seized on the issue to assert their national interests while still operating within the confines of the deal," he told CNBC via email.
"For Rouhani, reasserting Iran's ballistic missile ambitions provides cover against hard-line critics that see the nuclear agreement as a capitulation to world powers."
Following the missile launch Saturday, the U.S. imposed new unilateral sanctions on Iran, saying the test violated a UN resolution, according to Reuters.
On Sunday, President Donald Trump signed a presidential order that kept travel restrictions on Iran, along with seven other countries.
The order blocks nearly all visas from Iran except for students and exchange visitors.
On Saturday, Trump criticized the missile test on social media.
Soltvedt said the missile tests allow Trump to expand sanctions against the country without violating the Iran nuclear deal.
"The net result is that Washington and Tehran are accusing each other of not living up to the spirit of the nuclear agreement," he said.
President Trump has previously criticized the agreement.
During his address to the UN last week, he said the U.S. could not abide by the agreement if it provides cover for a nuclear weapons program.
Soltvedt added that missile tests would strain relations with Iran's Middle East neighbors.
"There is no doubt that Iran is in the ascendancy in the geopolitical battle for influence in the Middle East.
Iran's ongoing efforts to boost its ballistic missile capabilities will only heighten the sense of insecurity among regional rivals," he said.
"While Iran's more assertive regional stance has put it on a collision course first and foremost with Saudi Arabia and the U.S., the pivotal role it plays in the Syrian conflict is also increasingly raising tensions with Israel."
Apple investors are now suffering from an unusual condition: loss of money.
After surging as much as 42 percent from the end of 2016 to the beginning of September, Apple has seen a bracing series of losses.
The stock slid 5 percent last week alone, for its worst weekly performance in more than a year.
Recent concerns have revolved around Apple's new iPhone 8 and iPhone X products, which were unveiled on Sept. 12.
Mild reviews for the iPhone 8 and talk of short lines for the product appear to have taken some wind out of the stock's sails.
Yet Wall Street analysts, always a group somewhat predisposed toward looking on the bright side, say the lack of enthusiasm could actually be a bullish indicator.
"Any Weakness for Early Sales of iPhone 8 Could Be a Case of 'Short-term Pain for Long-Term Gain,'" Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson advised in a Friday note.
He explained that "potential buyers may wait for iPhone X," and that since the X will tend to be about $250 more expensive than the 8, "a mix shift toward iPhone X, even to the detriment of near-term iPhone 8 units, is positive for Apple."
Swiss power grid maker ABB will pay $2.6 billion for General Electric's Industrial Solutions business, it was announced Monday.
Chief executive Ulrich Spiesshofer told CNBC he is "very confident" that ABB can build the unit back to a strong position.
Spiesshofer said the unit, which has an EBITDA margin of only 6 percent, has strong roots and brand legacy, but the problem is it was a non-core business in GE's portfolio.
"You know what happens to non-core businesses.
They don't get enough oxygen and they don't prosper.
For us, this business is absolutely right in the sweet-spot," he told CNBC's Squawk Box.
"We are very confident that, jointly with the GE Industrial Solutions team, we will shape this business back to a strong position."
GE's Industrial Solutions business makes circuit breakers, switchgear, components for lighting control and power supply equipment, which overlaps with ABB's portfolio.
The unit had sales of $2.7 billion in 2016, but its operating earnings before interest, taxes and amortization are just 6 percent of sales, compared to ABB's 15 percent operating margin.
Spiesshofer said he had received many calls from customers to congratulate him on the acquisition and saying ABB is the right home for the business.
He also addressed how ABB will boost profit margins at the unit.
"We need to live up to that now and the way we will do it is harmonize the product and technology portfolio.
We have leading edge solutions on the digital side," he said.
"Secondly, we have an overlapping footprint and we will do some restructuring in this context, but we will do this in a responsible way like ABB always does it and we will try to find a home for the very good people at GE in the growing parts of our business."
ABB expects $200 million of annual cost benefits from the acquisition deal and anticipates $400 million of integration costs.
The Zurich-based company's stock price rose 0.42 percent on news of the deal.
Reuters contributed to this report.
British food delivery company Deliveroo has raised $385 million in private funding, it said on Sunday, as it prepares for expansion to help it compete with publicly traded rivals such as Delivery Hero and Just Eat.
The funding values the business at more than $2 billion and will allow Deliveroo to enter new markets, enlarge its technology team and expand its concept of delivery-only restaurants run out of centralized kitchens it operates, the company said.
The number of Deliveroo locations has risen by 60 percent over the past year and it now operates in more than 150 cities in 12 countries, a spokesman said.
He declined to comment on its next expansion moves.
Besides Britain, where it operates in 60 cities and towns, it also offers food delivery in eight European countries, Australia, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates.
It's closest rival is the Foodora unit of Germany's Delivery Hero.
The new investment in Deliveroo is led by funds associated with T. Rowe Price Associates and Fidelity Management & Research, the company said.
Existing investors DST Global, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel Partners are also making follow-on investments, increasing their positions in the company, Deliveroo said.
"There is a lot of room to rethink how we eat," said Martin Mignot, a partner at venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has invested in four previous Deliveroo funding rounds.
The company has raised $474.6 million since it's founding in 2012, according to venture funding data from Crunchbase.
Like taxi app Uber, which was stripped of its London operating license on Friday, Deliveroo has been criticized by unions that say it is exploiting staff by not offering basic protections.
Some of its delivery riders are pursuing legal action to push for workers' rights.
Deliveroo has previously said it would give its self-employed riders insurance and sick pay if the government changed the law so that it could offer some, rather than all, the entitlements enjoyed by full-time staff members.
Deliveroo increased revenue by more than 600 percent last year while operating losses mounted, albeit at a slower rate, parent company Roofoods said in a Sept. 20 regulatory filing.
Revenue grew to 128.56 million pounds ($173 million) but delivery costs and administrative expenses resulted in an operating loss of 141.05 million pounds, up 367 percent year on year, it said in a filing with UK Companies House.
Though the company trumpeted a $2 billion-plus valuation, that remains less than half those of its listed rivals.
Delivery Hero's market capitalization is 5.95 billion euros ($7.11 billion) while UK-based Just Eat's valuation is 4.66 billion pounds.
Business leaders in Tucson, Ariz., have tried to mail Amazons chief executive, Jeff Bezos, a 21-foot cactus.
The largest conference room in the Tulsa, Okla., mayors office has been converted to a war room, with 50 volunteers poring over videos of Mr. Bezos.
In Philadelphia, hundreds of Wharton Business School students have a new fall semester assignment: pitch the city to Amazon.
And the mayor of Ottawa flew to Seattle last week to walk as close to Amazons headquarters as is publicly accessible.
Its like The Amazing Race, said Jim Watson, the mayor of Ottawa.
Youve got this cast of characters running toward the Holy Grail.
Amazon, on the hunt for a place to build a second headquarters where it plans to invest $5 billion and create 50,000 jobs, has begun an enormous competition among cities across North America.
With a loose set of requirements like proximity to an airport and walkability, the e-commerce behemoth has set officials on a journey to sell their towns, with the aim of getting in on what some are calling one of the largest economic development deals of the century.
That sometimes means going to extreme lengths to draw Mr. Bezos eye.
Is Mr. Bezos impressed?
Were energized by the response, said Adam Sedo, an Amazon spokesman.
We invited cities to think big, and we are starting to see their creativity.
For Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., a city of 160,000 about a half-hour drive from Dallas, the courtship includes offering to build his city around Amazon.
Our citys only about 60 percent built out, so weve got a lot of available land where we can build to suit, Mr. Cheney said.
We play to win.
Were innovators.
Were forward thinkers, and were serious.
City applications are not due until Oct. 19, but Mr. Cheney has already sent a video letter to Amazon.
The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Mayoral letters to Amazon are actually becoming a YouTube subgenre.
Mark D. Boughton, the mayor of Danbury, Conn., posted a video on Sept. 14 calling himself a proud Amazon customer and asking Alexa, the Amazon virtual assistant, where Amazon should build its second headquarters.
Danbury, a female voice responds.
It seems Alexa might be suffering a software glitch, because when Muriel Bowser, the mayor of Washington, posted a video on Sept. 15 asking, Alexa, where is the most interesting company in the world going to locate?
there was a different response.
Obviously, Washington, D.C., said Alexa.
In Canada, the selling point is, well, Canada.
Amazon has something like 9,000 engineering jobs they cant fill.
Our immigration policy is much more liberal, said Mr. Watson, Ottawas mayor.
Thats where we have an advantage.
Another city offering access to Canadian immigration as part of its deal is, surprisingly, Detroit.
Working with nearby Windsor, Canada, which is an eight-minute drive away, Detroit is portraying itself as the best of both worlds.
Theres, you know, the immigration issue  we avoid that, said Dan Gilbert, a local business leader in Detroit who was asked by the citys mayor, Mike Duggan, to lead the effort to land Amazon.Youve got Canada and the U.S. And people will come from all over.
Mr. Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans, has also built an Amazon war room, where more than 40 people are trying to analyze what the online retailer likes and doesnt like.
They are also trying to read Mr. Bezos psyche.
Hes got hundreds of hours of videos on YouTube you can watch, Mr. Gilbert said.
Mr. Gilbert is the largest private property owner in downtown Detroit, and he said he would move his tenants to temporary locations to make room for Amazon so the company does not have to wait for new offices to be built.
Competitions for factories or stadiums are typically more private, but this one is playing out in the court of public opinion, said Lauren Hitt, who is managing the public side of the campaign for Philadelphia.
The competition started that Thursday morning when he announced it, Ms. Hitt said of Mr. Bezos.
The next weeks are basically going to be a sustained campaign.
Philadelphias effort includes students from the Wharton School writing variations on the very same pitch: why Amazon should come to Philadelphia.
This was the schools idea, said Ms. Hitt.
Dozens of start-ups have also been asked to submit testimonials about the citys innovation economy and advice on how to approach Amazon.
And Philadelphia, which sent a delegation to Seattle last week, is sending a larger delegation this week to get into the Jeff Bezos mind-set and ethos, Ms. Hitt said.
The city would also consider overhauling its tax system for Amazon.
Having Amazon would mean global things for our tax system, Ms. Hitt said.
We do have business taxes, but thats something that could be looked at in the scope of Amazon coming here.
G. T. Bynum, the mayor of Tulsa, which set up its own Amazon war room in his office, echoed Philadelphias sentiment on taxes.
He said he doesnt worry at all about tax incentives going too far.
These are 50,000 jobs with the most innovative company in the world.
Whatever it takes, he said.
More from The New York Times:

While Amazon Plays the Field, Walmart Stays True to Arkansas

Dear Amazon, We Picked Your New Headquarters for You

Amazon Plans Second Headquarters, Opening a Bidding War Among Cities

Tax policy experts are more skeptical of Amazons bidding process and how much cities stand to benefit.
Why are they doing this whole dog and pony show?
Amazon wants something for nothing, said Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan think tank.
They would like a package of tax incentives for something they were going to do anyway.
Art Rolnick, an economist at the University of Minnesota, called Amazons bidding process  and the broader practice of cities competing for stadiums and factories  blackmail.
If you look at it from a national perspective, its zero returns.
Minnesota might win one, Wisconsin wins the next one.
The company wins each time, Mr. Rolnick said.
Its corporate welfare.
But Mr. Gardner acknowledged that many cities really have no other course than to try and win Amazon.
If you ask any mayor, theyll say their first job is to bring good jobs to the city, he said.
And Amazon is promising to bring a lot of jobs.
Joe Snell, a business leader with an economic development group in Tucson, was behind the recent shipment to Mr. Bezos of the local saguaro cactus, which he said was symbolic of the regions people.
Its a hearty plant.
It can grow up to 40 feet.
And thats Tucson, Mr. Snell said.
Were a community thats growing.
Were adaptive.
And were durable.
Amazon said it could not accept gifts but thanked Tucson on Twitter.
The company then returned the plant to the city.
That was a good outcome for the cactus, which would suffer in the Seattle rain.
Still, Mr. Snell had achieved his goal.
We wanted to cut through the noise, and they definitely noticed it, he said.
And when they choose Tucson, they can come out and experience a million saguaros.
Obama personally warned Mark Zuckerberg after the election about the extent of fake news on Facebook 2 Hours Ago | 01:04

Former president Barack Obama personally warned Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg in a post-2016 election meeting to check the spread of fake news on the site, but he was told there was no easy fix, according to Washington Post report on Sunday.
The Nov. 19 meeting reportedly took place in Lima, Peru, at a gathering of world leaders two months before Donald Trump's inauguration.
The meeting followed Zuckerberg saying that the idea fake news driven by Russian-linked operatives on the site could have an major impact on voting was "crazy."
Macau gaming company Dragon Corp. is looking to raise half a billion dollars through an initial coin offering (ICO), in an effort to integrate blockchain technology into the world's largest gambling market.
The tokens issued in the ICO would be utilized by VIP junket operators, which are middlemen who act as facilitators for the multi-billion dollar casinos, by offering credit on behalf of casino operators.
"This is the first time anybody has allowed the public to invest in a public junket or become a shareholder of a casino," said Chakrit Ahmad, CEO of Wi Holding, the Thai-based company behind the blockchain technology.
"You're basically becoming a shareholder in a junket, utilizing blockchain technology, getting revenues from that, and plugging that back into the token."
Ahmad said the money raised from the sale of digital tokens would go in part, to fund construction of the Dragon Pearl Casino Hotel, an ambitious 16,000 square meter, floating structure, scheduled to be deployed from Norway, where it is currently being built, to Macau by 2019.
The group also plans to develop a debit card or "social wallet" that holds the digital currency, so players can withdraw fiat currency from an ATM, Ahmad said.
France's Schneider Electric's recent acquisition of the U.K.'s Aveva Group will play to the strengths of both companies, said Schneider's CEO and chairman, Jean-Pascal Tricoire.
"The sense of this transaction, the reason why we do it, is related to the wider environment of smart manufacturing, so the combination of connected shop floors going into a set of software to make your manufacturing more agile, more productive, more competitive," Tricoire told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday.
Tricoire added that the advantages of the deal come from Schneider's edge in the digitization of operations and Aveva's similar strength in engineering.
Earlier this month, Britain's Aveva Group said it agreed to combine with Schneider Electric's software business to create a London-listed leader in industrial software worth more than 3 billion pounds ($4.06 billion), Reuters reported.
Miata is always the answer.
It's the reply to every forum post, every tweet and every sheepish teenager asking the age-old enthusiast's question: "I want a fun, reliable car that won't beat me up or take all my money.
What should I get?"
Everyone hoping to uncover some hidden gem they never thought of, only to have their hopes dashed when everyone replies the exact same thing: Miata.
For good reason, too.
Mazda's been building the roadster for over 25 years, and there's never been a bad one.
The Miata's concept was based on the classic British roadster.
Those old Triumphs and MGs were respected worldwide for their enthusiast experience, but the cars weren't reliable, so they didn't really catch on here.
Once Mazda added Japanese reliability to the established formula of low-weight, little-power, rear-wheel drive and a manual transmission, it created a icon.
Nearly 30 years later, the company's still adding new ingredients to the mix to keep things interesting.
Today's hottest item is the RF, or retractable fastback model.
Rather than the manually-operated, one step top of most Miatas, the RF is a targa-style power-folding hard top.
The idea is to add more luxury and more style without ruining the driving dynamics.
I spent a week with the RF to figure out whether that's worked.
In Manhattan's bustling and picturesque North of Little Italy (Nolita) neighborhood  one of the city's hippest and popular residential areas  rows of cozy restaurants and decorative street almost make random passersby wonder if they've been transported into an Instagram photo.
As it happens, much of that is by design.
According to business search site Yelp, the company has seen a spike in users searching for restaurants or foods that include the word "Instagram" over the past two years.
For the month of August, Yelp recorded more than 3000 searches related to the picture-sharing site  compared to only 100 in May of 2015.
Carl Bialik, Yelp's data science editor, told CNBC in a recent email that the Instagram effect is relatively small, yet still a "fast growing" segment of its searches.
With the platform home to more than 700 million unique visitors, Yelp's findings are a function of how food establishments are actively catering to users seeking 'Instagrammable' moments, where an photo-op worthy experience is virtually as important as the food itself.
"It has become a platform in its own right, [and restaurants] have to think about how things are going to look on Instagram,' said Laureen Moyal, partner and branding expert at Paperwhite Studio, which has helped niche eateries go viral on social media.
"Not considering it would be a huge mistake."
Their complaints flow on Reddit forums, on video game message boards, on private Facebook pages and across Twitter.
They argue for everything from male separatism to an end to gender diversity efforts.
Silicon Valley has for years accommodated a fringe element of men who say women are ruining the tech world.
Now, as the nation's technology capital  long identified as one of the more hostile work environments for women  reels from a series of high-profile sexual harassment and discrimination scandals, these conversations are gaining broader traction.
One of those who said there had been a change is James Altizer, an engineer at the chip maker Nvidia.
Mr. Altizer, 52, said he had realized a few years ago that feminists in Silicon Valley had formed a cabal whose goal was to subjugate men.
At the time, he said, he was one of the few with that view.
More from the New York Times:

Trump Attacks Warriors' Curry.
LeBron James's Retort: 'U Bum.'
Trump Laces Into McCain Over His Opposition to Health Care Bill

Behind New Obamacare Repeal Vote: 'Furious' G.O.P.
Donors

Now Mr. Altizer said he was less alone.
"There's quite a few people going through that in Silicon Valley right now," he said.
"It's exploding.
It's mostly young men, younger than me."
Mr. Altizer said that a gathering he hosts in person and online to discuss men's issues had grown by a few dozen members this year to more than 200, that the private Facebook pages he frequents on men's rights were gaining new members and that a radical subculture calling for total male separatism was emerging.
"It's a witch hunt," he said in a phone interview, contending men are being fired by "dangerous" human resources departments.
"I'm sitting in a soundproof booth right now because I'm afraid someone will hear me.
When you're discussing gender issues, it's almost religious, the response.
It's almost zealotry."
Mr. Altizer is part of a backlash against the women in technology movement.
While many in the tech industry had previously dismissed the fringe men's rights arguments, some investors, executives and engineers are now listening.
Though studies and surveys show there is no denying the travails women face in the male-dominated industry, some said that the line for what counted as harassment had become too easy to cross and that the push for gender parity was too extreme a goal.
Few were willing to talk openly about their thinking, for fear of standing out in largely progressive Silicon Valley.
Even so, "witch hunt" is the new whispered meme.
Some in tech have started identifying as "contrarians," to indicate subtly that they do not follow the "diversity dogma."
And self-described men's rights activists in Silicon Valley said their numbers at meetings were rising.
Others are playing down the women-in-tech issue.
Onstage at a recent event, the venture capitalist Vinod Khosla said harassment in Silicon Valley was "rarer than in most other businesses."
Many men now feel like "there's a gun to the head" to be better about gender issues, said Rebecca Lynn, a venture capitalist at Canvas Ventures, and while "there's a high awareness right now, which is positive, at the same time there's a fear."
The backlash follows increasingly vulgar harassment revelations in Silicon Valley.
Several female engineers and entrepreneurs this year named the men they accused of harassing them, and suddenly tech's boys' club seemed anything but impervious.
Travis Kalanick, Uber's co-founder, resigned as chief executive after the ride-hailing service was embroiled in harassment accusations.
Dave McClure, head of the incubator 500 Startups, called himself "a creep" and stepped down.
This month, the chief executive of Social Finance, Mike Cagney, also quit amid a harassment scandal.
In the aftermath, many stood up for gender equality in tech.
Reid Hoffman, LinkedIn's founder, asked investors to sign a "decency pledge."
Many companies reiterated that they needed to improve work force diversity.
"In just the last 48 hours, I've spoken to a female tech executive who was grabbed by a male C.E.O.
at a large event and another female executive who was asked to interview at a venture fund because they 'feel like they need to hire a woman,'" said Dick Costolo, the former chief of Twitter, who now runs the fitness start-up Chorus.
"We should worry about whether the women-in-tech movement has gone too far sometime after a couple of these aren't regularly happening anymore."
This is the life the tech industry has created for us.
We're constantly tracking a package, looking at a friend's photos and reading the news.
Look in any elevator, and the entire car is filled with folks staring down at their smartphones.
The Apple Watch Series 3 doesn't disconnect us from that world entirely, but it also very much creates a sense of freedom.
Nobody says you need to carry your phone when you leave the house to walk your dog, but we all do.
Or I do, anyway.
And with the Apple Watch and its cellular connection, I knew that anyone who had to reach me in case of an emergency could.
My wife would still ask if I wanted to go out to eat and I'd still be able to reply before she picked up food at the grocery store on her way home from work.
I'd still have connectivity if I locked myself out.
But I didn't need my phone with me.
In mid-August, as Cloudflare was starting its ninth year, Prince became embroiled in the political controversy over President Donald Trump's remarks about a deadly rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
The Daily Stormer, which espouses white-supremacist views, then praised Trump for citing violence on "many sides"  rather than singling out those who organized the event  and wrote "we are at now at war."
The site also said it would help organize similar far-right rallies across the country.
Those writings came after one protester and two state troopers were killed during the Charlottesville rally, and prompted other internet service providers like Google and GoDaddy to cancel services they provided to the site, making it harder for Internet users to find.
Prince, however, hesitated to do the same.
That's because Cloudflare had a policy, stated on its own website, that it would not terminate a customer or take down content "due to political pressure."
The stance in favor of free speech put the company in the crosshairs of those who said it was being sympathetic to violent, right-wing groups.
"We were stuck.
We had this problem, [and] were very alone," Prince told CNBC, as he sat on the rooftop of his company's headquarters in San Francisco during the company's annual Internet Summit in September.
But then comments from others forced the hand of Prince, who co-founded the company with COO Michelle Zatlyn in mid-2009.
First, another CEO "whom I admire," Prince said, tweeted that Cloudlare should boot the Daily Stormer off its services, as its rivals had done.
Prince called up the fellow executive, whom he declined to name, and during the discussion, this person made a "thoughtful, rational argument."
The Daily Stormer then raised the stakes with a claim that Cloudflare's management was supportive of its ultra-nationalist ideology.
Prince, in his blog post announcing the termination of service, called that assertion "the tipping point" in his decision.
The site disappeared from the internet for some time, but is now being hosted in Iceland and is once again accessible.
After canceling the Daily Stormer's service, Cloudflare faced criticism from free speech advocates, who worried it would set a dangerous precedent.
But Prince says he has no regrets.
"I would regret that as a policy, but it was just one instance.
I don't regret the decision."
U.S. taxi firm Uber is prepared to make concessions as it seeks to reverse a decision by London authorities not to renew its license in the city, which represents a potentially big blow for the

fast-growing company, a newspaper reported.
The Sunday Times also quoted sources close to London's transport body as saying the move was encouraging and suggested the possibility of talks.
"While we haven't been asked to make any changes, we'd like to know what we can do," Tom Elvidge, Uber's general manager in London, told the newspaper.
"But that requires a dialogue we sadly haven't been able to have recently."
A spokesman for Transport for London (TfL) declined to comment.
The Sunday Times said Uber's concessions were likely to involve passenger safety and benefits for its drivers, possible limits on working hours to improve road safety and holiday pay.
So should the Stones expect to see unsold albums gathering dust on the shelves, a rare commercial misstep in an otherwise business-savvy career?
According to Dan Orkin, Director of Content at music gear marketplace Reverb.com, the commercial potential of this release shouldn't be dismissed.
For one thing, the original album's relative lack of popularity may now a selling point, not a drawback.
"Because the album wasn't that popular," the original had fewer copies made, he explained to CNBC.
"So for hardcore Rolling Stones fans, this album is harder to find, and original copies with the coveted 'lenticular' can sell for hundreds of dollars," he said, referring to 3D cover art that was abandoned after the first pressings of the album.
The original lenticular will be reproduced for the reissue, and that alone brings value for collectors.
Eric Alper, owner of Eric Alper PR in Toronto, said that in addition to the music and the artwork, the accompanying 20-page booklet  which includes an essay by historian Rob Bowman  also sweetens the deal.
"Rob is one of the best music historians alive, who knows the group almost better than anyone not in the band," Alper said.
"I'd pay $72 just to read his notes."
He also added that the price tag could be less of a stumbling block than it appears.
"By having it under a hundred dollars, those fans are able to purchase it without thinking," he said.
"As vinyl buyers know, a new album will set you back about $30 now, some even higher, so this isn't out of the buying power of those fans."
Bill Furbee, a music specialist at Cincinnati estate sale marketplace Everything but the House, said that 'Satanic Majesties' status as a limited edition package makes it irresistible to collectors.
Additionally, Stones fans are already well-known for having expensive tastes.
"The average concert ticket for the band's 2012 50th Anniversary tour cost $624," he said.
"The fans filling all of those arenas probably won't balk at spending a little bit more than average for this reissue."
With teenagers and millennials helping to drive resurgent sales in vinyl and other physical media, there may be an audience beyond just Baby Boomers, Furbee said.
"There's a good chance that anyone in their teens or early to mid-20s may have only experienced music as a digital file," he said.
"I'm not surprised at all that young adults are building record collections now, as they strive to find a deeper connection with the artists and music they love."
A startup called Nuada has developed a soft, robotic glove that gives people with hand pain or weakness a strong grip.
According to co-founders Filipe Quinaz and Vitor Crespo, the glove contains a "mesh" of artificial tendons and sensors.
These are controlled by an electromechanical system contained in a smartwatch-like device worn on the same hand.
A user activates the glove by lightly flexing their wrist.
The glove then understands that they want an assist, and can help them with any movement.
Typically, users will employ the glove to pick up, maneuver or hold a heavy object whether that's a bag of groceries or a car battery.
A more advanced (and expensive) version of the Nuada glove can predict the wearer's movement and assist them automatically.
The advanced version also work with a mobile app that gathers data about their hand's activity.
A physical therapist, for example, could review the data and help the wearer to become more ergonomically healthy.
Nuada began with the idea of creating a medical-grade prosthetic, Quinaz told CNBC.
But the company decided to develop more of a generally helpful tool after hearing tremendous demand from employers whose staff do a lot of manual labor, and seniors with weakness in their hands.
Hand injuries befell more than 140,000 workers in the U.S. alone in 2015, according to the most recent available data from the U.S. Department of Labor.
And repetitive, physical tasks at workwhether you're a camera operator, EMT or waiter  can cause fatigue and pain even in healthy workers.
Meanwhile, arthritis of the hand effects tens of millions in the U.S. alone.
Based in Braga, Portugal, the company is currently testing its robo-gloves with large employers there, including a Volkswagen factory and the retail conglomerate Sonae.
The company has raised seed funding from the hardware accelerator HAX and its affiliated venture firm SOSV.
I pre-ordered the iPhone 8 Plus before I had a chance to play with it, and I'm still happy with my decision.
I wasn't sure if I would be, considering Apple's going to launch the iPhone X in November with more advanced features like facial recognition and a fancy display.
After a few days with the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus, I'm pretty confident most folks are really going to like these devices, even if there is a better model on the horizon.
Basically, the iPhone X is going to be the device that gadget-heads who need the latest and greatest, and are willing to wait for it, will buy.
The iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus are for everyone else, and while the design might feel like it's getting old, they're fantastic devices.
Uber's London unit has launched a petition against the decision to revoke its license on Friday, saying that regulators were trying to "restrict consumer choice."
"We are sure Londoners will be as astounded as we are by this decision.
By trying to ban the app from the capital, the Mayor and Transport for London have caved in to a small number of people," Tom Elvidge, general manager of Uber in London, said in an emailed statement to customers in the U.K.

"Not only will this decision deprive you of the choice of a convenient way of getting about town, it will also put more than 40,000 licensed drivers who rely on our app out of work."
Earlier Friday, Transport for London stripped Uber of its license to operate, which will likely affect more than 40,000 drivers in one of the world's biggest cities.
Uber said that it will be immediately challenging the decision in court.
I knew the big Mark Zuckerberg speech was coming.
It always does.
Scandals involving Facebook tend to follow a well-worn pattern: Throughout the social network's short history, when the company has felt pummeled by users or lawmakers or shareholders over one of the dozens of controversies that have plagued its rise, there comes a moment when the clamor reaches a fever pitch.
You begin to wonder why on earth they aren't doing more.
Can't they see how deep they are in it?
Just then, Mr. Zuckerberg will issue a blog post, and these days, a live video, too  as he did on Thursday, in a short address on Facebook's role in Russia's interference of last year's presidential election.
To a cynic, this week's message, like others Mr. Zuckerberg has issued, might sound like puffery.
After all, he and his top lieutenants  especially Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer  are as meticulous in stewarding their own image as they are in managing a sprawling multibillion-dollar corporation.
Mr. Zuckerberg, in particular, has come to see his own role in guiding Facebook's community, and the trust the community places in him, as crucial to the fate of the corporation.
So when the heat from American lawmakers regarding ads placed by Russian trolls on Facebook began to rise, Mr. Zuckerberg had no option to ignore it; he had to say something.
But these messages aren't just show.
Inside Facebook, Mr. Zuckerberg's exhortations carry the weight of God.
That's why the detailed plan he offered to address election meddling is a very big deal.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And what's noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebook's considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
What's more, Mr. Zuckerberg's initial reaction to the question of Facebook's role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
"Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea," he said at a tech conference days after last year's presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebook's history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebook's central tenet of transparency and openness: "Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you," he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: "It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections," he said in his address on Thursday.
"But if that's what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion."
This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social network's future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the company's old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebook's mobile apps working perfectly became the company's top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
"Mobile is everyone's job," Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebook's mobile apps.
Soon, Facebook's mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebook's advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandberg's leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebook's main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebook's effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, there's a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the company's might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the world's most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
For Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., a city of 160,000 about a half-hour drive from Dallas, the courtship includes offering to build his city around Amazon.
Our citys only about 60 percent built out, so weve got a lot of available land where we can build to suit, Mr. Cheney said.
We play to win.
Were innovators.
Were forward thinkers, and were serious.
Photo

City applications are not due until Oct. 19, but Mr. Cheney has already sent a video letter to Amazon.
The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Mayoral letters to Amazon are actually becoming a YouTube subgenre.
Mark D. Boughton, the mayor of Danbury, Conn., posted a video on Sept. 14 calling himself a proud Amazon customer and asking Alexa, the Amazon virtual assistant, where Amazon should build its second headquarters.
Danbury, a female voice responds.
It seems Alexa might be suffering a software glitch, because when Muriel Bowser, the mayor of Washington, posted a video on Sept. 15 asking, Alexa, where is the most interesting company in the world going to locate?
there was a different response.
Obviously, Washington, D.C., said Alexa.
In Canada, the selling point is, well, Canada.
Amazon has something like 9,000 engineering jobs they cant fill.
Our immigration policy is much more liberal, said Mr. Watson, Ottawas mayor.
Thats where we have an advantage.
Another city offering access to Canadian immigration as part of its deal is, surprisingly, Detroit.
Working with nearby Windsor, Canada, which is an eight-minute drive away, Detroit is portraying itself as the best of both worlds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres, you know, the immigration issue  we avoid that, said Dan Gilbert, a local business leader in Detroit who was asked by the citys mayor, Mike Duggan, to lead the effort to land Amazon.
Youve got Canada and the U.S. And people will come from all over.
Mr. Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans, has also built an Amazon war room, where more than 40 people are trying to analyze what the online retailer likes and doesnt like.
They are also trying to read Mr. Bezos psyche.
Hes got hundreds of hours of videos on YouTube you can watch, Mr. Gilbert said.
Mr. Gilbert is the largest private property owner in downtown Detroit, and he said he would move his tenants to temporary locations to make room for Amazon so the company does not have to wait for new offices to be built.
Photo

Competitions for factories or stadiums are typically more private, but this one is playing out in the court of public opinion, said Lauren Hitt, who is managing the public side of the campaign for Philadelphia.
The competition started that Thursday morning when he announced it, Ms. Hitt said of Mr. Bezos.
The next weeks are basically going to be a sustained campaign.
Philadelphias effort includes students from the Wharton School writing variations on the very same pitch: why Amazon should come to Philadelphia.
This was the schools idea, said Ms. Hitt.
Dozens of start-ups have also been asked to submit testimonials about the citys innovation economy and advice on how to approach Amazon.
And Philadelphia, which sent a delegation to Seattle last week, is sending a larger delegation this week to get into the Jeff Bezos mind-set and ethos, Ms. Hitt said.
The city would also consider overhauling its tax system for Amazon.
Having Amazon would mean global things for our tax system, Ms. Hitt said.
We do have business taxes, but thats something that could be looked at in the scope of Amazon coming here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

G. T. Bynum, the mayor of Tulsa, which set up its own Amazon war room in his office, echoed Philadelphias sentiment on taxes.
He said he doesnt worry at all about tax incentives going too far.
These are 50,000 jobs with the most innovative company in the world.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Whatever it takes, he said.
Tax policy experts are more skeptical of Amazons bidding process and how much cities stand to benefit.
Why are they doing this whole dog and pony show?
Amazon wants something for nothing, said Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan think tank.
They would like a package of tax incentives for something they were going to do anyway.
Art Rolnick, an economist at the University of Minnesota, called Amazons bidding process  and the broader practice of cities competing for stadiums and factories  blackmail.
If you look at it from a national perspective, its zero returns.
Minnesota might win one, Wisconsin wins the next one.
The company wins each time, Mr. Rolnick said.
Its corporate welfare.
But Mr. Gardner acknowledged that many cities really have no other course than to try and win Amazon.
If you ask any mayor, theyll say their first job is to bring good jobs to the city, he said.
And Amazon is promising to bring a lot of jobs.
Joe Snell, a business leader with an economic development group in Tucson, was behind the recent shipment to Mr. Bezos of the local saguaro cactus, which he said was symbolic of the regions people.
Its a hearty plant.
It can grow up to 40 feet.
And thats Tucson, Mr. Snell said.
Were a community thats growing.
Were adaptive.
And were durable.
Amazon said it could not accept gifts but thanked Tucson on Twitter.
The company then returned the plant to the city.
That was a good outcome for the cactus, which would suffer in the Seattle rain.
Still, Mr. Snell had achieved his goal.
We wanted to cut through the noise, and they definitely noticed it, he said.
And when they choose Tucson, they can come out and experience a million saguaros.
Mr. Altizer is part of a backlash against the women in technology movement.
While many in the tech industry had previously dismissed the fringe mens rights arguments, some investors, executives and engineers are now listening.
Though studies and surveys show there is no denying the travails women face in the male-dominated industry, some said that the line for what counted as harassment had become too easy to cross and that the push for gender parity was too extreme a goal.
Few were willing to talk openly about their thinking, for fear of standing out in largely progressive Silicon Valley.
Even so, witch hunt is the new whispered meme.
Some in tech have started identifying as contrarians, to indicate subtly that they do not follow the diversity dogma.
And self-described mens rights activists in Silicon Valley said their numbers at meetings were rising.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Others are playing down the women-in-tech issue.
Onstage at a recent event, the venture capitalist Vinod Khosla said harassment in Silicon Valley was rarer than in most other businesses.
Many men now feel like theres a gun to the head to be better about gender issues, said Rebecca Lynn, a venture capitalist at Canvas Ventures, and while theres a high awareness right now, which is positive, at the same time theres a fear.
The backlash follows increasingly vulgar harassment revelations in Silicon Valley.
Several female engineers and entrepreneurs this year named the men they accused of harassing them, and suddenly techs boys club seemed anything but impervious.
Travis Kalanick, Ubers co-founder, resigned as chief executive after the ride-hailing service was embroiled in harassment accusations.
Dave McClure, head of the incubator 500 Startups, called himself a creep and stepped down.
This month, the chief executive of Social Finance, Mike Cagney, also quit amid a harassment scandal.
In the aftermath, many stood up for gender equality in tech.
Reid Hoffman, LinkedIns founder, asked investors to sign a decency pledge.
Many companies reiterated that they needed to improve work force diversity.
Photo

In just the last 48 hours, Ive spoken to a female tech executive who was grabbed by a male C.E.O.
at a large event and another female executive who was asked to interview at a venture fund because they feel like they need to hire a woman, said Dick Costolo, the former chief of Twitter, who now runs the fitness start-up Chorus.
We should worry about whether the women-in-tech movement has gone too far sometime after a couple of these arent regularly happening anymore.
But those who privately thought things had gone too far were given a voice by James Damore, 28, a soft-spoken Google engineer.
Mr. Damore, frustrated after another diversity training, wrote a memo that he posted to an internal Google message board.
In it, he argued that maybe women were not equally represented in tech because they were biologically less capable of engineering.
Google fired him last month.
After months of apologizing by Silicon Valley for bad behavior, here was a young man whom some in techs leadership could potentially get behind.
Paul Graham, who founded an influential start-up incubator, Y Combinator, posted two articles about how the science behind Mr. Damores memo was accurate.
Another start-up investor, John Durant, wrote that Charles Darwin himself would be fired from Google for his views on the sexes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And the investor Peter Thiels business partner, Eric Weinstein, tweeted, Dear @Google, Stop teaching my girl that her path to financial freedom lies not in coding but in complaining to HR.
Mr. Durant declined to comment.
Mr. Graham said in an email that there needed to be more distinction between fact and policy, and Mr. Weinstein said there was a sea of brilliant women and that more needed to be done to figure out how to more fully empower them.
There is also the threat of Amazon, which has tried food delivery in a few markets.
The Seattle retail giants recent acquisition of Whole Foods provides hundreds of potential bases for drivers to pick up prepared food for delivery in major urban areas, where takeout orders are popular.
The number-one concern for all of these delivery companies is Amazon, said James Cakmak, an analyst at the equity research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Company who follows the food delivery space.
How could Amazon use its network to crush our business?
They have the logistical network and the balance sheet to be able to compete on the price side with all of these players.
Matt Maloney, the founder and chief executive of Grubhub, said his companys focus on food orders set it apart.
Uber has built a great company focused on black car service and human transportation, but succeeding in food delivery is a different game, Mr. Maloney said in a statement.
We are known for one thing only  takeout ordering  and we have engineered our entire product around this purpose.
Photo

Both Amazon and Postmates declined to comment on UberEats.
Uber first dabbled in food delivery in Los Angeles in 2014 under the name UberFresh, offering prepackaged lunches and dinners from restaurants.
Uber also tried other experiments, like UberEssentials, a way to deliver pantry and drugstore items quickly.
If you can hit a button and get a car in a few minutes, what else can you get in a few minutes?
Mr. Droege said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the situation wasnt ideal, with drivers usually carting food around in a safe storage container in their car trunks.
That led to issues with food quality, and customers were unhappy when their food arrived cold.
People also wanted a greater selection of restaurants, something that competitors like Postmates provided.
In December 2015, Mr. Droeges division introduced a separate app, UberEats, in Toronto, working with restaurants to provide freshly cooked meals that could be ordered with a few touches of a smartphone button.
The service took off, and over the next 18 months UberEats expanded its sales force to bring more restaurants on board and to open in new cities.
Photo

Uber executives said UberEats, which is now in more than 120 cities, had several advantages over rivals.
For one, Uber has a network of more than two million drivers who can also deliver food.
Cars used for UberEats also do not need to pass all of the inspection standards required to carry passengers, widening the potential delivery labor pool.
(Drivers need not own a car at all; UberBike is a popular delivery method for food orders.)
Uber has also spent the better part of a decade mapping cities and finding the most efficient routes, which the company said may help improve delivery times.
And since the problems with UberFresh, it has invested in better technology and added more drivers in participating cities.
The ideal UberEats delivery has the driver arrive at the restaurant just as the food has finished cooking, and has it delivered to the customer while still warm.
What Uber has are the last-mile logistics, and thats crucial, Mr. Cakmak said.
Uber has taken the partnership approach to speed up the growth of UberEats, echoing a strategy of companies like Postmates.
Uber struck a deal with McDonalds this year to offer delivery from thousands of its restaurants.
Lucy Brady, a McDonalds executive, said on an investor call in July that the initial results of the partnership were positive.
The service has stumbled at times, including this month when it faced complaints that an ad in India  telling husbands to use UberEats so their wives could take a day off from cooking  was sexist.
The company apologized for the ad.
Uber said it had invested in increasing its UberEats sales force, as well as hiring data scientists to analyze daily information on customer orders and preferences to help restaurants improve their service or promote their more popular menu items.
For Mr. Gordon, the owner of Footprints Cafe, Ubers investments have been a boon for business.
He said the delivery service had helped his restaurant reach new customers outside its loyal Caribbean community, without spending on advertising or promotion on Facebook or Groupon, as he did in the past.
Weve employed people who just work on Uber deliveries, and have a counter just for Uber driver pickup, Mr. Gordon said.
It has definitely been worth it.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And whats noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebooks considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
Whats more, Mr. Zuckerbergs initial reaction to the question of Facebooks role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea, he said at a tech conference days after last years presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebooks history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebooks central tenet of transparency and openness: Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you, he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections, he said in his address on Thursday.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social networks future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the companys old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebooks mobile apps working perfectly became the companys top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
Mobile is everyones job, Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebooks mobile apps.
Soon, Facebooks mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebooks advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandbergs leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebooks main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebooks effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, theres a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the companys might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the worlds most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London, Mr. Khan said in a statement.
Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him, he added, using the abbreviation for the transit agency.
Mr. Khan had said on BBC Radio earlier that Uber was not playing by the rules and had made aggressive threats to take Londons transport authorities to court.
You cant have it both ways  on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner and threatening all sorts of things, on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said.
Fred Jones, a senior executive for Uber in Britain, told BBC radio that Uber was eager to meet with London travel authorities and that the company was not clear about the issues the transit agency had raised.
In its decision on Friday, the agency cited problems with the companys approach to background checks and to reporting criminal offenses.
Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for not following the rules, Mr. Khan said in a statement on Friday.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Mr. Khan added.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision was divisive, winning praise from unions and the drivers of Londons iconic black cabs, who view Uber as a threat to their business.
A petition started by Uber, which criticizes the move, has received the support of more than 750,000 people.
In it, the company accused Transport for London of wanting to restrict consumer choice and making a decision that would affect the lives of hard-working drivers.
Uber will face more scrutiny of its working model in Britain on Wednesday, when a court will hear its appeal against a case it lost in October, when a judge ruled that Uber drivers should be classified as employees and should be treated as such.
Uber says its drivers prefer to be self-employed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If upheld, the judgment would drastically change the dynamics of the so-called gig economy in Britain, forcing companies like Uber to provide workers with the payment, protections and benefits to which full employees are entitle, rather than treating them as contractors.
Detailed plots involving prostitution, rape and masturbation are also forbidden.
So are displays of unhealthy marital values, which the guidelines catalog as affairs, one-night stands, partner swapping and, simply but vaguely, sexual liberation.
Despite the efforts of censors, the internet has long been the most freewheeling of Chinas mass media, a platform where authors and artists  as well as entertainment studios  could reach audiences largely free of the Propaganda Departments traditional controls on broadcasting, publishing, cinema and stage.
But the new restrictions  which expanded and updated a set of prohibitions issued five years ago  reflect an ambitious effort by President Xi Jinpings government to impose discipline and rein in the web.
They were issued by the China Netcasting Services Association, which includes as members more than 600 companies, including the official Xinhua News Agency, the social media giants Sina and Tencent, the dominant search engine Baidu and the news aggregator Jinri Toutiao.
Video

David Bandurski, an analyst and editor for the University of Hong Kongs China Media Project, said the associations rules created the illusion of industry consensus as the companys acquiesced to what party officials call self-discipline.
Many of these companies are private, so its important for the leadership to have a means of bringing them together and creating a means of applying pressure on the collective, he wrote in an email.
It is a tactic of co-option.
Writers, filmmakers, podcasters and others attributed the guidelines and other measures to a new prim and paternalistic ideology taking shape under Mr. Xi, who has called on party members to be paragons of morality in pursuit of what he calls the China Dream.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many also attributed the tightening of controls to official nervousness ahead of a major Communist Party congress scheduled for October.
The congress is expected to reshuffle the countrys leadership and consolidate President Xis already formidable power.
I feel like people say all the time that after the big congress, things will be O.K., said Fan Popo, a documentary filmmaker whose work has run afoul of online censorship because it explores the countrys conflicted views about homosexuality.
But then he noted how online censorship has also spiked ahead of important state holidays and following unexpected events like the death of the Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo.
Its still going on, he said, and its getting worse.
In June, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television announced a new rating system for online bookstores and publishers based on criteria that included upholding moral values.
The powerful Cyberspace Administration  the ultimate authority over what is online in China  also shut down dozens of blogs and social media accounts for covering celebrity news and gossip that month.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Regulators also ordered two popular video streaming sites, AcFun and Bilibili, to stop showing hundreds of foreign television programs, while other state agencies issued a new rule this month prohibiting video sites from streaming even domestically produced shows without a license.
That essentially subjects online programs  often considered edgier  to the same restrictions governing what is broadcast on television, which critics say is dominated by trifles and propaganda.
The directive also ordered online producers to submit plans for creating new dramas between now and 2021 that praise the party, the nation and heroes so as to set a good example.
Photo

The new industry regulations provoked outrage  online, of course.
The countrys leading scholar of sexuality, Li Yinhe, wrote in a scathing commentary on Sina Weibo, Chinas version of Twitter, that the new regulations violated two basic freedoms.
The first is a citizens constitutionally protected right to freedom of creativity; the second is the constitutionally protected right to sexual freedom of sexual minorities.
When Ms. Li called on people to work toward abolishing screening and censorship rules, her posts were deleted, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Much of the online discussion has focused on the new prohibitions of sexual content and the inclusion of homosexuality among a list of abnormal sexual relations that also included incest and sexual assault.
Critics said the regulation appeared to contradict the governments own position on homosexuality, which it decriminalized in 1997 and removed from an official list of mental disorders in 2001.
Chinas censorship agencies exercise overlapping jurisdiction over the internet and often employ policies that create confusion.
The result has been a layered system of control that begins with self-censorship by those who create online content, followed by policing by web platforms, which are often private enterprises, and finally, when necessary, intervention by government regulators or the police.
Some regulations are explicit  no depiction of killing endangered species or underage drinking, for example.
Others are imprecise.
One, for example, prohibits blurring the lines between truth and falsity, good and evil, beauty and ugliness.
Critics say the rules are meant to be so vague that the authorities can justify blocking anything, as circumstances dictate.
The tightening of content censorship is the general trend, but for content creators, they never know where exactly the lines lie, said Gao Ming, who until recently produced a satirical podcast on current affairs called Radio HiLight.
Like others, Mr. Gao acknowledged softening his commentaries to avoid trouble, trying to work around, or one step ahead of, the censors.
For profit or in pursuit of art, many performers and producers have learn to live with the partys limitations.
Ms. Song, the writer, works mostly in a literary genre known as danmei that has become hugely popular among young women.
Taking its inspiration from Japanese stories and manga, it typically involves homoerotic romances.
Songs work is often serialized, with readers paying for new chapters as they are posted on one of the biggest publishing sites, Jinjiang Literature City.
If I want to publish it, she said of her work, then I need to follow the rules.
Ms. Song, who lives in Wuhan, an enormous city in central China, said some of her chapters have been blocked because sensitive keywords appeared in high frequency.
Usually, she then edits enough of those words out to get her writing past the censors and to her readers.
Ms. Song said she was not particularly worried about the new regulations.
Authors cannot use their works to encourage or incite criminal acts, especially among younger readers, she said.
Literature, after all, has a guiding effect.
Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the board had determined that withdrawing the reclassification was in the best interests of Facebook and its shareholders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision to drop the stock reclassification bucks a trend for technology chief executives who have structured their stock to gain outsize control over their company, often at the cost of common shareholder input.
Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who founded Google, and Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy of Snap are among those who hold a disproportionate share of voting power over their companies.
The impetus for the stock reclassification came after Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. Priscilla Chan, his wife, celebrated the birth of their first daughter, Maxima.
The couple used the occasion to found the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a limited liability company that acts as the main vehicle for the couple to give away their wealth over the coming years.
The idea was that it would allow me to keep voting control of Facebook so we can continue to build for the long term, but also allow Priscilla and me to fund the work were doing through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement posted on his personal Facebook page on Friday.
At the time, I felt that this reclassification was the best way to do both of these things, he said.
In fact, I thought it was the only way.
But I also knew it was going to be complicated and it wasnt a perfect solution.
Mr. Zuckerberg and a spokeswoman for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative said the stock reclassification was no longer necessary.
The chief executive noted that because of Facebooks strong stock performance, I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more.
He said he planned to sell 35 million to 75 million shares over the next 18 months to finance work in fields like education and science.
This path offers a way to do all of this, and Im looking forward to making more progress together, Mr. Zuckerberg said.
Photo

Chastened by criticism that Facebook had turned a blind eye to Russias manipulation of the social network to interfere in the 2016 election, the companys executives now acknowledge a need to do better and have promised to be more transparent about who is paying for political ads.
Thats a good start, but more is required  of Facebook, of social media giants generally and of Congress.
Mark Zuckerberg, a co-founder and the chief executive of Facebook, said on Thursday that the company would give congressional investigators more than 3,000 Russia-linked ads and would begin disclosing the names of Facebook business accounts that place political ads on the site.
He also said the company would hire more people to improve security, work more closely with election regulators and crack down on political harassment.
I dont want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy, he said.
Thats not what we stand for.
A day earlier his top lieutenant, Sheryl Sandberg, pledged to change the companys systems so ad buyers couldnt target their missives to racists and anti-Semites.
These statements came two weeks after Facebook said that a business linked to the Russian government had placed $100,000 worth of divisive ads on the site between 2015 and May of this year.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google have become a huge force in the political system and in society broadly.
While their executives have eagerly embraced their status as disrupters and innovators, they have been reluctant to acknowledge that their creations have been used to do harm.
Technology executives have been loath to accept much or any responsibility for the power they and their businesses wield.
In fact, many of them have gone out of their way to avoid or evade rules that apply to the traditional businesses that they are trying to displace.
For example, Facebook argued in a 2011 letter to the Federal Election Commission that it and other internet companies should not be subject to regulations on political ads that radio and TV stations have to abide by.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Zuckerbergs concern about democracy is commendable, and some of the changes he announced could have a positive impact.
But they apply only to his company and can be easily evaded.
Disclosing the name of Facebook business accounts placing political ads, for instance, will be of little value if purchasers can disguise their real identity  calling themselves, say, Americans for Motherhood and Apple Pie.
Further, even if Facebook succeeds in driving away foreign propaganda, the same material could pop up on Twitter or other social media sites.
When it comes to streaming and downloading movies, do you really notice that much of a difference between standard definition and the high-definition version?
A. High-definition (HD) files pack considerably more pixels into the video than those classified as standard definition (SD), and in side-by-side comparisons, the sharpness of the picture and depth of the colors in an HD video can stand out.
You may want to sample both formats on a similar type of movie and see which version you prefer.
Photo

Online video services typically label movies by the number of pixels in their vertical dimension; more pixels generally mean a sharper picture.
HD movies are usually classified as 1,080p or 720p (referring to the resolutions of 1,280 by 720 pixels or 1,920 by 1,080 pixels).
Movies in standard definition have lower resolutions and can vary based on the provider, but a sample SD movie downloaded from iTunes has a resolution of 853 by 352 pixels.
If you are watching the movie on a small tablet, phone or other screen, SD video quality is usually just fine.
Standard-definition videos are less expensive to buy, often by about $5, and $1 or $2 less to rent in some online stores.
Certain devices cannot fully display HD video anyway because the screens lack the needed resolution or the hardware is not compatible.
(Some files may automatically download in standard definition anyway depending on the device you are using.)
Because they contain more data, downloaded HD videos need more bandwidth to stream and, when downloaded, take up more space on your device.
For example, the 720p HD version of The Martian in Apples iTunes Store is a 5.36-gigabyte file, while the SD edition weighs in at 2.54 gigabytes.
If you are downloading a movie to a mobile device to watch offline, the SD edition is a space saver.
If you plan to watch the movie on a high-definition television or high-resolution computer monitor, though, SD video can look flatter and less vibrant than the HD version.
Many video services are now offering movies and television shows in yet another format: ultra high-definition, also known as 4K for its 3,840 by 2,160 pixels of resolution.
Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Netflix, Roku, Vudu and YouTube are among the services with 4K content or devices; video in the 4K H.D.R.
(high dynamic range) format is also available from some services.
To properly appreciate the clarity and color depth of the newer formats, you need a TV or monitor that can actually display 4K or 4K H.D.R.
video  and a lot more bandwidth to stream or store the file.
In a phone conversation, Professor Bessembinder reminded me that the stock market is a moving target and that his rankings, while valid through the end of 2016, dont capture the sharp movements of this calendar year.
In his 2016 rankings, Exxon Mobil, not Apple, appears at the top, with net wealth creation of more than $1 trillion.
Apple lags at about $745 billion.
But it has been a wild year.
Exxon Mobil shares have declined more than 11 percent at a time of weak energy prices, while Apple, which just introduced a raft of new iPhones, is on a spectacular stock surge, gaining more than 37 percent.
Run the numbers as I did, and its clear that at this moment, Apple has pulled ahead of Exxon Mobil, with total net wealth creation of somewhere in the vicinity of $1 trillion.
Counting dividends, Exxon Mobils losses in the stock market have reduced its total to a bit over $910 billion.
(Note that, as a technical matter, Professor Bessembinder defines net wealth creation as total stock returns in excess of one-month Treasury bill returns, which averaged an annualized 3.38 percent, so the actual stock returns for Apple, Exxon, and the others are even higher than indicated.)
Its remarkable that Apple has generated so much wealth in such a short period of time, he said.
Exxon has had decades to pile up those returns.
Exxon is among the top wealth-creating companies that have been publicly trading  under the name of a predecessor, Standard Oil of New Jersey  since the inception of Professor Bessembinders tally in July 1926.
Others include General Electric, IBM, Altria, Coca-Cola, DuPont, PepsiCo and Schlumberger.
He relied on a database developed at the University of Chicago, known as CRSP, for the Center for Research in Security Prices, that contains virtually all publicly traded stocks in the United States.
The Center for Research uses rigorous and logical criteria to determine when stocks enter and depart its listings, with some results that may seem surprising at first glance.
General Motors, for example, ranks eighth.
It was publicly traded in 1926, but the list says it ceased to exist in June 2009.
A company called General Motors exists today, of course, but as Chloe Fu, senior support and relationship manager at the Center for Research in Security Prices, explained it, G.M.s bailout and bankruptcy led the center to declare the old company terminated, with a new G.M.
coming to life in June 2009.
Consequently, the new G.M.
returns arent included in the total for G.M.
on the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The list is a fascinating ranking of big winners in the stock market.
But for a variety of technical reasons, it isnt a straightforward table of the greatest wealth generators in market history.
For example, the long-term gains generated by Exxon Mobil and its predecessors are understated because of the databases limited duration and strict criteria.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exxon Mobils wealth in the list doesnt include Mobils, which Professor Bessembinders listing says, ceased to exist in November 1999, when it merged with Exxon.
And going back further, both Exxon and Mobil were among the descendants of the Standard Oil trust, established by John D. Rockefeller and his partners in the 19th century.
The total wealth generated by the cluster of companies derived at least partially from the trust  which also include Amoco and Chevron  doesnt appear in a single notation, because of the lists logic.
Other apparent oddities are explained by Professor Bessembinders application of the centers criteria.
There are two companies on the list called AT&T, for example, neither capturing the total net wealth generated by an investment in the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company at its 19th century inception.
To start with, the old AT&T, a.k.a.
Ma Bell, is ranked 17th.
It is said to have gone out of existence in November 2005.
Another AT&T appears in the 33rd spot.
That company came to life in March 1984 as Southwestern Bell, spun off from the old AT&T as a result of an antitrust suit.
A descendant of Southwestern Bell bought the AT&T name in 2005 and operates under it today.
Other AT&T cousins are on the list: Verizon, as well as Comcast, which resulted from a merger between AT&T Broadband and an older company also known as Comcast.
The listings for most of the recently created companies are less tangled.
As I wrote in July, Amazon, which started trading in 1997, has soared to the 14th spot.
Although it hasnt been in existence long compared with Exxon Mobil, its annualized return is the highest in the list, 37.4 percent through December.
A group of young companies have also had remarkable results.
Facebook, which started trading in June 2012, is the youngest on the list, with an annualized return of 34.5 percent.
Visa, which had its initial public offering of stock in 2008, is the second-newest company, with a 21 percent annualized return, followed by Alphabet (Google), ranked 11th with a 24.9 percent annualized return.
And then there is that great wealth machine, Microsoft, ranked as the third-greatest wealth creator.
Since 1986, it has had an annualized return of 25 percent, making its founder, Bill Gates, the richest man in the world, with a net worth of more than $87 billion, according to Bloomberg.
No list of wealth-generating companies is complete without Berkshire Hathaway.
It ranks 12th, just behind Alphabet, with an annualized return of 22.6 percent.
By comparison, Exxon Mobils annualized return was only 11.94 percent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Why is Berkshires annualized return so much higher?
It is because the return doesnt include decades of mediocre performance for the old textile company Berkshire Hathaway, which started in 1929.
The Center for Research says the Berkshire on this list started in November 1976.
It was a holding company for Warren E. Buffett, who guided it to fabulous gains.
Thanks to Berkshire, Mr. Buffett is a rich man, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $79 billion.
Anyone who invested in Apple or Microsoft or, really, in any of these companies at their inception and just held on did extraordinarily well.
You might look at that record and conclude that you should just buy the best companies as a foolproof way to get rich.
If only it were that easy.
How do you find those companies?
Not here.
The problem is, I have no idea which companies will generate the best returns over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years,  Professor Bessembinder said.
Probably it will be some companies weve never heard of.
Maybe it will be companies that dont even exist now.
This list is worth studying for understanding the past.
But, unfortunately, its not a guide to the future, except for this: In a market where most of the gains are attributable to a few big winners that are hard to identify in advance, Professor Bessembinder said, it makes a lot of sense to diversify your position  to avoid the danger of omitting the big winners from your portfolio.
Mike: I honestly am a bit confused here.
Remember the Motorola debacle from a few years back?
Google paid more than $12 billion to buy Motorola Mobility, another struggling handset maker, in an attempt to take on Apple more directly and own the hardware stack from top to bottom.
That didnt work out so well.
Google ended up selling Motorola for parts after it realized that, uh, no one wanted to buy Motorola phones.
Some people are saying this is about gaining more expertise inside Google for building hardware.
O.K., I guess.
But lets hope it works out better than last time.
Tough Week for Big Tech

Farhad: Lets turn to Apple, Facebook and Amazon, since they all had a rough week.
For Apple, it was about a buggy smartwatch.
The new Apple Watch is supposed to work on cellular networks, meaning it can reach the internet even if youre away from your phone.
Our own reviewer, Brian X. Chen, found that it worked quite well, but reviewers at The Wall Street Journal and The Verge discovered a flaw in the devices that prevented them from reaching cellular networks in some instances.
Apple said it would fix the bug in a software update, but its still an embarrassing slip from a company that prides itself on getting things perfect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mike: Do we have to call this one Watchgate?
I swear, every few iPhone launches we see some damning flaw in the hardware, and it takes a little shine off their huge annual product introductions.
However, people will still buy their new iPhones in droves, as they always do.
Probably the new watch, too.
And to be fair to Apple, at least they arent shipping phones that explode in your pants pocket.
Farhad: Facebook, meanwhile, had to scramble to fix its ad targeting engine after ProPublica found that advertisers could use the system to target ads using racial slursfor instance, people could show ads to Jew haters.
Other reporters soon found that Googles and Twitters ad systems could also be used to target heinous categories.
Coming on top of reports that Russia used Facebooks ad system to manipulate the American election, the stories fed the perception that these companies just dont know how their systems are being used.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mike: And dont forget that Facebook finally came out with a nine-point list on how the company plans to comply with continuing investigations into Russian-linked ads and even begin some forms of self-regulation for political ads on Facebook.
Its a huge story.
Farhad: Oh, for further evidence of the cluelessness of tech companies over their platforms, Amazons website has been recommending bomb-making materials to people, a British report found.
Boy oh boy.
Remember when tech was fun and zany, when it was all about getting cool gadgets?
Were long past that.
Mike: I started playing a video game the other day thats basically Grand Theft Auto meets San Francisco hackers.
Part of the game includes making guns from a 3-D printer.
The future is terrifying.
A Tainted Image

Farhad: The rapidly deteriorating image of tech companies is having real-world consequences.
Our colleague Cecilia Kang reported that Facebook and Google have lost so much clout in Washington that theyve all but given up trying to stop a sex-trafficking bill that they think could have negative consequences for their businesses.
The bill would allow people to sue some websites for the content they host  a huge change to existing law, which doesnt hold companies responsible for stuff their users post on their sites, as long as they work to take down illegal material.
Internet giants were gearing up to fight the law, but theyve determined that the growing anti-tech sentiment makes it too difficult.
Its hard out there for a tech giant  other than all those billions of dollars they keep raking in.
Mike: Right, and I think tech companies have grown wise to where the tide is turning.
Right now, were seeing Facebook try to get ahead of Congress by announcing that it wants to essentially regulate its own political ads, largely because it doesnt want Congress to intervene.
Also, I can only imagine that Google, Twitter and Amazon are bracing for the possibility of this story picking apart their businesses, too.
In any case, the future is scary!
Should we trust these tech companies that say theyve got it covered, and have our best interests in hand?
Farhad: Um  probably not?
O.K., see ya.
Mike: Ta ta for now!
A ban on operating in one of its largest markets would certainly hit Ubers bottom line.
The company said it had 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million customers in London who used its app at least once every three months.
Mr. Khosrowshahi, in a Twitter post on Friday afternoon, acknowledged that Uber was far from perfect and urged city regulators to work out a solution with the company.
Less than a year ago, a British tribunal ruled that Uber could no longer treat its drivers as self-employed contractors and would have to meet tougher labor standards, including offering holiday pay and pensions.
Fit and proper is a benchmark that Britain applies across different industries and its charitable organizations to ensure that people or organizations meet the requirements of their industry or specialty.
Ubers approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications, Transport for London said in a statement.
Tests typically assess factors like an individual or companys honesty, transparency and competence, though there is no formal exam.
In Ubers case, Transport for London said it had examined issues of how the company dealt with serious criminal offenses, how it conducted background checks on drivers and its justification for a software program called Greyball, which could be used to block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to the app.
In May, Transport for London extended Ubers license by four months as it considered whether the company met that threshold.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for it being unsafe, Londons mayor, Sadiq Khan, wrote in The Guardian soon after the ruling was announced.
The regulatory environment is critical in protecting Londoners safety, maintaining workplace standards for drivers and sustaining a vibrant taxi and private hire market with space for a range of providers to flourish.
Ubers London license will now expire on Sept. 30.
But it can continue to operate in the city during the appeal process in Britains courts.
Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in London, said the agency and Mr. Khan had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
Uber conducted background checks using the methods used for black-cab drivers, he said.
Our pioneering technology has gone further to enhance safety with every trip tracked and recorded by GPS, Mr. Elvidge said, adding that the company had a dedicated team who work closely with the Metropolitan Police.
He also said Greyball had not been used to block scrutiny by regulators or the police in London.
The move by regulators in London picks up the political mood of the times, said Tony Travers, a professor at the London School of Economics.
London, like New York and Paris, is full of urban progressives who, even if they use Uber, feel guilty when they read things about it that they dont like.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Thursday, a Dutch appeals court upheld a ban of an Uber service in the Netherlands, saying the companys low-cost UberPop ride-hailing offering had been operated illegally.
The French authorities took a similar case to the Court of Justice of the European Union, and last year Uber and two executives were convicted and fined the equivalent of nearly $500,000 in France in relation to UberPop.
In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio has criticized Ubers rapid expansion for making congestion worse on city streets.
But in 2015, his administration backed down from a fight with Uber by abruptly dropping a plan for a cap on the number of Uber vehicles operating within the city.
Until now, London had been one of Ubers most notable success stories outside the United States.
It debuted in the city in 2012, just before the Summer Olympics, initially with a luxury service.
It added UberX, which competes more directly with the citys storied black taxis, a year later.
The company now operates in more than 40 cities and towns across Britain.
Its arrival here, however, created a clash almost immediately with the black cabs, which trace their roots to 1634.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Black-cab drivers, who earn licenses by memorizing some 25,000 streets and 100,000 landmarks for an exacting test known as The Knowledge, complain that Uber drivers are under-regulated.
Many fear that the rivalry will put them out of business: Uber fares are about 30 percent lower than those of black cabs.
The conflict also involves tensions over ethnicity and class.
Most black-cab drivers are white native-born Britons, while many Uber drivers are immigrants.
Uber has said it receives hundreds of complaints a month from its drivers about remarks from black-cab drivers.
Among the insults hurled are Uber slave!
and Go back to your country!
Many black-cab drivers have now signed up with competing apps like Gett and MyTaxi, which like Uber allow passengers to hail rides via their smartphones.
Londoners can also choose from a wide variety of private-hire services, known as minicabs.
Black-cab drivers, and the unions representing them, cheered Fridays ruling.
Jeffrey Marcus, who has been driving a London taxi for 42 years, described it as long overdue.
Weve got a brilliant taxi service here, Mr. Marcus, 67, said.
You pay a little more for a licensed taxi, but you get the service.
The reaction online to the Transport for London ruling, however, was generally negative.
Hours after the decision was announced, a Change.org petition that was started and heavily promoted by Uber within its app and via emails to customers had over 200,000 signatures.
Ahmad Shoaib, an Uber driver, said the service was being unfairly targeted.
I know there have been some problems with drivers, but most of us are good and reliable and play by the rules, he said.
It is not fair to punish everyone because of the mistakes of one or two people.
Mr. Shoaib switched to Uber from a minicab company in Croydon, in South London, after he saw how much work friends were getting from the ride-hailing service.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

London needs Uber, he said, its cheap and easy.
Facebook is fighting through a tangled morass of privacy, free-speech and moderation issues with governments all over the world.
Congress is investigating reports that Russian operatives used targeted Facebook ads to influence the 2016 presidential election.
In Myanmar, activists are accusing Facebook of censoring Rohingya Muslims, who are under attack from the countrys military.
In Africa, the social network faces accusations that it helped human traffickers extort victims families by leaving up abusive videos.
Few of these issues stem from willful malice on the companys part.
Its not as if a Facebook engineer in Menlo Park personally greenlighted Russian propaganda, for example.
On Thursday, the company said it would release political advertisements bought by Russians for the 2016 election, as well as some information related to the ads, to congressional investigators.
But the troubles do make it clear that Facebook was simply not built to handle problems of this magnitude.
Its a technology company, not an intelligence agency or an international diplomatic corps.
Its engineers are in the business of building apps and selling advertising, not determining what constitutes hate speech in Myanmar.
And with two billion users, including 1.3 billion who use it every day, moving ever greater amounts of their social and political activity onto Facebook, its possible that the company is simply too big to understand all of the harmful ways people might use its products.
The reality is that if youre at the helm of a machine that has two billion screaming, whiny humans, its basically impossible to predict each and every possible nefarious use case, said Antonio Garca Martnez, author of the book Chaos Monkeys and a former Facebook advertising executive.
Its a Whac-a-Mole problem.
Elliot Schrage, Facebooks vice president of communications and public policy, said in a statement: We work very hard to support our millions of advertisers worldwide, but sometimes  rarely  bad actors win.
We invest a lot of time, energy and resources to make these rare events extinct, and were grateful to our community for calling out where we can do better.
Photo

When Mark Zuckerberg built Facebook in his Harvard dorm room in 2004, nobody could have imagined its becoming a censorship tool for repressive regimes, an arbiter of global speech standards or a vehicle for foreign propagandists.
But as Facebook has grown into the global town square, it has had to adapt to its own influence.
Many of its users view the social network as an essential utility, and the companys decisions  which posts to take down, which ads to allow, which videos to show  can have real life-or-death consequences around the world.
The company has outsourced some decisions to complex algorithms, which carries its own risks, but many of the toughest choices Facebook faces are still made by humans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They still see themselves as a technology middleman, said Mr. Garca Martnez.
Facebook is not supposed to be an element of a propaganda war.
Theyre completely not equipped to deal with that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even if Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg dont have personal political aspirations, as has been rumored, they are already leaders of an organization that influences politics all over the world.
And there are signs that Facebook is starting to understand its responsibilities.
It has hired a slew of counterterrorism experts and is expanding teams of moderators around the world to look for and remove harmful content.
On Thursday, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a video posted on Facebook that the company would take several steps to help protect the integrity of elections, like making political ads more transparent and expanding partnerships with election commissions.
We will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world, but also to give everyone a voice and to be a force for good in democracy everywhere, he said.
But there may not be enough guardrails in the world to prevent bad outcomes on Facebook, whose scale is nearly inconceivable.
Alex Stamos, Facebooks security chief, said last month that the company shuts down more than a million user accounts every day for violating Facebooks community standards.
Even if only 1 percent of Facebooks daily active users misbehaved, it would still mean 13 million rule breakers, about the number of people in Pennsylvania.
In addition to challenges of size, Facebooks corporate culture is one of cheery optimism.
That may have suited the company when it was an upstart, but it could hamper its ability to accurately predict risk now that its a setting for large-scale global conflicts.
Several current and former employees described Facebook to me as a place where engineers and executives generally assume the best of users, rather than preparing for the worst.
Even the companys mission statement  Give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together  implies that people who are given powerful tools will use those tools for socially constructive purposes.
Clearly, that is not always the case.
Hiring people with darker views of the world could help Facebook anticipate conflicts and misuse.
But pessimism alone wont fix all of Facebooks issues.
It will need to keep investing heavily in defensive tools, including artificial intelligence and teams of human moderators, to shut down bad actors.
It would also be wise to deepen its knowledge of the countries where it operates, hiring more regional experts who understand the nuances of the local political and cultural environment.
Facebook could even take a page from Wall Streets book, and create a risk department that would watch over its engineering teams, assessing new products and features for potential misuse before launching them to the world.
Now that Facebook is aware of its own influence, the company cant dodge responsibility for the world it has helped to build.
In the future, blaming the monster wont be enough.
Dmitri S. Peskov, a spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, denied on Friday that Russia had been involved in any way.
The Kremlin, he said, does not even know how to put advertisements on Facebook, adding, We have never done it, and the Russian side has never been involved in this.
For Facebook, the move to work with the congressional committees underscored how far the social network has strayed from being a mere technology company and how it has increasingly had to deal with the unintended consequences of the tools it provides to reach the more than two billion people who use the site regularly.
The company became more proactive in deflecting criticism this week, with its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, describing on Wednesday the steps Facebook would take to strengthen its ad system so that it could not be misused to target racists.
On Thursday, in a move clearly intended to pre-empt government intervention, Mr. Zuckerberg outlined the list of actions Facebook planned to take in the coming weeks to make political advertising more transparent.
He said each ad will show which Facebook Page  a kind of account required for businesses to create an ad  had paid for the ad, although that would not necessarily identify the people behind the Facebook Page.
In addition, Facebook plans to invest more heavily in its security teams, expand its coordination with global election commissions, and work closely with other tech companies to share threat information as it arises.
In his seven-minute talk from Facebooks headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., Mr. Zuckerberg suggested there may be additional fake accounts linked to Russia or other foreign countries.
We are looking into foreign actors, including additional Russian groups and other former Soviet states, he said.
Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, noted that Thursday was his first day back from parental leave after the birth of a daughter.
But despite that folksy touch, he had the look of an improbably young leader addressing his people at a moment of crisis.
With his talk of the democratic process, foreign actors, and election integrity  mentioning Germanys elections this weekend in particular  Mr. Zuckerberg reinforced Facebooks status as a transnational global behemoth whose power reaches into every corner of contemporary life.
We are in a new world, he said.
It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation-states attempting to subvert elections.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Despite Russias stealth attack, Mr. Zuckerberg argued that Facebook remained a force for good in democracy, promoting billions of online discussions, linking voters to candidates and helping two million Americans register to vote.
He said that positive role was 100 or 1,000 times bigger than the illicit activity.
Twitter, which has kept a low profile since Facebooks disclosure of the Russian intrusion, has announced that it will brief the Senate Intelligence Committee next Wednesday behind closed doors.
In a statement, Twitter did not address illicit Russian activity on its platform but said it deeply respects the integrity of the election process, a cornerstone of all democracies and vowed to continue to strengthen our platform against bots and other forms of manipulation.
Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee, praised Facebooks announcement but said he still believed regulation was needed to ensure that voters know more about who is behind ads on social media.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This is a good first step, he said.
Im disappointed its taken 10 months of raising this issue before theyve become much more transparent.
He said he believed there were additional troll farms in both Russia and Eastern Europe, and its really important that Facebook work with us to investigate other sources of advertising and fake accounts.
Mr. Warner said he believed the 3,000 ads, which the committees had not yet received, should be made public with protections for the privacy of any innocent people whose names may be in the material.
Mr. Warner and Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, circulated a letter inviting colleagues to co-sponsor a bill that would require greater transparency for online political ads, according to a copy of the letter seen by The New York Times.
A spokeswoman for Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, who is chairman of the intelligence panel, said he had no comment Thursday night.
The Times reported this month that Russian intelligence appeared to have been behind an infestation of Twitter with automated accounts, called bots, that spread messages against Mrs. Clinton last year.
The cybersecurity company FireEye identified what it called warlists of hundreds of fake accounts that fired off identical political messages.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times also found Facebook accounts that appeared to have been created by ordinary Americans but were actually concocted by Russian agents.
Facebook, which had said as recently as July that it had found no evidence of fraudulent Russian ad purchases, reversed itself this month and said it had removed 470 profiles and pages that it said were linked to the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company with ties to the Kremlin.
Facebook found $100,000 of ad purchases that were linked to the fake pages  designed to look like the pages of Americans animated by particular issues  that spread inflammatory messages about immigration, guns and other topics; derided Mrs. Clinton and supported Mr. Trump.
Facebook shut the accounts down in recent weeks but declined to name or describe them publicly, saying federal law prohibited it from making customer communications public.
Although Facebook had declined to identify the fake Russian pages, The Daily Beast and other news organizations ferreted out a few of them, including one called Secured Borders on immigration and another called Being Patriotic that promoted pro-Trump rallies in Florida last year.
The illicit Russian exploitation of social media fits squarely into Mr. Muellers wide-ranging investigation, and the companies said they have fully cooperated with his requests for detailed data.
Though most public attention has been focused on whether the Trump campaign helped with the Russian hacking, leaking and other intrusions, the special counsels assignment is a full and thorough investigation of the Russian governments efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.
One question for Mr. Mueller is certain to be whether the Russian Facebook advertising  and any other promotions using Twitter or other services  showed evidence of the kind of sophisticated targeting that might indicate that Americans had provided assistance.
Facebook has said some of the ads were targeted to particular geographic areas but has not given details.
For the social media companies, the furor over Russias interference raises a possibility that they deeply fear: government regulation, at least for the part of their business that involves political advertising.
Political ads on social media have thus far escaped the rules that require, for instance, the familiar I approve this message tagline on candidates television spots.
Tech executives worry that new rules could hinder the worlds largest digital advertising businesses.
Because of the self-service advertising system these tech giants have created, anyone who has an account and a credit card can buy an ad.
That has made for a long tail of small-ticket advertisers who add up to millions of dollars in spending.
Facebooks number one priority is ad revenue, said Ian Schafer, chief experience officer of Engine USA, a digital advertising holding company.
The last thing Facebook wants to do is give the government an inch, because then theyll probably take a mile.
Last year, Facebook made nearly $28 billion in annual revenue, up 57 percent from a year earlier, and the trajectory remains bright.
Roughly 97 percent of that revenue came from the companys ad business.
Is it true that Google Drive is being discontinued?
A. Google announced this month that it will end support for the Google Drive desktop apps for Windows and Mac computers on Dec. 11 and that the software will be shut down for good on March 12.
But while those handy desktop programs for managing your files in the cloud are destined for retirement, Googles online backup service is not going anywhere soon.
You just get to it through different desktop programs.
(You can also continue to just upload and download stored files through your Google Account in a web browser.)
For desktop users who backed up files to cloud servers with the Google Drive app, the company has two newer programs to do the job instead.
The Backup and Sync app for Windows and Mac, introduced in July, is Googles software for users of its free services.
The program can be set to synchronize copies of locally stored photos and other files on the computer to Googles cloud servers.
(Note that you get a free 15 gigabytes of storage from Google, but if you max it out, you need to buy more space if you want to keep storing all your files on the companys servers.)
Photo

Business customers using the paid G Suite version of Googles Gmail, calendar and business programs have a choice.
They can use Backup and Sync, too, or switch to the new Drive File Stream app for Windows or Mac.
Drive File Stream has been available since March for early adopters and officially arrives on Tuesday.
Google recommends that its business customers use the Drive File Stream for a few reasons, including faster data-sync times.
Additionally, the app stores the files online for direct use and puts less corporate data on the users hard drives; specific files and folders can be marked for local storage and use offline when an internet connection is not available.
Users running both Backup and Sync and Drive File Stream on the same computer will get a nudge from Google to switch to the latter app to save disk space.
Those still using the Google Drive app will begin to see alerts next month announcing that the software is headed to the digital dustbin.
To fulfill his flow-finding mission, Mr. Wheal wants to bring what he calls his Dojo Domes to locations around the world.
Next year, he and his partners hope to build a one-million-square-foot complex in Vancouver, British Columbia, with a medical emphasis, combining brain-imaging technology with simpler equipment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Wheal began to envision gatherings of this sort in 2007, while he was teaching at Esalen, the spiritual retreat in California.
With Steven Kotler, a journalist, he founded the Flow Genome Project, based in Austin, Tex., and dedicated to gathering the latest science behind flow states.
Its board of advisers includes neuroscientists, filmmakers and a kiteboarder.
It was his book, Stealing Fire, written with Mr. Kotler and published earlier this year, that attracted many of the flow campers to Utah.
In it, Mr. Wheal and Mr. Kotler consider the question of peak human performance, describing how so many powerful companies and individuals are now trying to optimize their own brains, in ways both legal and illegal.
They offer case studies from the Navy SEALs and Google, arguing that what the world today faces wicked problems, unprecedented and complex, that require creative solutions, the kinds that are most likely to come not from staid meetings in conference rooms but rather from non-ordinary states.
Flow, they write, is associated with six neurotransmitters: dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, norepinephrine, anandamide and endorphins.
Knowing the neurochemical profile of flow means, in theory, people can devise ways of achieving it more often, more reliably and more quickly.
The new generation of flowsters are excited, perhaps, that using the advances of neuroscience, they might not have to meditate every day for 10 years to gain access to these layers of their brains.
Photo

This was a significant investment of time and money for me  this tells you how compelled I was to come here, said Alexandre Lang-Willar.
At 28, Mr. Lang-Willar is in some ways the embodiment of Mr. Wheals target demographic: the high achiever who grasps the brass ring, only to discover he craves something more.
Mr. Lang-Willar quit his job as a Goldman Sachs analyst and has created a dating app with his father called Invite and Meet, centered on live activities, that will be introduced later this year.
Reading Stealing Fire, Mr. Lang-Willar said, he became convinced that nothing less than a cultural awakening was underway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By 8 a.m. each morning, the flow campers lay prone and shoeless in the Dojo Dome, moving back and forth on brightly colored foam rollers.
Other daily activities included balancing and bouncing on big yellow balls; acro-yoga, in which partners learn to lift each other in the air; and strapping into special contraptions, like Mr. Wheals 360 Swing, which allows those courageous enough to propel themselves, standing up, all the way around the swings axle in a complete loop.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All of these undertakings were in the service of honing a crucial element in flow, what Mr. Wheal refers to as embodied cognition: integrating our whole minds and bodies through specific exercise, based on the science showing that physical movement directly affects how we think and feel.
They are tapping into spiritual intelligence that before now was only really talked about in a religious context, Kristen Ulmer said, sitting outside the Dojo Dome one morning.
Ms. Ulmer, formerly the top ranked extreme skier in the world, has also written a book, The Art of Fear.
She went on: A lot more people are saying theyre spiritual but not religious  but what does that really mean?
I would say sports and movement are the most oft way we access a spiritual experience and transcend our ego, but theyre the least discussed and least understood.
The two sides did not disclose how many engineers and other key employees would head to Google as part of the deal.
But Peter Shen, HTCs chief financial officer, said the remaining company would still have more than 2,000 research and design staffers, down from about 4,000.
As part of the agreement, Google will also secure a nonexclusive licensing deal for some of HTCs intellectual property.
HTC said it will continue to make its own smartphones  including a new premium model  although it plans to streamline its handset portfolio.
By acquiring the HTC engineering group that had already been working with the company, Google secured hardware talent without taking on expensive assets, like manufacturing facilities.
The deal marks a reversal for Google.
The company abandoned its plans to own a smartphone manufacturer when it sold Motorola to Chinas Lenovo Group for $2.9 billion in 2014, less than three years after acquiring the handset business for $12.5 billion.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Google, which makes the Android operating system for smartphones, retained many of Motorolas patents  an important asset to fend off potential intellectual property lawsuits from Apple.
As the Android software world has become dominated by Samsung Electronics, Google has wanted more say in the manufacturing of the phones that use its operating system.
Currently, most of Googles smartphone software runs on devices manufactured by companies like Samsung and LG Electronics, and Google has only a limited say in what those companies produce.
With the introduction of the first Pixel smartphone last year, Google said it was creating the smartphone it had always intended to build.
Google took control of the entire development process of the device, from the industrial design to the procurement of components.
The Pixel received positive reviews, but it hasnt made much of a dent in the smartphone market.
HTC was an early leader in smartphones.
But it has struggled against more popular competitors while trying to fend off pressure from low-end Chinese manufacturers.
Its decline is another indication of the challenges facing many smartphone manufacturers, who are struggling to make profits while competing against Apple and Samsung.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Operating losses piled up at HTC in recent years, forcing it to slash research and marketing spending, exacerbating the challenge of keeping pace with the bigger companies.
HTC said it will continue with its virtual-reality business centered around its Vive VR headsets.
Google and HTC have a long history of working together.
HTC sold the first smartphone to run Android software, in 2008, and it produced Googles first-generation Nexus smartphone  the predecessor to the Pixel.
The transaction is scheduled to close, pending regulatory approval, in early 2018.
The Equifax breach, which focused on a database that contained the personal information of 143 million Americans, focused attention on the vulnerabilities of private companies that handle sensitive personal financial information.
The S.E.C.
sometimes handles its own sensitive information, including disclosures that companies are allowed to keep away from investors.
Such information could give traders an edge.
The S.E.C.
may have presented a ripe target.
The Government Accountability Office in July released a 27-page report that found deficiencies in the S.E.C.s information systems that limited the effectiveness of the S.E.Cs controls for protecting confidentiality, integrity and availability.
It also found that the S.E.C.
did not always encrypt information and had failed to fully implement recommendations from the G.A.O.
that would help detect intrusion.
In its response, the S.E.C.
said it agreed with the recommendations of the report but added that it had implemented a number of its suggestions.
The S.E.C.s new director, Walter J. Clayton, has said the agency would work to improve its cybersecurity protections.
Information sharing and coordination are essential for regulators to assess potential cyberthreats and respond to a major cyberattack, should one arise, he said in July in a speech.
We at the S.E.C.
are working closely with our fellow financial regulators to improve our ability to receive critical information and alerts and react to cyberthreats.
If the data stolen from the S.E.C.s Edgar system was used by hackers to trade in stocks and reap profits, it would represent the latest in a new area of concern for regulators in the United States  an area in which the underbelly of the internet is joining forces with the darker corners of Wall Street.
In 2015, the S.E.C.
brought the first insider trading case of its kind against a group of rogue stock traders who used hackers in Ukraine to get nonpublic information about companies.
Insider trading refers to buying or selling of a stock by a trader who has inside knowledge that the investing public is not aware of, creating an unfair advantage.
Typically, insider trading cases concern corporate insiders who leak information to friends, family or business associates in return for a personal benefit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In this case, the men were accused of using hackers to break into companies like Business Wire and PR Newswire over a period of five years to steal 150,000 not-yet-public news releases of publicly traded companies.
Federal prosecutors alleged that 32 traders and hackers reaped more than $100 million in illegal proceeds in a scheme so brazen that the traders would send shopping lists of corporate news releases for sneak-peeking purposes to the hackers in order to place trades.
The agency said it did not believe that the breach had involved personal information or that it would jeopardize the agencys activities.
Cybersecurity is critical to the operations of our markets, and the risks are significant and, in many cases, systemic, said Mr. Clayton, the agencys chairman, in the statement.
We must be vigilant.
We also must recognize  in both the public and private sectors, including the S.E.C.
that there will be intrusions, and that a key component of cyber risk management is resilience and recovery.
There is much stronger agreement among me and my colleagues that there needs to be more aggressive enforcement action on tech companies like Google, said Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut and a sponsor of the sex trafficking bill.
The companies, recognizing the new environment in Washington, have started to fortify their lobbying forces and recalibrate their positions.
In the last year, Amazon has added antitrust to its roster of issues, hiring a former senior Senate staff member who helped shape antitrust policies.
Google has paid several outside lobbying firms to argue against the sex trafficking bill, according to recent federal filings.
Photo

We are disruptive, and that creates a lot of tension, concern, worry and jealousy and sometimes rightfully identifies real problems that need solutions, said Ed Black, president of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, which represents Facebook, Google, Amazon and other tech companies.
Tech companies have faced political pressure in Europe for years.
That is expected to continue, with regulators prepared to push a new set of proposals to get the tech companies to pay more in taxes.
The politics for the companies in the United States began to change after the 2016 presidential election, when attention turned to the role social media sites play in shaping public opinion.
The scrutiny grew after companies struggled to eliminate fake content from their sites, raising fears that the platforms were too big to manage.
After Facebook revealed to Congress that it had accepted money for political ads from fake accounts linked to Russia, Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, started calling for new disclosure laws for the companies.
He plans to begin writing a bill this week that requires Facebook and other social media companies to release funding sources for political ads, as is required for television broadcasters.
This is uncharted territory, Mr. Warner said in an interview.
The growth in political advertising is in the digital world, and if this is the most targeted and potentially most effective way into politics, the paid advertising rules that broadcasters rely upon should also apply in the social media world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Perhaps no issue in Washington has exposed the vulnerability of the tech companies as much as the sex trafficking bill.
At the heart of the debate for the tech companies is a change to a 20-year-old law that prevents people from suing internet companies for things people post on websites.
The companies, supported by some civil liberties groups, say the existing law has protected free speech and allowed internet companies to grow without fear of lawsuits.
The bill being debated, written by Senator Rob Portman, a Republican from Ohio, and Mr. Blumenthal, would allow state and local authorities to prosecute sites that host content related to sex trafficking.
Their bill, which has bipartisan support from dozens of members in the Senate, would also enable people to sue websites.
Video

Companies like Google and Facebook vehemently opposed the law when it was introduced, warning that it would expose web companies to numerous lawsuits because the actions of users are hard to police.
The bill had provisions that would shield companies like Google and Facebook that have policies to combat sex trafficking, but the companies pushed back nonetheless.
Starting about two weeks ago, as politicians stepped up their attacks against their businesses, Facebook and Google realized that the political landscape had changed, according to two people with knowledge of the decisions who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the internal corporate decisions were private.
So instead, the companies began trying to negotiate changes to the bill with Mr. Portman and other senators instead of trying to stop it entirely.
As of Tuesday, Facebook and Google were still trying to negotiate changes with Senate staff members.
One effort, by Google, would block state attorneys general from prosecuting web platforms for hosting any third-party sites that aided sex trafficking.
Google said the Justice Department should be the sole agency in charge of enforcing sex trafficking laws.
Mr. Portman has viewed enforcement by state attorneys general as the centerpiece of the legislation.
He will not agree to weakening the enforcement role of local and state prosecutors, according to his spokesman, Kevin Smith.
Well continue to engage members of Congress, anti-trafficking organizations and the industry to try and get to a resolution that addresses the problem without creating unintended side effects, Susan Molinari, Googles vice president of public policy, said in a statement.
Facebook appeared more eager to reach a deal with lawmakers, according to two Senate staff members and a tech industry official, who all said the company had expressed a willingness to allow state law enforcement.
They spoke on the condition of anonymity because Facebooks discussions with the lawmakers were private.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We strongly believe that there is a legislative solution that can address this terrible problem while ensuring that the internet remains open and free and that responsible companies can continue to work to stop sex trafficking before it happens, Erin Egan, a vice president of public policy at Facebook, said in a statement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Senators have not held back their continued frustration with the tech industry, even as the position of the companies has changed somewhat.
On Tuesday, the Senate commerce committee held an emotional hearing on bill, called the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, that included the mother of a teenage victim of trafficking.
The Senate invited Facebook and Google to testify but they declined, according to a member of the committee staff, instead sending their trade group, the Internet Association, to represent them.
Silicon Valley holds itself out as being more than just an industry but a movement to make the world a better place, Mr. Portman said in the hearing.
But selling human beings online is the dark side of the internet.
Other issues related to tech companies have gained less traction.
The earliest criticism of big tech companies came from left-leaning politicians and economists, whose ideas were largely dismissed by Washington lawyers and regulators as fringe ideas.
But there are signs that the companies are starting to take them more seriously now as well.
The New America Foundation, a left-leaning research group in Washington that is financed by Google and Eric Schmidt, the chairman of its parent company, recently fired a division of antitrust scholars who had been critical of the company.
Google has denied playing a role in the split.
In California, big tech companies joined internet service providers like AT&T and Comcast  their adversaries on many policy issues  to fight a state broadband privacy law, fearing that it could embolden other states and federal regulators to write broader internet privacy rules.
Even Amazons recent move to buy Whole Foods Market for $13.4 billion generated political attention.
Amazon and Whole Foods have a small portion of the overall grocery market, an important measure in antitrust decisions, and the deal quickly passed an antitrust review by the Federal Trade Commission.
But some lawmakers raised questions about Amazons deep pockets and its ability to undercut the prices of smaller competitors.
Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, pressed F.T.C.
officials to justify their decision, arguing that the agency should have looked at longer-term competition factors.
She has also introduced a bill that would force companies to prove that their deals would not be anticompetitive in the future.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We need to start adjusting to a world where we are right now, said Ms. Klobuchar.
Antitrust laws havent been updated since the 1950s.
In the 1950s, they didnt envision a major search engine dominating the internet.
They didnt even have the internet.
But there are gaps in the way these sensors operate, and combining their disparate streams of data is difficult.
Aevas prototype  a breed of lidar that measures distances more accurately and also captures speed  aims to fill several of these sizable holes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I dont even think of this as a new kind of lidar, said Tarin Ziyaee, co-founder and chief technology officer at the self-driving taxi start-up Voyage, who has seen the Aeva prototype.
Its a whole different animal.
Founded in January and funded by the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Lux Capital, among others, Aeva joins a widespread effort to build more effective sensors for autonomous vehicles, a trend that extends from start-ups like Luminar, Echodyne and Metawave to established hardware makers like the German multinational Robert Bosch.
The companys name, Aeva, is a play on Eve, the name of the robot in the Pixar movie WALL-E.

Photo

The market for autonomous vehicles will grow to $42 billion by 2025, according to research by the Boston Consulting Group.
But for that to happen, the vehicles will need new and more powerful sensors.
Todays autonomous cars are ill prepared for high-speed driving, bad weather and other common situations.
The recent improvements in self-driving cars coincided with the improvements offered by new lidar sensors from a Silicon Valley company called Velodyne.
These sensors gave cars a way of measuring distances to nearby vehicles, pedestrians and other objects.
They also provided Google and other companies with a way of mapping urban roadways in three dimensions, so that cars will know exactly where they are at any given moment  something GPS cannot always provide.
But these lidar sensors have additional shortcomings.
They can gather information only about objects that are relatively close to them, which limits how fast the cars can travel.
Their measurements arent always detailed enough to distinguish one object from another.
And when multiple driverless cars are close together, their signals can become garbled.
Other devices can pick up some of slack.
Cameras are a better way of identifying pedestrians and street signs, for example, and radar works over longer distances.
Thats why todays self-driving cars track their surroundings through so many different sensors.
But despite this wide array of hardware  which can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars per vehicle  even the best autonomous vehicles still have trouble in so many situations that humans can navigate with ease.
With their new sensor, Messrs. Salehian and Rezk are working to change that.
Mr. Rezk is an engineer who designed optical hardware for Nikon, and presumably, he was among those who handled optical sensors for Apples driverless car project, though he and Mr. Salehian declined to say which special project they worked on at the company.
They left Apple late last year.
Photo

Where current lidar sensors send out individual pulses, Aevas device sends out a continuous wave of light.
By reading the way this far more complex signal bounces off surrounding objects, Mr. Rezk said, the device can capture a far more detailed image while also tracking velocity.
You can think of it as a cross between lidar, which is so good at measuring depth, and radar, which is so good at measuring speed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Rezk also said the devices continuous wave would provide greater range and resolution than existing lidar devices, deal better with weather and highly reflective objects like bridge railings, and avoid interference with other optical sensors.
Cars will continue to use multiple kinds of sensors, in part because redundancy helps ensure that these cars are safe.
But Aeva aims to give these cars a better view of the world from a smaller and less expensive set of sensors.
Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, have built similar hardware, and companies like Velodyne and the start-ups Oryx Vision and Quanergy say they are exploring similar ideas.
Like these efforts, the Aeva prototype is still under development, and the company plans to sell devices next year.
But it shows how autonomous car sensors need to evolve  and that they are indeed evolving.
Ultimately, new sensors will allow cars to make better decisions.
With autonomous cars, 90 percent of the time, you are trying to infer what is happening, Mr. Ziyaee said.
But what if you can just measure it?
Ms. Sandberg said the company never intended or anticipated this functionality being used this way  and that is on us.
Facebook has grown into one of the worlds most valuable companies by offering advertisers the ability to quickly and easily target its users based on a vast array of information, from the type of home they live in to their favorite television shows.
But the company is facing a new wave of scrutiny over how those tools can be misused, particularly after it disclosed this month that fake accounts based in Russia had purchased more than $100,000 worth of ads on divisive issues in the run-up to the presidential election.
The site has also been criticized for not anticipating that its technology could be put to nefarious use.
The appearance of these offensive terms was embarrassing for Facebook and reflects the tendency of Silicon Valley companies to overly trust algorithms and automated systems to manage advertising, said Ari Paparo, chief executive of Beeswax, an advertising technology start-up in New York.
The media business is all about people and influence, so theres a necessary role for human moderation and control.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This is not the first time that Facebook has faced issues stemming from a lack of human oversight.
Earlier this year, after a series of violent acts appeared on Facebook Live broadcasts, the company said it would add 3,000 people to the 4,500-member team of employees that reviews and removes content that violates its community guidelines.
But this was the first time that Ms. Sandberg, who is responsible for Facebooks entire advertising organization, has directly addressed the companys high-profile ad issues in public.
Ms. Sandberg, a veteran of the digital advertising industry, grew to acclaim in Silicon Valley by developing Googles sales organization in the search giants early days.
She joined Facebook in 2008, and was asked to do the same for the social network.
Facebook has faced thorny questions about race and its ad-targeting tools before.
Last fall, ProPublica reported that advertisers could use those tools to exclude certain races  or what the social network called ethnic affinities  from housing and employment ads, a potential violation of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Facebook, which assigns the updated term multicultural affinity to certain users based on their interests and activities on the site, no longer allows that classification to be used in ads for housing, employment or credit.
Photo

A whole bunch of problems have come up for Facebook over the past year that are going to have consequences, said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Group who closely follows Facebook.
Its something between sloppiness, an absence of consideration on a range of issues, and the simple challenges of managing a massive company growing at an unparalleled pace.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Facebooks annual revenue, nearly all of which comes from online ads, has more than tripled in the past four years to $27.6 billion in 2016, when it posted a net profit of $10.2 billion.
Separately, the company has also been working to repair its relationship with major advertisers after it disclosed about a year ago that some of its measurement tools were not delivering accurate results.
Facebook, which restricted how advertisers could target users after the publication of last weeks report by ProPublica, reinstated 5,000 of its most commonly used targeting terms, like nurse and teacher, after manually reviewing the options, Ms. Sandberg said in her post.
Ms. Sandberg also said that the company was working on a program to encourage Facebook users to report abuses of its ad system.
The move to add more human reviews is a good one and hopefully they can get ahead of the next issue that might arise in their powerful system, Mr. Paparo said.
This solves one of the main problems that restaurants used to have in the days when old media was the only game in town: How do you keep people talking about your place after the initial buzz dies down?
Photo

Besides the marketing, there are creative implications.
For one thing, chefs are much more focused now on sending out food that photographs well.
So I end up eating a lot of flowers and leaves that dont really taste like much but make the plate more colorful, because most cooked food is brown.
Ditto all the boards and slates and rocks that are being asked to stand in for plates.
It has also sped up the rate at which ideas about food travel from one place to another.
Chefs dont just use photography for marketing.
They are also documenting their work for their peers; you see this in the way Ren Redzepi in Copenhagen uses Instagram.
Its one reason his style has spread around the world in the span of just a few years.
And how has it changed the way you do your job?
What are the pros and cons?
The best thing about having everybody take pictures of food is that I can do it without giving myself away.
I used to be really self-conscious when I took out my phone; Id run to the restroom and take surreptitious notes in the stall.
Now I just snap away all night long, and I look like everybody else.
And photography is the first stage of my note-taking now.
After I get home I reconstruct my impressions of the meal, starting with my pictures of my food and the menu.
When I started this job, a former critic advised me to steal menus when I could get away with it, and thats completely unnecessary now.
Whats your opinion on Yelp, where everyone is a wannabe food critic?
I probably look at Yelp more than some other critics because Im convinced theres valuable information in there.
The hard part is extracting it from all the useless stuff, which is what most people in food media see when they look at Yelp.
The basic problem is that Yelp was built to reward frequent posting rather than knowledge or insight or expertise.
And yet there are people on Yelp who know a lot about food and eat around and have a pretty solid basis for comparison.
I find that Yelp is most useful with Korean, Chinese and Japanese food, because, for a number of reasons, there tend to be a lot of Yelpers who know those cuisines pretty well.
How do you feel about delivery apps like Instacart, Caviar or UberEats?
Do you use them much?
I dont.
I almost never eat at home, and when I do, I want to cook.
I did use Caviar in the context of a restaurant review a few weeks ago and was pretty happy with how well it worked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sites like Yelp give people plenty of information about restaurants.
Yet many restaurants still have their own websites.
Is this necessary?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most valuable thing a restaurant can do on its website is post the current menu and drinks lists, with prices.
All the other data you might want, and theres not really very much, can be served up much more efficiently by Google, although I still think website designers who dont put the restaurants address and phone number and hours right on the home page should be sued for malpractice.
As our food critic, you have to stay unrecognized when you try new restaurants.
How do you do that in an era that demands us to sacrifice privacy on the internet?
This isnt a major issue.
People are always surprised when I say that, but its one of the things that has been least affected by technology.
Before we had digital photographs, restaurants would get their hands on some old head shot of the critic from a book jacket or something  Ruth Reichl, William Grimes and Frank Bruni had all written books before they were restaurant critics  and then photocopy it and share it with all their friends in the business.
I remember, in the 1990s, a friend who worked as a waiter showing me a picture of Ruth, who was the critic at the time.
It was probably a 15th-generation photocopy, but you could still recognize her.
Now the fidelity and resolution are higher, but the picture of me that most restaurants seem to have on their wall is about 10 years old.
There are a few more recent shots, taken across a dining room while I was eating, that are in circulation, but theyre pretty terrible.
My friends know theyre not supposed to put pictures of me on Facebook.
I dont take selfies, but I probably wouldnt be a selfie guy even if I had another job.
Most of the time when Im recognized its because somebody is working in that restaurant who waited on me in another place Ive reviewed.
I dont get caught by technology; I get caught by human memory.
Its sort of reassuring, I guess.
The main challenge is to reform the international tax framework, which was first designed at the start of the 20th century and is no longer fit for purpose, the report said.
It will be published by the commission on Thursday.
The existing system has worked well for traditional brick and mortar companies but as business activities have become more globalized and digitalized the old rules work less well, it continued.
It found that companies that did their business online were paying an effective tax rate of 8.5 percent, or less than half that paid by more traditional businesses.
The European Union stepped up its efforts to curb tax avoidance, by companies as well as wealthy individuals, after the financial crisis, which forced many of its member states to adopt belt-tightening measures, slashing public services and raising taxes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But because big corporations were able to shift their profits to low-tax countries, critics of the austerity programs argued that the brunt of the cuts impacted small businesses and individual citizens.
In the years since, calls have increased for large companies to be more transparent and pay more tax.
American tech companies, in particular, have found themselves the targets of the commissions ire.
Commission officials are investigating Google and Qualcomm for allegedly abusing their dominant market position.
Officials in Brussels are looking into Amazons tax practices in Europe.
And the commission has demanded that Ireland recover about $14.5 billion in back taxes from Apple.
The commission said in its latest proposals that it wants to agree to a long-term solution with other countries around the world.
But that could take a long time to negotiate, and may not close enough loopholes, so it put forward several shorter-term plans that could wind up meaning companies like Amazon, Facebook and Netflix pay larger tax bills in Europe much sooner.
In the absence of adequate global progress, E.U.
solutions should be advanced, the commission said, adding that it could make more formal proposals on taxation in the coming months.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The potential reforms it outlined include taxing companies based on their revenue rather than their profits, allowing national authorities to tax payments made by consumers to digital businesses, and allowing individual countries to tax revenue generated from advertising by internet companies.
France has thrown its weight behind the first of those reforms, in particular.
But questions have been raised over whether taxing revenue is a viable plan.
Businesses that turn a hefty profit could effectively pay the same as a company of a similar size that has narrower margins, or even loses money.
The fundamental question is where is the business really being conducted, said J. Scott Marcus, an analyst at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels.
The devil is in the details with a digital service across borders  the service can be made anywhere.
The question is who gets the tax, he continued.
Its a genuine challenge.
The business, Toshiba Memory Corporation, is an important manufacturer of flash memory chips, which are used in millions of smartphones and other digital devices.
Toshiba needs money from the sale to repair its tattered finances.
A gaping hole in its balance sheet caused by bad bets on American nuclear power projects has threatened the future of the technology company, one of Japans biggest and most storied.
The deals more convoluted elements appeared to stem from Toshibas desire to retain a significant degree of control over the chip business.
One way that will happen is that Toshiba said it would join Bain and its partners in creating the special purpose company that will buy the unit.
In effect, that means it will keep a portion of the unit for itself, though it did not say how much.
Many analysts expect it to be a minority stake.
The shareholding structure could give Toshiba even more control, however.
Toshiba said buyers would receive a mix of regular shares, preferred shares  which normally do not carry voting rights  and bonds that could eventually be converted into shares.
Depending on how the various securities are distributed, Toshiba is likely to end up with a decisive say in the way the business is run, though its partners would take a sizable share of the profits.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are obstacles to the deal.
A Toshiba business partner, the American storage company Western Digital, has been pursuing legal action against the sale.
Western Digital contends that Toshiba cannot sell the chip business without its approval because the companies share ownership of a flash memory production operation in Japan.
Western Digital was itself bidding to invest in the microchip unit, whose assets include the joint venture.
The complexities of the relationship had thrown a wrench into the sale process.
The American company reiterated its opposition to the sale on Wednesday.
It said in a statement that it was troubling that Toshiba would pursue this transaction and expressed confidence that the International Court of Arbitration, a tribunal for commercial disputes that is reviewing the case, would take its side.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foxconn, an Taiwan-based electronics manufacturer with extensive operations in mainland China, also sought to invest in the Toshiba chip business.
Though people close to the talks have said that Foxconn was offering plenty of cash, Japanese officials worried that selling to the Taiwan group might hasten a transfer of Japanese technology to China.
Toshiba pioneered NAND flash memory and remains a powerhouse in that sector, but rivals have eroded its market share.
Toshiba is the second-biggest NAND producer by volume, behind Samsung Electronics of South Korea.
The Japanese company makes products as diverse as rice cookers and industrial turbines, but microchips have earned the biggest profits for Toshiba in recent years.
By selling off a big part of the chip unit, Toshiba is, in effect, sacrificing future earnings for a short-term cash infusion.
The company, once a symbol of Japans technology-powered economic rise, warned this year that it might go out of business because of losses from Westinghouse Electric Company, its nuclear power unit in the United States.
Toshiba paid billions for Westinghouse a decade ago, but disappointing sales and huge cost overruns turned it into a financial albatross.
Westinghouse filed for bankruptcy protection in March.
Toshibas banks have been keeping the company afloat, but it needed to secure new capital by March to avoid being expelled from the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which would have cut it off from a broad group of public investors.
Toshiba has been trying since June to forge a deal with Bain and its partners, but resistance from Western Digital prompted it to reopen talks with other potential bidders.
What does it mean when Waze makes a car horn noise at you?
While Waze is primarily known as a traffic and driving-directions smartphone app with up-to-the-minute crowdsourced information about your route, it also includes some chatty social-media features that let you connect with other drivers.
One of these features is a salutation called the Beep Beep  a car horn that you hear through the app when another Wazer user has reached out to greet you.
Photo

As part of Wazes social toolbox, you can link your phones contacts list (or your Facebook or Twitter accounts) in the programs settings.
The app matches up verified phone numbers from your contacts list while noting your acquaintances who are also using the service  and then provides an icon you can tap to make friends again in Waze World.
Once you have started a friends list within Waze, you can share your location, announce arrival times, exchange private messages and beep at your buddies.
To send a Beep Beep to a friend (when you are not actively driving, of course), open the Waze app, tap the magnifying glass in the corner of the screen and then tap your user name at the top of the next screen.
Select the My Friends list, tap the name of the person there you want to greet and tap Beep Beep from the menu.
You can also swipe to the left over a friends name in the list to get to the Beep Beep option.
If you have not set up a Waze friends list, odds are another Waze user nearby sent you the greeting out of the blue.
To do that (while stopped), find a user on the Waze navigation map you are using and tap the icon.
In the box that pops up, tap the Beep button.
Amazon said in a statement that all the products sold on its website must adhere to our selling guidelines and we only sell products that comply with U.K. laws.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In light of recent events, we are reviewing our website to ensure that all these products are presented in an appropriate manner, the statement continued.
We also continue to work closely with police and law enforcement agencies when circumstances arise where we can assist their investigations.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The company declined to comment further.
The New York Times found that similar algorithms may be at work in the United States.
In one instance, a search for magnesium ribbon  a product that can be used to make a crude fuse  yielded a suggestion for two powders that explode when mixed together in the right proportions and then ignited.
A second search yielded a suggestion for two out of three ingredients necessary to make gunpowder.
Other tech companies have been in the spotlight for the algorithms that fuel their websites.
ProPublica, a nonprofit news outlet, revealed last week that Facebook had enabled advertisers to seek out self-described Jew haters and other anti-Semitic topics.
In response, Facebook said it would restrict how advertisers targeted their audiences.
Buzzfeed also reported on how Google allowed the sale of ads tied to racist and bigoted keywords, automatically suggesting more offensive terms.
Google said it would work harder to halt the offensive ads.
Facebook has also come under scrutiny for potentially being used to influence people during the American presidential election last year.
It disclosed this month that fake accounts based in Russia had purchased more than $100,000 worth of ads on divisive issues in the lead-up to the vote.
Last weeks attack at Parsons Green train station was the fifth terrorist attack in Britain in a matter of months.
Several people have been arrested in the investigation of the explosion, in which dozens of people were wounded.
There may also be some early kinks for Apple to work out with the new cellular Watch.
Some reviewers discovered that the device occasionally lost its cellular connection, for example.
Apple said on Wednesday that the issue was related to the watch inadvertently connecting to open Wi-Fi networks that lacked internet connectivity, and that it was investigating a software fix.
In the end, some people who want a wearable device for things like fitness tracking and a quick glance at mobile notifications will probably be happy with the Series 3 without cellular, which costs $329.
An Overview

Like its predecessors, the Apple Watch Series 3 is a computer worn around the wrist, with a miniature touch screen.
Photo

The device requires an iPhone to set up and work properly.
Notifications like text messages or social media alerts that come to your iPhone appear on the watch first if you are not actively using the phone.
The watch runs apps, including some built-in software for fitness tracking as well as third-party widgets you can download from the App Store.
The main difference with the cellular Apple Watch is that some important features, like placing calls, texting and streaming music, will work when you are not near your phone; the watch shares the same phone number and cellular plan with your iPhone.
To help determine whether the cellular watch is right for you, I abandoned my iPhone to test the watch in a number of common situations.
Heres how that went.
Date Night

Over the weekend, my partner and I made plans to go to dinner at a sushi restaurant.
I used the Apple Watch to summon a Lyft car to pick us up at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the sushi bar, I liked that I didnt have a smartphone constantly buzzing in my pocket, though I got a text that I quickly responded to on the watch using an emoji.
My partner and I enjoyed 90 minutes of intimate conversation over omakase with minimal distraction, though I was a bit envious that she could Instagram our gorgeous nigiri.
(Alas, the watch does not have a miniature spy camera.)
Verdict: I could have had roughly the same experience with just an iPhone put on Do Not Disturb mode  and a bit of self-discipline.
Dog Walks

For several days, I wore just the watch while walking my dogs.
Not having a phone freed up valuable space in my pockets for other items, like my keys, my wallet, dog treats and bags.
I liked that the Apple Watch tracked my steps and walking distance to make dog walking feel more like exercise than a chore.
I placed a call to my partner with the watch to tell her where to meet me at a park; she said the call sounded crystal clear.
It was also nice that with just the watch, I could still be reachable via phone or text by my colleagues during morning walks  but emails took several minutes to show up after they were sent.
It turns out that while texts and calls are done directly on the cellular watch, emails still rely on the iPhones pushing emails to the cloud, which then transmits the message to your watch.
Verdict: The watch is good for staying reachable via phone or texts.
But in those brief moments when you need to step away from a computer during work hours, a smartphone is still necessary if you rely heavily on email, as I do.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Gym Workouts

I wore the watch and took a pair of AirPods, Apples wireless earbuds, to a rock-climbing gym.
Again, I left my iPhone behind.
At the gym, I opened the Workout app to track my heart rate and calories burned throughout the workout.
During breaks, I used Siri to write a few quick texts to some friends to make plans for the week.
I put on the AirPods in the hope of streaming songs on the watch from Apple Music, only to realize that this capability has not yet been released.
Apple said music streaming for the cellular watch will come out next month.
Verdict: It was nice being able to stay in touch with people at the gym without a phone bulging in my pocket, but Id be happy unplugging for a while and tracking my workout with a noncellular Apple Watch.
As for whether streaming music makes a cellular watch worth owning, I unfortunately cant tell you yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Grocery Shopping

Heres where leaving my phone behind and relying only on the watch did not make sense: during grocery shopping.
The watch doesnt have a web browser, let alone a big enough screen, for looking up recipes.
But when it came time to check out, I hit the side button to activate Apple Pay and quickly paid for the groceries.
Verdict: A smartphone is a better shopping companion than a watch.
The Bottom Line

The value of the cellular capabilities on the Apple Watch is questionable considering the price you pay each month.
AT&T and Verizon Wireless, for example, charge a network access fee of $10 a month to share your phone plans texts, minutes and data with an Apple Watch.
Thats about the same as a Spotify subscription, but with the exception of avid joggers and gym rats, people may not use the cellular features frequently enough.
Hopefully, over time, Apple will negotiate with carriers to bring the monthly rate down.
Although I think most people can skip buying the cellular model, the Apple Watch Series 3 is the first smart watch I can confidently recommend that people buy.
While I dont personally find it attractive enough to replace my wristwatch, the new Apple Watch is a well-designed, durable and easy-to-use fitness tracker for people who want analytics on their workouts and general health (R.I.P., Fitbit).
Important features like the stopwatch, calendar and Siri work quickly and reliably.
And unlike its predecessors, the watch has impressive battery life  on average, I had more than 40 percent battery remaining after a full day of use.
So the final verdict?
The Apple Watch Series 3 is the first sign that wearable computers are maturing and may eventually become a staple in consumer electronics.
In Brazil, Foxconns plans unraveled quickly.
The administration that had wooed the company was soon swept from power amid corruption allegations and an impeachment vote.
Some of the tax breaks that had been promised were reduced or abandoned, as economic growth and consumer spending slumped.
Today, Foxconn employs only about 2,800 workers in Brazil.
Foxconn does the big song and dance, bringing out the Chinese dragon dancers, ribbon cuttings, toasts and signature of the usual boilerplate agreements, said Alberto Moel, an investor and adviser to early-stage tech companies who until recently was a technology analyst at the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein.
Then, when it gets down to brass tacks, something way smaller materializes.
Foxconn said in a statement that it was committed to investing billions of dollars in building facilities outside China.
But the company also said it had been forced to adapt to changing conditions in markets like Brazil, where the economy had stagnated.
This and the changing needs of our customers that our proposed investments were designed to serve have resulted in scaled down operations in the country at this time, the company said in its statement.
With regard to the Wisconsin project, Foxconn has said it plans to build one of the worlds largest manufacturing campuses in the southeastern part of the state.
The company expects the buildings that will make up the campus to total 20 million square feet  about three times the size of the Pentagon  and to help transform the region into a major production center for flat-panel display screens.
Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, called the Foxconn deal a game changer that could help spur a manufacturing revival in the Midwest.
At the White House in July, President Trump hailed the agreement as a great one for American manufacturing, American workers and everybody who believes in the concept, in the label, Made in the U.S.A. Gov.
Scott Walker of Wisconsin officially approved the deal on Monday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foxconn has good reason to diversify its manufacturing operations.
About 95 percent of the companys 1.1 million employees work in China.
Building a large work force elsewhere could reduce the companys reliance on a single locale, lowering its risk if countries imposed tariffs or other trade barriers on Chinese exports.
Photo

The closer they get to big markets like the U.S. or Brazil, the less they have to worry about import taxes or other barriers, said Gary Gereffi, director of the Center on Globalization, Governance, & Competitiveness at Duke University.
Getting outside of China to supply these markets is like jumping over any potential tariff wall.
But exporting Foxconns Chinese strategy is virtually impossible.
The global supply chain for electronics remains firmly rooted in Asia, where advantages like low-cost labor and an abundance of skilled engineers have been crucial to the regions development as a manufacturing base.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
What makes Foxconns Chinese operations really hum are the extraordinary level of government subsidies and support, and the sheer scale of those operations.
Local governments often finance and build the companys factories, manage its dormitories and recruit tens of thousands of workers.
Some government officials have gone door to door in small counties to recruit workers.
The government aid can reach into the billions of dollars.
Foxconn began to shift large-scale production operations beyond China in about 2009, when it opened plants elsewhere in Asia, including Vietnam and India.
The company now has factories in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, and a large plant in Mexico that employs 18,000 workers.
When several countries began to require that some components be made locally as a way of encouraging production at home, Foxconn stepped up its efforts to build outside China.
And company executives essentially followed the same playbook they had used inside China.
Foxconns chairman, Terry Gou, met with high-ranking leaders, including Brazils president at the time, Dilma Rousseff, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India.
Mr. Gou made pledges; won tax breaks and government concessions; and announced plans to spend billions of dollars to create tens of thousands of jobs in multiple countries.
Brazil called one of the planned Foxconn sites the City of the Future.
Then reality set in.
Labor strikes in India and Vietnam prompted Foxconns operations in those countries to be shut down temporarily.
Political and economic turmoil in Brazil led the authorities there to scale back some of tax breaks it had offered the company.
A plan to invest $1 billion in the construction of a plant in Jakarta, Indonesia, collapsed, partly because Foxconn could not develop the supply chain it had hoped to, according to analysts and government officials.
Several reviewers said the phones were stuck in the shadow of the iPhone X. Nilay Patel of The Verge said the phones were not the future, and its not the cutting edge.
Its just the default.
While the 8 and 8 Plus share a processor, wireless charging capability, and similar camera setups to the X, they lack any truly new ideas about what an iPhone is  theyre both very much just the next step along a path Apples been on for quite some time now.
So whats actually new?
The most commonly cited improvements included the camera, wireless charging and augmented reality abilities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Nicole Nguyen of BuzzFeed News wrote that the new iPhones had better cameras than the 7 and 7 Plus, but that the differences in images could be hard to spot.
The new color filter and deeper pixels in the 8 and 8 Plus mean more vivid colors and less noise.
The new image signal processor helps optimize features like exposure, autofocus, and HDR, before you take the photo.
What that means in practice is more detailed photos that really only appear more detailed if you zoom way, way in.
David Pogue of Yahoo Finance said the wireless charging would be a feature iPhone owners would quickly grow to appreciate.
Once youve tried pad charging, you wont go back.
You come home from work, you just set the phone down on your way in.
Or you set it down on your bedside table.
At CNN, Heather Kelly was impressed by the augmented reality potential.
After testing early augmented reality apps, its clear the feature is well executed and packs a genuine wow factor.
Its most useful for games, shopping and a star gazing app that overlays constellations on the real night sky.
It also offers the most enjoyable way to dissect a beating human heart in my kitchen yet.
As for battery life, Hayley Tsukayama of The Washington Post wrote that the phones would be sufficient for a typical day of use.
The iPhone 8 Plus definitely has better battery life than its smaller sibling, even when being used heavily.
On a day where I had to use it for navigation, video streaming and plenty of email, it made it through the day and probably could have made it through the next morning without being in dire need of a top-up.
The iPhone 8, when I used it, got down pretty low by the end of the day, at which point I switched to low power mode.
In other words, it got me through a day, but not much further.
The processing power impressed reviewers, but some, including Geoffrey A. Fowler of The Wall Street Journal, questioned how much you would actually benefit from the technological feat.
What can you do with a phone that fast?
Those new camera tricks, plus high frame-rate 4K video, wouldnt be possible without it.
And it never hurts to try to futureproof the computer you use most.
But the bottleneck on the apps I use most often is internet speed, not the processor.
Aside from some 3-D games, I couldnt find many apps that require so much horsepower today.
Some reviewers criticized the design, which is largely unchanged in major ways from previous years.
The biggest change was an all-glass back, which Matthew Panzarino of TechCrunch said was a love-it-or-hate-it feature that he loved.
Theres something about the texture of glass.
Its smoother than the aluminum, but typically less slippery and easier to grip.
Glass also warms up to the temperature of your hand faster and stays at that temperature rather than getting hot.
And when your phone is really chugging along, it distributes the heat from the processor better, making hot spots less pronounced.
Chris Velazco at Engadget called the new models familiar-looking phones that mostly operate the way people expect them to.
Apple has painted us a picture of what its mobile future looks like, so is it any surprise the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus seem dull by comparison?
To be clear, its not that theyre poorly designed.
Its just that the iPhones aesthetic hasnt changed much since the debut of the 6 and 6 Plus three years ago.
Does it all add up to a device worth buying?
Some, like Steve Kovach at Business Insider, felt the looming presence of the iPhone X made that less than certain.
Photo

Hurricanes in Florida, Texas and the Caribbean; record-high temperatures in San Francisco; and wildfires in the Pacific Northwest.
And last night, a 3.6-magnitude earthquake a few miles away from Westwood, Calif., a neighborhood in Los Angeles near Bel Air, Calabasas, Beverly Hills and Santa Monica.
Earthquakes like this happen several times a year, so its not uncommon at all, said John Bellini, a geophysicist at the United States Geological Surveys National Earthquake Information Center.
You wouldnt know it from the reactions on social media.
After the earthquake struck at 11:20 p.m. local time, tremors erupted across Los Angeles Twitter.
The Geological Survey rated the shaking felt in the center and nearby as light and moderate (vibrations similar to the passing of a truck and pendulum clocks may stop) and did not expect significant damage.
Maybe a tall vase being knocked over, Mr. Bellini said.
Some Los Angeles residents took the opportunity to reach out to their loved ones.
Others ... did not.
Earthquake veterans took the matter lightly.
But at least one person was there to let the rest of the world know: Earthquakes are no joke.
Photo

The heroine of Hank Greens debut novel, An Absolutely Remarkable Thing, is an art student in New York City named April May, who finds herself at the center of a vast international mystery.
One day, April stumbles on a giant robot sculpture in Midtown Manhattan, and makes a video with the figure, which goes viral.
She becomes famous as news spreads that similar sculptures have mysteriously appeared in dozens of cities, and people around the world struggle to understand where the figures came from and what they mean.
The novel, which will be published by Dutton in fall 2018, flirts with otherworldly themes.
But the story grew out of something very real Mr. Green has wrestled with in his own life: internet fame, and the anxiety and awkwardness it can bring.
In a lot of ways it comes from a lot of my personal experience with how success feels, he said.
Theres the very weird feeling of being bigger in peoples heads than you feel you are.
To his legions of devoted YouTube fans, Mr. Green is best known as the goofy, enthusiastic host of factoid-heavy educational shows like SciShow and Crash Course, and as the younger half of Vlogbrothers, the chatty video show that he created in 2007 with his older brother, the best-selling novelist John Green.
Over the past decade, the Green brothers have built an online video empire, with 16 shows that have collectively drawn more than 2 billion views on YouTube.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It may surprise Mr. Greens YouTube followers to learn that he has been quietly writing fiction on the side.
Even his brother John  who has published several young adult novels, including The Fault in Our Stars and Paper Towns  has yet to read a draft of the novel, Mr. Green said.
Why do deleted tweets sometimes still show up on the web when you search?
Search engines that constantly index the pages on the web can scoop up your Twitter posts as you make them.
If you delete the tweet, though, it may still be cached away and therefore available to show up in search results  until the site goes indexing again and updates itself with a fresh copy of your Twitter profile and posts.
Photo

How long it takes for the search engine to go out and index your page again can vary, so if the deleted tweet is still appearing in search results and making you uncomfortable, try contacting the search company and requesting that the material be manually removed.
The Bing and Yahoo sites have posted information on how to remove certain pages.
Twitters help guide provides its own instructions for making the same request to Google.
To do so, find the Twitter post that is still turning up in Google search results and copy its URL before moving on to https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/removals.
Paste in the URL and click the red Request Removal button on the page.
Twitter warns that you may be asked to log into your Google Account (if you have one) or create a Google Account (if you do not have one) to complete the process.
If someone is searching for you online, your Twitter handle and a selection of recent public tweets often appear in the results.
If you find this sort of thing invasive, you can try dodging the indexing webcrawler by changing your Twitter posts from public to protected in your account settings, but future followers will have to ask for your permission to see your posts.
Changing your profile name or Twitter user name is another way to modify your identity for search engines.
Unsurprisingly, both the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus are very good phones.
Most of Apples improvements over the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are minor, but if you have an older model, either of the 8s will feel like a solid upgrade.
And if you are considering upgrading from an Android phone, theres one area where the new iPhones still rank head and shoulders above their competition  the processor, the engine that runs the entire device, where Apple is so far ahead that it almost feels unfair.
Photo

But lets start with the basics.
The iPhones overall design is very slightly improved in the 8.
The new models have a glass back, which you would think would make them more delicate but which actually adds a slight grippiness, making them less prone to catastrophe.
(Id still use a case for the 8 Plus, which I find ungainly to hold; the 8, though, shines in its caseless glory.)
The glass back allows for the iPhone 8s handiest new feature, wireless charging.
This works just as it does on the many other phones that have long sported this trick: Set the phone down on a charging pad and it just starts charging, even through most cases.
Apple said it would release its own charging mat next year; for now, you can use one of the many third-party mats that run the Qi wireless standard.
(Over all, battery life on the 8 was comparable to that of the 7  it lasted all day with light use, about half a day with heavy use, and always not long enough.)
The display on the 8 and 8 Plus is better than on the 7, but only very slightly.
In particular, the screen uses a technology Apple calls True Tone, which automatically adjusts the displays white balance to match the lighting in your surroundings.
This adds a subtle vibrancy to everything you see  though honestly the only time I was able to appreciate it was when I compared it side by side with the iPhone 7.
In other ways, the display is where the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus fall furthest short of their rivals.
The 8s use a technology called LCD, while Apples rivals in the high-end phone market, including Samsung, use a newer screen technology called OLED.
I wont get into the differences here except to say OLEDs are noticeably superior  they produce more vibrant colors and deeper contrast ratios.
Even Apple seems to agree, given that OLED is the basis for the display in the iPhone X.
The cameras in the 8s are very good, which is always true of cameras in the iPhone.
My kid had a birthday party this weekend, and just before leaving for the venue, I decided to take a risk  I left my fancy interchangeable-lens mirrorless camera at home, and instead took just the 8 Plus.
It would be too much to say that the phone produced images comparable to those I could get on my dedicated camera.
In some indoor, low-light shots, Apples noise-reduction algorithm left an annoying watercolorlike ripple on my shots (a problem that has plagued previous iPhones, too).
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But that was the exception.
Most images were astounding, and given the iPhone 8s advantages in size, convenience and usability, I predict that my camera will be spending a lot more time in the drawer.
In particular, I fell hard for the 8 Pluss Portrait Lighting feature, which uses data from a depth sensor to mimic the blurred-background bokeh effect you get when taking portraits with expensive cameras.
That feature made its debut last year on the iPhone 7 Plus, but in the 8 Plus, its been further refined to let you adjust the lighting of each shot, making for breathtaking portraits that youll be surprised came from a mere phone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 But the best thing about the 8 and 8 Plus is whats most hidden: Its the processor that powers everything else.
The first thing I usually do when I get a new iPhone is run a benchmark app to get a sense of the kind of power Im dealing with.
(Yeah, Im real fun.)
For the last few years, Apples phones have been producing benchmark scores so high you wonder if theyre powered by some kind of black magic.
For instance, on Geekbench 4, one of the more popular benchmark apps, the iPhone 8 gets a single-core processor score of around 4,200.
That makes it about 25 percent faster than the iPhone 7 and about 80 percent faster than the iPhone 6S.
The fastest Android phones, though, are painfully behind.
With a Geekbench score of around 1,900, Samsungs flagship Galaxy S8 is not just half the speed of the iPhone 8, but its actually slower than last years iPhone 7, and even slower than the iPhone 6S, released in 2015.
In fact, Apples phones are now so powerful that the closest rivals arent phones but computers  for instance, the processor in the iPhone gets benchmarking scores comparable to the Intel chips found in some of Apples latest MacBook Pro laptops.
I spoke to several processor analysts about why Apple is so far ahead on processing power.
They explained that Apple can produce these gains because it designs its own processors, while its competitors rely on chips created by third parties.
And performance matters.
Everything you do on a phone is improved by better chips: The interface is more responsive, advanced graphical features like augmented reality (in which digital scenes are interposed on the real world) work more fluidly, and they allow for groundbreaking new features, like the face-detection system Apple built into the iPhone X.
And while experts said Apples lead might slip over time, for now, its advantage remains enormous enough to make the iPhone a must for people who think of their phones as their most important computing device  in other words, you and me and everyone we know.
Photo

AMSTERDAM  As a boy soprano in the youth opera company that his parents ran in their small town, the Dutch composer Michel van der Aa once accompanied his father to the clockmaker who was painting a set for them.
What he saw, he recalled recently, was revelatory.
I will never forget, Mr. van der Aa said, that he had this fan onto which he had added pieces of crepe paper and put red light under it.
And he turned on the light and, suddenly, there was a fire.
I realized that with these very simple means, you can do something incredibly poetic.
If his inspiration to become a theater artist arose from this encounter with stagecraft simplicity, Mr. van der Aa, 47, has made his career embracing the very opposite.
Though he has written chamber and orchestral pieces, he has become best known in opera.
And to this already multifaceted art form, he has added high-tech experiments in streaming video and 3-D film and retro elements like reel-to-reel tape recordings, resulting in sequences like duets that require an onstage singer to harmonize with another artist, who is inside a recorded movie.
Mr. van der Aas latest opera, Blank Out, which stars the soprano Miah Persson (live onstage) and the baritone Roderick Williams (in a simultaneously projected 3-D film, which the audience watches through glasses), will be at the Park Avenue Armory from Thursday to Sept. 27, after critically successful runs here in Amsterdam and in Rome; Beijing; Helsinki; Hannover, Germany; and Lucerne, Switzerland.
The opera is loosely based on the life and work of the South African poet Ingrid Jonker (1933-65).
Because she wrote in Afrikaans, which is similar to Dutch, translations of her work were made available in the Netherlands before they reached other parts of the world, and Mr. van der Aa read them as a young man.
The operas narrative includes inspiration from Mr. van der Aas own memories, but Jonkers poems recur throughout, both in their entirety and as fragments.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the enigmatic work, which leaves some of its narrative threads undone at the end, Ms. Persson plays a mother remembering the tragic drowning of her son, while Mr. Williams, in the film, is a son remembering the drowning of his mother.
Replayed loops of Ms. Perssons voice join her live sounds; she often sings together with Mr. Williams, though they are divided by time, space and medium.
Its a dark tale told in Mr. van der Aas characteristic style, a genre-bending amalgam of pop, electronica and ambient elements, like the scratching sound of cassette tapes.
A whole generation of listeners have Spotify playlists that move from Bach to Beyonc, from Radiohead to Ligeti, he said.
I think these genre lines dont exist anymore for many young listeners and also not for me, and it feels very artificial to keep them in my work.
The same is true with visual culture: Were surrounded by technology, and its in the DNA of our time, so it would be very strange to not use it in my work.
Photo

Blank Out is Mr. van der Aas second foray into combining 3-D elements with opera, after a 2013 collaboration with the British novelist David Mitchell, Sunken Garden, which some critics found more satisfying technically than musically.
(He has continued to tweak the work and will present what he calls the 2.0 version in March at the Dallas Opera.)
The critic Andrew Clemens wrote in The Guardian that Blank Out was, by comparison, far more understated and effective, and listed it as one of his top classical music events of last year.
The themes he uses are timeless, inspired by literature, associative and multilayered, said Pierre Audi, the impresario who originally commissioned the new work for Dutch National Opera and is now the Park Avenue Armorys artistic director.
He wasnt really following the path of a conventional composer, and the risks he was taking from early on were worth supporting.
Is possible to bold or italicize text in Outlook for Android?
A. Microsoft released its Outlook for Android email app in 2015 with a focus on managing your inbox and scheduling your day.
While the app can display formatting in messages you receive, you can compose messages on your device only in plain text  which means no bold, italic, underline or other typographical styling.
If you press and hold your finger on text in a message you are writing, you get the options to copy and a few other common commands.
If you would like to suggest that Microsoft add more commands, you can send the company a request from within the Outlook app.
Photo

On an Android device, open Outlook, tap the gear-shaped Settings icon on the main screen and select Help & Feedback.
On the Help & Feedback screen, tap Suggest a feature and enter your comments.
If you have other questions about using Outlook for Android, you can find a link to a set of frequently asked questions on the apps main Help & Feedback screen.
Microsoft also has a guide to setting up and using the app on its site.
While text formatting in new messages may still be limited, Microsoft announced this month that it had released a new set of add-in tools for the app.
The add-ins  shortcuts to other programs that you can integrate with Outlook for Android to save a few steps  are available for several apps, including Evernote, Microsoft Translator, Smartsheet and Trello.
To see what is available, tap the Settings icon on the main Outlook screen and choose Add-Ins.
The Outlook app is built into Windows 10 phones and is available as a download for iOS devices.
There may also be some early kinks for Apple to work out with the new cellular Watch.
Some reviewers discovered that the device occasionally lost its cellular connection, for example.
Apple said on Wednesday that the issue was related to the watch inadvertently connecting to open Wi-Fi networks that lacked internet connectivity, and that it was investigating a software fix.
In the end, some people who want a wearable device for things like fitness tracking and a quick glance at mobile notifications will probably be happy with the Series 3 without cellular, which costs $329.
An Overview

Like its predecessors, the Apple Watch Series 3 is a computer worn around the wrist, with a miniature touch screen.
Photo

The device requires an iPhone to set up and work properly.
Notifications like text messages or social media alerts that come to your iPhone appear on the watch first if you are not actively using the phone.
The watch runs apps, including some built-in software for fitness tracking as well as third-party widgets you can download from the App Store.
The main difference with the cellular Apple Watch is that some important features, like placing calls, texting and streaming music, will work when you are not near your phone; the watch shares the same phone number and cellular plan with your iPhone.
To help determine whether the cellular watch is right for you, I abandoned my iPhone to test the watch in a number of common situations.
Heres how that went.
Date Night

Over the weekend, my partner and I made plans to go to dinner at a sushi restaurant.
I used the Apple Watch to summon a Lyft car to pick us up at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the sushi bar, I liked that I didnt have a smartphone constantly buzzing in my pocket, though I got a text that I quickly responded to on the watch using an emoji.
My partner and I enjoyed 90 minutes of intimate conversation over omakase with minimal distraction, though I was a bit envious that she could Instagram our gorgeous nigiri.
(Alas, the watch does not have a miniature spy camera.)
Verdict: I could have had roughly the same experience with just an iPhone put on Do Not Disturb mode  and a bit of self-discipline.
Dog Walks

For several days, I wore just the watch while walking my dogs.
Not having a phone freed up valuable space in my pockets for other items, like my keys, my wallet, dog treats and bags.
I liked that the Apple Watch tracked my steps and walking distance to make dog walking feel more like exercise than a chore.
I placed a call to my partner with the watch to tell her where to meet me at a park; she said the call sounded crystal clear.
It was also nice that with just the watch, I could still be reachable via phone or text by my colleagues during morning walks  but emails took several minutes to show up after they were sent.
It turns out that while texts and calls are done directly on the cellular watch, emails still rely on the iPhones pushing emails to the cloud, which then transmits the message to your watch.
Verdict: The watch is good for staying reachable via phone or texts.
But in those brief moments when you need to step away from a computer during work hours, a smartphone is still necessary if you rely heavily on email, as I do.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Gym Workouts

I wore the watch and took a pair of AirPods, Apples wireless earbuds, to a rock-climbing gym.
Again, I left my iPhone behind.
At the gym, I opened the Workout app to track my heart rate and calories burned throughout the workout.
During breaks, I used Siri to write a few quick texts to some friends to make plans for the week.
I put on the AirPods in the hope of streaming songs on the watch from Apple Music, only to realize that this capability has not yet been released.
Apple said music streaming for the cellular watch will come out next month.
Verdict: It was nice being able to stay in touch with people at the gym without a phone bulging in my pocket, but Id be happy unplugging for a while and tracking my workout with a noncellular Apple Watch.
As for whether streaming music makes a cellular watch worth owning, I unfortunately cant tell you yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Grocery Shopping

Heres where leaving my phone behind and relying only on the watch did not make sense: during grocery shopping.
The watch doesnt have a web browser, let alone a big enough screen, for looking up recipes.
But when it came time to check out, I hit the side button to activate Apple Pay and quickly paid for the groceries.
Verdict: A smartphone is a better shopping companion than a watch.
The Bottom Line

The value of the cellular capabilities on the Apple Watch is questionable considering the price you pay each month.
AT&T and Verizon Wireless, for example, charge a network access fee of $10 a month to share your phone plans texts, minutes and data with an Apple Watch.
Thats about the same as a Spotify subscription, but with the exception of avid joggers and gym rats, people may not use the cellular features frequently enough.
Hopefully, over time, Apple will negotiate with carriers to bring the monthly rate down.
Although I think most people can skip buying the cellular model, the Apple Watch Series 3 is the first smart watch I can confidently recommend that people buy.
While I dont personally find it attractive enough to replace my wristwatch, the new Apple Watch is a well-designed, durable and easy-to-use fitness tracker for people who want analytics on their workouts and general health (R.I.P., Fitbit).
Important features like the stopwatch, calendar and Siri work quickly and reliably.
And unlike its predecessors, the watch has impressive battery life  on average, I had more than 40 percent battery remaining after a full day of use.
So the final verdict?
The Apple Watch Series 3 is the first sign that wearable computers are maturing and may eventually become a staple in consumer electronics.
Unsurprisingly, both the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus are very good phones.
Most of Apples improvements over the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are minor, but if you have an older model, either of the 8s will feel like a solid upgrade.
And if you are considering upgrading from an Android phone, theres one area where the new iPhones still rank head and shoulders above their competition  the processor, the engine that runs the entire device, where Apple is so far ahead that it almost feels unfair.
Photo

But lets start with the basics.
The iPhones overall design is very slightly improved in the 8.
The new models have a glass back, which you would think would make them more delicate but which actually adds a slight grippiness, making them less prone to catastrophe.
(Id still use a case for the 8 Plus, which I find ungainly to hold; the 8, though, shines in its caseless glory.)
The glass back allows for the iPhone 8s handiest new feature, wireless charging.
This works just as it does on the many other phones that have long sported this trick: Set the phone down on a charging pad and it just starts charging, even through most cases.
Apple said it would release its own charging mat next year; for now, you can use one of the many third-party mats that run the Qi wireless standard.
(Over all, battery life on the 8 was comparable to that of the 7  it lasted all day with light use, about half a day with heavy use, and always not long enough.)
The display on the 8 and 8 Plus is better than on the 7, but only very slightly.
In particular, the screen uses a technology Apple calls True Tone, which automatically adjusts the displays white balance to match the lighting in your surroundings.
This adds a subtle vibrancy to everything you see  though honestly the only time I was able to appreciate it was when I compared it side by side with the iPhone 7.
In other ways, the display is where the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus fall furthest short of their rivals.
The 8s use a technology called LCD, while Apples rivals in the high-end phone market, including Samsung, use a newer screen technology called OLED.
I wont get into the differences here except to say OLEDs are noticeably superior  they produce more vibrant colors and deeper contrast ratios.
Even Apple seems to agree, given that OLED is the basis for the display in the iPhone X.
The cameras in the 8s are very good, which is always true of cameras in the iPhone.
My kid had a birthday party this weekend, and just before leaving for the venue, I decided to take a risk  I left my fancy interchangeable-lens mirrorless camera at home, and instead took just the 8 Plus.
It would be too much to say that the phone produced images comparable to those I could get on my dedicated camera.
In some indoor, low-light shots, Apples noise-reduction algorithm left an annoying watercolorlike ripple on my shots (a problem that has plagued previous iPhones, too).
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But that was the exception.
Most images were astounding, and given the iPhone 8s advantages in size, convenience and usability, I predict that my camera will be spending a lot more time in the drawer.
In particular, I fell hard for the 8 Pluss Portrait Lighting feature, which uses data from a depth sensor to mimic the blurred-background bokeh effect you get when taking portraits with expensive cameras.
That feature made its debut last year on the iPhone 7 Plus, but in the 8 Plus, its been further refined to let you adjust the lighting of each shot, making for breathtaking portraits that youll be surprised came from a mere phone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 But the best thing about the 8 and 8 Plus is whats most hidden: Its the processor that powers everything else.
The first thing I usually do when I get a new iPhone is run a benchmark app to get a sense of the kind of power Im dealing with.
(Yeah, Im real fun.)
For the last few years, Apples phones have been producing benchmark scores so high you wonder if theyre powered by some kind of black magic.
For instance, on Geekbench 4, one of the more popular benchmark apps, the iPhone 8 gets a single-core processor score of around 4,200.
That makes it about 25 percent faster than the iPhone 7 and about 80 percent faster than the iPhone 6S.
The fastest Android phones, though, are painfully behind.
With a Geekbench score of around 1,900, Samsungs flagship Galaxy S8 is not just half the speed of the iPhone 8, but its actually slower than last years iPhone 7, and even slower than the iPhone 6S, released in 2015.
In fact, Apples phones are now so powerful that the closest rivals arent phones but computers  for instance, the processor in the iPhone gets benchmarking scores comparable to the Intel chips found in some of Apples latest MacBook Pro laptops.
I spoke to several processor analysts about why Apple is so far ahead on processing power.
They explained that Apple can produce these gains because it designs its own processors, while its competitors rely on chips created by third parties.
And performance matters.
Everything you do on a phone is improved by better chips: The interface is more responsive, advanced graphical features like augmented reality (in which digital scenes are interposed on the real world) work more fluidly, and they allow for groundbreaking new features, like the face-detection system Apple built into the iPhone X.
And while experts said Apples lead might slip over time, for now, its advantage remains enormous enough to make the iPhone a must for people who think of their phones as their most important computing device  in other words, you and me and everyone we know.
This solves one of the main problems that restaurants used to have in the days when old media was the only game in town: How do you keep people talking about your place after the initial buzz dies down?
Photo

Besides the marketing, there are creative implications.
For one thing, chefs are much more focused now on sending out food that photographs well.
So I end up eating a lot of flowers and leaves that dont really taste like much but make the plate more colorful, because most cooked food is brown.
Ditto all the boards and slates and rocks that are being asked to stand in for plates.
It has also sped up the rate at which ideas about food travel from one place to another.
Chefs dont just use photography for marketing.
They are also documenting their work for their peers; you see this in the way Ren Redzepi in Copenhagen uses Instagram.
Its one reason his style has spread around the world in the span of just a few years.
And how has it changed the way you do your job?
What are the pros and cons?
The best thing about having everybody take pictures of food is that I can do it without giving myself away.
I used to be really self-conscious when I took out my phone; Id run to the restroom and take surreptitious notes in the stall.
Now I just snap away all night long, and I look like everybody else.
And photography is the first stage of my note-taking now.
After I get home I reconstruct my impressions of the meal, starting with my pictures of my food and the menu.
When I started this job, a former critic advised me to steal menus when I could get away with it, and thats completely unnecessary now.
Whats your opinion on Yelp, where everyone is a wannabe food critic?
I probably look at Yelp more than some other critics because Im convinced theres valuable information in there.
The hard part is extracting it from all the useless stuff, which is what most people in food media see when they look at Yelp.
The basic problem is that Yelp was built to reward frequent posting rather than knowledge or insight or expertise.
And yet there are people on Yelp who know a lot about food and eat around and have a pretty solid basis for comparison.
I find that Yelp is most useful with Korean, Chinese and Japanese food, because, for a number of reasons, there tend to be a lot of Yelpers who know those cuisines pretty well.
How do you feel about delivery apps like Instacart, Caviar or UberEats?
Do you use them much?
I dont.
I almost never eat at home, and when I do, I want to cook.
I did use Caviar in the context of a restaurant review a few weeks ago and was pretty happy with how well it worked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sites like Yelp give people plenty of information about restaurants.
Yet many restaurants still have their own websites.
Is this necessary?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most valuable thing a restaurant can do on its website is post the current menu and drinks lists, with prices.
All the other data you might want, and theres not really very much, can be served up much more efficiently by Google, although I still think website designers who dont put the restaurants address and phone number and hours right on the home page should be sued for malpractice.
As our food critic, you have to stay unrecognized when you try new restaurants.
How do you do that in an era that demands us to sacrifice privacy on the internet?
This isnt a major issue.
People are always surprised when I say that, but its one of the things that has been least affected by technology.
Before we had digital photographs, restaurants would get their hands on some old head shot of the critic from a book jacket or something  Ruth Reichl, William Grimes and Frank Bruni had all written books before they were restaurant critics  and then photocopy it and share it with all their friends in the business.
I remember, in the 1990s, a friend who worked as a waiter showing me a picture of Ruth, who was the critic at the time.
It was probably a 15th-generation photocopy, but you could still recognize her.
Now the fidelity and resolution are higher, but the picture of me that most restaurants seem to have on their wall is about 10 years old.
There are a few more recent shots, taken across a dining room while I was eating, that are in circulation, but theyre pretty terrible.
My friends know theyre not supposed to put pictures of me on Facebook.
I dont take selfies, but I probably wouldnt be a selfie guy even if I had another job.
Most of the time when Im recognized its because somebody is working in that restaurant who waited on me in another place Ive reviewed.
I dont get caught by technology; I get caught by human memory.
Its sort of reassuring, I guess.
When it comes to streaming and downloading movies, do you really notice that much of a difference between standard definition and the high-definition version?
A. High-definition (HD) files pack considerably more pixels into the video than those classified as standard definition (SD), and in side-by-side comparisons, the sharpness of the picture and depth of the colors in an HD video can stand out.
You may want to sample both formats on a similar type of movie and see which version you prefer.
Photo

Online video services typically label movies by the number of pixels in their vertical dimension; more pixels generally mean a sharper picture.
HD movies are usually classified as 1,080p or 720p (referring to the resolutions of 1,280 by 720 pixels or 1,920 by 1,080 pixels).
Movies in standard definition have lower resolutions and can vary based on the provider, but a sample SD movie downloaded from iTunes has a resolution of 853 by 352 pixels.
If you are watching the movie on a small tablet, phone or other screen, SD video quality is usually just fine.
Standard-definition videos are less expensive to buy, often by about $5, and $1 or $2 less to rent in some online stores.
Certain devices cannot fully display HD video anyway because the screens lack the needed resolution or the hardware is not compatible.
(Some files may automatically download in standard definition anyway depending on the device you are using.)
Because they contain more data, downloaded HD videos need more bandwidth to stream and, when downloaded, take up more space on your device.
For example, the 720p HD version of The Martian in Apples iTunes Store is a 5.36-gigabyte file, while the SD edition weighs in at 2.54 gigabytes.
If you are downloading a movie to a mobile device to watch offline, the SD edition is a space saver.
If you plan to watch the movie on a high-definition television or high-resolution computer monitor, though, SD video can look flatter and less vibrant than the HD version.
Many video services are now offering movies and television shows in yet another format: ultra high-definition, also known as 4K for its 3,840 by 2,160 pixels of resolution.
Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Netflix, Roku, Vudu and YouTube are among the services with 4K content or devices; video in the 4K H.D.R.
(high dynamic range) format is also available from some services.
To properly appreciate the clarity and color depth of the newer formats, you need a TV or monitor that can actually display 4K or 4K H.D.R.
video  and a lot more bandwidth to stream or store the file.
Is it true that Google Drive is being discontinued?
A. Google announced this month that it will end support for the Google Drive desktop apps for Windows and Mac computers on Dec. 11 and that the software will be shut down for good on March 12.
But while those handy desktop programs for managing your files in the cloud are destined for retirement, Googles online backup service is not going anywhere soon.
You just get to it through different desktop programs.
(You can also continue to just upload and download stored files through your Google Account in a web browser.)
For desktop users who backed up files to cloud servers with the Google Drive app, the company has two newer programs to do the job instead.
The Backup and Sync app for Windows and Mac, introduced in July, is Googles software for users of its free services.
The program can be set to synchronize copies of locally stored photos and other files on the computer to Googles cloud servers.
(Note that you get a free 15 gigabytes of storage from Google, but if you max it out, you need to buy more space if you want to keep storing all your files on the companys servers.)
Photo

Business customers using the paid G Suite version of Googles Gmail, calendar and business programs have a choice.
They can use Backup and Sync, too, or switch to the new Drive File Stream app for Windows or Mac.
Drive File Stream has been available since March for early adopters and officially arrives on Tuesday.
Google recommends that its business customers use the Drive File Stream for a few reasons, including faster data-sync times.
Additionally, the app stores the files online for direct use and puts less corporate data on the users hard drives; specific files and folders can be marked for local storage and use offline when an internet connection is not available.
Users running both Backup and Sync and Drive File Stream on the same computer will get a nudge from Google to switch to the latter app to save disk space.
Those still using the Google Drive app will begin to see alerts next month announcing that the software is headed to the digital dustbin.
What does it mean when Waze makes a car horn noise at you?
While Waze is primarily known as a traffic and driving-directions smartphone app with up-to-the-minute crowdsourced information about your route, it also includes some chatty social-media features that let you connect with other drivers.
One of these features is a salutation called the Beep Beep  a car horn that you hear through the app when another Wazer user has reached out to greet you.
Photo

As part of Wazes social toolbox, you can link your phones contacts list (or your Facebook or Twitter accounts) in the programs settings.
The app matches up verified phone numbers from your contacts list while noting your acquaintances who are also using the service  and then provides an icon you can tap to make friends again in Waze World.
Once you have started a friends list within Waze, you can share your location, announce arrival times, exchange private messages and beep at your buddies.
To send a Beep Beep to a friend (when you are not actively driving, of course), open the Waze app, tap the magnifying glass in the corner of the screen and then tap your user name at the top of the next screen.
Select the My Friends list, tap the name of the person there you want to greet and tap Beep Beep from the menu.
You can also swipe to the left over a friends name in the list to get to the Beep Beep option.
If you have not set up a Waze friends list, odds are another Waze user nearby sent you the greeting out of the blue.
To do that (while stopped), find a user on the Waze navigation map you are using and tap the icon.
In the box that pops up, tap the Beep button.
Why do deleted tweets sometimes still show up on the web when you search?
Search engines that constantly index the pages on the web can scoop up your Twitter posts as you make them.
If you delete the tweet, though, it may still be cached away and therefore available to show up in search results  until the site goes indexing again and updates itself with a fresh copy of your Twitter profile and posts.
Photo

How long it takes for the search engine to go out and index your page again can vary, so if the deleted tweet is still appearing in search results and making you uncomfortable, try contacting the search company and requesting that the material be manually removed.
The Bing and Yahoo sites have posted information on how to remove certain pages.
Twitters help guide provides its own instructions for making the same request to Google.
To do so, find the Twitter post that is still turning up in Google search results and copy its URL before moving on to https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/removals.
Paste in the URL and click the red Request Removal button on the page.
Twitter warns that you may be asked to log into your Google Account (if you have one) or create a Google Account (if you do not have one) to complete the process.
If someone is searching for you online, your Twitter handle and a selection of recent public tweets often appear in the results.
If you find this sort of thing invasive, you can try dodging the indexing webcrawler by changing your Twitter posts from public to protected in your account settings, but future followers will have to ask for your permission to see your posts.
Changing your profile name or Twitter user name is another way to modify your identity for search engines.
Is possible to bold or italicize text in Outlook for Android?
A. Microsoft released its Outlook for Android email app in 2015 with a focus on managing your inbox and scheduling your day.
While the app can display formatting in messages you receive, you can compose messages on your device only in plain text  which means no bold, italic, underline or other typographical styling.
If you press and hold your finger on text in a message you are writing, you get the options to copy and a few other common commands.
If you would like to suggest that Microsoft add more commands, you can send the company a request from within the Outlook app.
Photo

On an Android device, open Outlook, tap the gear-shaped Settings icon on the main screen and select Help & Feedback.
On the Help & Feedback screen, tap Suggest a feature and enter your comments.
If you have other questions about using Outlook for Android, you can find a link to a set of frequently asked questions on the apps main Help & Feedback screen.
Microsoft also has a guide to setting up and using the app on its site.
While text formatting in new messages may still be limited, Microsoft announced this month that it had released a new set of add-in tools for the app.
The add-ins  shortcuts to other programs that you can integrate with Outlook for Android to save a few steps  are available for several apps, including Evernote, Microsoft Translator, Smartsheet and Trello.
To see what is available, tap the Settings icon on the main Outlook screen and choose Add-Ins.
The Outlook app is built into Windows 10 phones and is available as a download for iOS devices.
