Washington (CNN) In the last 24 hours, President Donald Trump has criticized NFL players who refuse to stand for the national anthem and NBA superstar Steph Curry for expressing ambivalence about whether or not to attend the traditional White House celebration for champions in professional sports.
On Friday night in Alabama, Trump condemned football players who either sit or protest in some other way during the national anthem -- and chastised the NFL owners for not coming down harder on them.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He is fired.
He's fired!"
Trump said to considerable applause from the overwhelmingly white crowd .
"Total disrespect of our heritage, a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
Everything that we stand for."
Then, on Saturday morning, Trump tweeted this about Curry: "Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
He followed it up with two more tweets -- both focused, again, on the NFL.
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
On one level, this is classic Trump.
He feels as though he is being disrespected -- whether by NFL players not standing for the national anthem or by Curry saying if it was up to him, the Golden State Warriors would not visit the White House.
(The Warriors, in a statement Saturday afternoon , said they would come to Washington and do events to promote diversity and inclusiveness rather than meet with Trump.)
They hit him, so he hit back.
But, there's something far more pernicious here.
Both the NFL and the NBA are sports in which the vast majority of the players are black and the vast majority of owners are white.
In the NFL, there are 0 black owners of the 32 teams.
In the NBA, Michael Jordan is the lone black owner of a team.
Consider that in the context of what Trump said both Friday night and Saturday.
In Alabama, Trump called the players who refuse to stand for the anthem "sons of bitches" and insisted that any owner worth his or her salt should fire them immediately.
That got a lot of attention -- and rightly so.
But it's what Trump said next that's really telling.
"Total disrespect of our heritage, a total disrespect of everything that we stand for," he said --- adding for emphasis: "Everything that we stand for."
Notice the use of "our heritage" and "we" in those two sentences above.
But wait, there's more.
In both his Curry tweet and his two NFL tweets, Trump expressed frustration that these lucky athletes felt the need to be ungrateful.
Trump noted the "great honor" of going to the White House and the "privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL."
You should just be thankful for what you have and not be making any trouble, Trump is telling these players.
Here's the thing: Even if we lived in a color-blind society, that would be a dangerous sentiment.
After all, freedom of expression is right there in the First Amendment.
And our brave soldiers didn't fight and die so that everyone stood during the national anthem.
They fought so people could have the right to make a choice about whether or not they wanted to stand.
That's the whole damn point of the First Amendment.
The thing is: We don't live in a color-blind society.
Slavery sits at the founding roots of America.
The goal of racial equality remains a goal, not an achievement.
To pretend otherwise is to willfully blind yourself to hundreds years of history.
Even more context darkens the picture for Trump.
He played at racially coded language throughout his presidential campaign.
He also displayed a stunningly simplistic view of the black community.
"You're living in poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58% of your youth is unemployed -- what the hell do you have to lose?"
Trump said of African-Americans in a speech to a largely white audience in Michigan during the campaign.
When NBA star Dwyane Wade's cousin was shot in Chicago, Trump tweeted : "Dwayne Wade's cousin was just shot and killed walking her baby in Chicago.
Just what I have been saying.
African-Americans will VOTE TRUMP!""
He took an inordinate amount of time to condemn former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke.
And so on.
As President, Trump has done little too ease concerns about his racial views -- and, in fact, has heightened them.
His handling of the Charlottesville, Virginia, protests -- in which white supremacists and neo-Nazis marched in protest of the removal of a statue of Robert E. Lee -- was particularly alarming.
Even as the protests turned violent -- one woman was killed -- Trump claimed that there were violent factions "on many sides" to be blamed.
Days later, he doubled down on that false premise; "I watched those very closely, much more closely than you people watched it," Trump said .
"And you have -- you had a group on one side that was bad, and you had a group on the other side that was also very violent, and nobody wants to say that, but I'll say it right now."
Although his administration tried desperately to move on from his remarks, it was made clear recently that Trump meant exactly what he said.
The day after meeting at the White House with South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott -- the lone black Republican in the Senate -- Trump was quick to note that he had been right in his initial comments after Charlottesville.
"I think especially in light of the advent of Antifa, if you look at what's going on there, you have some pretty bad dudes on the other side also, and essentially that's what I said," Trump told reporters.
And now, this.
I've long believed that Trump is simply saying whatever comes to mind, that there is no broader strategy to his comments.
But it's impossible to conclude that after Charlottesville, Trump is totally ignorant of the racial context in which his remarks on the NFL and NBA land.
No one is that oblivious.
When, given all the water under the bridge -- both in terms of our country's history and the more narrow history of Trump's campaign -- you make comments about how the athletes in predominantly black pro sports leagues should just be happy with what they have and not complain, you aren't doing it by accident.
You really believe it.
Play football or basketball so we can be entertained, Trump seems to be telling these athletes.
No one wants to hear your lack of gratitude for what you've been given.
There's so many things wrong with that view.
First of all, no one gave these players anything.
They worked for it.
Second, just because you are a professional athlete doesn't mean you don't get to be a citizen, too.
We don't tell accountants, for example, that they can't express their opinions on politics and the culture more broadly, right?
So why should we be in the business of telling professional athletes?
And would Trump feel the same way if the majority of those protesting the anthem were white?
Trump defenders will note that Trump didn't name names -- other than Curry -- when he blasted professional athletes.
That "we" are adding color to it, not him.
But that doesn't fly.
As I noted above, both the NFL and NBA are majority black.
And those refusing to stand during the national anthem are, with one exception, also all black.
Trump knows this.
He is an avid consumer of TV and culture.
Which means that he is purposely playing at and with racial animus here.
That is a dark thing to do as the leader of the United States.
And something he deserves to be condemned for.
(CNN) President Donald Trump criticized some in the National Football League Friday night at a rally for Alabama Republican Senate candidate Luther Strange, saying team owners should fire players for taking a knee during the national anthem.
Trump added that if fans would "leave the stadium" when players kneel in protest during the national anthem, "I guarantee, things will stop."
Trump said NFL owners should respond to the players by saying, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
"For a week, (that owner would) be the most popular person in this country.
Because that's a total disrespect of our heritage.
That's a total disrespect for everything we stand for," Trump said.
Last year, Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
Read More
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump came under harsh criticism Saturday from the NFL and some of the NBA's top players after he blasted prominent athletes for kneeling during the national anthem and refusing to come to the White House, putting himself in the center of a controversy with significant racial and cultural undertones.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell slammed Trump in a statement Saturday morning, calling the President "divisive" for remarks he made at a rally in Alabama Friday night, while one of the most famous athletes in the world, LeBron James, called Trump a "bum" for his Saturday morning tweet uninviting Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry from visiting the White House.
The Golden State Warriors issued a statement later Saturday accepting Trump's dis-invitation.
"While we intended to meet as a team at the first opportunity we had this morning to collaboratively discuss a potential visit to the White House, we accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited," the team said.
The statement added that while the team will not be visiting the White House, its players will still come to the nation's capital in February "to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization."
Former Los Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant also tweeted a rebuke of Trump.
"A #POTUS whose name alone creates division and anger.
Whose words inspire dissension and hatred can't possibly 'Make America Great Again,'" Bryant wrote

Trump responded to the criticisms Saturday in a series of tweets, saying that playing for a sports league is a "privilege" and that players should not be able to disrespect the American flag or the US without risking being "fired."
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect ...." Trump tweeted .
"Our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
Later, he added of Goodell's criticism: "Roger Goodell of NFL just put out a statement trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country.
Tell them to stand!"
Roger Goodell of NFL just put out a statement trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country.Tell them to stand!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Trump's tweets and harsh reaction highlight an extraordinary moment -- the President, NFL commissioner and top basketball players embroiled in a public fight over unity and patriotism.
Goodell said Trump's criticism of NFL players kneeling in protest during the National Anthem showed a "lack of respect" for the league and its players.
"The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture," Goodell said in the statement.
"There is no better example than the amazing response from our clubs and players to the terrible natural disasters we've experienced over the last month.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities."
New York Giants owners John Mara and Steve Tisch called Trump's NFL comments "inappropriate" on Saturday.
"Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive," their statement said.
"We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society."
Trump's remarks at rally

At Alabama GOP Sen. Luther Strange's campaign rally Friday, Trump said team owners should fire players for taking a knee during the national anthem.
He added that if fans would "leave the stadium" when players kneel in protest during the national anthem, "I guarantee, things will stop."
Trump appeared to be referring to Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- who last year drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
"I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color," Kaepernick told NFL Media in August 2016.
Then, on Saturday morning, Trump tweeted that Curry's invitation to the White House was revoked.
"Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Trump wrote.
Curry had remarked at the Warriors' media day Friday that he doesn't want to attend the White House ceremony scheduled to commemorate the title.
"'By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to,'' Curry told reporters.
''It's not just the act of not going.
There are things you have to do on the back end to actually push that message into motion."
Athletes, entertainers respond

James was among the first athletes to respond to Trump on Saturday.
"U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!"
James tweeted.
"So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!"
Many of the reactions to Trump's tweets highlighted the underlying racial tensions some consider at issue.
ESPN anchor Jemele Hill tweet ed to Curry, "Hey @StephenCurry30, welcome to the club bro."
Last week , Trump demanded an apology on Twitter for a series of tweets Hill had sent describing Trump as a white supremacist.
Later White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said on Fox News that Hill's tweets were "highly inappropriate, and I think ESPN should take actions."
Singer-songwriter John Legend also tweeted about Trump Saturday saying of Curry's decision, "Perhaps it's not a great honor while your stench is there.'
Legend continued with a series of tweets aimed at the President.
"Trump thrives on division and chaos.
He wants to pit us against each other because he thinks his side can win (w/voter suppression, etc.
)," Legend tweeted later in the afternoon.
In a video released Saturday afternoon, music producer and rapper Sean "Diddy" Combs called for members of the NFL to do something "really great" on Sunday, when most of the week's football games will be played.
He added: "You all represent us."
"If you do whatever you do in unity, you can't be stopped," Combs said in the video.
"Just do the math man.
Stick together, stand up together, rally for each other.
Because believe me, we're all we got -- it has nothing to do with football and business."
Combs later tweeted from his personal account, "THE LINE HAS BEEN CROSSED!!!!
Time to show them #blackexcellence LETS GO!
#teamlove REPRESENT REPRESENT!"
He added a split photo that at the top showed white supremacists holding Confederate and Nazi flags under the words "very fine people" -- a reference to Trump's description of both white supremacist protesters and counterprotesters after the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, last month -- and at the bottom three 49ers players taking a knee during the national anthem under the words "Sons of Bitches."
The White House did not respond to a request for comment on Trump's tweet about Curry and whether the invitation will be withdrawn.
New York (CNN) President Donald Trump drew the ire of professional athletes for comments he made at a rally in Alabama on Friday night and on Twitter on Saturday morning.
Trump first took aim at the NFL, saying team owners should fire players for taking a knee during the national anthem.
The President said owners should respond to players by saying, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
He doubled down on the comments on Saturday afternoon.
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Last year, Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
The Trump presidency is a test.
Institutions like the courts, the news media and the business community have all been tested.
Now it's the NFL and the NBA's turn.
The president is embracing an "us versus them" conflict involving politics, patriotism and popular American pastimes.
And there is an unmistakable racial element at play, since he is targeting prominent black players.
On Friday night, seemingly out of nowhere, President Trump criticized the National Football League broadly and athletes who kneel during the national anthem specifically.
Analysts are now predicting further on-the-field protests at games.
Trump waded into controversy with another league on Saturday morning.
On Twitter he criticized Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry, who intends to skip the traditional NBA champs celebration at the White House.
"Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Trump wrote twenty minutes after "Fox & Friends" mentioned the issue.
NBA great LeBron James responded by calling the president a "bum" who misled his followers.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

"U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite," James tweeted.
"Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!"
Trump's remarks renewed the accusation made by ESPN anchor Jemele Hill a week ago -- that Trump "is a white supremacist."
CNN's Jake Tapper wryly tweeted on Saturday that Trump is "focusing like a laser on the major problems of the American people: black professional athletes with opinions."
The anthem protests, which began when Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last fall, seemed to come up randomly while Trump was rallying an Alabama crowd to support Luther Strange in a primary election.
Trump said NFL owners should get rid of players like that.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired.
He's fired,'" Trump said.
"You know, some owner is going to do that.
He's going to say, 'That guy that disrespects our flag, he's fired.'
And that owner, they don't know it [but] they'll be the most popular person in this country."
The president followed up on Twitter Saturday afternoon.
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect.
... our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
Opponents of Trump accused him of failing to respect the First Amendment rights of Americans.
Trump also said NFL ratings are down "massively" (that's not true -- the ratings are only down modestly) and criticized the NFL's efforts to make the game safer for athletes.
"There's a more important issue about the health of young, American athletes.
And obviously the president wasn't too concerned about that," CNN sports analyst Christine Brennan said after the rally.
The president finished his NFL critique by saying it hurts the game "when people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when they're playing our great national anthem."
In response, Mike Allen of Axios wrote Saturday morning, "To address a largely white crowd as 'people like yourselves,' and refer to protesting athletes, often African American, as 'those people,' does nothing to heal the wounds of Charlottesville."
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell issued an unusual statement about the president's remarks, criticizing the "divisive" comments without calling out Trump by name.
The NFL players union spoke out more forcefully.
And Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman, an active Twitter user, responded Saturday morning: "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
(CNN) Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said Friday night that the intelligence community's assessment of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential race "cast doubt" on the legitimacy of President Donald Trump's victory.
"Our intelligence community assessment did, I think, serve to cast doubt on the legitimacy of his victory in the election," Clapper said on CNN's "Erin Burnett Out Front."
Clapper said he disclosed the information to the President during a briefing on the assessment in January, and that particular aspect seemed to concern Trump the most.
"I think that transcends, unfortunately, the real concern here, which is Russian interference in our political process, which by the way is going to continue," Clapper said.
The revelation came hours after the President tweeted about the "Russian hoax," writing "the greatest influence over our election was the Fake News Media 'screaming' for Crooked Hillary Clinton."
At a rally in Alabama later Friday evening, Trump doubled down, saying, "No, Russia did not help me, that I can tell you, OK?"
Read More
(CNN) Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon will be one of the headliners of a Monday night rally for Alabama Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore, a spokeswoman for Moore's campaign has confirmed to CNN.
"Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson will also participate in the rally, which will be held in Fairhope, outside of Mobile, the spokeswoman said Saturday.
Moore, the state's former Supreme Court chief justice, and incumbent Sen. Luther Strange are facing off Tuesday in a primary runoff for the Senate seat previously held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Bannon has endorsed Moore in the race while his former boss, President Donald Trump, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell have endorsed Strange.
Trump appeared at a rally with Strange in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night.
Read More
Story highlights Trump said the Arizona senator had let down his constituents

The criticism comes a day after McCain said he couldn't vote for the GOP's latest health care proposal

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump on Saturday continued his criticism of Sen. John McCain, going after the Arizona Republican on Twitter after he threw the Senate GOP's latest health care effort into jeopardy.
Trump, who also bashed McCain during a campaign rally Friday night, said the Arizona senator had let down his constituents, as well as his friend and fellow senator, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.
"John McCain never had any intention of voting for this Bill, which his Governor loves.
He campaigned on Repeal & Replace.
Let Arizona down!"
Trump began Saturday morning.
John McCain never had any intention of voting for this Bill, which his Governor loves.
He campaigned on Repeal & Replace.
Let Arizona down!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

He continued: "Arizona had a 116% increase in ObamaCare premiums last year, with deductibles very high.
Chuck Schumer sold John McCain a bill of goods.
Arizona had a 116% increase in ObamaCare premiums last year, with deductibles very high.
Chuck Schumer sold John McCain a bill of goods.
Sad  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Then: "Large Block Grants to States is a good thing to do.
Better control & management.
Great for Arizona.
McCain let his best friend L.G.
down!"
Large Block Grants to States is a good thing to do.
Better control & management.
Great for Arizona.
McCain let his best friend L.G.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Read More
Washington (CNN) When President Donald Trump took the stage in Alabama on Friday night to rally support for Sen. Luther Strange, you could tell he was in the mood to make some noise -- and some news.
His hopes for repeal and replace of the Affordable Care Act had been dealt a near-fatal blow just hours before when Arizona Sen. John McCain announced he would not support the latest iteration of the legislation.
His one-time senior strategist -- Steve Bannon -- as well as some of his other allies (including former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin and his own Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson) were fighting hard for Roy Moore, the man trying to oust Strange in Tuesday's Republican runoff.
A handful of recent poll numbers had shown Trump's image improving -- albeit slightly -- with voters.
And, as he almost always does in these situations, Trump played perfectly to type -- delivering an 80-minute rambling defense of his administration with a series of asides, tangents, stories and I-probably-shouldn't-say-this-but-I-will-anyway-isms.
I went through the whole speech and picked out the 64 lines that stood out to me.
They're below.
"I love this place.
And you know we set every record in Alabama."
It's not totally clear what exact records Trump is referring to here.
It could be a record for largest crowd to attend a political rally?
Those records aren't really kept.
Although Trump did say during the Republican primary process that 32,000 people attended his rally in February 2016 -- the largest crowd, he claimed, to attend any political rally in the campaign to date.
Local police estimated the crowd as half the size Trump said.
Trump might have also been talking about the raw number of votes he got in the state as a record?
He received 1,318,255 -- more than any previous Republican nominee.
"You have some football games tomorrow."
Alabama plays Vanderbilt in Nashville.
Auburn plays Missouri in Columbia.
"He's only been there for, what, 34 years or something like that, right?"
Trump is talking here about Alabama Republican Sen. Rich Shelby, who undoubtedly loves the fact that the President reminded a big crowd of people who don't love Washington politicians that Shelby has been in office for more than three decades.
"He's doing a good job.
He is doing a good job."
This is Trump on Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
The man he called "beleaguered."
The man he called an "idiot."
The man he said should resign after Sessions recused himself from the Russia probe and a special counsel was created to deal with the investigation.
Same dude.
"It's going to happen.
It's going to happen quickly.
Quickly.
Better."
Trump on the efforts to rebuild after the hurricanes that hit Texas and Florida.
Things are going to be rebuilt.
Better.
And quickly.
Quickly better.
Better quickly.
"We are going to take care of the bad people."
Tougher.
Stronger.
Better.
(Trump did not make clear how we are going to take care of the bad people.)
"We are going to win.
Believe me."
Well, I'm convinced!
"Rocket Man should have been handled a long time ago."
"This should have been handled eight years ago and four years ago and, honestly, and 15 years ago and 28 years ago and 25 years ago"

Twenty eight years ago, Kim Jong Un was 5.
"Little Rocket Man."
"Mars ain't the kind of place to raise your kids / In fact, it's cold as hell."
"He is watching us like he never watched anybody before.
That I can tell you."
The unstable dictator of a rogue nation is watching the US more closely than ever before.
This is, according to Trump logic, a good thing.
"Maybe something gets worked out.
And maybe it doesn't."
Some people say we will have another world war with nuclear weaponized countries.
Others don't.
Man, I can't wait to see how this cliffhanger ends!
"Well, maybe something gets worked out and maybe it doesn't."
Yes, you literally just said that.
"Nobody is going to mess with our people.
Nobody is going to play games."
Trump loves to play tough guy.
He loves to insist that nothing bad is ever going to happen to the US while he's in charge.
And that all of our enemies -- and even some of our longtime allies -- need to be woken up to the fact that there's a new sheriff in town.
"I made a friend in China."
Good to hear.
Friends are a good thing.
Maybe the best thing.
"He may be smart.
He may be strategic.
And he may be totally crazy."
"I have a lot of friends.
And some of them say, 'Do you mind if I go to the other candidate?'
Really, you can."
This begins a looooong story Trump tells about Strange and his loyalty.
But the President begins the story by noting that lots of his friend are for Roy Moore -- and he's totally fine with that!
"I'm on the phone screaming at people all day long, for weeks."
It's hard to imagine why Trump's lobbying efforts on the first repeal and replace bill didn't work ...

19.
"That was a totally unexpected thing.
Terrible.
Honestly, terrible."
Trump on McCain killing the last repeal and replace effort.
Worth noting here that McCain has brain cancer.
And that Trump has praised him as a patriot for returning to Washington in the summer to take part in the health care debate.
"I said if I lose this election, maybe I'll end up moving to Alabama or Kentucky."
The chances of Donald Trump ever moving to Alabama and Kentucky are roughly the same as the chances of Kentucky beating Alabama in football this year.
JUST WATCHED Trump: You'd turn over your rifles to Clinton Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: You'd turn over your rifles to Clinton 00:48

21.
"If Crooked Hillary got elected, you would not have a 2nd Amendment, believe me."
Trump knows this isn't true.
Clinton, in the campaign, said these exact words: "I do not want to repeal the 2nd Amendment."
He said this same thing throughout the campaign despite fact check after fact check calling it a lie.
What Trump is doing is purposefully playing on conservatives' fears that Democrats would somehow outlaw guns if they had the chance.
"You got to speak to Jeff Sessions about that."
As Trump riffed on the false idea that Clinton would have seized all guns in the country, the crowd began the now-familiar "Lock her Up!"
chant.
To which Trump responded that they would need to talk to the nation's top law enforcement official about that.
Good times.
"So with Luther, I have a list, and one of the names is Luther Strange."
Trump STILL has not told the Luther Strange story he promised about 1,000 words ago.
"I don't know him.
I met him once."
Trump's lack of a relationship with Strange is an odd thing to highlight given that Trump is in Alabama telling people to vote for the incumbent senator.
"That is the tallest human being I've ever seen.
I am tall, I've never seen that.
Should be on the New York Knicks."
Trump, as he likes to remind you, is pretty tall at 6-foot-2.
(Same height as me!)
Strange is 6-foot-9.
Kristaps Porziis, the Knicks' tallest player, is 7-foot-3.
"That's why I call him Big Luther.
Everyone is calling him Big Luther."
Trump, contrary to his statement, didn't come up with the "Big Luther."
Strange has been known as "Big Luther" since at least his 2010 campaign for Alabama attorney general.
"Well, Mr. President, could you have dinner with my wife, myself, my family, my uncles, my cousins, and I like to talk to you about it?"
The full effect of this quote has to be seen, not heard.
Trump appears to be affecting a southern accent as he recounts how members of Congress who are wavering on health care speak to him when he calls.
On a related note: Trump is not a gifted mimic.
"They love you and they want to have dinner with you.
They want to have breakfast with you and lunch.
Then, after you're finished with them, how about we'll go out for a picnic someplace on the White House lawn."
Trump describing another conversation with a senator who wanted him to have a series of meals with their family who love him before voting for health care.
And, yes, Trump was still sort of doing the southern accent here, too.
"I think his wife is fantastic, but I said, 'Do I have to have dinner with you and your wife?"
Look, I love Mrs.
Strange.
I just have absolutely no interest in having dinner with her.
Like, none.
"That was, like, really horrible thing.
Honestly.
That was a horrible, horrible thing that happened to the Republican Party."
Trump is back to McCain and his "no" vote at "3 in the morning."
"He doesn't even know Mitch McConnell.
He was just there for a few months, and they put that mantle around his neck."
"I see he is down in the race by a lot, and I said, 'Man, that's really unfair.'"
Trump is setting himself up as the Strange savior here.
Man, he was getting doors blown off but that I swooped in and suddenly he's back to be competitive.
[pats self on back repeatedly]

33.
"The last thing I want to do is be involved in a primary, OK?
I could be sitting home right now getting to watch some of the games tomorrow."
Kind of a weird thing to say, no?
"I think you're going to come back and kick everyone's ass and you're going to do great."
Presidential!
Related: I'm only good at two things in this life: Kicking ass and being snarky.
And I'm almost all out of snarky ...

35.
"The worst.
Fake news.
They won't show this.
They'll say, Donald Trump spoke before a small crowd in Alabama last night.
It was a small crowd."
Cable TV always shows the shots of Trump's crowds -- including last night.
But why let facts get in the way when you can throw partisan red meat to the crowd?
"Very unenthusiastic crowd."
In the second paragraph of the CNN story on the rally , the crowd is described as "raucous."
So ...

37.
"But they don't show the crowd."
[narrator voice] They do.
JUST WATCHED Trump: Media attacked Melania over her shoes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: Media attacked Melania over her shoes 00:56

38.
"They said she wore high heels, going to go into the floods with her high heels.
But she has become very popular."
Trump is right about this.
Some in the media did make a big deal out of the fact Melania Trump was photographed wearing high heels to get on the plane to visit Houston and the victims of Hurricane Harvey.
But she changed into tennis shoes -- making the whole "she's out of touch!"
thing a total misfire.
Related: Melania Trump is the most popular Trump, but that's not exactly a massive accomplishment.
"And I might have made a mistake.
And I'll be honest, I might have made a mistake."
This is totally incredible.
While at a last-minute campaign rally for Strange, Trump admits he might have made a mistake in endorsing Strange.
Yes, really.
"And I told Luther, I have to say this, if his opponent wins, I'm going to be here campaigning like hell for him."
See, so I probably shouldn't have made this Strange endorsement because if he loses, people will say it's bad for me.
But, I don't really care because I'll campaign for Roy Moore too.
Same difference!
"Missile defense, you know, when you hear those two words."
Trump is delivering an ode to missile defense here.
He also says how important those words are.
"As long as I'm president, you are going to have so much money spent here."
Drain the Swamp!
Drain the Swamp!
"I think we won because of the military.
I think we won because of the vets.
I think we won because of the evangelicals."
In truth, he won because of the white working class vote in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
"And he won't only be great, he'll be the tallest senator in the history of the United States."
Vote for Strange!
He's tall!
Also, Trump does love to see a good record broken -- especially on his watch.
"Shelby is pretty tall too, by the way."
The Internet doesn't appear to know how tall Richard Shelby is.
But having seen him in person I am going to ballpark it at 6-foot-1.
"Four-star marine.
That's good."
Trump loves his generals -- especially the heavily decorated ones (like John Kelly, who he is referring to here) or ones with cool nicknames like James "Mad Dog" Mattis, who is Trump's secretary of defense.
"The wall is happening, folks.
Believe me."
Is it, though?
Also, is Mexico still paying for it, or nah?
"So you have the concrete wall.
That's what I do best.
That's what I do best.
That is what I really do."
Donald Trump: He does concrete walls best.
"They have catapults.
They throw it over the wall, and it lands and it hit somebody on the head."
Um, what?
Drug dealer catapults is a thing now?
"I can tweet, 'That was a false story, boom, boom, boom.'"
The Trump presidency, in one quote.
JUST WATCHED Trump: I wish NFL owners respected US flag Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I wish NFL owners respected US flag 02:48

51.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He is fired.
He's fired!'"
This comment -- as you might guess!
-- has caused a huge amount of controversy already.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell released a statement Saturday morning rejecting Trump's comments as divisive.
And a number of prominent NFL players have also responded; "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed," tweeted Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman.
"If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
"Total disrespect of our heritage, a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
Everything that we stand for."
Interesting use of "our heritage" here.
"They are ruining the game, right?
They are ruining the game.
Look, that's what they want to do.
They want to hit.
They want to hit."
Trump comes down firmly on the side of those who want football to continue on as it always has -- despite the overwhelming evidence that the sport is producing a generation of men with CTE and other brain illnesses.
"You know what's hurting the game more than that?
When people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when they are playing our great national anthem."
There's very little actual evidence that suggests the handful of players refusing to stand during the national anthem is having an adverse impact on TV ratings.
"Isn't it a little weird when a guy who lives on 5th Avenue in the most beautiful apartment you've ever seen comes to Alabama and Alabama loves that guy?"
That is weird!
Also, "most beautiful apartment."
"Did people call you Big Luther before he met Trump?
You know, I brand people."
[narrator voice] Yes, they did.
"The electoral college is a very special thing."
The election was 319 days ago.
"To me, winning the popular vote is easier."
The election was 319 days ago.
JUST WATCHED Trump: No, Russia did not help me win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: No, Russia did not help me win 01:04

59.
"I call it the Russian hoax.
One of the great hoaxes."
The FBI, CIA, NSA and the former Director of National Intelligence all say Russia not only attempted to interfere in our election but did so to help Trump and hurt Hillary Clinton.
"Any Russians in the audience?
Are there any Russians in the audience?
I don't see too many Russians."
This is the standard Trump argument against the idea of Russia involvement in the election.
But that's not the claim!
The claim is that Russians -- through a variety of means -- sought to influence the narrative around the two candidates in ways that were good for Trump and bad for Clinton.
It's totally meaningless whether there are any Russians in the audience in an Alabama crowd.
"Look at all those red lights.
Ay yai yai.
It's always fun to see a red light."
Trump is talking about the lights on the TV cameras that show they are broadcasting him.
Trump LOVES to be on TV.
"If I have to wait for two seconds, I go crazy."
Donald Trump on patience.
"I'm taking a big risk because if Luther does not make it, they are going to go after me."
This Alabama election, like all things, is about Donald Trump first, second and last.
"Thank you, Alabama.
I love you.
Thank you.
I love you, Alabama."
And, in conclusion, thank you Alabama.
And I love you.
But mostly thank you.
Also, I love you.
But "Rocket Man," North Korea's Kim Jong Un, is, in fact, a despot with a missile program and pledges to develop a usable hydrogen bomb.
So while the stakes are new and different for President Donald Trump, his tactics remain the same.
What name-calling can get him in a standoff with North Korea is much less clear.
The bellicose US President's bravado should surprise absolutely no one; he picked fights throughout the Republican primary, doling out nicknames to his opponents, then seeking out new adversaries when the foe du jour was vanquished.
That's how we got from "Little Marco," his moniker for Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, with whom he faced off in the primary, to "Crooked Hillary," his name for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
Name-calling, to varying degrees, helped Trump embarrass Rubio in the Florida primary, beat down Cruz on the stump and ahead of what was shaping up to be a tight delegate fight, and destroy the blue wall Clinton was banking on in the Rust Belt -- and Trump knows it.
The through-line is clear.
He's shown that, when under pressure, he will revert to the tactics that got him this job in the first place.
Trump has a flair for rhetoric and for barbs.
His threat of "fire and fury" if North Korea didn't cool it with the missile testing conjured dark images of military power.
But it was not effective in deterring Kim from ordering additional launches.
Calling the North Korea leader "Rocket Man" at the UN and threatening to destroy his country if it endangers the US, along with the slapping of new penalties on the already heavily sanctioned nation, was met with a threat from the North Koreans to test a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean and a riposte that Trump is a dotard

In each case during the campaign, Trump would use a nickname both on Twitter and at campaign rallies, feeding off his crowds, to build support among the faithful, and to drive home the point that his opponent was flawed -- and that he was the alpha dog.
Since taking office, he's squared off against Democrats and also Republicans in Congress on a variety of issues.
He'll call out senators over a piece of legislation, like the effort to repeal Obamacare.
But he keeps returning to Clinton even though he beat her last November, reveling in the comfort of his unexpected victory.
But Trump is not running against "Rocket Man."
There's no simple win-loss calculation to making Kim his personal enemy.
He's not trying to vanquish him at the ballot box by impugning his integrity, and he's not trying to get pressure on him to support an agenda.
He's simply trying to get Kim to stop testing missiles and seeking a nuclear weapon.
But going on what's happened to date, it's looking more and more like the name-calling has had the opposite effect.
And it could end up being the real difference in Trump's foreign policy, which so far has consisted of removing the US from two large multinational agreements (The Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Paris climate agreement).
He has no interest in being leader of the free world, but rather in the economic nationalism he likes to call "America First."
This is the natural progression of Trump from reality star and New York City provocateur to primary candidate and then Republican iconoclast, to now, presumably, leader of the free world.
But there is no new prize for Trump, the presidential name-caller, in a pitched rhetorical battle with a dictator.
Winning the rhetorical battle is one thing.
But it could be very different than a diplomatic solution to dealing with North Korea.
Havana, Cuba (CNN) Some of the 21 US diplomats believed to have been impacted by mysterious acoustic attacks in Cuba were targeted multiple times, CNN has learned from a senior US official.
There were nearly 50 attacks in total, the official said.
The incidents have challenged the US government's assessment that Cuba is a safe country for US diplomats and their families and threatened the future of the newly reopened embassy.
Despite the often-empty supermarkets and antagonistic relations with the communist-run government, Cuba for years offered US diplomats a rare benefit: It was safe.
Unlike in many other countries, in Cuba, US Embassy employees didn't have to worry much about terrorist attacks, kidnapping or even petty crime.
The Cuban government's tight control over the island made Havana one of the safest cities in the world.
Diplomats -- especially those Cuba suspected of being spies -- might suffer harassment at the hands of the powerful state security apparatus, but there were established lines neither of the Cold War adversaries would cross.
But starting early this year, US diplomats heading to the island to begin their postings were quietly warned they could face a mysterious threat that was causing American Foreign Service officers to fall ill, some with long-lasting symptoms.
Investigators haven't determined the cause of the incidents, but US officials told CNN they are convinced someone has targeted American diplomats in Havana with a sophisticated device never deployed before, at least not against US personnel.
At the United Nations on Friday, Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodrguez Parrilla denied that Cuba was involved in attacks on diplomats and said the United States was politicizing the incidents.
But seven months after complaints to officials and assurances from Cuban President Raul Castro that the incidents would be investigated, US officials are frustrated by the lack of progress and may scale back the embassy to limit the number of people who risk exposure.
Options include sending families and nonessential staff back to the United States to a full-on shuttering of the embassy , three senior US officials told CNN.
"We have to consider it.
We thought we had corralled this, and then the two cases in August took place," a senior US official said.
"It is not as if the attacks address individual personnel officers.
Our personnel is broadly at risk.
So we have to consider next steps because we need to protect our people."
Setback in relations possible

If the United States were to recall diplomats, it would be a devastating setback to US-Cuban relations and come at a crucial moment as Castro prepares to step down as President in February and Washington needs eyes and ears on the ground.
Ties between the countries were severed in 1961 shortly after Fidel Castro took power.
As confrontation between the two nations loomed, US diplomats hurriedly lowered the American flag at the embassy and boarded a ferry to sail across the Straits of Florida.
In 1977, the United States and Cuba took the first step toward restoring diplomatic relations by opening interests sections in each other's capitals, and US diplomats moved back into their seafront offices.
They were hardly welcomed back with open arms.
Then-President Fidel Castro called the interests section "a nest of spies" and led frequent demonstrations in front of the building.
Castro also kept a close eye on the Americans.
"Surveillance was pretty constant," said Vicki Huddleston, who headed the interests section from 1999 to 2002.
"The security officer used to say we don't even look for listening devices in the residence because the Cubans will just replace them.
But it was not malicious.
They just wanted to know what I was saying or other diplomats are saying."
In 2015, after President Barack Obama announced a thaw in relations, the two countries re-established full diplomatic relations and reopened embassies.
Some hard-liners in Cuba -- including Fidel Castro, who had retired by then -- criticized the opening with the United States.
But many Cubans rejoiced as Americans returned to the island in large numbers for the first time in a half century.
The normalizing relationship led to restored flight services and greater exchanges between the two countries.
But in November, following the US presidential election, American diplomats began to experience a series of strange incidents.
As CNN first reported in August, diplomats were awoken late at night in their homes feeling unwell and hearing sounds that resembled insects or metal dragging across the floor.
They were unable to determine the source of the sound; by leaving the room or area they were in, the incidents stopped immediately, two US government officials said.
By February, the State Department had concluded their diplomats were the targets of a campaign of harassment and they needed to raise the issue with Cuban officials.
More questions than answers

The devices used in the incidents had never been found, two US officials said, but appeared to be a type of sonic weapon that emitted sound waves capable of inflicting physical harm.
But the physical symptoms that people exhibited varied greatly, preventing doctors consulted in the United States from reaching a conclusion about what caused the trauma, two US officials said.
US government technical experts were also baffled.
Some affected diplomats had lines of sight to the street in their homes, while others had shrubbery and walls that blocked views of their homes.
Some heard loud sounds when the incidents took place, while others heard nothing.
It does not appear either the US Embassy or the ambassador's residence were ever targeted, three senior US officials told CNN.
How much did Cuba know?
At the time, Donald Trump had just won the presidency.
Raul Castro congratulated Trump on his unexpected victory in the Cuban state-run media, even though Trump had promised to take a tougher line on Cuba.
Still Cuban officials were hopeful that a modus vivendi could be reached with the new administration.
At the same time, the Cubans were racing to capitalize on the final months of goodwill from the Obama administration and sign as many agreements with the US government and American companies as possible.
It made no sense for Cuba at that moment to begin a campaign of harassment against US diplomats, US officials said.
Shortly after US diplomats complained for the first time to their Cuban counterparts, Raul Castro summoned the top US diplomat in Havana, Jeffrey DeLaurentis, to a meeting.
Castro denied any Cuban involvement in the alleged attacks and promised a thorough investigation, according to US and Cuban officials.
US officials felt Castro would not have personally assured the Americans that Cuba had no part in the incidents if it had been a Cuban operation, a US official told CNN.
Since then, the United States has received cooperation from Cuba, if not many answers.
The FBI was permitted to travel to the island and met with officials from Cuba's Interior Ministry, which is directing the investigation, a US official said.
Many diplomats live in Havana's upscale Siboney neighborhood, which was called Country Club before the revolution.
The area's well-maintained mansions and tidy lawns are a far cry from the city's iconic decaying colonial buildings.
There are surveillance cameras throughout Siboney and Cuban security guards posted in front of many diplomats' homes.
Top Cuban officials -- including Raul Castro -- have houses in the same area and are heavily guarded.
Other incidents took place in hotels in Havana where US diplomats were staying, said three senior US officials, also locations that Cuban intelligence services closely monitor.
US officials said they believe even if the Cubans didn't know about the incidents at the beginning of the investigation, they must have a clearer idea of what transpired than they are letting on.
"It is increasingly apparent the Cubans are involved in some way," a senior US official said.
"The Cubans are all over our people while they are down there.
If it was a few attacks, you could say that maybe it was the Russians or Iranians screwing with us, but when it happens so many times, especially in the same hotel, it is hard for us believe someone can get close enough to our people so many times.
Unless these are beams from outer space."
Speaking at the UN General Assembly in New York, Rodrguez, the foreign minister, said his government "has taken into account the data contributed by the US authorities and so far has found no evidence whatsoever that could confirm the causes or the origin of the health disorders referred to by US diplomats and their relatives."
Rodrguez said Cuban officials would continue to investigate.
As Americans work to repair the US Embassy in Havana, badly damaged by Hurricane Irma, the Cuban diplomat's words this week likely provided little comfort.
(CNN) In a desperate search for 50 votes, Republican leaders are trying to convince Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky to support a health care bill he's spent the last week railing against.
There's little evidence it will work.
Both Vice President Mike Pence and President Donald Trump have reached out to the junior senator from Kentucky in the last 24 hours, and Trump tweeted Saturday morning: "I know Rand Paul and I think he may find a way to get there for the good of the Party!"
I know Rand Paul and I think he may find a way to get there for the good of the Party!
Still, there are no signs that Paul is close to reversing his position on Graham-Cassidy, the latest health care bill, which would repeal the individual and employer mandates in Obamacare, get rid of the subsidies and Medicaid expansion and instead give states block grants to set up their own health care programs.
Paul spokesman Sergio Gor told CNN Friday that Paul is "unlikely" to change his mind even if changes were made to the bill, and a leadership aide said they thought Paul was way too far gone to come back around now.
"Not even a consideration right now," the aide said.
Over the last week, Paul has publicly skewered Graham-Cassidy for not repealing enough of the Obamacare taxes and not going far enough to rein in federal spending.
In a Tweet Friday, Paul wrote "Calling a bill that KEEPS most of Obamacare "repeal" doesn't make it true.
That's what the swamp does.
I won't be bribed or bullied."
Still, the White House isn't expected to lay off.
The bill's sponsors as well as the President, are determined to find the votes after months of repeal efforts, and time is almost up.
The Senate's vehicle to pass a health care bill with just 51 votes expires at the end of this month, and it only takes one more Republican "no" vote to stop the legislation from passing altogether.
Republican leaders need 50 votes to repeal Obamacare.
Then, the vice president would cast the final 51st vote.
Calling a bill that KEEPS most of Obamacare "repeal" doesn't make it true.
That's what the swamp does.
I won't be bribed or bullied.
Senator Rand Paul (@RandPaul) September 22, 2017

The prospects for bringing the bill to the floor next week, however, are dimming.
Friday, Arizona Republican John McCain became the latest "no," saying he could not "in good conscience" support the latest effort to repeal Obamacare.
He cited concerns with the Republican's partisan process and their lack of hearings, markups and amendments in the Senate.
"I cannot in good conscience vote for the Graham-Cassidy proposal," the Arizona Republican said in a statement.
"I believe we could do better working together, Republicans and Democrats, and have not yet really tried.
Nor could I support it without knowing how much it will cost, how it will (affect) insurance premiums, and how many people will be helped or hurt by it.
Without a full CBO score, which won't be available by the end of the month, we won't have reliable answers to any of those questions."
On Friday, Sen. Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine, also inched closer to closing the door on Graham-Cassidy, saying that she was "leaning against," the bill, according to a report from The Portland Press Herald
World leaders pulled out the stops, and perhaps a thesaurus or two, to review President Donald Trump's first appearance at the UN General Assembly, the multi-day pageant of meetings known as the Super Bowl of Diplomacy.
Some of the more colorful trash talk came from old foes of the US, while rivals for power tried to land a punch about nations used to "lording it over others."
But alongside the expected zingers came a raft of quieter criticism from countries that have long stood beside Washington in the global arena.
Where some saw a "refreshing" honesty in Trump's remarks, others said the concern bubbling up from allies about his rhetoric and policies on Iran, North Korea, climate change and even domestic issues suggests there's a danger the US will grow isolated on the international stage.
"Isolation of a different sort"

"This is isolation of a different sort, this is self-isolation," said Daniel Serwer, director of the Conflict Management Program at the Johns Hopkins School of International Studies.
"These aren't conservative positions, they're radical positions on climate change, North Korea and Iran."
Trump delivered trademark provocation -- threatening to "totally destroy" North Korea in a body based on the idea of turning swords into ploughshares.
He dismissed the North Korean leader as "Rocket Man."
He hinted at a decision to walk away from the international pact that restrains Iran's nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief.
And in a body devoted, however imperfectly, to the idea of collaboration for the greater good, he championed self-interest.
"Some of us were embarrassed, if not frightened, by what appeared to be the return of the biblical giant gold Goliath," said Robert Mugabe, Zimbabwe's president.
"Are we having a return of the Goliath to our midst who threatens the extinction of other countries?"
Mugabe said that the world wanted to be led by a United States guided by values of unity and peace, "not by the promise of our damnation."
Countries like his had already resisted "damnation" in the form of imperialism.
"The master of imperialism was defeated by us," he said.
"Bring us another monster, by whatever name, he will suffer the same consequences."
JUST WATCHED Trump hints at Iran deal's future Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump hints at Iran deal's future 02:33

Criticism from the likes of Mugabe, not a particularly warm friend of the US, is "just business as usual," said James Carafano, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation.
"Put everyone's politics and line up their comments and they just fall in line like tin soldiers."
Certainly, the usual critics lined up.
North Korea's Kim slammed Trump from afar as a "mentally deranged US dotard," sending hundreds of thousands running to their dictionaries.
Venezuela's Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza, speaking just outside the General Assembly, bristled with sarcasm as he told reporters that, "of course the country that violates the human rights all over the world seems to have the moral authority to come and speak to the rest of the countries as if they were his employees."
President Hassan Rouhani of Iran rebuked Trump's "ignorant, absurd rhetoric ."
Cuba's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Bruno Eduardo Rodriguez Parrilla, said the US leader "manipulates" the concept of sovereignty and security, "ignores and distorts history, and portrays a pipe dream as a goal to be pursued," to his own benefit and the harm of others, including his allies.
JUST WATCHED Israeli PM: World cannot risk a nuclear Iran Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Israeli PM: World cannot risk a nuclear Iran 01:59

At least one of those allies had nothing but praise for Trump.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tweeted that, "in over 30 years in my experience with the UN, I never heard a bolder or more courageous speech."
The US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley said that many countries "were very positive to the speech," adding that "they appreciated how blunt and honest he was ... how straightforward he was and how refreshing it was."
But publicly and privately, Haley and the Israeli leader seemed to be in the minority.
One senior diplomat from a close US ally said Trump's references to his "America First" campaign platform, which he tied to his remarks on sovereignty, were "just terrible."
A diplomat from the Middle East, asked for an opinion about Trump's address to the UN, simply laughed and after a pause said, "interesting."
But others were more than happy to air their concerns publicly, however carefully.
French President Emmanuel Macron and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau were among leaders who called out Trump for his decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord, putting the US in a club of three, alongside Syria.
"There is no country on the planet that can walk away from the challenge and reality of climate change," Trudeau told the UN Thursday.
Another nearby neighbor, Mexican Secretary of Foreign Affairs Luis Videgaray, used his address to the UN to question Trump's "America First" spin on sovereignty.
"We hear voices today questioning the efficacy of multilateralism to deal with the world's challenges," Videgaray said, without mentioning Trump by name.
"Mexico rejects this dilemma and continues to be a sovereign state with a profound multilateral feeling.
No matter how powerful a country is it cannot respond to the enormous shared challenges of time."
"It is multilateralism that makes a difference," the Mexican minister said, mentioning problems like climate change, arms regulation, drug control and natural disasters as just a few examples of challenges one country can't manage alone.
A win for Mexico, a loss for the US

At a later press conference, he wondered at the logic of Trump's decision to expel children brought to the US without papers, many of them from Mexico and now known as "Dreamers."
"It's hard to understand why a country would export, export for free a human capital of this quality," Videgaray told reporters at the UN.
"If that happens it would be a tremendous win for Mexico, big loss for the US."
Again and again, people returned to the Trump administration's handling of North Korea, singling out the propensity for threats that, in their view, escalate tensions, not defuse them.
Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven wasn't the only person to question not just Trump's boast of North Korean destruction, but the place he chose to do it.
Speaking to CNN, Lofven said, "I think the spirit of the world community and the United Nations is not to threaten one another, it is to find a way to common solutions."
German Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel rebuked Trump's remarks on sovereignty and his dismissal of the Iran deal, linking it to ongoing tensions with North Korea.
"This is not only about Iran," Garbiel said.
"This is about the credibility of the international community."
JUST WATCHED Mogherini: Iran deal must not be dismantled Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mogherini: Iran deal must not be dismantled 07:55

What happens, he asked, "if it turns out that negotiated agreements do not endure and confidence in those agreements are not worth the paper they're written on.
How are we going to convince countries like North Korea that international agreements provide them with security?"
Japan's Minister for Foreign Affairs Taro Kono also touched on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, as the Iran deal is known, saying that it's "extremely important" the pact be continuously and steadily implemented.
European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, who told a room full of diplomats that "we don't destroy countries," made clear that Europe will chart its own path if need be.
If the US leaves the deal, she said, "I can tell you as a European ... we will make sure that the agreement stays."
Carafano says the Europe is upset because of Trump's "big challenge to the euro-federalist program," the commitment to a European Union.
"They see calls for sovereignty as a direct challenge on the European project."
As for the upset about Trump's threat to North Korea, Carafano says it's "laughable."
But others like Serwer see worrying signs.
"The European allies aren't with us on North Korea, Iran or climate change," he said.
"He is pretending to lead but nobody is following.
It's that bad."
Correction: This story was updated to correct French President Emmanuel Macron's title.
While speaking on behalf of Alabama Republican Senate candidate Luther Strange, Trump touted his proposal for a wall on the United States' southern border.
Here's some of the more notable comments the President made during his speech regarding the construction of the wall:

Transparent

Criticizing the inability to see across the border that comes with a concrete wall, Trump said the new design needs to be transparent.
"If you can't have vision through it, you don't know whose on the other side," he said.
"You need to have a great wall, but it has to be see-through," Trump said.
"We're looking at different samples already of see-through walls.
And, I think also, to be honest with you, a see-through wall would look better."
"I'm going to out and look at them personally, going to pick the right one," he added.
Not a full wall

Trump noted that a wall extending across the entire border is not necessary.
"You don't need it all the way," Trump said, adding, "We are going to have as much wall as we need."
"You have a lot of natural barriers, et cetera.
Somebody said, 'Well, what are you going to do, you going to build that wall in the middle of the river?
... That nobody can go in?
Are you going to build that wall on the mountain?'
I said, 'You don't need the wall on the mountain.
You have a mountain which is a wall.'
But we are going to build a wall.
It is coming along great," Trump said.
Renovations

Trump referenced parts of a wall that are already built and said they were working to renovate those areas.
"We have the wall up there now, and we're renovating it already," Trump said they are making it, "pristine," "perfect," and "just as good as new."
"Though, we may go a little higher than that.
But, that's OK," Trump added.
Stopping drugs

One of the goals of the wall, Trump reiterated, is to curb the flow of drugs into the country.
"They take drugs, literally, and they throw it.
A hundred pounds of drugs, they throw it over the wall.
They have catapults.
They throw it over the wall, and it lands and it hit somebody on the head.
You don't even know they're there.
Believe it or not, this is the kind of stuff that happens," Trump said.
Responding to reports about a wall

Trump also set the record straight that he still intended to build a wall, despite what might be reported in the media.
"Well every once in a while you hear, 'Well, you know, he doesn't really want to build the wall,' I say, 'Excuse me?'
That is the great thing about Twitter," Trump said.
"You know, when the press is dishonest, which is most of the time, and when they say, like, I don't want to build a wall, I can tweet that was a false story."
Story highlights Nine nuclear-capable states exist in the world, experts say

Eight believed to have weapons ready to be incorporated into their arsenals

(CNN) Nine nuclear-capable states exist in the world, but only eight of them -- all but North Korea -- are believed by experts to have weapons mature and developed enough to be readily incorporated into the arsenals of their armed forces.
That is, of course, a rapidly developing situation.
A North Korean official threatened this week that his country would test a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean after President Donald Trump called North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "rocket man" and the North Korean shot back that Trump was a "dotard ."
The road to North Korea's weapons capability follows decades of ups and downs as nuclear states such as the United States and Russia have built up and dismantled their programs.
Today, Russia is believed to have the most nuclear weapons, with 4,300.
Not far behind is the United States, with 4,000, according to The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists' Nuclear Notebook .
Of the world's approximately 15,000 nuclear weapons, 9,400 are in military arsenals.
The remaining weapons are retired and awaiting dismantlement.
Nearly 4,000 are operationally available, and 1,800 are ready for use on short notice.
But after large-scale disarmament efforts by superpowers such as the United States, we're really at a low point in what was once a world that packed three or four times more operational nuclear power.
See the chart below for a visualization of how nuclear arsenals have changed over time.
Read More
(CNN) Everyone seems to have a strong opinion about why Hillary Clinton lost.
Clinton herself -- as explained in her new memoir "What Happened" -- puts blame on her campaign, the news media, former FBI director James Comey and WikiLeaks.
Donald Trump tweeted this morning that "Crooked Hillary" was simply a "bad candidate."
And now Stan Greenberg, the man who served as the lead pollster for Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign (and Al Gore's 2000 campaign) has written a long essay titled "How She Lost" that slams Clinton (and her campaign) for a series of messaging, tactical and broader strategic errors.
"For me, the most glaring examples include the Clinton campaign's over-dependence on technical analytics; its failure to run campaigns to win the battleground states; the decision to focus on the rainbow base and identity politics at the expense of the working class; and the failure to address the candidate's growing 'trust problem,' to learn from events and reposition."
There's a lot to unpack there.
And it's worth noting that a decent chunk of Greenberg's essay is a sort of "I tried to warn them" plea -- noting that he repeatedly told Clinton, campaign chairman John Podesta and campaign manager Robby Mook that their message wasn't working.
(And he was right.)
But Greenberg's most intriguing -- and I think, important -- point is his suggestion that Clinton chose to focus on gender and race issues over class ones, and that it cost her dearly.
He writes: "Despite overwhelming evidence that the Democratic base wasn't consolidated or excited, the campaign believed Trump's tasteless attacks and Clinton's identification with every group in the rainbow coalition would produce near-universal support."
Then, later in the essay:

"The progressive debate must now address: What is the role of the working class and white working class?
How do you build off of anger toward an economy that fails the middle class, but still align with professionals, innovators, and metropolitan areas?
How do you credibly battle corporate influence and corrupted politics?
Can you simultaneously advance identity and class politics?"
In the wake of Clinton's loss, the lesson most aspiring Democrats appear to have learned is that the way to win is to fully embrace the race and gender politics of the party's activist base -- and to move as far to the left as possible.
In short: The prevailing wisdom among 2020 Democratic aspirants is that Clinton's loss was the result of insufficient embrace of identity politics.
But Greenberg's argument is the exact opposite.
That in deciding to air a "breakthrough ad in Nevada in which she hugged a Dreamer" rather than an ad with "an autoworker's daughter," Clinton was sending a message to white working-class voters that she didn't care about them.
"They were explicitly privileging race and gender over class," Greenberg writes.
"And they championed policies that expanded opportunity in the way advanced by Obama."
It's not clear to me whether Greenberg's thesis will get a real test come 2020.
The lone top-tier candidate who would likely run on a class message and with a class (over race and gender) focus is former Vice President Joe Biden, who remains undecided on whether he'll hop into the race.
"What happened was that this was the first campaign that I can recall where my party did not talk about what it always stood for -- and that was how to maintain a burgeoning middle class," Biden said of Clinton's failed campaign back in March.
"You didn't hear a single solitary sentence in the last campaign about that guy working on the assembly line making $60,000 bucks a year and a wife making $32,000 as a hostess in restaurant."
If Biden doesn't run, there's no obvious candidate to fill that role -- although it's worth noting that Bernie Sanders does talk a lot about class.
(Sanders' focus on class over race and/or gender politics was roundly criticized by Clinton and her allies during the 2016 primary campaign.)
Dismiss Greenberg's criticism if you will.
But he has been a major figure in Democratic politics for a very long time -- and his diagnosis of what went wrong for Clinton is well worth the read.
(CNN) President Donald Trump sought to make the case to Alabama voters Friday night that Sen. Luther Strange is more electable than his opponent, Roy Moore.
At a raucous rally in Huntsville, the President warned that that former judge Moore could lose the state's Senate special election to a Democrat -- but if Strange, who already holds the Senate seat, wins Tuesday's primary, "it's over."
With the endorsement, Trump took what he admitted was a risk -- pumping his own political capital into an effort to carry Strange to victory, even though a Moore win could put a dent in Trump's influence.
Trump said he "might've made a mistake, I'll be honest," by wading into the race.
But, he said, "Luther's going to win easily and Roy is going to have a hard time winning" a December general election against Democrat Doug Jones.
Trump's comments about electability came as he acknowledged that Senate Republicans can't spare a single vote.
He pointed to Sen. John McCain's announcement Friday that he opposes the latest GOP health care bill -- effectively ending the party's chances for now at repealing Obamacare.
His decision to visit Alabama and campaign for Strange, Trump said, was all about loyalty.
The President bluntly told the crowd that when he was handed a list of 10 senators he needed to lobby to support his health care effort, some insisted on dinners and meetings with their families before Trump could win them over.
But when he called Strange, the new senator appointed in February to replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions, said, in Trump's retelling: "Sir, don't even waste your time talking anymore.
You have a lot of business to do.
You have my vote."
Trump said he told first lady Melania Trump about the call.
"I went home and told my wife, that's the coolest thing that's happened to me in six months."
Trump also defended Strange against Moore's accusations that he is doing Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's bidding, saying that Strange has only known McConnell for months.
The charges have stemmed from a pro-McConnell super PAC spending $9 million to boost Strange.
Trump and McConnell have butted heads as Republicans' frustration has mounted over the party's failure to repeal Obamacare and enact other Trump agenda items, with Trump publicly blasting the Senate leader on Twitter repeatedly in recent weeks.
At the rally, Trump said he knew Strange had trailed in the polls.
But he said: "I think you're going to come back and you're going to kick everyone's ass and you're going to be great.
You're going to be great.
Because he got saddled with things he should not have gotten saddled with."
Still, Trump's hedges -- at one point he said he'd support Moore if he wins the primary -- reflected a White House still cautious about Strange's chances against a figure with decades-long relationships in Alabama politics.
Moore, who campaigns on placing Christianity at the center of public life and opposing LGBT rights, was twice ousted as state Supreme Court chief justice -- first for refusing to remove a Ten Commandments monument then for refusing to recognize the US Supreme Court's decision legalizing same-sex marriage.
Health care struggles

JUST WATCHED Trump calls out McCain for health care vote Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump calls out McCain for health care vote 00:44

Trump blasted McCain at the Friday night rally, calling the Arizona Republican's choice to oppose the latest GOP effort to repeal Obamacare "honestly terrible" at a rally in Alabama.
Recalling the list of 10 "no" votes he was told he needed to court, Trump said, "John McCain was not on the list, so that was an unexpected thing.
Terrible.
Honestly terrible."
Trump added that McCain's "last campaign was all about repeal and replace, repeal and replace."
"We're going to do it eventually," Trump vowed, referring to his pledge to repeal former President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act.
Trump added that he still believes Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, who like McCain has said he will vote against the bill, could change his mind.
"I haven't given up on him, because I think he may come around, OK?
Wouldn't it be ironic if he took John McCain's place -- and they definitely do not like each other.
Wouldn't that be ironic?"
Trump said.
"That would be very ironic, for those of you that know the inner workings of the Senate."
And he railed against the Senate's "crazy" 60-vote threshold to pass legislation, complaining that -- with Republicans controlling only 52 seats -- it's impossible to pass bills.
He said the GOP can pass bills under special budget reconciliation rules that require just 51 votes, "but that's a trick.
That's just a trick."
'He's fired!'
The rally had some of Trump's hallmarks.
He claimed that audience members would be "turning over your rifle" if Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton had won the 2016 election.
And when the audience chanted "lock her up," he responded that they should talk to Sessions about it.
Trump also said he'd like to see NFL owners respond to players kneeling during the National Anthem by saying: "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
"For a week, (that owner would) be the most popular person in this country," Trump said, "because that's a total disrespect of our heritage.
That's a total disrespect for everything we stand for.
And he complained about NFL efforts to enforce penalties designed to prevent concussions.
"They're ruining the game, right?"
he said.
"They're ruining the game."
'Russia did not help me'

Trump called the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election "one of the great hoaxes," and said it is an "excuse" for Democrats after they lost the contest.
"Honestly, it's the thing they did best," Trump said of Democrats.
"They did a rotten job of running, but they convinced people of this hoax.
That was probably the thing that they did best, but it was one great hoax."
He added: "No, Russia did not help me, that I can tell you, OK?"
Trump also bragged about his victory, touting his focus on electoral votes rather than the popular vote, and said he hopes Clinton runs again in 2020.
"If Hillary runs again in four years, which I hope she does, we're going to teach her to spend more time in Michigan.
We're going to teach her to go to Wisconsin," Trump said.
'Little Rocket Man'

JUST WATCHED Trump on N. Korea threat: You are protected Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump on N. Korea threat: You are protected 02:15

The trip south comes after Trump spent a stiff week in New York City meeting world leaders at the United Nations, which he called "very productive" at Friday's rally.
Trump took aim again at North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un's nuclear aspirations, calling him "Little Rocket Man" and promising that "we're going to handle it, folks" at a rally in Alabama.
"We can't have mad men out there shooting rockets all over the place.
And by the way, Rocket Man should have been handled a long time ago," Trump said, adding that former President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton should have dealt with North Korea during Obama's tenure.
"He should have been handled eight years ago, and four years ago, and honestly -- and 15 years ago, and 20 years ago, and 25 years ago.
This shouldn't be handled now, but I'm going to handle it because we have to handle it."
'Boom, gone'

Trump touted his administration's executive accomplishments, including withdrawing from the Trans-Pacific Partnership and advancing the Keystone XL pipeline.
He pointed to efforts to reform the Veterans Affairs department and increase defense spending.
Of the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan, Trump said: "Did you see what I did to that?
Boom, gone."
He pitched his next major legislative agenda item, tax reform, saying that it will be "the biggest tax cut" and that he'd rescind his endorsement if Strange didn't support it.
Trump, Bannon face off

The Alabama Senate primary marks the first time Trump is directly confronting his former chief strategist, Steve Bannon, who is aggressively supporting Moore while framing the primary as a chance to reject McConnell.
Bannon has been rallying anti-establishment conservative donors and influencers and using the conservative news site Breitbart.com to attack Strange.
But Strange used Bannon's support to poke at Moore at a debate on Thursday night.
"Many of the people who are supporting you look like the unemployment line at the White House," he said.
"They were fired."
(CNN) Melania Trump is in Canada for her first solo foreign trip as first lady, traveling to Toronto to lead the US delegation to the Invictus Games on Saturday.
During a whirlwind day trip, Trump is meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Great Britain's Prince Harry, and attending the opening ceremony of the Paralympic-style games before returning to Washington.
"In just two short years, the Invictus Games have allowed thousands of injured and wounded servicemen and women from many different countries to participate in adaptive sports competitions -- something that should be lauded and supported worldwide.
I am honored by the opportunity to represent our country at this year's games," Trump said in a statement about the trip.
Trump stepped off her Boeing C-32 in a black-and-white checkered Christian Dior suit, and proceeded through Toronto by motorcade to a local hotel, where she met with Prince Harry.
"Mrs. Trump, may I introduce His Royal Highness," an aide said as Harry entered the room.
@FLOTUS and @KensingtonRoyal's Prince Harry meet ahead of @InvictusToronto #FLOTUSinCanada pic.twitter.com/OK4GPOCoy3  Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) September 23, 2017

They shook hands and met for about 20 minutes, discussing the history of the Invictus Games.
Joined by their respective chiefs of staff and communications directors, the two asked each other questions about their families, and there was some "friendly, competitive razzing" ahead of the games, according to the first lady's communications director, Stephanie Grisham.
Trump extended an invitation to Prince Harry to visit the White House any time he is in the United States, per Grisham.
Later in the day, Trump met with Team USA, posing for a team photo and giving brief, encouraging remarks ahead of the opening ceremonies.
"I also want to wish you good luck, but I know you won't need it in these games.
Take that fighting spirit that I know you have, and bring home the gold," she said to applause.
She stayed to personally shake hands and greet athletes for several minutes after her remarks.
The US delegation also includes Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin and Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan, as well as US Embassy Ottawa Charg d'Affaires Elizabeth Moore Aubin, Gold Star mother Karen Kelly, professional golfer Nancy Lopez and entertainer Wayne Newton.
The Invictus Games were started in 2014 by Prince Harry, who was inspired to build global awareness for servicemen and women injured in combat.
During the games, hundreds of participants compete in para-Olympic style activities, such as swimming, cycling, wheelchair basketball and wheelchair rugby.
Seventeen different countries are taking part in this year's challenge.
Trump has already made visits to several countries as first lady with husband President Donald Trump.
In May, she visited Saudi Arabia, Israel, Belgium and Italy.
In July, she was by the President's side in Poland and Germany, and made a quick trip to France for Bastille Day celebrations.
Trump will be following in the footsteps of former first lady Michelle Obama , who, with Prince Harry, kicked off the 2016 Invictus Games in the host city of Orlando.
CNN poll released this week found that the first lady's star is rising: 44% of respondents had a favorable opinion of Melania Trump, while 35% had an unfavorable view.
Her husband, by contrast, has a 41% favorable/57% unfavorable rating.
While the first lady kept a low profile since moving into the White House in June, she has ramped up her public appearances in recent weeks, hosting a dinner for the White House Historical Association last week, visiting with children at Andrews Air Force Base, and traveling to Hurricane-ravaged Texas and Florida with the President in the wake of the two devastating storms.
Washington (CNN) The Education Department announced Friday it is formally rescinding Obama-era guidance on how schools should handle sexual assaults under Title IX federal law.
Education Secretary Betsy DeVos announced earlier this month that her department was concerned that previous guidance denied proper due process to those accused.
As part of the interim guidance, the department released a Q&A outlining recommendations on how schools should respond, including guidance on what schools are obligated to do in response to allegations and their flexibility in establishing their own procedures.
The administration is formally withdrawing the Obama administration's "dear colleague letter" that some, including DeVos, have criticized for going too far.
The standard for proof has been raised for school disciplinary proceedings in some instances, as different schools have different policies.
One aspect of the Obama-era guidance that remains is the responsibility of the school to investigate, rather than leave the matter to law enforcement.
Title IX is a federal law that prohibits discrimination based on sex for schools and programs that receive federal funding, including protection from sexual harassment.
The announcement quickly received backlash from advocacy groups and lawmakers.
"Shameful.
This decision will hurt and betray students, plain and simple," Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-New York, tweeted.
Shameful.
This decision will hurt and betray students, plain and simple.
https://t.co/b2syuMM4ma  Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) September 22, 2017

Vermont Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders called on Congress to respond to the move.
"This is a disgrace and a disservice to everyone who has worked to address sexual violence.
Congress must act to undo this terrible decision," the senator tweeted.
This is a disgrace and a disservice to everyone who has worked to address sexual violence.
Congress must act to undo this terrible decision.
https://t.co/OcuJez0Gff  Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) September 22, 2017

"Betsy DeVos and Candice Jackson's intentions are clear: to protect those who 'grab' by the genitals and brag about it  and make college campuses a safer place for them," Sofie Karasek, director of education and co-founder of End Rape on Campus, said in a statement.
Jackson is the head of the civil rights division within the Education Department.
Earlier this week, former Vice President Joe Biden was featured in a three-year anniversary video for "It's On Us" -- the group he co-founded with President Barack Obama aimed at curbing sexual violence on college campuses.
In the video, Biden warned against "new challenges" in combating campus sexual assault.
"You may have heard the progress we made, the additional protections we put in Title IX, which is now the law, that protects students from sexual discrimination -- that includes sexual violence," Biden says in the video.
"Now the Department of Education under new leadership is working to roll back the protections under Title IX that we worked so hard to put in place."
However, some applauded the department's announcement.
"The campus justice system was and is broken," Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) Executive Director Robert Shibley said in a statement.
"Fair outcomes are impossible without fair procedures.
When the government sprang its 2011 letter on colleges and students without warning, it made it impossible for campuses to serve the needs of victims while also respecting the rights of the accused.
With the end of this destructive policy, we finally have the opportunity to get it right."
FIRE is a free speech and student right's organization that has repeatedly criticized the Obama administration's policy.
The guidance affects colleges, universities and K-12 schools.
"The withdrawn documents ignored notice and comment requirements, created a system that lacked basic elements of due process and failed to ensure fundamental fairness," a Department of Education statement reads.
"This interim guidance will help schools as they work to combat sexual misconduct and will treat all students fairly," DeVos said in a release.
"Schools must continue to confront these horrific crimes and behaviors head-on.
There will be no more sweeping them under the rug.
But the process also must be fair and impartial, giving everyone more confidence in its outcomes."
CLARIFICATION: This story has been updated to reflect that schools have different standards regarding disciplinary proceedings.
(CNN) Vice President Mike Pence, a key player in the administration's efforts to lobby Congress to repeal Obamacare, seemed unfazed on Friday by the latest hiccup.
Speaking to a crowd in Anderson, Indiana, about tax reform and health care, Pence indirectly addressed Republican Sen. John McCain's decision Friday afternoon to vote "no" on the latest proposal.
McCain's announcement left Senate Republican leadership scrambling to cobble together enough support to move ahead.
"The vote could come as early as next week and this is not going to be easy," Pence said.
"Even now, the opposition is forming up and some have gone so far to announce their opposition already.
But President Trump and I are undeterred."
Pence said more than once that the Senate was supposed to be voting on the new repeal-and-replace option next week, and he described the bill as being drafted by "friends of mine," mentioning Sens.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, the architects of the latest effort.
"We cannot in good conscience abandon this cause," Pence said to applause in his home state.
Read More
(CNN) White House chief of staff John Kelly has been omnipresent during President Donald Trump's first appearance at the United Nations General Assembly this week, a multiple-day foray into the complicated world of international politics.
The message has already been heard back in Washington.
A half-dozen Republicans inside and outside the White House tell CNN that Kelly's efforts to rein in an unruly West Wing have started to show results.
The President is still surrounded by people who feed his impulsive tendencies, such as Dan Scavino, his social media director who regularly helps Trump fire off some of his most controversial social media missives.
But as much as Trump is not retreating from the rhetoric and tone that helped win him the White House, sources say the President has also begun to make a conscious shift in his approach to governing after months of failing to score a sweeping legislative victory.
Out -- for now -- are the days of Trump sending nasty tweets at Republican lawmakers , such as Sens.
John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska.
In -- CNN reported Monday -- is outreach to lawmakers whose relationships with the White House have frayed, including Murkowski, as well as Democratic leaders.
Personalities

JUST WATCHED Who is John Kelly?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Who is John Kelly?
01:10

To help with this effort Kelly has enlisted staff secretary Rob Porter, a longtime Capitol Hill aide whose stock is on the rise inside the White House.
Republican sources say Porter helps Kelly vet what information gets to the President's desk and what gets stopped at the door.
Concerned by the top-heavy, sprawling organization when he took over, Kelly began interviewing aides to determine what they did, how much access they had to the President and whether that access was deserved.
Kelly is now putting what he learned into practice, sources tell CNN, restricting access to the President, watching the information put in front of Trump and limiting the power of top aides.
"In the old days, you would arrive and the door to the Oval office would be open ... and the door behind you would stay open, and people were still wandering in and out -- staff, kids, grand kids," one GOP senator who has made multiple visits to the White House both before and after Kelly told CNN.
Now during visits, the senator said, the visits are much more formal.
"When we walked in the Oval Office door was closed.
The President was sitting alone at his desk," the senator said.
"We had our meeting, no one came in or out.
It was all business."
Some aides, such as former adviser Sebastian Gorka and former White House strategist Steve Bannon, were let go altogether.
Longtime confidante Keith Schiller left his White House position Tuesday, according to multiple sources.
He had told associates he planned to leave the White House because of income concerns, other sources told CNN.
But he shared plans to leave just over a month after Kelly became chief of staff with the mission of instilling new order.
Trump, to be sure, is still very much himself with Kelly as chief of staff.
The President recently stood by his comments equivocating blame between white supremacists and protesters in Charlottesville, Virginia, retweeted an offensive gif of Hillary Clinton and delivered a bellicose, nationalist speech to the world on Tuesday at the United Nations.
But Republicans across Washington say they are noticing changes within the White House's operations.
Even so, Kelly has told associates he has no interest in trying to control the President -- any such effort, he adds, would surely fail.
In fact, Trump still talks to outside advisers -- like Bannon -- and longtime friends on the phone, giving those who hope to influence Trump a back door into the White House.
Republican sources outside the West Wing who are pleased that Kelly is asserting his control acknowledged that the chief of staff can only do so much.
Trump's cell phone use, which usually happens in the confines of the President's private residence, shows no signs of abating.
Policy

JUST WATCHED Video shows Kelly's reaction to Trump's speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Video shows Kelly's reaction to Trump's speech 00:59

Kelly works from a stand-up desk in his corner office of the West Wing, just down the hall from the Oval Office.
A single portrait of President Abraham Lincoln hangs on the wall, with a bronzed sculpture of the flag-raising at Iwo Jima providing the only decoration in the second-best piece of office real estate in the building.
Even though there is no playbook for a Trump presidency, Kelly has sought the advice of former White House chiefs of staff Rahm Emanuel and Leon Panetta, Democrats, and Andy Card and James Baker, Republicans.
"He doesn't care how long he stays.
That's what makes him effective -- for now," a Republican close to the White House said, noting that the biggest open question in Washington is whether -- or how soon -- Trump will chafe under Kelly's stern hand.
So far, Trump has responded by ever-so-slightly moderating on policy, taking less hardline positions than he previously held and signaling a willingness to work with Democrats on immigration or tax reform.
Kelly's fingerprints are firmly on this new outreach to Democratic congressional leaders, with Kelly convincing Trump that he could be seen as trying to rise above the partisan gridlock of Washington.
It was a sales pitch Trump accepted, aides say, in part because of his anger at the Republican-controlled Congress.
"This wouldn't have happened without Kelly," a White House official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid violating Kelly's biggest pet peeve: talking to reporters.
Some of the changes have earned Trump the scorn of his base.
Breitbart, the conservative publication run by former Trump aide Steve Bannon, labeled the President "Amnesty Don."
But to those now surrounding Trump in the White House, the criticism is worth the chance of scoring a major legislative win.
Protection

Kelly has also made his presence felt by deciding which White House staff gets Secret Service protection, according to two sources with knowledge of the move.
White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, a Trump aide who received Secret Service protection starting in January, no longer has the constant security, sources tell CNN.
The move is part of a broader review -- initiated, in part, by Kelly -- of who really needs protection in the White House, sources said.
Part of the review is aimed at helping an operation that has been stretched thin by the demands of Trump's sprawling family.
But Kelly, according to a source, also wanted to review which positions inside the White House warrant protection.
Story highlights "We love Jeff Sessions," Trump said

"In case you're curious, no, Russia did not help me," Trump said

(CNN) Even with his chief legislative promise again stalled, the FBI's special investigator inching closer to his inner circle, and a nuclear crisis brewing in Asia, President Donald Trump's return to campaigning Friday after a week of diplomacy was an upbeat affair.
Trump still lashed out at his favorite foils: the media, Hillary Clinton and North Korea's dictator.
And his frontal attack on NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick for kneeling during the national anthem touched the same racial third rail that he's exploited during his past appearances before arenas full of supporters.
But at his evening campaign event for Alabama Sen. Luther Strange -- competing in a primary contest on Tuesday -- Trump largely avoided the fevered anger that's pitched his previous rallies.
Unlike a dark and stormy event last month in Arizona, where Trump bellowed with anger at losing by one vote a key health care measure, he withheld his harshest attacks on Sen. John McCain, who on Friday announced he couldn't support the latest effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
"He decided to do something different, and that's fine," Trump shrugged.
"We're going to do it eventually."
Read More
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump told an Alabama crowd Friday night that if "Crooked Hillary" Clinton had won the 2016 election, "you would not have a Second Amendment."
"You'd be handing in your rifles," Trump said.
"You'd be turning over your rifles."
The comment was met by chants of "lock her up," reminiscent of his own campaign rallies during the 2016 presidential rally.
"You've got to speak to Jeff Sessions about that," Trump replied, referencing his US attorney general.
Though Trump had threatened to pursue charges against Clinton before the election, after the election he signaled he would not.
JUST WATCHED Trump on 'lock her up': 'Now we don't care' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump on 'lock her up': 'Now we don't care' 01:16

Read More
(CNN) President Donald Trump on Friday called the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election "one of the great hoaxes," and denied anything they did aided his victory.
"No, Russia did not help me, that I can tell you, OK?"
Trump said.
"Are there any Russians in the audience, please?"
he asked.
In a jab at rival Hillary Clinton for losing a key state, said he "didn't see many Russians in Pennsylvania."
"Honestly, it's the thing they did best," Trump said of Democrats.
"They did a rotten job of running, but they convinced people about this hoax.
That was probably the thing that they did best, but it was one great hoax."
JUST WATCHED Clapper on Russia probe: Investigation seems to be deepening Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Clapper on Russia probe: Investigation seems to be deepening 00:53

Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told lawmakers during a May public hearing that an intelligence community report concluding that Russia meddled in the US election was prepared by three agencies: the CIA, FBI, NSA and managed by Clapper's office, which oversees the entire intelligence community.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Before most people were awake this morning, the President of the United States was tweeting.
About Russia.
And Hillary Clinton.
And the news media.
"The Russia hoax continues, now it's ads on Facebook," Trump tweeted .
"What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?"
(Why is "Media" capitalized?
I ask myself these questions all the time.)
Then, shortly after that first tweet came this one : "The greatest influence over our election was the Fake News Media 'screaming' for Crooked Hillary Clinton.
Next, she was a bad candidate!"
In the first tweet, Trump was reacting directly to the news announced Thursday afternoon that Facebook was turning over to special counsel Robert Mueller more than 3,000 ads run on its site by a known Russian troll farm .
The second tweet was more standard-issue Trumping -- downplaying Russian influence by trying to make the case that the biased media and Clinton's candidate skills were the only factors in the race.
The problem with that line of thinking is that it's a) wrong and b) leaves the US open to future intrusions by foreign powers on our elections.
How is it wrong?
Because every intelligence agency in a position to know has said there is definitive proof Russia was seeking to meddle in the 2016 election with the purpose of helping Trump and hurting Clinton.
The CIA.
The FBI.
The NSA.
"We assess Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election.
Russia's goals were to undermine public faith in the US democratic process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency.
We further assess Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference for President-elect Trump.
We have high confidence in these judgments."
Unless you believe that all three of our major intelligence agencies are involved in some sort of elaborate scheme to trump -- ahem -- up the idea that Russia sought to influence the election on behalf of Trump, then the president's charges of "hoax" ring totally false.
Trump's national security H.R.
McMaster insisted to CNN's "New Day" on Thursday that Trump took seriously the allegations against Russia.
"The questions about what they did, who might have helped them and how to stop it, you believe those are all legitimate questions for us to look at?," host Chris Cuomo asked.
"Of course, and so does the President," replied McMaster.
But his tweets tell another story.
Why would Trump knowingly defy the unanimous assessment of his intelligence agencies on Russian influence?
Because, in his mind, validating that, yes, of course, Russia sought to meddle in the election somehow de-legitimizes his victory.
As if the fact that Russia was actively involved in trying to help him means he didn't win on his own or didn't win fair and square.
That is, obviously, not true.
While all the relevant intelligence agencies agree that Russia sought to meddle in the election on Trump's behalf, none of them have come forward with any evidence that suggests any actual vote tampering occurred.
As in: Russia tried to help Trump but it's not clear -- at least when it comes to directly messing with votes -- they succeeded.
Trump is blind -- willfully or otherwise -- to that set of facts.
The insistence by Trump that the news media's role in the campaign was somehow more threatening than a foreign power's attempt to influence an American election is mind-boggling.
It's also dangerous.
Here's why.
Every intelligence official -- from former FBI Director James Comey to former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper -- agrees that Russia views their role in the 2016 election as a success and that they will be back for more come 2018 and 2020.
"I think one of the lessons the Russians may have drawn from this is that this works," Comey said at a Judiciary Committee hearing in May.
"And so as I said a month or so ago, I expect to see them back in 2018, and especially in 2020."
By minimizing the threat posed by Russians trying to influence US elections, Trump is ensuring that whatever Mueller finds will be seen through a totally partisan lens by many of his followers.
It won't be taken at face value or anything close to it.
And, that's not even the biggest problem!
The biggest problem is that the president of the United States has repeatedly and publicly denied the idea that Russia was involved in trying to throw the election to him.
That means that whatever recommendations Mueller -- and the congressional committees also investigating Russia's role in 2016 -- make to Trump about how to keep this from happening again are likely to be ignored or minimized.
Which, in turn, makes it more likely to happen again.
That's dangerous for our democracy.
Story highlights It's highly unusual for a Cabinet secretary to break with the President on a Senate race

That's especially true in Alabama, where Strange has made loyalty to Trump key to his campaign

Washington (CNN) A member of President Donald Trump's Cabinet broke with him on Alabama's Senate race just hours before Trump's planned arrival in Huntsville.
Trump is set to campaign Friday night for Sen. Luther Strange, who next week faces former judge Roy Moore in a Republican runoff for the seat formerly held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
But Ben Carson, the Housing and Urban Development secretary, released a statement through Moore's campaign Friday praising the twice-removed former state Supreme Court justice.
"Judge Moore is a fine man of proven character and integrity, who I have come to respect over the years," Carson said in the statement.
"I was delighted to hear he is running for the US Senate.
He is truly someone who reflects the Judeo-Christian values that were so important to the establishment of our country.
It is these values that we must return to in order to make America great again.
I wish him well and hope everyone will make sure they vote on Tuesday."
A sitting Cabinet secretary breaking with the President on a Senate race is highly unusual -- and even more so in Alabama, where Strange has made loyalty to Trump the premise of his campaign.
Read More
May 2014

Trump says North Korea 'last place on Earth I want to go to'

Technically, Trump's first mention of North Korea on Twitter was in March 2013, when he referenced his NBC reality TV show "Celebrity Apprentice" and former basketball player Dennis Rodman (who appeared on the show).
Rodman visited North Korea in 2013, where he met with Kim, who he called a "friend for life."
Our wild man Dennis Rodman, big in the news re North Korea, will be on and watching Celebrity Apprentice on Sunday night!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 1, 2013

Two days later, he tweeted again:

.
@DennisRodman must be thinking of North Korea.
#CelebApprentice  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2013

But one year later, Trump lashed out at Rodman on Twitter, this time insulting North Korea as well.
Crazy Dennis Rodman is saying I wanted to go to North Korea with him.
Never discussed, no interest, last place on Earth I want to go to.
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 8, 2014

In a follow-up tweet, he added:
Story highlights President Trump's approval rating is at 40% again after dipping to 38% last month

A broad 64% of Americans say they approve of Trump's response to recent hurricanes

Half of Americans say North Korea represents an immediate threat to the United States, up from 37% in April

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump's approval rating has once again reached 40%, while earning high marks for his handling of the government's response to recent hurricanes, according to a new CNN poll conducted by SSRS.
A broad 64% of Americans say they approve of how Trump's government reacted to the recent storms, including two in three independents (66%).
Nine in 10 Republicans support his reaction (90%), and even Democrats are evenly divided on Trump's response to the crises, with 44% both approving and disapproving.
Support is not as clear for his foreign policy.
Escalating tensions with North Korea have raised concerns about that country; half of Americans now view North Korea as an immediate threat to the United States, climbing from 37% to 50% since April.
The administration announced new sanctions against North Korea Thursday .
Half say they disapprove of Trump's handling of the situation with North Korea (50%) vs. four in 10 who say they approve (41%) -- little changed from Trump's rating in August on the topic.
Indeed, a deteriorating number of Americans believe the crisis can be resolved by economic and diplomatic means alone (43%), sinking to its lowest level yet on this question and down 10 points since 2012.
A majority say they favor military action (58%) if the US can't accomplish its goals by diplomatic and economic efforts -- up 20 points from 2012.
Still, more than six in 10 (63%) say the US should take military action only if other nations support and participate in it.
Only three in 10 (29%) say the US should take action unilaterally if it decides to take military action.
Read More
Story highlights "I'm a big believer in healthy eating," Melania Trump said

The garden is a 1,100 square foot plot of land that Obama developed

Washington (CNN) When Michelle Obama officially said goodbye to the White House Kitchen Garden, many people wondered what would become of it in her absence.
"I am hopeful that future first families will cherish this garden like we have," Obama said at an October 2016 garden ceremony.
President Barack Obama mused during an interview that the entire garden could disappear under a Donald Trump presidency.
Obama frets about a Trump presidency on Tom Joyner Morning Show:

"I guarantee you he'll dig up Michelle's garden...you think I'm joking?"
pic.twitter.com/xm3TkteQ1h  Charlie Spiering (@charliespiering) November 2, 2016

But it's now clear that first lady Melania Trump has no intention of razing the plot of land, which produces vegetables, herbs and fruits for use in the White House kitchen as well for local food banks that receive the bounty several times a year.
"I'm a big believer in healthy eating ... it encourages a healthy mind and body," the first lady told a group of about 10 children from a local chapter of the Boys and Girls Club of America on Friday afternoon.
Read More
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
President Donald Trump, flanked by Sen. Tom Cotton, R- Ark., left, and Sen. David Perdue, R-Ga., speaks in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, Wednesday, Aug. 2, 2017, during the unveiling of legislation that would place new limits on legal immigration.
A wall along the Mexico border isnt President Donald Trumps only proposal to curtail immigration into the United States.
Trump also wants to limit legal immigration into the U.S. by, among other revisions, making it more difficult for immigrants to qualify for a visa.
The proposed changes to current immigration law are outlined in a bill called the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, which was first introduced by Republican Sens.
Tom Cotton and David Perdue in February.
Under the proposed bill, qualifying for a visa would move to whats called a points-based system.
An applicant would earn points for achievements in six separate areas, including age, English-speaking proficiency and whether or not he or she has a lucrative job offer in the United States.
English proficiency is measured by a score an applicant receives on a pre-approved language test.
The higher the test score, the more points earned toward the visa.
Similarly, the more lucrative a job offer an applicant has, the more points he or she will receive.
The job-offer points are measured in relation to the median household income of the state where the job is being offered.
Applicants who have a job that is three times the state's median income, for example, will earn the most points toward the visa application.
Take this quiz to see if you'd be able to apply for a visa if the RAISE Act was signed into law.
A total of 30 points are needed to apply.
President Trump is hitting North Korea with severe new sanctions and issuing an ultimatum to the world: If you do business with Kim Jong Un the United States will not do business with you.
Republicans expect to vote next week on a health care bill known as Graham-Cassidy, named for the senators who wrote it, which would scale back Medicaid.
Some GOP lawmakers are split on the newest effort to undo Obamacare, while Democrats are planning for more demonstrations against it.
The President was joined by Vice President Mike Pence as well as other officials as he began touring parts of Southwest Florida following the devastation from Irma.
A majority of Americans support President Donald Trump's deal with Democratic leaders to provide hurricane relief and keep the government open for 90 days, according to a new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll.
More than 70 percent approve of the move.
However, the same poll finds that less than 30 percent support his handling of health care, race relations and the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Meanwhile, Trump's overall job-approval rating is at 43 percent, up three points since August.
The poll comes after Trump worked with Democrats on temporarily funding the government and raising the debt limit  and after two hurricanes hit U.S. states.
The NBC/WSJ poll was conducted Sept. 14-18 of 900 adults  nearly half reached by cell phone  and it has a margin of error of plus-minus 3.3 percentage points.
Among the 741 registered voters who were interviewed, the margin of error is plus-minus 3.6 percentage points.
'Rocket Man': Trump Slams N. Korea at UN
Late-night host Jimmy Kimmel sounded off on Tuesday to blast Republican Sen. Bill Cassidy for his part in crafting the latest GOP health care proposal that, Kimmel said, goes against the promises the senator had made to him on his show.
Kimmel had discussed health care with Cassidy after the late-night host revealed in early May that his newborn son had open-heart surgery to fix birth defects.
This led Kimmel to deliver an emotional message to Congress, pleading for affordable health care for Americans, especially those in similar situations.
Cassidy then famously coined the "Jimmy Kimmel test" phrase, saying families like Kimmel's should not have to deal with high premiums, lifetime caps and rate hikes when it comes to coverage.
A week after Kimmel's plea, the Louisiana senator appeared on "Jimmy Kimmel Live" to expand on his idea of affordable health care.
Kimmel is now claiming Cassidy "lied right to my face" in that conversation.
Cassidy delivered his replacement for the Affordable Health Care Act last week.
In a proposed bill written with Sen. Lindsey Graham, states would receive block grants and cuts would be made to Medicaid, among other things.
"This new bill (passes) a different 'Jimmy Kimmel test,'" Kimmel said on his show.
"In this one, your child with a pre-existing condition will get the care he needs if, and only if, his father is Jimmy Kimmel.
Otherwise, you might be screwed."
He claimed the Graham-Cassidy bill would kick 30 million Americans off their insurance and give states certain control over lifetime caps and coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
The Congressional Budget Office said it plans to deliver an initial analysis on the bill early next week, but can't do a full analysis by the end of the month.
That's when a crucial deadline hits for Senate Republicans to act under special budget rules.
In the meantime, groups including the American Medical Association and AARP have come out against the proposal.
Kimmel went on to argue this latest bill is "actually worse" than the GOP's previous attempt to replace the ACA.
That "skinny repeal" came to a halt when Republican Sen. John McCain delivered the deciding vote against it in the early hours of July 28.
Before McCain went thumbs down, GOP Sens.
Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski also voted "no."
"I hope they have the courage and good sense to do that again with this one," Kimmel said of the Graham-Cassidy proposal, calling it a "scam of a bill."
"Health care is complicated.
It's boring.
I don't want to talk about it And that's what these guys are relying on," Kimmel continued.
"Most of the congresspeople who vote on this bill probably won't even read it, and they want us to do the same thing.
They want us to treat it like an iTunes service agreement."
Cassidy responded to Kimmel's heated monologue with a statement late Tuesday.
"We have a September 30th deadline on our promise," the senator wrote.
"Let's finish the job.
We must because there is a mother and father whose child will have insurance because of Graham Cassidy Heller Johnson.
There is someone whose pre-existing condition will be addressed because of GCHJ.
I dedicated my medical career to care for such as these; this is why GCHJ must pass."
Speaking on CNN Wednesday morning, Cassidy also argued that "more people will have coverage and we'll protect people with pre-existing conditions."
"I'm sorry he does not understand," Cassidy said of Kimmel.
Independent analysts have said the proposal allows states to take action that could raise the cost of coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
Cassidy said that if a state applied for a waiver it must provide affordable coverage.
As Kimmel urged viewers to call their representatives with opposition to the bill, he offered one final reason why he renewed his health care debate.
"Before you post a nasty Facebook message saying I'm politicizing my son's health problems, I want you to know, I am politicizing my son's health problems because I have to," Kimmel said.
"My family has health insurance.
We don't have to worry about this, but other people do."
Trump to Senate Majority Leader: 'Get to Work'
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

The full text of President Donald Trump's speech on Tuesday to the United Nations General Assembly, as provided by the White House.
Mr. Secretary General, Mr. President, world leaders, and distinguished delegates: Welcome to New York.
It is a profound honor to stand here in my home city, as a representative of the American people, to address the people of the world.
As millions of our citizens continue to suffer the effects of the devastating hurricanes that have struck our country, I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to every leader in this room who has offered assistance and aid.
The American people are strong and resilient, and they will emerge from these hardships more determined than ever before.
Fortunately, the United States has done very well since Election Day last November 8th.
The stock market is at an all-time high -- a record.
Unemployment is at its lowest level in 16 years, and because of our regulatory and other reforms, we have more people working in the United States today than ever before.
Companies are moving back, creating job growth the likes of which our country has not seen in a very long time.
And it has just been announced that we will be spending almost $700 billion on our military and defense.
Our military will soon be the strongest it has ever been.
For more than 70 years, in times of war and peace, the leaders of nations, movements, and religions have stood before this assembly.
Like them, I intend to address some of the very serious threats before us today but also the enormous potential waiting to be unleashed.
We live in a time of extraordinary opportunity.
Breakthroughs in science, technology, and medicine are curing illnesses and solving problems that prior generations thought impossible to solve.
But each day also brings news of growing dangers that threaten everything we cherish and value.
Terrorists and extremists have gathered strength and spread to every region of the planet.
Rogue regimes represented in this body not only support terrorists but threaten other nations and their own people with the most destructive weapons known to humanity.
Authority and authoritarian powers seek to collapse the values, the systems, and alliances that prevented conflict and tilted the world toward freedom since World War II.
International criminal networks traffic drugs, weapons, people; force dislocation and mass migration; threaten our borders; and new forms of aggression exploit technology to menace our citizens.
To put it simply, we meet at a time of both of immense promise and great peril.
It is entirely up to us whether we lift the world to new heights, or let it fall into a valley of disrepair.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea

President Trump is hitting North Korea with severe new sanctions and issuing an ultimatum to the world: If you do business with Kim Jong Un the United States will not do business with you.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

We have it in our power, should we so choose, to lift millions from poverty, to help our citizens realize their dreams, and to ensure that new generations of children are raised free from violence, hatred, and fear.
This institution was founded in the aftermath of two world wars to help shape this better future.
It was based on the vision that diverse nations could cooperate to protect their sovereignty, preserve their security, and promote their prosperity.
It was in the same period, exactly 70 years ago, that the United States developed the Marshall Plan to help restore Europe.
Those three beautiful pillars -- theyre pillars of peace, sovereignty, security, and prosperity.
the Marshall Plan was built on the noble idea that the whole world is safer when nations are strong, independent, and free.
As President Truman said in his message to Congress at that time, Our support of European recovery is in full accord with our support of the United Nations.
The success of the United Nations depends upon the independent strength of its members.
To overcome the perils of the present and to achieve the promise of the future, we must begin with the wisdom of the past.
Our success depends on a coalition of strong and independent nations that embrace their sovereignty to promote security, prosperity, and peace for themselves and for the world.
We do not expect diverse countries to share the same cultures, traditions, or even systems of government.
But we do expect all nations to uphold these two core sovereign duties: to respect the interests of their own people and the rights of every other sovereign nation.
This is the beautiful vision of this institution, and this is foundation for cooperation and success.
GOP Still Split on Graham-Cassidy Health Care Bill

Republicans expect to vote next week on a health care bill known as Graham-Cassidy, named for the senators who wrote it, which would scale back Medicaid.
Some GOP lawmakers are split on the newest effort to undo Obamacare, while Democrats are planning for more demonstrations against it.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

Strong, sovereign nations let diverse countries with different values, different cultures, and different dreams not just coexist, but work side by side on the basis of mutual respect.
Strong, sovereign nations let their people take ownership of the future and control their own destiny.
And strong, sovereign nations allow individuals to flourish in the fullness of the life intended by God.
In America, we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to watch.
This week gives our country a special reason to take pride in that example.
We are celebrating the 230th anniversary of our beloved Constitution -- the oldest constitution still in use in the world today.
This timeless document has been the foundation of peace, prosperity, and freedom for the Americans and for countless millions around the globe whose own countries have found inspiration in its respect for human nature, human dignity, and the rule of law.
The greatest in the United States Constitution is its first three beautiful words.
They are: We the people.
Generations of Americans have sacrificed to maintain the promise of those words, the promise of our country, and of our great history.
In America, the people govern, the people rule, and the people are sovereign.
I was elected not to take power, but to give power to the American people, where it belongs.
Graham Confident on New GOP Efforts to Revise Healthcare

An upbeat Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) touted his healthcare bill co-sponsored with Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana) Tuesday, speaking to reporters after a closed-door luncheon with other law makers to push the bill.
(Published Wednesday, Sept. 20, 2017)

In foreign affairs, we are renewing this founding principle of sovereignty.
Our government's first duty is to its people, to our citizens -- to serve their needs, to ensure their safety, to preserve their rights, and to defend their values.
As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like you, as the leaders of your countries will always, and should always, put your countries first.
All responsible leaders have an obligation to serve their own citizens, and the nation-state remains the best vehicle for elevating the human condition.
But making a better life for our people also requires us to work together in close harmony and unity to create a more safe and peaceful future for all people.
The United States will forever be a great friend to the world, and especially to its allies.
But we can no longer be taken advantage of, or enter into a one-sided deal where the United States gets nothing in return.
As long as I hold this office, I will defend Americas interests above all else.
But in fulfilling our obligations to our own nations, we also realize that its in everyones interest to seek a future where all nations can be sovereign, prosperous, and secure.
Trump Mulling Parade to Show US 'Military Strength'

President Donald Trump enjoyed France's Bastille Day celebration so much while he was visiting France that he is considering a July 4th parade to showcase the U.S. military.
(Published Monday, Sept. 18, 2017)

America does more than speak for the values expressed in the United Nations Charter.
Our citizens have paid the ultimate price to defend our freedom and the freedom of many nations represented in this great hall.
America's devotion is measured on the battlefields where our young men and women have fought and sacrificed alongside of our allies, from the beaches of Europe to the deserts of the Middle East to the jungles of Asia.
It is an eternal credit to the American character that even after we and our allies emerged victorious from the bloodiest war in history, we did not seek territorial expansion, or attempt to oppose and impose our way of life on others.
Instead, we helped build institutions such as this one to defend the sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all.
For the diverse nations of the world, this is our hope.
We want harmony and friendship, not conflict and strife.
We are guided by outcomes, not ideology.
We have a policy of principled realism, rooted in shared goals, interests, and values.
That realism forces us to confront a question facing every leader and nation in this room.
It is a question we cannot escape or avoid.
We will slide down the path of complacency, numb to the challenges, threats, and even wars that we face.
Or do we have enough strength and pride to confront those dangers today, so that our citizens can enjoy peace and prosperity tomorrow?
If we desire to lift up our citizens, if we aspire to the approval of history, then we must fulfill our sovereign duties to the people we faithfully represent.
We must protect our nations, their interests, and their futures.
We must reject threats to sovereignty, from the Ukraine to the South China Sea.
We must uphold respect for law, respect for borders, and respect for culture, and the peaceful engagement these allow.
And just as the founders of this body intended, we must work together and confront together those who threaten us with chaos, turmoil, and terror.
The scourge of our planet today is a small group of rogue regimes that violate every principle on which the United Nations is based.
They respect neither their own citizens nor the sovereign rights of their countries.
Trump and the United Nations

As a candidate President Trump called the United Nations weak, incompetent, not a friend of democracy.
Now he needs the U.N. to deal with North Korea.
Tracie Potts reports.
(Published Monday, Sept. 18, 2017)

If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph.
When decent people and nations become bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only gather power and strength.
No one has shown more contempt for other nations and for the wellbeing of their own people than the depraved regime in North Korea.
It is responsible for the starvation deaths of millions of North Koreans, and for the imprisonment, torture, killing, and oppression of countless more.
We were all witness to the regime's deadly abuse when an innocent American college student, Otto Warmbier, was returned to America only to die a few days later.
We saw it in the assassination of the dictator's brother using banned nerve agents in an international airport.
We know it kidnapped a sweet 13-year-old Japanese girl from a beach in her own country to enslave her as a language tutor for North Korea's spies.
If this is not twisted enough, now North Korea's reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles threatens the entire world with unthinkable loss of human life.
It is an outrage that some nations would not only trade with such a regime, but would arm, supply, and financially support a country that imperils the world with nuclear conflict.
No nation on earth has an interest in seeing this band of criminals arm itself with nuclear weapons and missiles.
The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.
Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime.
The United States is ready, willing and able, but hopefully this will not be necessary.
Thats what the United Nations is all about; thats what the United Nations is for.
Lets see how they do.
Sanders Doubles Down on Calls for ESPN Host to Be Fired

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders doubled down on her statement Friday in a back and forth with NBC's Hallie Jackson, calling for ESPN to fire "SportsCenter" host Jemele Hill for her anti-Trump tweets.
(Published Monday, Sept. 18, 2017)

It is time for North Korea to realize that the denuclearization is its only acceptable future.
The United Nations Security Council recently held two unanimous 15-0 votes adopting hard-hitting resolutions against North Korea, and I want to thank China and Russia for joining the vote to impose sanctions, along with all of the other members of the Security Council.
Thank you to all involved.
But we must do much more.
It is time for all nations to work together to isolate the Kim regime until it ceases its hostile behavior.
We face this decision not only in North Korea.
It is far past time for the nations of the world to confront another reckless regime -- one that speaks openly of mass murder, vowing death to America, destruction to Israel, and ruin for many leaders and nations in this room.
The Iranian government masks a corrupt dictatorship behind the false guise of a democracy.
It has turned a wealthy country with a rich history and culture into an economically depleted rogue state whose chief exports are violence, bloodshed, and chaos.
The longest-suffering victims of Iran's leaders are, in fact, its own people.
Rather than use its resources to improve Iranian lives, its oil profits go to fund Hezbollah and other terrorists that kill innocent Muslims and attack their peaceful Arab and Israeli neighbors.
This wealth, which rightly belongs to Iran's people, also goes to shore up Bashar al-Assad's dictatorship, fuel Yemen's civil war, and undermine peace throughout the entire Middle East.
We cannot let a murderous regime continue these destabilizing activities while building dangerous missiles, and we cannot abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual construction of a nuclear program.
(Applause.)
The Iran Deal was one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into.
Frankly, that deal is an embarrassment to the United States, and I dont think youve heard the last of it -- believe me.
Mixed Messages Surround Trump's DACA Deal

President Trump landed in Florida Thursday afternoon to survey damage from Hurricane Irma, but not before making a statement on immigration.
"We are not talking about amnesty.
We're talking about - we're talking about taking care of people," Trump said.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 14, 2017)

It is time for the entire world to join us in demanding that Iran's government end its pursuit of death and destruction.
It is time for the regime to free all Americans and citizens of other nations that they have unjustly detained.
And above all, Iran's government must stop supporting terrorists, begin serving its own people, and respect the sovereign rights of its neighbors.
The entire world understands that the good people of Iran want change, and, other than the vast military power of the United States, that Iran's people are what their leaders fear the most.
This is what causes the regime to restrict Internet access, tear down satellite dishes, shoot unarmed student protestors, and imprison political reformers.
Oppressive regimes cannot endure forever, and the day will come when the Iranian people will face a choice.
Will they continue down the path of poverty, bloodshed, and terror?
Or will the Iranian people return to the nation's proud roots as a center of civilization, culture, and wealth where their people can be happy and prosperous once again?
The Iranian regime's support for terror is in stark contrast to the recent commitments of many of its neighbors to fight terrorism and halt its financing.
In Saudi Arabia early last year, I was greatly honored to address the leaders of more than 50 Arab and Muslim nations.
We agreed that all responsible nations must work together to confront terrorists and the Islamist extremism that inspires them.
We will stop radical Islamic terrorism because we cannot allow it to tear up our nation, and indeed to tear up the entire world.
North Korea's Nuclear Missile Program Explained - Part 2: Military Options

With North Korea conducting a sixth nuclear test on Sept. 2, 2017, there have been a lot of questions about the capabilities of that country's nuclear program.
Dr. Bruce Bennett, a Senior International/Defense Researcher at the RAND Corporation, is a leading expert on the subject and breaks down possible military responses and what their implications would be.
Watch Part 1: Cache here Watch Part 3: Other Solutions here (Published Wednesday, Sept. 13, 2017)

We must deny the terrorists safe haven, transit, funding, and any form of support for their vile and sinister ideology.
We must drive them out of our nations.
It is time to expose and hold responsible those countries who support and finance terror groups like al Qaeda, Hezbollah, the Taliban and others that slaughter innocent people.
The United States and our allies are working together throughout the Middle East to crush the loser terrorists and stop the reemergence of safe havens they use to launch attacks on all of our people.
Last month, I announced a new strategy for victory in the fight against this evil in Afghanistan.
From now on, our security interests will dictate the length and scope of military operations, not arbitrary benchmarks and timetables set up by politicians.
I have also totally changed the rules of engagement in our fight against the Taliban and other terrorist groups.
In Syria and Iraq, we have made big gains toward lasting defeat of ISIS.
In fact, our country has achieved more against ISIS in the last eight months than it has in many, many years combined.
We seek the de-escalation of the Syrian conflict, and a political solution that honors the will of the Syrian people.
The actions of the criminal regime of Bashar al-Assad, including the use of chemical weapons against his own citizens -- even innocent children -- shock the conscience of every decent person.
No society can be safe if banned chemical weapons are allowed to spread.
That is why the United States carried out a missile strike on the airbase that launched the attack.
We appreciate the efforts of United Nations agencies that are providing vital humanitarian assistance in areas liberated from ISIS, and we especially thank Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon for their role in hosting refugees from the Syrian conflict.
North Korea's Nuclear Missile Program Explained - Part 3: Other Solutions

With North Korea conducting a sixth nuclear test on Sept. 2, 2017, there have been a lot of questions about the capabilities of that country's nuclear program.
Dr. Bruce Bennett, a Senior International/Defense Researcher at the RAND Corporation, is a leading expert on the subject and explains what other pressures besides military options the world can put on North Korea in order to slow down or eliminate their nuclear capabilities.
Watch Part 1: Cache here Watch Part 2: Military Options here (Published Wednesday, Sept. 13, 2017)

The United States is a compassionate nation and has spent billions and billions of dollars in helping to support this effort.
We seek an approach to refugee resettlement that is designed to help these horribly treated people, and which enables their eventual return to their home countries, to be part of the rebuilding process.
For the cost of resettling one refugee in the United States, we can assist more than 10 in their home region.
Out of the goodness of our hearts, we offer financial assistance to hosting countries in the region, and we support recent agreements of the G20 nations that will seek to host refugees as close to their home countries as possible.
This is the safe, responsible, and humanitarian approach.
For decades, the United States has dealt with migration challenges here in the Western Hemisphere.
We have learned that, over the long term, uncontrolled migration is deeply unfair to both the sending and the receiving countries.
For the sending countries, it reduces domestic pressure to pursue needed political and economic reform, and drains them of the human capital necessary to motivate and implement those reforms.
For the receiving countries, the substantial costs of uncontrolled migration are borne overwhelmingly by low-income citizens whose concerns are often ignored by both media and government.
I want to salute the work of the United Nations in seeking to address the problems that cause people to flee from their homes.
The United Nations and African Union led peacekeeping missions to have invaluable contributions in stabilizing conflicts in Africa.
The United States continues to lead the world in humanitarian assistance, including famine prevention and relief in South Sudan, Somalia, and northern Nigeria and Yemen.
We have invested in better health and opportunity all over the world through programs like PEPFAR, which funds AIDS relief; the President's Malaria Initiative; the Global Health Security Agenda; the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery; and the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, part of our commitment to empowering women all across the globe.
We also thank -- (applause) -- we also thank the Secretary General for recognizing that the United Nations must reform if it is to be an effective partner in confronting threats to sovereignty, security, and prosperity.
Too often the focus of this organization has not been on results, but on bureaucracy and process.
In some cases, states that seek to subvert this institution's noble aims have hijacked the very systems that are supposed to advance them.
For example, it is a massive source of embarrassment to the United Nations that some governments with egregious human rights records sit on the U.N. Human Rights Council.
The United States is one out of 193 countries in the United Nations, and yet we pay 22 percent of the entire budget and more.
In fact, we pay far more than anybody realizes.
The United States bears an unfair cost burden, but, to be fair, if it could actually accomplish all of its stated goals, especially the goal of peace, this investment would easily be well worth it.
Major portions of the world are in conflict and some, in fact, are going to hell.
But the powerful people in this room, under the guidance and auspices of the United Nations, can solve many of these vicious and complex problems.
The American people hope that one day soon the United Nations can be a much more accountable and effective advocate for human dignity and freedom around the world.
In the meantime, we believe that no nation should have to bear a disproportionate share of the burden, militarily or financially.
Nations of the world must take a greater role in promoting secure and prosperous societies in their own regions.
That is why in the Western Hemisphere, the United States has stood against the corrupt and destabilizing regime in Cuba and embraced the enduring dream of the Cuban people to live in freedom.
My administration recently announced that we will not lift sanctions on the Cuban government until it makes fundamental reforms.
We have also imposed tough, calibrated sanctions on the socialist Maduro regime in Venezuela, which has brought a once thriving nation to the brink of total collapse.
The socialist dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro has inflicted terrible pain and suffering on the good people of that country.
This corrupt regime destroyed a prosperous nation by imposing a failed ideology that has produced poverty and misery everywhere it has been tried.
To make matters worse, Maduro has defied his own people, stealing power from their elected representatives to preserve his disastrous rule.
The Venezuelan people are starving and their country is collapsing.
Their democratic institutions are being destroyed.
This situation is completely unacceptable and we cannot stand by and watch.
As a responsible neighbor and friend, we and all others have a goal.
That goal is to help them regain their freedom, recover their country, and restore their democracy.
I would like to thank leaders in this room for condemning the regime and providing vital support to the Venezuelan people.
The United States has taken important steps to hold the regime accountable.
We are prepared to take further action if the government of Venezuela persists on its path to impose authoritarian rule on the Venezuelan people.
We are fortunate to have incredibly strong and healthy trade relationships with many of the Latin American countries gathered here today.
Our economic bond forms a critical foundation for advancing peace and prosperity for all of our people and all of our neighbors.
I ask every country represented here today to be prepared to do more to address this very real crisis.
We call for the full restoration of democracy and political freedoms in Venezuela.
The problem in Venezuela is not that socialism has been poorly implemented, but that socialism has been faithfully implemented.
(Applause.)
From the Soviet Union to Cuba to Venezuela, wherever true socialism or communism has been adopted, it has delivered anguish and devastation and failure.
Those who preach the tenets of these discredited ideologies only contribute to the continued suffering of the people who live under these cruel systems.
America stands with every person living under a brutal regime.
Our respect for sovereignty is also a call for action.
All people deserve a government that cares for their safety, their interests, and their wellbeing, including their prosperity.
In America, we seek stronger ties of business and trade with all nations of good will, but this trade must be fair and it must be reciprocal.
For too long, the American people were told that mammoth multinational trade deals, unaccountable international tribunals, and powerful global bureaucracies were the best way to promote their success.
But as those promises flowed, millions of jobs vanished and thousands of factories disappeared.
Others gamed the system and broke the rules.
And our great middle class, once the bedrock of American prosperity, was forgotten and left behind, but they are forgotten no more and they will never be forgotten again.
While America will pursue cooperation and commerce with other nations, we are renewing our commitment to the first duty of every government: the duty of our citizens.
This bond is the source of America's strength and that of every responsible nation represented here today.
If this organization is to have any hope of successfully confronting the challenges before us, it will depend, as President Truman said some 70 years ago, on the "independent strength of its members."
If we are to embrace the opportunities of the future and overcome the present dangers together, there can be no substitute for strong, sovereign, and independent nations -- nations that are rooted in their histories and invested in their destinies; nations that seek allies to befriend, not enemies to conquer; and most important of all, nations that are home to patriots, to men and women who are willing to sacrifice for their countries, their fellow citizens, and for all that is best in the human spirit.
In remembering the great victory that led to this body's founding, we must never forget that those heroes who fought against evil also fought for the nations that they loved.
Patriotism led the Poles to die to save Poland, the French to fight for a free France, and the Brits to stand strong for Britain.
Today, if we do not invest ourselves, our hearts, and our minds in our nations, if we will not build strong families, safe communities, and healthy societies for ourselves, no one can do it for us.
We cannot wait for someone else, for faraway countries or far-off bureaucrats -- we can't do it.
We must solve our problems, to build our prosperity, to secure our futures, or we will be vulnerable to decay, domination, and defeat.
The true question for the United Nations today, for people all over the world who hope for better lives for themselves and their children, is a basic one: Are we still patriots?
Do we love our nations enough to protect their sovereignty and to take ownership of their futures?
Do we revere them enough to defend their interests, preserve their cultures, and ensure a peaceful world for their citizens?
One of the greatest American patriots, John Adams, wrote that the American Revolution was "effected before the war commenced.
The Revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people."
That was the moment when America awoke, when we looked around and understood that we were a nation.
We realized who we were, what we valued, and what we would give our lives to defend.
From its very first moments, the American story is the story of what is possible when people take ownership of their future.
The United States of America has been among the greatest forces for good in the history of the world, and the greatest defenders of sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all.
Now we are calling for a great reawakening of nations, for the revival of their spirits, their pride, their people, and their patriotism.
History is asking us whether we are up to the task.
Our answer will be a renewal of will, a rediscovery of resolve, and a rebirth of devotion.
We need to defeat the enemies of humanity and unlock the potential of life itself.
Our hope is a word and world of proud, independent nations that embrace their duties, seek friendship, respect others, and make common cause in the greatest shared interest of all: a future of dignity and peace for the people of this wonderful Earth.
This is the true vision of the United Nations, the ancient wish of every people, and the deepest yearning that lives inside every sacred soul.
So let this be our mission, and let this be our message to the world: We will fight together, sacrifice together, and stand together for peace, for freedom, for justice, for family, for humanity, and for the almighty God who made us all.
Thank you.
God bless you.
God bless the nations of the world.
And God bless the United States of America.
Thank you very much.
At least 10 people were arrested in a demonstration outside Trump Tower Tuesday.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

What to Know Three members of Congress were among the 10 people arrested in front of Trump Tower during a protest of the White House decision to end DACA

Organizers had timed the protest to coincide with Trump's visit to New York City for his address to the United Nations General Assembly

Trump is scheduled to stay at Trump Tower Tuesday evening, but wasn't present for the protest

New York congressman Adriano Espaillat, City Council President Melissa Mark Viverito and other lawmakers have been arrested in a protest outside Trump Tower.
They were fighting President Trump's decision to end the DACA program, which protected immigrants who arrived in the U.S. illegally as children.
Espaillat's spokeswoman confirmed to News 4 he was arrested.
"Since day one, the Trump administration has threatened Latinos, Muslims, LGBT, women, and the list continues.
His decision to end the DACA program earlier this month increased the urgency of what's at stake and the lives at risk when we fail to speak out against racism in America," spokeswoman Candace Randle Person said.
Hundreds Protest Trump's DACA Decision in Manhattan

The protesters on Saturday waved signs that read "No one is illegal" and "Immigrants welcome" and chanted "Deport Donald Trump."
(Published Saturday, Sept. 9, 2017)

Dozens of people gathered at the corner across Trump Tower for the planned protest, holding signs and chanting.
NYPD officers were also there in force to control the crowds.
The lawmakers had planned to get arrested by sitting down on Fifth Avenue and refusing to move.
Three members of Congress, along with Mark Viverito, were among the 10 people arrested.
Organizers had timed the protest to coincide with Trump's visit to New York City for his address to the United Nations General Assembly.
They're demanding the president work with Congress to pass a clean DREAM Act that includes a path to citizenship for immigrant youth.
Trump is scheduled to stay at Trump Tower Tuesday evening, but wasn't present for the protest.
In this Oct. 24, 2012 file photo, former Chief Justice Roy Moore poses for a photo in his Montgomery, Ala., office.
Moore, an Alabama GOP senate candidate, used racial slurs in speech in a video obtained by NBC News.
Roy Moore, the Republican frontrunner in next weeks special Senate election in Alabama, referred to "reds and yellows fighting" in a campaign speech, a video obtained by NBC News shows.
Moore, the ultra-conservative former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, lamented racial divisions in his remarks on Sunday.
"We have blacks and whites fighting, reds and yellows fighting, Democrats and Republicans fighting, men and women fighting," he said.
"Red" and "yellow" are widely recognized as racial slurs.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea
A file photo of CIA Director Mike Pompeo answering questions while speaking at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) In Washington, Thursday, April 13, 2017.
Pompeo has pushed for more freedom of action for the CIA, which Trump intends to give him, officials told NBC News.
When President Donald Trump visited CIA headquarters in the first weeks of his presidency, he toured the secure floor where agency officers direct drone strikes against suspected terrorists, current and former U.S. officials told NBC News.
Impressed by what he saw, Trump conveyed to incoming CIA Director Mike Pompeo and the assembled agency officers that he wanted them to take a more aggressive posture, according to two current U.S. officials and one former official briefed on the visit.
Soon afterward, multiple sources said, the CIA began carrying out drone strikes that might not have been authorized under the Obama administration, including in Syria, where the military has taken the lead on targeting militant leaders.
The White House granted CIA officers more autonomy to decide on whether and when the U.S. can pull the trigger in various places around the world, including in Yemen, where the military carries out the bulk of the airstrikes, according to four U.S. officials who have been briefed on the agency's counterterrorism operations.
The upshot is less micromanaging of targeting decisions by the White House, these officials say.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea
President Donald Trump enjoyed France's Bastille Day celebration so much while he was visiting France that he is considering a July 4th parade to showcase the U.S. military.
As a candidate President Trump called the United Nations weak, incompetent, not a friend of democracy.
Now he needs the U.N. to deal with North Korea.
Tracie Potts reports.
Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer talks to NBC4's Robert Kovacik after his surprise Emmy cameo Sept. 17, 2017.
(Published Monday, Sept. 18, 2017)

Stephen Colbert kicked off the Emmys Sunday with an old-school production number straight out of "The Music Man," a classic show about a con artist who hoodwinks Middle American townsfolk by spouting false promises about making life great.
"Everything's better on TV," he sang, sprinkling in lyrics about global warming, white supremacists and Russia.
Colbert even offered a surprise non-musical coda: a surreal appearance by deposed White House press secretary Sean Spicer, who spoofed his demonstrably false claims about the size of the audience for President Donald Trump's inauguration.
"This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys  period!
both in person and around the world," Spicer declared from behind a mobile podium seemingly plucked from Melissa McCarthy's sketches lampooning him on "Saturday Night Live."
After his stunt, Spicer told NBC4 Los Angeles that he hoped his former boss "found it humorous."
The multi-tiered spectacle marked vintage Colbert, who long ago proved himself the master of the ironic comedic con, where the audience is in on the joke, even if the joke may be on us.
Colbert boldly reached higher Sunday, by ceding the top role to an in-absentia Trump, making the president both the star of the show  and its target.
"Hello, sir, thank you for joining us  looking forward to the tweets," Colbert said, addressing Trump.
It wasn't immediately clear whether the president watched the CBS broadcast, dominated in the late night comedy-filled categories by "SNL" and "Last Week Tonight," which likely rank among his least favorite shows.
But Trump's presence loomed.
Colbert cited Trump's past complaints of supposed Emmy-rigging he blamed for snubs of "The Apprentice," a springboard for his political rise.
"I bet if he had won an Emmy, he never would have run for president.
So in a way, this is all your fault," he told the Hollywood crowd that packed Los Angeles' Microsoft Theater.
'Tonight': Fred Armisen's Noise Remix

Jimmy Fallon has Fred Armisen record some noises, like laughs and gasps, and uses the Samplebot app on his iPad to remix them into a song.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

Alec Baldwin later picked up that thread after winning an Emmy for his ongoing "Saturday Night Live" stint as Trump.
"I suppose I should say, 'At long last, Mr. President, here is your Emmy,'" Baldwin quipped.
Even some of TV's top dramatic players  the dystopic duo "Westworld" and "The Handmaid's Tale"  got in on the humor game.
Colbert performed with scantily clad dancers in "Handmaid's"-inspired garb.
He doffed his tux for a filmed bit with "Westworld" star Jeffrey Wright.
"Have you ever questioned the nature of your reality?"
asked Wright, reviving his Bernard Lowe character.
Colbert, nude except for a bow tie, responded: "Every day since November 8."
The "Late Show" host signaled from the start that he planned to play with reality Sunday: "I know the world outside is getting crazy, but look on the bright side: Television has never been better."
Colbert, with song, dance and pointed humor, fulfilled the promise of TV on its biggest night.
No matter how many people wound up watching, Colbert demonstrated he's the real deal by helping us laugh at strange times while never letting us forget them.
'Late Night': Bobby Moynihan's 'David S. Pumpkins' Story

Seth Meyers chats with "Saturday Night Live's" Bobby Moynihan, who talks about how he came up with Tom Hanks' iconic "David S. Pumpkins" sketch.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
File PhotoSen.
Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks during a "Care Not Cuts" rally in support of the Affordable Care Act, July 9, 2017, in Covington, Ky.

Sen. Bernie Sanders on Sunday pushed back against criticism from Hillary Clinton that he did not do enough to bring his supporters to her in the 2016 general election, NBC News reported.
Sanders chalked up the fact that some of his supporters during 2016s Democratic primaries eventually voted for Donald Trump in the general election to the nature of politics.
People say not everybody who voted for Bernie ended up voting for Hillary, no kidding!"
Sanders said on "Meet The Press."
He added, "That's what happens in politics."
The Vermont senator was responding to criticism that Clinton leveled at him in her new book and in recent media appearances that he didnt do enough to bring his supporters to her side after their contentious Democratic primary for president last year.
Another Twitter firestorm for President Donald Trump came Sunday July 2, 2017.
The president tweeted a video edited to show him beating up a man with a CNN logo on his face.
(Published Sunday, July 2, 2017)

Trump Beats Up Man With CNN Logo on His Face in Edited Video

President Donald Trump on Sunday morning retweeted a number of internet memes, including an altered video that shows him driving a golf ball into the back of Hillary Clinton.
The retweeted video is captioned, "Donald Trump's amazing golf swing #CrookedHillary."
In it, Trump wears a red "Make America Great Again" hat and tees off on a golf green.
The video then cuts to a scene of Hillary Clinton walking onto an airplane and being hit by the golf ball, causing her to trip and fall.
It was one of a number of memes Trump retweeted Sunday morning.
Others included an electoral map that was pure red, captioned: "keep it up Libs this will be 2020."
Trump retweeted three other memes from the Twitter user who originally posted the electoral map image.
Among them were a cartoon of Trump tugging various industries ashore from stormy water and an image of a train plowing through snow with a giant "Make America Great Again" hat on top of the front car.
He also insulted North Korea leader Kim Jong Un in his morning tweetstorm, calling the dictator "Rocket Man."
"I spoke with President Moon of South Korea last night.
Asked him how Rocket Man is doing.
Long gas lines forming in North Korea.
Too bad!"
Trump's words on North Korea come after Kim said Saturday that his country is nearing its goal of "equilibrium" in military force with the United States after a number of missile tests in the region.
President Donald Trump condemned the Iran nuclear agreement as "one of the worst deals" he's ever seen, promising to stop Iran from "ever developing a nuclear weapon" in a joint press conference with Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanhayu.
(Published Wednesday, Feb. 15, 2017)

President Donald Trump's repeated promises to end the Obama-era Iran nuclear deal may accomplish what Tehran has been trying to do for decades  drive a damaging wedge between the U.S. and key European allies, NBC News reported.
Trump has made no secret of his dislike for the 2015 agreement, which had painful sanctions lifted in exchange for Iran curbing its nuclear program.
On the campaign trail, he called it "the worst deal ever."
On Thursday, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said "Iran is clearly in default" of U.S. expectations for the pact.
He cited Iranian support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, its development of ballistic missiles and "cyber activities."
While the Trump administration also extended sanctions relief to Tehran under that deal, NBC News reported that Trump plans to sign off on a new Iran policy ahead of his first appearance at the United Nations General Assembly next week.
Trump is seeking to take a more aggressive approach, according to administration officials.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea
President Donald Trump responded early Friday after North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un said the United States would "pay dearly" for new sanctions on his country and called Trump a "dotard."
Trump called the leader a "madman" and said he "would be tested like never before," in an early-morning tweet.
I will surely and definitely tame the mentally deranged U.S. dotard with fire, Kim said on Thursday, according to The Associated Press.
Dotard is a word used to describe an elderly person in a state of senile decay, according to the Merriam-Webster dictionary.
Kim Jong Un of North Korea, who is obviously a madman who doesn't mind starving or killing his people, will be tested like never before!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 22, 2017

The latest war of words between the two leaders began when the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed new sanctions on North Korea earlier this week in response to the growing nuclear threat posed by the country.
In his address to the U.N. on Tuesday, President Trump threatened to totally destroy North Korea.
The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea, the president said in his address.
Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself.
Responding to the speech, Kim released a statement saying that Trump will pay dearly for his address to the U.N. and that North Korea is considering the strongest possible response to what he calls Trumps provocation.
"I'd like to advise Trump to exercise prudence in selecting words and to be considerate of whom he speaks to when making a speech in front of the world," Kim said, according to The Associated Press.
North Korea Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho, who is in New York for the UN General Assembly, said Thursday evening that North Korea could detonate an hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean, but also told reporters, "We have no idea about what actions could be taken as it will be ordered by leader Kim Jong Un."
If North Korea follows through on its latest threat of setting off a nuclear explosion over the Pacific Ocean, it will ultimately be up to President Trump whether the United States will respond with military action, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson told ABC News today.
ABC News Anchor David Muir asked Tillerson in an interview on "Good Morning America" about North Korea's warning that it could detonate a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific in response to Trump's speech to the United Nations General Assembly this week.
"If we see this detonation of an H-bomb in the Pacific, what will the U.S.
Muir asked.
"Will there be military action?"
"That will be the presidents decision," Tillerson said.
"There is assembled on a standing basis a National Security Council that meets on each of these issues to advise the president.
Ultimately it will be his decision."
The secretary of state defended Trump's blunt rhetoric in his speech to the U.N. General Assembly in New York on Tuesday, in which the president threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea if the United States is "forced to defend itself or its allies," prompting astonished gasps from some in the audience.
Trump also mocked North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in the speech, dubbing him "Rocket Man."
Kim responded in a statement Thursday saying Trump will "pay dearly" for his address to the U.N. and that North Korea is considering the strongest possible response to what he called the U.S. president's provocation.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho, in New York for the U.N. General Assembly, said Thursday evening that his country could detonate a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean, but also told reporters, "We have no idea about what actions could be taken as it will be ordered by leader Kim Jong Un."
Trump responded to Kim's threats on Twitter on Friday morning, calling him a "madman" who "will be tested like never before."
Muir asked Tillerson about the "escalating rhetoric ... does it work?"
Tillerson said, "The president obviously takes the responsibility of the security of the American people very seriously."
"But we're not in this alone," he added.
"We have developed strong allies and strong alliances internationally."
"We are engaging with North Korea's most important supporters, economic supporters, their friends, China and Russia, to have them also engage with Kim Jong Un on this issue," he said.
President Donald Trump called Russian interference in the 2016 election "a hoax" again this morning, a day after said it would turn over some 3,000 Russia-linked political ads purchased during the 2016 election to congressional investigators.
"The Russia hoax continues, now it's ads on Facebook.
What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?"
Trump wrote.
The Russia hoax continues, now it's ads on Facebook.
What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 22, 2017

On Thursday, Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg said it would release the ads and announced steps that the company will be taking to prevent interference in elections in the future.
The ads -- seen by millions of Americans -- ran on the social media site during the election and were previously linked by Facebook to a Russian company in St. Petersburg with ties to the Russian government.
Facebook reported earlier this month that fake accounts created by the Russian company, which Facebook officials referred to as a "troll farm," purchased at least $100,000 worth of political ads during the 2016 campaign.
Facebooks chief security officer Alex Stamos said that most of the ads did not mention a specific presidential candidate or the election, but focused on amplifying divisive social and political messages on immigration, gun rights and LGBT issues.
Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va, vice chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, says its clear that those divisive messages were often stories that would help one candidate and potentially hurt another, part of a broader effort the intelligence community has determined was designed to aid Donald Trump and hurt Hillary Clinton.
Today's tweet was not the first time that Trump has called the issue of Russian election interference a hoax.
In August, he slammed Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., for "talking about hoax Russian collusion."
In July, he told The Wall Street Journal "that's a total witch hunt, the whole Russia story.
It's a hoax.
It's a hoax."
Earlier that month he tweeted that the stock market hit a new high "despite the Russian hoax story!"
ABC News' Megan Christie, Matthew Mosk and Benjamin Siegel contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump will visit Alabama Friday to campaign ahead of the Senate runoff for the Republican primary to fill the seat left vacant by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Trump, who won the state by a nearly 28 percent margin in the 2016 presidential election, has endorsed Luther Strange, the incumbent temporarily appointed to fill the seat.
Alabama is sooo lucky to have a candidate like 'Big' Luther Strange, Trump tweeted about his favored candidate Wednesday.
Alabama is sooo lucky to have a candidate like "Big" Luther Strange.
Smart, tough on crime, borders & trade, loves Vets & Military.
Tuesday!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 20, 2017

Vice President Mike Pence is also expected to campaign for Strange on Monday, just a day before the GOP primary that is slated for Sept.26.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has spent over 3.5 million to boost Strange.
Trumps former chief strategist Steve Bannon and former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin, however, are backing Judge Roy Moore, who was twice elected to the Alabama Supreme Court and removed for ignoring court orders.
The winner of the primary will move on to the special election on Dec. 12 and face the Democratic candidate, Doug Jones, who is recognized as the lead prosecutor in the 1963 Birmingham church bombing case that killed four African-American girls.
Next week, Alabama voters will head to the polls for a Republican primary runoff for the Senate seat previously occupied by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
After a first round of voting failed to yield a single candidate receiving a majority of the votes, two candidates are running for the Republican nomination in a race that has gained national prominence.
Here's a look at what you need to know about the Alabama primary:

Why the seat is open

The Senate seat was previously held by Alabama native Jeff Sessions, who served as senator for 20 years before his nomination by President Trump to serve as attorney general.
Following Sessions' confirmation in February, then-Alabama Gov.
Robert Bentley appointed the state's attorney general, Luther Strange, to temporarily fill Sessions Senate seat until the general election.
Bentley later resigned after allegations that he used state resources as governor to hide an affair with one of his top aides.
Lt. Gov.
Kay Ivey replaced Bentley as governor following the resignation, and called for a special election in April.
Sessions was first elected in 1997, and since then, the state has been represented by two Republican senators.
In his last election in 2014, Sessions was unchallenged and won the general election with over 97 percent of the vote.
The senior senator from Alabama, Richard Shelby, was elected for the first time in 1987 and is not up for reelection until 2022.
In the 2016 presidential election, Trump won Alabama with 62 percent of the vote.
Who is running

Among the nine Republicans who originally ran for the vacant seat, two emerged to make it to the runoff: incumbent Sen. Luther Strange and former judge Roy Moore.
Luther Strange

Al Drago/The New York Times via Redux

Strange officially stated his candidacy for Sessions seat on Dec. 6, just 18 days after Trump announced he would be picking Sessions for attorney general.
Strange was appointed in February to temporarily fill the seat left by Sessions.
Previously, Strange served as the attorney general for Alabama.
After winning the Republican primary, he lost the race for lieutenant governor in 2006.
In August, Strange was endorsed by Trump, who tweeted that Strange "has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama," adding, "He has my complete and total endorsement!"
Senator Luther Strange has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama.
He has my complete and total endorsement!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 9, 2017

Since then, Trump has periodically tweeted his support and encouragement for Strange and will appear with him Friday at a campaign rally in the state.
Strange has come under fire from his rivals for the substantial advertising support he has received from the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC that has been known to support Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Politico reported that Steven Law, the PAC's president, said, While he doesn't direct what we do, McConnell has made it very clear that Luther's race is his number one political priority right now.
According to Politico, the fund had spent $3.5 million on the race as of late July, including on an ad tying then-rival, Rep. Mo Brooks to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.

Roy Moore

Roy Moore previously served as the chief justice for the Alabama Supreme Court, but was suspended in November 2003 for refusing federal court orders to take down a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building.
Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call via Newscom

He was reelected to the position in 2013 but was again removed in May 2016 for ordering other judges not to issue same-sex marriage licenses, although the states ban on the matter had been overturned.
He announced his Senate bid in late April.
Moore was endorsed by actor Chuck Norris, who said of the candidate, Judge Roy Moore is the real deal.
The Washington establishment knows they wont be able to count on him, but Alabama voters can...Thats why the Washington establishment is spending millions trying to defeat Judge Moore.
Moore has released advertisements highly critical of Republicans in Washington including McConnell, Sens.
Jeff Flake R-Ariz. and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, R-Wis.
Send them all a message, one ad says to viewers as it solicits their votes for Moore and calls out the majority leaders DC slime machine.
Why this race matters

At a time when the presidents support within his own party wavers, the Alabama special election holds importance as a reflection of Trump's influence in the first year of his presidency.
Cynthia Bowling, chair of the political science department at Auburn University, told ABC News this summer that "if there is ever going to be an election that would signify a movement away from Trump, it would be an election where Trump's ratings are really low," and in a solid Republican state like Alabama.
According to Richard Fording, a professor of political science at the University of Alabama, this election "will continue to be influenced by Trump and that it will flat out be a referendum on his performance as president.
The race is further significance in the way it could potentially shift Republicans' tenuous grip on power in the Senate.
The GOP currently holds 52 seats in the Senate, while Democrats hold 48 (two independent senators caucus with the Democrats).
An upset win in the December 12 general election for Democrat and former U.S. Attorney Doug Jones, who won his party's primary in August, would be a significant gain for the party and make it even more difficult for Republicans to pass tightly contested legislation, such as on health care reform.
Senator Luther Strange and former Alabama Supreme Court Justice Roy Moore faced off tonight in the only debate before the runoff election for the GOP nomination next Tuesday to replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions in the U.S. Senate.
The debate  held without a moderator  focused largely on who would best support and advocate for President Trumps agenda in the U.S. Senate.
Strange made no secret that he is endorsed by President Trump, and talked about his close personal friendship to a president that is broadly popular among Alabamans.
Moore, the twice-removed former Alabama Supreme Court Justice, tried to paint Strange  who worked as a lobbyist in the nation's capital for many years - as a D.C. insider, and a creature of the swamp.
President Trump is set to visit the state tomorrow and will hold a rally in support of Strange.
Moore has earned the support of former White House aides Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka, as well as Republican luminaries like Sarah Palin, Sean Hannity, and Congressman Steve King, R-IA.
Here are five moments that mattered in tonights fiery debate.
Whos Trumps Man?
The first question is, who does the president support?
Strange said in his opening remarks, The president supports me.
Right off the bat, Strange endeared himself to the man in the Oval Office, heaping praise on him and talking up their shared background, in a moment that set the tone for how Strange approached the debate.
We've developed a close personal friendship.
We both come from the same background, the same mission, the same motivation.
To make this country great again, Strange said.
Moore instead chose to frame the race as a battle between the outsiders and the Washington elite.
Will an elitist Washington establishment with unlimited millions of dollars, and special money be able to control the people of Alabama?
Moore asked, Will false, malicious radio, TV and internet advertising take the place of honest and open debate in our political arena?
I think not.
'Manipulated' by McConnell

Moore, who expressed support for numerous Trump administration policies like the border wall and a ban on transgender individuals serving in the U.S. military, said that Trumps support of Strange was a result of influence from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who is supporting the incumbents campaign.
The problem is President Trump's being cut off in his office.
He's being redirected by people like McConnell who do not support his agenda, Moore said.
Strange shot back, calling Moores attack insulting.
You just said that he was being manipulated by Mitch McConnell.
I met Mitch McConnell about six or seven months ago, Strange said.
To suggest that the President of the United States, the head of the free world, a man who is changing the world is being manipulated by Mitch McConnell is insulting to the president, Strange said.
Stranges controversial appointment

Moore also attacked Strange for what has been a major issue in the race, how Strange became a United States Senator.
Strange, who was the Alabama Attorney General prior to his appointment, was tapped for the seat by then-Gov.
Robert Bentley, who was later forced to resign over a sex scandal involving a member of his staff.
Strange was, at the time, the very man leading the investigation into Bentleys misconduct, raising questions about the appropriateness of Bentleys appointment of Strange to Sessions senate seat.
What's the truth?
Moore asked Strange directly across the stage, Did you sir, have Robert Bentley, the former governor who appointed you to the Senate, under investigation while you were applying for that appointment?
Strange did not directly respond to the question, instead dismissing the charge as a personal attack.
I didn't hear anything about the issues or any solutions or anything he's going to do to help the president, Strange responded.
Moore: Strange caved on same-sex marriage ruling

Moore, who was suspended from the Alabama Supreme Court in 2016 after refusing to enforce the U.S. Supreme Courts ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges that legalized same-sex marriage nationwide, accused his opponent of not standing up to the high courts ruling.
As soon as Obergefell came down he caved.
He did not stand, Moore said.
Earlier in the debate, Strange pointed to his record of opposing various requirements in the Affordable Care Act that affected religious organizations who objected to portions of the law.
Our religious liberty was threatened by the Obama administration as part of the Obamacare law, Strange said.
I was in the courtroom when that law was, I think unjustly, held constitutional.
Whos the real swamp dweller?
Both candidates accused each other of being nothing but career insiders, either as lobbyists or elected officials.
Moore invoked President Trump when he called Strange a professional lobbyist that only represents special interests.
President Trump had it right when he ran, he said he was going to get rid of lobbyists, you dont get rid of lobbyists in the swamp by sending one to the United States Senate, Moore said.
Strange again leaned on the presidents endorsement.
What Im here to do is talk about the issues.
Thats why the president endorsed me, Strange said.
A new analysis finds that blue states could lose a significant amount of federal funding for health care under the Graham-Cassidy bill.
The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that if Graham-Cassidy becomes law, the federal government will spend $160 billion less from 2020 to 2026 to expand health insurance coverage, and 35 states plus the District of Columbia will face losses in federal funding.
Named for the two Republicans spearheading it  Sens.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Bill Cassidy, R-La.
the bill is the latest effort by Senate Republicans to follow through on promises to repeal and replace Obamacare.
The bill would redistribute federal funds that would have been used for Medicaid expansion or insurance subsidies.
The funds would be given to states in the form of block grants, which Republicans say would give states enormous discretion on how to provide coverage.
But the Kaiser report shows that the redistribution is not equal.
ABC News

New York, for example, stands to lose 35 percent of the money it currently receives from the federal government to subsidize health insurance and pay for Medicaid.
But Mississippi, the report estimates, could see a whopping 148 percent gain in federal funding under Graham-Cassidy.
States that would see the largest increases in funding are states that chose not to expand Medicaid coverage under Obamacare.
Nonexpansion states, according to Kaiser, could gain a total of $73 billion, while Medicaid expansion states could lose $180 billion.
Next week the Senate will vote on Graham-Cassidy, and all eyes are on three senators who could decide its fate: Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska; Susan Collins, R-Maine; and John McCain, R-Ariz.
Under the legislation, Alaska and Arizona would face moderate losses in federal funding, while Maine, which did not expand Medicaid, would gain 8 percent in federal funding.
The five biggest losers in federal funding, percentagewise: New York (35 percent), Oregon (32 percent), Connecticut (31 percent), Vermont (31 percent) and Minnesota (30 percent).
ABC News

The biggest winners: Mississippi (148 percent), Texas (75 percent), Kansas (61 percent), Georgia (46 percent) and South Dakota (45 percent).
ABC News

The large unknown that remains is what would happen in 2026, when block grants would end under Graham-Cassidy.
Kaiser notes that if that block grants arent renewed, funding would decrease by $240 billion in 2027 alone.
Graham-Cassidy would be the biggest evolution of federal money and responsibility to states ever, said Larry Levitt of the Kaiser Family Foundation.
So until this passes, theres just no way to know what kinds of changes people face, because it will be different in every state.
Insurance companies, doctors, patients, hospitals and other patient-provider groups are rallying together against the Graham-Cassidy plan, saying it could result in millions losing access to affordable health care and coverage.
Its not often you see these interest groups align, but the latest Republican repeal-and-replace effort has done just that.
The effort led by Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., and Sen. Dean Heller, R-Nev., works by eliminating the individual and employer mandates, halting Medicaid expansion and redistributing those funds that would have been used for Medicaid to states in the form of block grants.
Republicans say this gives states flexibility to design coverage plans that fit their constituents needs, but groups opposed are concerned about loss of Medicaid coverage and how the law might affect people with pre-existing conditions.
While people with pre-existing conditions cannot be denied coverage by law, states could allow insurers to charge higher premiums for people with pre-existing conditions.
Groups like the American Medical Association, which represents the nations doctors, and the American Health Insurance Programs, representing big insurers like Anthem and Humana, along with patient advocacy groups, including the American Cancer Society, American Heart Association and American Diabetes Association have joined a growing list of organizations opposed to the Graham-Cassidy bill.
The AARP is asking members to call their lawmakers, saying it will harm the nations elderly.
AARP released a study saying that Graham-Cassidy would mean big premium increases for older Americans, and would decrease coverage and undermine preexisting condition protections.
The American Medical Association said that the Graham-Cassidy bill violates the Hippocratic Oath taken by all doctors, first do no harm.
The National Association of Medicaid Directors released a statement saying that theyre strong proponents of state innovation, but they said that reforms need to be done with careful consideration and not rushed through without proper deliberation.
On Wednesday, insurance companies -- who remained quiet about the bill for weeks -- came out in opposition to Graham-Cassidy, saying theyre concerned about consumers losing coverage and paying more.
Some of the groups say they instead support short-term measures that would stabilize insurance marketplaces and make cost-sharing payments.
Many say they will continue to support the kind of work that was attempted the bipartisan work of Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., and Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., that failed in committee.
LETTER: AARP voices strong opposition to "irresponsible" #GrahamCassidy; stresses support for bipartisan approach https://t.co/orhYxjoGjy  AARP Advocates (@AARPadvocates) September 19, 2017

To #Congress: Graham-Cassidy would result in millions losing coverage, destabilize insurance markets, decrease access to affordable care.
pic.twitter.com/p0A1lJf4cx  AMA (@AmerMedicalAssn) September 19, 2017

Read our letter to Senate Leaders on the Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson proposal: https://t.co/qBMVAe7kBM  AHIP (@AHIPCoverage) September 20, 2017

We couldn't agree more @Jimmykimmel!
Call your Senators today &ask them to oppose #GrahamCassidy https://t.co/IXlkBWPffT #ProtectPatientsNow https://t.co/ZUMvuecIjj  AmHeart Advocacy (@AmHeartAdvocacy) September 20, 2017

This past summer, many of the same patient, physician and insurance groups also voiced opposition to Republicans' "skinny repeal" health care push.
Sources with knowledge of the investigation surrounding former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort tell ABC News a key focus for congressional investigators is emails between Manafort and his longtime associate Konstantin Kilimnik.
Kilimnik, often referred to in these emails as KK, has served as Manaforts liaison overseas since the mid-2000s.
In the past, Kilimnik has been reported as a former Russian army trained linguist.
Kilimniks work for Manafort focused mainly on relations with power brokers and government liaisons in both Ukraine and Russia, among other nations.
As reported by The Washington Post, Manafort reached out to Kilimnik to re-establish a relationship with Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, dubbed in these emails OVD.
Manafort and Deripaska had many financial deals in the past, some of which included disputes over payments.
According to a source with direct knowledge of the exchange, Manafort told Kilimnik to tell Deripaska he could provide briefings on the state of the Trump campaign, in the middle of the presidential race.
The goal of these briefings was for Manafort to fix the damaged relationship with Deripaska and settle past debts.
However, a source tells ABC News it does not appear those briefings ever happened.
It is no secret Mr. Manafort was owed money by past clients after his work ended in 2014.
This exchange is innocuous, a current spokesperson for Manafort told ABC News.
After months of stonewalling, founder Mark Zuckerberg agreed to turn over more than 3,000 Russian-linked political ads that ran during last years election campaign to Congress.
In his remarks, made in a Facebook Live post from his personal account, Zuckerberg said the company recently uncovered this activity and began cooperating with investigators looking at Russian attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election.
We are actively working with the US government on its ongoing investigations into Russian interference, Zuckerberg said.
We have been investigating this for many months, and for a while we had found no evidence of fake accounts linked to Russia running ads.
When we recently uncovered this activity, we provided that information to the special counsel.
We also briefed Congress, and this morning I directed our team to provide the ads we've found to Congress as well.
ABC News has learned that Zuckerberg called Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va, vice chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, personally on Thursday to tell him of the companys decision to offer more information to Congress.
The company conducted an inquiry into Russian election meddling in the spring but did not release its findings, raising concerns among leaders in the House and Senate that the social media giant was withholding information that could help them in the multiple ongoing investigations, according to the Washington Post.
In a recent interview with ABC News, Sen. Warner said Facebook initially denied to Congress that they had posted any ads paid by the Russians.
When I raised these issues last winter, [they said] couldnt happen and they privately said, you know, Those are crazy ideas, Warner said.
Well, they werent crazy ideas.
Warner was critical of Facebooks efforts to account for Russian ads bought during the campaign, pointing out that the companys initial report to Congress only covered ads purchased in Russian currency.
There were lots of reports of [activity coming from] Albanian, Macedonia, Moldavia -- areas where there are some of these troll factories that were at least indirectly controlled by Russia, Warner said.
I don't believe they looked at any of that.
Russian companies spent more than $100,000 on the ads seen by millions of Americans.
Facebooks chief security officer Alex Stamos says most of the ads did not mention a specific presidential candidate or the election, but focused on amplifying divisive social and political messages on immigration, gun rights and LGBT issues.
Sen. Warner, however, says its clear that those divisive messages were often stories that would help one candidate and potentially hurt another, part of a broader effort the intelligence community has determined was designed to aid Donald Trump and hurt Hillary Clinton.
On Tuesday, Clinton mentioned the issue in an appearance on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.
I dont think anybody can with a straight face say that the Russians did not set out to influence our election, and they did so, Clinton said.
This latest revelation about the way they bought ads on Facebook and target them, were going to find out a lot more.
Until today, Facebook had refused to reveal who paid for political ads, but Zuckerberg said the company will now hold itself to "an even higher standard of transparency" than television and other media and "strengthen our ad review process for political ads.
Going forward -- and perhaps the most important step we're taking -- we're going to make political advertising more transparent, Zuckerberg said.
We're going to bring Facebook to an even higher standard of transparency.
Not only will you have to disclose which page paid for an ad, but we will also make it so you can visit an advertiser's page and see the ads they're currently running to any audience on Facebook.
Zuckerberg acknowledged that the company wont catch everyone immediately but can only try to make it more difficult to use bad content to influence voters on its platform.
I dont want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy, he said.
Thats not what we stand for.
ABC News Randy Kreider and Cho Park contributed to this story.
The inspector general's office at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services confirmed Friday it is investigating the private jet travel of the agency's chief, Tom Price, who reportedly chartered five flights last week, drawing widespread criticism from congressional Democrats.
Price's travel, first reported by Politico on Wednesday, comprised trips to Maine, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania aboard private planes estimated to cost tens of thousands of dollars per flight.
Politico noted that the chartered jets did not explicitly violate government regulations, but that past health secretaries have typically flown commercially, especially when traveling domestically.
The news outlet followed up with an additional story Thursday that reported Price flew on a total of 24 private flights since early May.
[The Office of Inspector General] is conducting a review of Secretary Prices federal travel using chartered aircraft.
The review focuses on whether the travel complied with Federal Travel Regulations, but may encompass other issues related to the travel," read a statement Friday from Tesia Williams, a spokesperson for HHS Inspector General Daniel Levinson.
"We take this matter very seriously, and when questions arose about potentially inappropriate travel, we immediately began assessing the issue."
Williams further told ABC News that the inspector general has not limited the scope of the investigation to what has already been reported.
"If anything else comes up, we will take a look and dig into those items," she said.
Democratic ranking members of five congressional committees sent a letter to Levinson on Thursday to request a review of Price's observance of departmental rules.
The letter cited the Code of Federal Regulations which notes, "...because the taxpayers should pay no more than necessary for your transportation, generally you may travel on Government aircraft only when a Government aircraft is the most cost-effective mode of travel."
At least two Democratic members of Congress seized on the report to promote rail travel, their preferred method of commuting to Washington, D.C., while criticizing Price.
"Mr. Secretary, I invite you to join me on [Amtrak] when you travel to Philly," tweeted Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del.
Wednesday.
"I assure you it's very comfortable with shorter security lines."
"Dear Tom Price, As someone who travels from DC to Philly every week let me recommend Amtrak," tweeted Rep. Brendan Boyle, D-Pa., whose district encompasses a portion of the Pennsylvania city.
The Department of Health and Human Services defended Price's travel choices by noting the secretary's "demanding schedule" and the size of the "$1.2 trillion agency."
"The travel department continues to check every possible source for travel needs including commercial, but commercial travel is not always feasible," read a statement from Charmaine Yoest, the assistant secretary for public affairs at the agency.
"The President has made it clear his Administration will move power out of Washington and return it to the American people.
Secretary Price will continue meeting with the American people outside of the Beltway to hear their concerns and ensure HHS makes decisions that best provide for their needs.
Since his appointment as health secretary and during his tenure in the House of Representatives -- part of which was spent as chair of the House Budget Committee -- Price has frequently criticized government waste.
Speaking before Congress in March about his department's budget, Price said, "One of our priorities is to try to find the waste and abuse that exists," in regard to government outlays on Medicare.
Price publicly decried federal spending and attacked "fiscal irresponsibility" in a 2009 CNBC interview amid a ultimately-abandoned proposal to spend $550 million on planes for members of Congress and government officials.
The issue of Price's travel follows an ABC News report last week that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin faced an inquiry by the Treasury Department's inspector general over a request to use a government airplane to travel to his European honeymoon this summer.
The inquiry is the second travel-related review faced by Mnuchin.
His official trip to Kentucky during August's solar eclipse is also being reviewed.
Mnuchin dropped the honeymoon travel request but later defended it as in the interest of "national security" so he would have a secure line of communication.
Transcript for Treasury secretary under investigation for private plane use

We are going to turn now to currently serving government officials including a few trump cabinet secretaries who are under scrutiny for their travel habits.
One congressman is looking into what's being spent on private flights.
Gio Benitez is here with the latest.
Great to have you in the studio.
Reporter: We're talking about expensive private planes.
The flights are costing tens of thousands of dollars but spokes people for some of the secretaries say they're necessary.
Still, some members of congress aren't buying it.
This morning treasury secretary Steve mnuchin is under investigation for trips on costly jets with American taxpayers footing the bill.
Mnuchin's flight on a U.S. Airforce c-37 costing taxpayers at least $25,000.
That ride from New York to Washington D.C. Less than an hour.
That rate on a commercial plane, 210 bucks.
It happened after the president's controversial press conference in charlottesville.
I think there's blame on both sides.
Reporter: Mnuchin's travels had already taken center stage after he and his wife took a military jet to Kentucky last month, some questioning if the business trip was really used to watch the solar ellipse.
Also under review, why he requested a government jet for his honeymoon, ultimately withdrawing that request, saying it was just one of the things they explored to ensure security communication communication.
Mnuchin is now one of at least three trump cabinet secretaries under the microscope for their travels.
Investigators this morning are also looking at secretary Tom price who just last week reportedly chartered five flights on private planes.
Politico reporting the health secretary flew a total of 24 private flights since early may, racking up more than $300,000 in taxpayer bills.
It's just not right.
It's just not right.
Reporter: Congressional Democrats are sounding off.
I don't think he really has a justification, and he's taken dozens of charter flights claiming they're an emergency, but basically they're for his own convenience.
Reporter: Secretary price's office saying in a statement, commercial travel is not always feasible.
Secretary price will continue meeting with the American people outside of the beltway to hear their concerns and ensure HHS makes decisions that best provide for their needs.
And meanwhile, mnuchin denies any wrongdoing and says that the Kentucky trip was official business, not to see the solar eclipse, and that his wife's ticket was approved and reimbursed, but so many questions this morning, enough to trigger these investigators.
Not what they need in the middle of this health care fight in the senate either.
Gio, thank you very much.
Let's check the forecast

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump campaigns for Alabama senator in GOP election fight

North Korea was clearly on president trump's mind as we spoke overnight in Alabama.
He was there to campaign on behalf of incumbent senator Luther strange who is facing a tough challenge from a fellow Republican.
The election is days away.
The president is back in new Jersey and that's where we find ABC's Stephanie Ramos.
Reporter: Last night president trump on stage in Alabama hyping up his accomplishments, jumping from topic to topic, including health care and North Korea's leader.
The president confident that Kim Jong-un was watching.
And then this morning president trump is up and at 'em, tweeting about health care, posting, John McCain never had any intention of voting for this bill which his governor loves.
He campaigned on repeal and replace.
Let Arizona down.
Overnight the president taking the stage in Huntsville, Alabama.
I love this state and I love the people of this state.
Reporter: Rallying for embattled senate candidate Luther strange.
Trump going after everything from North Korea, even the NFL, to health care.
The president still vowing to get rid of Obamacare.
We're going to win.
It's going to be gone.
Reporter: This morning the GOP health care bill is one vote away from failing, with senator John McCain shooting it down again, saying in a statement Friday, he cannot in good conscience vote for the latest Republican plan.
He says a bill of this impact requires a bipartisan approach.
It was just a couple of months ago when McCain walked on the senate floor and gave a thumbs down during a vote to repeal Obamacare.
The president telling the Alabama crowd he was shocked.
Totally unexpected thing, terrible.
Reporter: And trump again using a nickname to call out North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un.
Ramping up insults toward the dictator.
Rocket man should have been handled a long time ago.
Reporter: North Korea's leader Kim Jong-un says trump is mentally deranged, sienile and old.
During that hour and a half speech president trump even urged the NFL to fire players who protest racial and social injustices during the playing of the national anthem, even suggesting that punishments for hard hits are ruining the game.
Then there's Russia, the president continuing to claim that the Russian tie to him is a hoax despite the deepening investigation that is narrowed in on trump's closest connections.
Dan, Paula.
Newsy speech overnight and a newsy morning as he continues to tweet.
Stephanie, thank you.
For more let's go to Washington and ABC news political commentator cokie Roberts.
Cokie, good morning.
Hi, how are you guys?
Great now that you're here.
Let me start with North Korea where we're dealing with this miystifying news about the earthquake.
As you know president trump has called the north Korean leader rocket man and a mad man.
Is this the right approach?
As long as it's words it's harmless and Kim Jong-un had all of us looking up the word dotard because that's what he called president trump.
It turns out to mean senile old man or something along those lines.
The fact is that if the president is correct and if the leader of Korea is a mad man, then provoking him is probably not the smartest thing to do.
Let's talk about health care, shift gears a little bit, cokie.
Once again the health care bill is on life support.
The president says he's not giving up, but do you have confidence that he's going to be able to sway crucial Republican votes to get that done?
He just Ted, I know Rand Paul and I think he might find a way to get there for the good of the party.
Do you think he sidewalk some can sway some of those votes?
He might be if he puts some sweeteners in that bill.
This is a bill that's opposed by the American pediatric association, every disease group is against it, the insurance companies are against it.
So the only reason that it would pass is that Republicans are saying, well, we promised we would do it so we'll do it.
Whether that gets it all the way through and to a presidential signature is a very, very big if.
A long way to go here.
Let's sneak in a question about what the president was doing in Alabama overnight.
He was there because he's thrown his weight behind incumbent senator Luther strange.
Strange is facing a pretty tough challenge from a fellow Republican.
If strange loses, what does that say about trump's influence?
It says that trump is more important than trump because actually strange's opponent, Roy Moore, is really much more appealing to trump voters.
Now, 80% of the Republicans in Alabama have a favorable impression of Donald Trump.
So it's possible that he can bring Luther strange over the top.
But it's an interesting race for him to get into and to get into on that side, and he said that last night in that long, rambling speech.
He did say maybe I made a mistake.
He was almost like he was talking to himself because he knows that Moore is really much more in his mold, and the president's own cabinet member, Ben Carson, has been campaigning for Moore.
Sarah Palin has been campaigning for Moore.
And so I think the president's a little bit conflicted there, but he had a great big crowd there in Huntsville and of course he always loves that.
Everybody is interested to see how that race shakes out in Alabama.
Cokie, thanks for your insight and analysis this morning.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump calls out McCain for opposition to Graham-Cassidy bill

The first go around and health care.
I said you know for seven years we've been hearing repeal and replace obamacare right for seven years I've been hearing creepy and replace.
So I'm very much about you know they like to sit well listen strong president drops out in the Oval Office and didn't come on the phone screaming at people day long.
For weeks.
They gave me a list.
Of ten people.
That were absolute knows these are ten Republican.
Sedatives that John McCain's.
John McCain's list.
John McCain was not on the list so that was a totally unexpected thing terrible.
I honestly Tara.
Repeal and replace because John McCain.
You look at his campaign his last campaign.
Was all about repeal and replace repeal and replace.
Still he decided to do something different and that's.
And I say we still have a chance to a way to do it eventually we're gonna do Demetriou with Lutheran everywhere gonna go to.
By the way in all fairness Rand Paul was on that list they say don't even waste your time calling them he voted twice yes look at.
He was very good.
And I haven't given up on him because I think he may come around.
Wouldn't buy it be ironic if he took John McCain's place and they definitely do not like each other would not be ironic.
I'll be very ironic for those of you that know the inner workings of this said.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump: 'Rocket Man' should've been handled by Clinton

And we can't have mad men.
Out there.
Shooting rockets all over the place.
And by the way.
Rocket man should have been handled along.
These should have been handled.
A long time ago bite Clinton.
I won't mention the Republicans.
By Obama.
Why life.
At this you know this is a different but this is a different time.
They should have been handled eight years ago and four years ago and I honestly.
And fifteen years ago.
And twenty years ago and 25 years ago this shouldn't be handled now but I'm gonna handle it because we have to hang.
Then a rocket man.
We would get a good.
Because we really have no choice.
We really have now jobs.
Now he's talking about.
A massive weapon.
Exploding over the ocean.
Pacific Ocean.
Which causes tremendous.
Tremendous calamity where that plume guns.
So goes cancer.
Cell because tremendous problems.
And I want to tell you something.
And I'm sure he's listening to see watches every word and I guarantee you one thing.
He's watching us like he never watched anybody before and I can.
And maybe something gets worked.
And maybe it doesn't personally I'm not sure that it will.
Other people like to say no we want peace and they've been saying for now 25 years while we want peace we want peace and that he goes it just keeps going going going.
Maybe something gets worked out.
And maybe it doesn't but I can tell you one thing you are protected OK you'll have to nobody's gonna mess with our people nobody.
Is gonna play games.
Nobody is going to put our people in that kind of danger.
He may be Smart he may be strategic and he may be totally crazy.
But you know a lot no matter what he is we're gonna handle it folks believe me.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Health Secretary Tom Price is under investigation for dozens of trips on private planes

Next to your money.
Taxpayer money spent on flights on private jets.
Another cabinet secretary under scrutiny for his travel habits.
Health and human services chief taking private jets dozens of times from D.C. To Philadelphia.
Cecelia Vega with the price tag.
How much you have spent already.
Reporter: Tonight health secretary Tom price under investigation for dozens of trips on luxury private planes.
The American people need to know that their tax dollars are being spent wisely.
Reporter: As a congressman, price once tweeted "Congress doesn't need to have private jets."
But now according to politico, his penchant for private planes has cost taxpayers more than three hundred thousand dollars.
Last week alone, on a luxury jet like this, he took five flights.
One of them, a short 30 minute round trip to Philadelphia.
The cost, $10,000.
Compared to about $700 for a commercial flight.
It's just not right, it's just notight.
Reporter: Today in a scathing letter, the top Democrat on the house oversight committee tells price, "The amount of taxpayer funds you spent on just one single flight is more than some of my constituents make in a year."
I just say to the secretary, Mr. Secretary you can do better and you need to set the example for the entire administration.
Reporter: At least three trump cabinet secretaries now under investigation for expensive travel on the public dime.
Tonight, ABC news has learned that after one meeting with the president at trump tower, treasury secretary Steve mnuchin flew back to Washington on an air force jet, costing taxpayers at least $25,000.
A government jet trip to Kentucky, where mnuchin and his wife viewed the eclipse is also under review.
On top of mnuchin's request to have a government plane fly him and his wife to their honeymoon overseas, a request he ultimately withdrew.
Cecelia Vega, secretary price, secretary mnuchin both under scrutiny.
Reporter: Price's office says he uses the private planes in order to accommodate his demanding schedule.
They say he has taken commercial flights but you heard the Democrats.
They are calling this a millionaire mind-set too common in this administration.
Cecelia Vega thank you.
Still much more ahead this Friday.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ominous war of words continue between Trump and North Korea's leader

Meantime next to the new threat from North Korea.
Kim Jong-un saying president trump will quote, pay dearly for his speech.
And North Korea with the hydrogen bomb test in the pacific.
Here's Martha Raddatz tonight.
Tonight a dramatic escalation of tensions.
North Korea now threatening to test a hydrogen bomb above the pacific ocean.
Their response to president trump.
The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.
Reporter: For months, the president's heated language has so far failed to stop Kim.
3 missile tests and an underground h-bomb test since trump warned of fire and fury.
But detonating a nuclear bomb over the pacific would be Kim's most provocative move yet.
A hydrogen bomb, a thermo nuclear weapon is going to have a lot of radiation.
If it hits the water, there is going to be contamination for hundreds of miles around.
Reporter: On gma, David continued to press secretary of state Rex tillerson about the us response.
But if we see this detonation of an h-bomb in the pacific, what will the U.S. Do?
Well, we will continue our efforts in the diplomatic arena but all our military options, as the president has said, are on the table.
Reporter: The two leaders themselves, trading a volley of insults.
Kim for the first time responding directly to trump, calling him "Mentally deranged."
The president branding the north Korean dictator "A madman" who "Will be tested like never before."
Martha you and I have both been talking to colonel Steve ganyard and now they're talng about testing a hydrogen baum in the pacific.
Do they have the capability to pull that off?
Reporter: They have already tested a hydrogen bomb and an intercontinental ballistic missile.
We don't know for sure but this has to be taken seriously.
This would be an extraordinarily alarming and dangers move and the administration would have to rethink what it is doing.
All right.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for McCain says he will vote 'no' on the latest attempt to kill Obamacare

The major headline, a major blow in the new effort to kill Obamacare and it comes from the same senator who killed the repeal the last time.
Senator John McCain declaring he will vote know.
The two key senators who will break or make this repeal.
Where do they stand tonight.
Reporter: It's been just eight weeks since the country watched John McCain walk onto the senate floor, shocking his own party, with this defiant thumbs down.
Reporter: His vote delivering the final blow to the president's attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare.
Tonight, with one more chance at a repeal before next week's deadline, John McCain stunning the party again.
Announcing today, "I cannot in good conscience vote for" the latest Republican plan.
He says a "Bill of this impact requires a bipartisan approach."
McCain might have just killed this new repeal, because they can only afford to lose two votes.
Rand Paul has already said no.
And McCain did this, even though his own best friend in the senate, Lindsey graham is one of the architects.
I don't expect him to vote because we're friends, I expect him to vote for what's best for the country.
Reporter: The bill would give states more flexibility to craft their own health coverage, but with far less federal funding.
And with no guarantee of how they would cover Americans with pre existing conditions.
Experts say it could leave millions more without insurance.
All eyes now on two key senators.
Senator Susan Collins of Maine, and Lisa murkowski of Alaska.
Collins tonight is leaning no.
I just have to do what's right of the people of Maine and our country, and if I don't do that I can't look at myself in the mirror.
Reporter: And senator Lisa murkowskis office protesters camped out urging her to protest this bill like she did the last time.
I said in January we should not repeal without a replacement.
Just an indefinite hold on this just creates more chaos and confusion.
Mary Bruce back with us from Washington.
And Jimmy Kimmel whose own baby needs several operations, and fought for other families to have coverage if they're in the same situation.
He tweeted senator McCain.
Reporter: Yeah.
Kimmel with a tweet of praise saying thank you John McCain for being a hero again and again and now again.
And John McCain's wife responded tweeting thank you for the kind words about my hundreds and god bless your sweet baby.
David.
As we head into the weekend,

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for AL voters await Trump at Senator Strange rally

Thanks for watching ABC news digital I'm only broken here had gone on here in once and few hours behind president Donald Trump and senate candidate and current candidate senator stranger could Alley here.
Here now my new friend Michael and we were talking up images sent them Michael.
The mountain my hearing and.
Good morning.
Well there isn't making.
Theresa goodness.
Gummery yesterday.
I'm here's courtroom and I personally don't like Luther strings especially after.
Hate him and I'm not even in politics it and I announces going from.
Personally.
To me just.
Mr. streams and.
Are politicians that he.
So let's let's let's let's break down for our audience here with the strangest incumbent he was the point that I yeah.
Governor Bentley.
Who resigned after they were allegations.
And it embroiled in sex scandal.
We've exchanges and when you let them going eighteen seats.
And worries challenger.
Warner attack she.
Check.
Com I remember thinking and refused to take them eat and in.
Any work right.
Instantly.
Exchanges gave birth rate has not.
I'm mark endorsed night all of and it acts from White House had very steep.
Quick court.
And aunt Sarah Palin and you're here hate you're a street rally but you're not supporting it.
It's strange now I'm support I'm here to support from him.
Lot of people I think you're talking at least seven late in the last five minutes after beggar for centuries and their support more.
Say it that happens here.
It strains.
I think I would say I'm at least 30% here just as Ichiro snapped.
And regardless I don't think the majority on the relax during the especially after debate last night someone changed her mind and change provoking.
When he has to say yeah.
Did she maybe they can swim.
A lot of people could see buying come over here that make this easier for us.
You're saying about the debate it's debate last night between the what you want to.
Campaigning this isn't your strains against.
Him more.
I'm exchange is talking now last night he kept saying over and over again president traveled.
He supports me important to me at what do you.
Well it.
Changed my mind about Marie Moore anything.
Anything like he doesn't like her politician the united and that's why people voted for trump they didn't want her politician.
And everything he's had to come out of a map that makes it.
Want to lack of support somebody that in in this in six years necklace to seven million dollars.
Just from the and a politician.
Duties that you know he kept saying the coal industry when he did he shut us why he probably didn't it.
It's jet down might most of the coal industry and help them shut down the biggest coal industry in the state Alabama was determined.
And they went to Columbia South America.
Six American free trade agreement homeland so they've adapted it just can't happen.
Michael let me ask you.
The big election next to me right in front operating Hastings street in more.
Strange wind.
Street district where many people now negative when he did you know having.
Things like that I don't think that they don't think he's a good candidate.
And even democratic or Republican they're going vote Rick.
Prefer big Republican after Republican.
But there's no other candidate they think that the people from state Alabama student in the nest or true or don't vote for the best candidate period.
Do you think you might sit out it in the general.
83 if things Wear them again aren't I don't appreciate it thank you tonight.
Me myself be sticky hands it's you're I'm thank you to President Clinton and I took aim at looking.
Yet thanks meets my and you weren't around last night right now let me.
I'm looking at you.
Yet not not like Amazon changed back then I want him.
And behind them and I like to thank you so much for talking to me yeah.
Pleasure talking likewise likewise.
I think we're dealing with at this rally there's a lot of folks here support Donald Trump thing let the president but it isn't it.
Indoor theater when strange was appointed to see this week after attorney general -- actions.
He was formally Alabama senator and he was appointed AT.
And the governor at the time completely different take his spot now there's a lot of discussion about whether or not that would sort of the perception and maybe it's shady deal ties.
As the current Alan am eighteen and strange would have been injured and best.
Robert Bentley.
Accusations.
All the said he ends up in.
Senate seat.
So a lot of people wonder whether some sort of quick proposed situation and whenever your severance and other equipment seen anybody else is going to want not to undermine.
On the next evening their site and even yes and it's not even know why it's that.
You guys according out of that night and it's advancement that's important.
Reinhardt.
I'm nannies Wear bright light college estranged son but it really is strains.
Can see sympathy dollars and humor to get.
Little further down this line as he can eat lots of folks going.
On Brian Leonard.
Be seen it took me.
Any kind of voting states that king C. Aaron.
I want to talk here I see similar raising his hand up.
And let's get out of this.
Write your name names Mark.
Pratt from redeem on a program.
That mark.
Donald wrong OK but you haven't now on T is it percent.
That there's room at my answering this because if you were wrong.
Right yes it's.
Possibly that is a lot of folks have decided that their names like throwing more.
They love Donald funny but it'll likely to street was leaning announcement.
Yet we say.
I don't want to support that.
You like healing.
Right that was might go.
We're gonna find some work to talk about here on front center in Huntsville Alabama.
Many wanna go live on abcnews.com.
Yeah and here are plus have a chance she's sitting president and its fourteenth president since I've been born and never had an opportunity so.
These prison trump also from Luther strange to Israel.
He's currently constraints here today your time for him on Tuesday August him at what do you make up there's a lot of folks saying you know just we didn't see.
You know there's lot of criticism about street claiming.
It's just a lot of criticism they're gonna have yet they're going to be for him against him when he partner.
Talk about prisons criticism you might know I don't know Luther strange I know he's been.
Here's you know him and I don't have any.
And here's what angry words and sounds like.
Sounds like something you like about him that he's been in politics.
Yeah well it's more than affecting politics.
Like the man of the or so.
I'm here to support him but.
And being biggest part of it is to.
Using them from presidents I think they'll let me ask you it's me come.
You know depending on who wins.
What about in the solid talents you know my New Orleans still who support him aren't.
Yet I think I support the people that are in office.
That there are newly elected officials and may not necessarily agree with every stance of being taken to an investor group.
It was for him on the ballot would I vote for him on the ballot.
At this point I'm not sure when the city.
When I went looking with the mortgage issues where.
The importance of wearing yeah when more stands but tend to lean more towards Roy Moore.
And some conservatives isn't but if you definitions of some.
Similar stances cities tape.
Like what.
Yeah obviously with the game heard.
When no right at an extra support that I think he's really people out there amateur night.
And a true appreciate.
Powerful.
I see navy tone down here rhetoric right yeah yeah.
Right well think of me I appreciate it beginning continued down the line.
That's the doors opened at their filing in sign obviously Donald Trump rallies and you know it's going to be eight homes turnout.
I was in Montgomery Alabama last night where he's not that challenger that I've been talking about throwing more heat gave them into battle.
And matching market was there and so glad Sarah Palin.
I'm so he's got a lot of support from certain anti establishment of this really interesting.
Proxy fight between.
The person Donald Trump has indoors and as we mentioned before the person you folks like Steve NN.
At record aren't supporting it here this system more votes.
Filing indictment.
Telling any of you may one attacks happening.
About why your accident.
Earlier UC president.
Have tanks and how that reuniting for in the senate and and I didn't tank Abbott and this yeah.
Are you leaning towards anybody in particular.
At this point.
And they let collective strength and without telling you what do you know about the streets of harmony and what it what you thought about this morning.
Yeah we don't want NN news.
We don't have laid out locked.
Now we gave that they.
Asked.
Some other people earlier and that absolutely.
A lot of people here share the same aren't you there from Reuters.
Actually be willing borders.
Should be.
And yeah.
I eat him.
We've gotten them yet.
There's very active as.
I'm how my and paying them and then at 830 days plant rattle on cleaning snow barn again but they don't know not just for Hayley thank yeah.
Fan bullet apparently.
Without.
Today.
You know depending on who wins the primary he can keep it where I get them in the general like no matter who wins against them today called Republicans.
And in general election.
I don't know anybody in.
Really I just couldn't.
Okay you ready to life.
During might be out for you.
Well either way it sounds like you right you're apparently here McDonald.
And strains and it.
In coming from.
Currently are.
Playing.
Great chatting with me yeah.
I can't.
It's it is easy.
That seems to be the prevailing opinions add here that.
Hey I McDonald's not want to see him talk the president that's pretty cool off but certain.
Against.
Strains can make her interesting but I'm part.
Reception inside I can't just needed and dying to see how the receptionist between Donald tramp.
Everybody here comes out this month.
It's strange doesn't seem to get.
Reception as down.
And talk to.
And yeah I'm and I hate your name is man.
Well like cocaine ring if drama.
How them right apparently that your average accident morning.
Oh my goodness.
Are you really that chemistry you know yet to come here.
I'm happy I'm and you get your mind that you're gonna support for the and it brings him angry and extra OK tell me why bicycling instinct look.
In online.
The idea what tightly and let me ask that if if Donald Trump had endorsed by mormons or Mormon that play alliance it is that it would play alive.
Happily.
And hopefully.
What we'll do it hill home.
Your neighbors and Roanoke and Alabama are saying what's your sense of like how they're cleaning out front and Roy Morse and his estranged.
But let your town probably.
Tablets like.
Interesting that let me ask you this if Roy Moore ends up winning on Tuesday to leave behind more in the general election heavily kind frank we'll.
Thank you so much change and I.
Thanks thinks it's adding that means pollen.
And it's not meet you.
They can't.
Now we are you have you made up your mind about who you're gonna support me through that right okay tell me why you might supporting the constraints.
Because he's he added.
A high ratings in our.
Choose its.
Lost interest targeted them clay I guess I exchanged.
You know its doors here.
Weapons I think the background it.
Now I'm saying you know keep that I've heard that term alligator.
Lot creature act anything that feeds criticism against Simpson when you make this creature thing you know which brings us warm and electro.
If I'm warm winds on Tuesday that was you vote for him in general.
But immediately as an out I'll probably shouldn't.
You just can't tell me tell me lying.
You could not going.
You know how like his ideals and stuff sports religions.
Aegis aegis.
This conflict yet some.
And we've dealt with in your hands.
This is that things.
Write.
Them there are up and out.
Strange how.
About Roy Moore seems should be quite.
A lot of things going on here it's going so fast meaning.
Majority.
And Tutsi seem to.
Donald front importantly there straight up or any other.
It that's not a word.
For people.
Cracking down any.
I well everybody thinks watching ABC news I've now been hearing until Alabama team backing to watch that Donald Trent.
Strains brownlee just hours.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for McCain says he cannot support Graham-Cassidy bill

Well Senator John McCain says he will not vote for the latest Republican attempt to repeal obamacare which likely means they won't have been votes needed to pass the Arizona Republican says.
Health Care Reform requires a bipartisan approach and he says he can not back the bill.
Without knowing its impact on insurance coverage and premiums today democratic US senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey expressed his outrage over the Republican clammed.
We are fighting for the varied lives of Lowe's who may very well face a life or death challenge depending upon them.
The choices that are made in the United States and it.
About 900000 people in New Jersey have health coverage.
Because I'm the affordable health care act.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Anthony Scaramucci on why he chose to stand by Trump

This is what I don't understand black we've spent the morning with you.
Did you are Smart.
You are Harvard lawyer.
You are well informed I do not understand.
How you can support someone who says that they can grab women by their giant.
Hoops who says.
Who insults the disabled.
Who runs this campaign on racial resentment and Dolores who lies to the American copies all.
Who had a Justice Department settlement.
Against him for not wanting black people in his buildings.
How can someone like you supported somewhat I don't Emmons who.
Or 500 feet to distance himself from the Charlottesville.
Racists don't.
We're gonna answer please.
But you guys are not gonna like my answer but that's okay I'm when he unity anywhere that.
He was gonna win.
And I saw that and animal by running out of time but those quick story when I what got you see that I'm gonna tell you I sought it was may 23.
2016 I boarded a plane at LaGuardia Airport trust trump force one we were heading for Tom barracks house and violated due the first fund raiser miniature tonight.
Lew Eisenberg we landed in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
I took my Secret Service to date pin off because that's where were they gonna start shooting would shoot me took it off.
I went up around the security perimeter.
And I went into the audience and I started shaking hands with the people weary from why are you here what are you doing and people were desperate.
My father had a job at the factory for 25 years I was working there for twelve years I just lost my job.
I'm at the Loews pork time I'm working at the Domino's Pizza delivery at night I've got three children money BT court.
Ladies and gentlemen we've lost 70000.
Factory since we signed NAFTA where do you agree with math where you disagree with NAFTA it cause an economic dislocation.
In the society and telling half.
Looking at I'm going I'm going one person to the next.
And it's dawning on me oh my god the country's separating like he did ET ninety to 1912.
It's separating in if we don't I was there by the way.
And straight into that way and look better now you look good in control.
But but the but the point I'm making is if we don't agree nit the social fabric of this country and force or the lower and middle class.
We are in trouble and now Unita like me answer.
I knew we was going to win.
I really felt it my way or she might win him votes but he became the president he's the air I have like president.
It really do I change the rules and gave me but let British yeah exported just finish the answer so.
They said okay Mike got if I can somehow help incrementally.
Whatever the flaws or this man and we all our flaws when simply may have a phone book of them for myself.
But over the flaws or.
I wanna beat air is an American patriot to try to help them aren't you listen listen.
Aren't you currently sit in has -- I would say I would say that I'm not because I don't agree with everything that he says and hype I think him when when George Stephanopoulos one of your colleagues talked about the straws Phil Singer said there's no -- equivocation on Nazis.
OK I believe in the rainbow.
Did you know or believe in Iran will come on like ElBaradei and auditing I have I have audit I'm pro gay marriage mostly guys don't know that.
I spent fifteen years in the gay marriage community.
Pushing gay marriage in New York State to make sure that my friends that are gay had the opportunity and I have is true.
Liberty of the Pacific.
Since the declaration actually straight puzzle.
What we don't understand what you backing I don't get it you don't need Schilling told and he is only TV is some slot a seat at the table so that they want oh and meeting that was there really good he said I'd rather know this fact has Smart people like me around him but he's got a rabbit I wanna be at the told us this morning I don't I'm going into that year I just I think that we need more people in the room you that I wanted more Smart people around and there are going up why there's another present.
Since its anyway I resist I took a lot of weren't doing okay that.
Now there happen.
I say something funny freeze effect.
Now have when they went a President Obama was president I'm a Republican number one never attacked him personally.
Number two and I was overseas are on the air never said any disrespectful the American president.
Number three when he when he invited me in eye off them when into the White House and they asked my opinion I keep it to him.
In a collaboration.
We are not doing that right now OK we are polarized.
And we are killing each other.
And I'm gonna take a right only alike to present you don't like the president we got to meet somewhere in the middle to get things done for the American people we have.
Five and a half seven year you don't know.
It was still here.
Up up up up without a guy who are you gonna be here baby.
You told going to be here and listen and when rocket man and don't try get together I want him rot away though that was close to upset when he went to hang and hang your family also for being so lovingly.
That's very I think.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Anthony Scaramucci responds to Spicer's criticism

You're one Italian that was off the record.
Paula, by the way I'm so happy to see you.
You did an interview with another ex trump staffer, Sean spicer.
Uh-huh.
I watched the clip.
We're going to see a clip.
It looks like he has it over here for you.
Watch.
I'm not surprised.
You resign the day that Anthony scarmucci was hired.
I did.
Was his hiring the the I am pe us for leaving?
I've known Anthony for a while.
I don't think he had the skill set and qualifications to play a leading role in crafting the communication message.
I don't believe I still don't believe he had the skill set for that job.
Are you surprised he lasted 10, 11 days?
Not after some of the things that occurred.
So he said you weren't experienced enough.
What do you say to that?
Here's the problem with the Republican party.
We have Republican on Republican crime all the times.
The Democrats maybe they don't lielk each other.
They're in solidarity.
I could hit back at him.
Take the high road?
What I'm going to say we got to get it together as a nation we gr got to get it together.
We may be different achbd have different political points of view.
We got to cut the nonsense and get it together T. He's entitled to his opinion.
You guys know I had my opinion.
I had a specific job from the president of the United States.
Do you feel you were qualified for the job?
For the communications job?
The president asked me to do specific things for him.
That office was open so I took the office.
I tell you I put a full blown communications plan together for him.
It got released on the internet.
I think hope hicks is doing a very good job for the president.
I talked to her yesterday.
She was in New York two days ago.
When they interviewed and you were on TV right after you've got the job, you kept saying I love the I love the guy you said it 20 times.
I thought you were over the top.
Do you really love the guy?
Hold on a second.
I know whoopi is not here.
I know whoopi really loves the guy.
Here's what I would say about the president.
He's trying to do the right thing.
You've may disagree with him.
I was on the campaign with him.
There is economic desperation in our society.
There's economic anxiety.
There's only two candidates that identified with that.
That was Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump.
They saw what I saw on the campaign trail people that weren't educated trying to find jobs.
Why didn't you love Bernie Sanders.
I didn't dislike Bernie Sanders.
I've been a Republican my whole life.
I started with Scott walker.
I then gravitated to Jeb Bush.
When it became clear Mr. Trump was going to win the presidency I'm a team player.
Some people would call that opportunity nichl.
You also said on fox business that he was a hack politician and the rhetoric was anti-american.
I love ABC people.
You said he was on track to be president of the queens county bully association.
I definitely said that.
Your colleague brought that up in my press conference.
I said listen, you have to Republican the back story.
He was hitting the hedge fund industry.
He started the fight.
I hit back.
Did you believe what you were saying?
I was sore at him.
You have to understand tell me the number of thousands of people in the hedge fund industry I don't think we should be doing that.
I think what we do in our society we two dimensional liez people and characterize people.
When did all of this turn to this love you had?
I spent a lot of time with him on the campaign.
Travelled on the plane and got to know him a lot better personally.
Again, you may not like the president personally I do think he's trying to do a lot of right things.
You said a lot behind the scenes that I could feel you respected the mission.
You were privy to some of the information we weren't, a lot we weren't.
I can tell you believe in what he's doing.
It's a complex world.
You've had president Obama on the show.
You know it's a tough job.
I have wanted president Obama to succeed even though I'm a Republican.
I hope Democrats want the president succeed because it's our country.
You don't want it to succeed in things that go against the American people like the crazy health care bill they're trying to push.
You've don't want him to succeed in everything Anthony, you're all about -- so far you're about taking the high road today.
You talk about Republican on Republican crime.
There are reports of so much in fighting.
I know you talk about taking the high road.
It doesn't sound like that was happening in your stint of the white house.
There were also reports he was calling you Melissa Mccarthy behind your back which I imagine was pretty offensive.
On some ways, but she won an Emmy.
I've been called a lot worse.
Was it true?
I don't know.
I didn't spend time tracking down people calling me names.
I don't spend a ton of time listening to haters.
Was it true?
You didn't call him Melissa Mccarthy?
I was calling him liar spice from the spice girls.
Was anyone else calling him Melissa Mccarthy?
Oh yeah.
It's obvious we've had our differences.
By the way a lot of these guys weren' full believers on the trump train.
On election day some of them -- You couldn't stand reince Priebus.
That's a weird story.
I got along with him when I was donating money to the Republican donor list.
I was totally fine as a patron of the Republican party.
Once the president was designating me for a job inside the administration, the food fight started.
I got the job offer on 17th of January.
Then there was all kind of stories that came out to delay my arrival into the administration.
That's a lot of in fighting.
Those guys are gone.
Unfortunately I'm gone too.
It seemed like anybody couldn't stand anybody.
Did you hear what Paula said?
The leaks are down.
Some of that is hope hicks.
Some is John Kelly.
Some is also the elimination of leak er.
Leakers, whistle blowers.
It depends on your perspective.
Leakers are people saying bad things about each other in an effort to undermine each other in the process.
Maybe they don't believe in the process.
I'm talking about the personalities.
Steven Colbert on the emmys took a lot of heat because they brought out Sean spicer.
Sean spicer brought out his own podium.
He made this joke about -- anyway people turned on Colbert for that.
They said the Emmy people were normalizing spicer whom they considered to be a liar.
My question -- I have to say this for the sake of "The view."
We might be normalizing you right now.
Maybe.
I don't think you'll ever be able to normalize me.
I'm a lot like you.
That's true.
A lot of people think you made up a few things too.
What did I make up?
Listen, you know what you said.
Take a look.
My question to you -- We only have ten days to go from.
I'm a pretty straight up guy.
I sort of told the truth about a lot of things.
You said that's what got you into trouble.
We're not using you as a comic prop until later.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'No magic fix' on North Korea, expert says

We clearly need more sanctions could to have more sanctions but we've been sanctioning career for years.
There's no magic.
Pics here.
What we're really miss seeing it the second part of this stretch.
Mr. President trump said that he wants maximum pressure OK I think he's got that now.
And engagement that department.
Who is he where it talks with that discussion with north.
Korea India and you can't sanction North Korea aid collapse or compliance.
You gonna need to negotiate.
I don't think either North Korea or the United States or any of the other actors want war.
The danger isn't that it would create any yet nuclear tipped missiles and used tactics it's pretty clear they want this as terror.
They think this will protect them from the US attacking them.
I don't think president trump actually wants to start war eaten away understood and meetings.
Security Cheney keeps pressing him.
He keeps thinking something like theory that you quick cruise missiles but what.
His advisors tell that North Korea.
You know or create.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Cleveland Cavaliers star Lebron James lashed out at President Trump today on social media after the president said he was withdrawing his invitation to the Golden State Warriors' Steph Curry to visit the White House.
James, in his tweet, referred to Trump's comment that visiting the White House is "a great honor."
"Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up," Lebron wrote.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

The three-time NBA champion later posted a two-minute video on Uninterrupted.com, a media outlet dedicated to giving athletes a platform to speak their minds, in which he criticized Trump, saying he "has tried to divide us once again."
"Hes now using sports as the platform to try to divide us," James said.
"For him to try to use this platform to divide us even more is not something I can stand for and is not something I can be quiet about."
James finished the monologue by encouraging "us to all come together.
Its not about a division.
It's not about dividing.
We as American people need to come together even stronger."
The president's earlier tweet apparently was in response to Curry's disclosure that he didn't want to go to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
No formal White House invite had been made to the Warriors but championship teams often make such a visit.
The Warriors, winner of the 2017 NBA championship, have been in discussions with the White House about whether to visit, ESPN reported.
"I don't want to go," Curry told the press Friday.
"My beliefs stay the same."
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Curry, the Warrior's star shooter, has said it was important for the team "to understand the magnitude" of its decision of whether to visit the White House.
"Just like our country, every opinion counts and matters," Curry said, according to ESPN.
"Based on the conversations we've had in the past and what people have said to the media, to each other, I know pretty much where everybody kind of stands on it," he said.
"But we want to respect the opportunity to represent not only ourselves, our own beliefs, but our organization because we're obviously in this position because we won a championship and we did something special together.
So for us to just really take the time to understand the magnitude of this decision and the right thing to do, the right way to go about it is important."
Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images

Warriors coach Steve Kerr said Friday that he expects the team to meet in coming days to decide whether to go.
But after Trump's tweet, the team posted a statement to Twitter on Saturday afternoon, saying, "We accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited."
"While we intended to meet as a team at the first opportunity we had this morning to collaboratively discuss a potential visit to the White House, we accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited.
We believe there is nothing more American than our citizens having the right to express themselves freely on matters important to them.
We're disappointed that we did not have an opportunity during this process to share our views or have open dialogue on issues impacting our communities that we felt would be important to raise," the Warriors said in the statement.
It added, "In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that we'll constructively use our trip to the nation's capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion -- the values that we embrace as an organization."
Election officials in 21 U.S. states were notified Friday by government officials that hackers had targeted their systems ahead of the 2016 presidential election.
The list includes Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin, Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas and Washington, according to The Associated Press.
Election officials were informed about a year after the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) first announced states were targets of hacking efforts possibly connected to Russia.
However, election systems in only a handful of states, including Illinois, were actually breached.
"It is completely unacceptable that it has taken DHS over a year to inform our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for information," California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement to The Associated Press.
"The practice of withholding critical information from elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy."
Being a target of hacking attempts doesn't mean sensitive voter data was manipulated or election results were changed.
A hacker targeting a computer system without getting inside is akin to a burglar circling a home, checking for any unlocked doors and windows, according to the AP.
Federal officials said the targeting in most of the 21 states was just preliminary activity, such as voter registration systems.
Officials said there were attempts to compromise networks in some states but most were not successful, the AP reported.
DHS acknowledged that state and local officials should be kept in the know about cybersecurity threats to election systems.
"We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners," the department said in a statement obtained by The Associated Press.
The government did not say who was behind the hacking efforts or provide details about what had been sought.
But election officials in several states told the AP the attempts were linked to Russia.
For instance, the Wisconsin Election Commission said its systems were targeted by "Russian government cyber actors."
And Alaska Elections Division Director Josie Bahnke said computers in Russia were scanning the state's election systems searching for vulnerabilities.
Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said in a statement Friday that it was "unacceptable" that DHS officials waited to notify states about the targeting.
"While I understand that DHS detects thousands of attempted cyberattacks daily, I expect the top election officials of each state to be made aware of all such attempted intrusions, successful or not, so that they can strengthen their defenses -- just as any homeowner would expect the alarm company to inform them of all break-in attempts, even if the burglar doesn't actually get inside the house," he said.
This disclosure comes as a special counsel investigates whether associates of President Trump could have colluded with Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign.
Trump, a Republican who defeated Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in the Nov. 8 vote, has called the Russia story a "hoax."
He said Russian President Vladimir Putin "vehemently denied" the American intelligence community's conclusion that Russia was behind the massive alleged hacking of political organizations and individuals during the U.S. presidential race.
Image copyright Reuters

The UK must provide more clarity about its negotiating position on Brexit, the French president has said.
Emmanuel Macron said the issues of EU citizens' rights, the exit bill and the Irish border question must be settled before talks could be held on trade.
On Friday, Theresa May made suggestions including a two-year transition period after Brexit, and that the UK pay the EU for "commitments" previously made.
She hoped this offer, made in a speech in Italy, would unblock Brexit talks.
In the first response by a European leader to the speech, Mr Macron welcomed her initiative, but said the British position still needed to be fleshed out.
"Before we move forward, we wish to clarify the issue of the regulation of European citizens, the financial terms of the exit and the question of Ireland," he said.
"If those three points are not clarified, then we cannot move forward on the rest."
Mrs May said there should be a transition period of "about" two years after March 2019 - when the UK leaves the EU - during which trade should continue on current terms

EU migrants would still be able to live and work in the UK but they would have to register with the authorities, under her proposals.
And she said the UK would pay into the EU budget for decisions made while it was a member, so other member states were not left out of pocket.
'We have not left'

She did not specify how much the UK would be prepared to pay during the transition period, but it has been estimated as being at least 20bn euros (about 18bn).
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Demonstrators were out in Florence for the speech

In Germany, the ruling CDU's European spokesman Michael Stuebgen said Mrs May's speech would not provide the "new dynamism" needed as details had not been fleshed out.
And the head of the country's small and medium business association said her speech was a "wasted opportunity".
At home, Mrs May's speech was welcomed by senior Conservative figures including Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and Chancellor Philip Hammond.
But former Brexit minister Lord Bridges, who resigned from the department in June, said Britain needed to be ready for the scenario where the country crashed out of the EU without a deal.
"What will happen at customs, data, aviation, energy, law?
The list goes on and on.
I would urge the government to not be too coy about this," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
If the EU senses the UK is not ready to leave without a deal, it would be "captured" at the negotiating table, he said.
Backbench MP Jacob Rees-Mogg criticised the PM's stance on freedom of movement until March 2019, offering the union money, and the role of the European Courts of Justice on Britain.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption May on Brexit: "A two year transition period"

In her speech, the prime minister suggested there should be a new security agreement and a new model for trade

She said the UK and EU would continue to work together on long-term economic projects and the UK would want to contribute to costs.
When the two-year transition period was up, the UK and EU could move towards a new "deep and special partnership," she said.
By March 2019, neither the UK or EU would be ready to "smoothly" implement new arrangements, Mrs May said, so she suggested current trade terms should remain in place.
That would last until new systems were set up.
Analysis

By BBC Political Editor Laura Kuenssberg

It's been pretty well established in Whitehall for many months - the most eager Brexiteers who wanted short, sharp exit lost that battle some time ago.
Her acknowledgment of that pulls against her repeated insistence in the election that the public just want politicians to "get on with it".
And there were new nuggets of information that will influence the talks.
Read Laura's full blog

Mrs May said she hoped to build a "comprehensive and ambitious" new economic partnership with the EU in the long-term.
She reassured EU citizens in the UK that "we want you to stay, we value you" and said she wanted UK courts to take account of rulings by the European Court of Justice.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Cabinet ministers were in the front row in Florence to hear the speech

The EU's chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier described the speech as "constructive" and said the prime minister had shown "a willingness to move forward".
But he said statements must now be translated into a precise negotiating position of the UK government.
And he said he would look at the implications of the UK's pledge that no member state would have to pay more as a result of Brexit.
European Parliament Brexit negotiator Guy Verhofstadt said the UK's position was becoming "more realistic" but ruled out the UK registering EU citizens who wanted to stay.
Labour Leader Jeremy Corbyn acknowledged a transition was needed to provide stability for businesses and workers.
Mr Barnier meets Brexit Secretary David Davis for a fourth round of talks on Monday.
Image copyright Getty Images

Some shadow cabinet members are unhappy about not getting to speak from the main platform at the Labour conference in Brighton, Jeremy Corbyn has said.
Asked why Manchester mayor Andy Burnham would not get a slot, the Labour leader said there was a need to "rebalance" the conference in favour of delegates.
Speaking times would be "severely restricted" this year, he told the BBC.
He also said Labour would consider scrapping the Hinkley Point C nuclear plant, if it won power.
The Labour faithful are gathering in Brighton for what Mr Corbyn has said will be the party's biggest-ever conference.
He has denied being "bounced" into giving London mayor Sadiq Khan a slot by the party's conference arrangement's committee.
Mr Khan and Mr Burnham, who was elected mayor of the new Greater Manchester combined authority in May, are two of Labour's most powerful elected politicians.
Mr Corbyn - who will address delegates on Wednesday - told BBC North West Tonight: "I want to make sure that delegates have more time to speak than in the past and so we've reduced the number of platform speakers and reduced the time for platform speakers, including shadow cabinet members.
"I can't say any of them are very happy about it but it has to be done if we're to rebalance our conference.
And I want to make sure there is a big voice for local government."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption It has been confirmed that mayor of London Sadiq Khan will be speaking

The comments came after Mr Corbyn had told BBC London on Friday that he was "delighted" that Mr Khan will be speaking.
Mr Khan has been critical of Mr Corbyn in the past and backed Owen Smith's leadership challenge last year, had not been expected to get a conference slot.
Hinkley cancellation?
In another interview, for BBC Points West, Mr Corbyn would rule out a Labour government pulling the plug on Hinkley Point C unless the nuclear power station was "already built and in operation".
Last year, the government approved the new 18bn plant at Hinkley Point in Somerset, which is being financed by French state-owned power company EDF and the Chinese government.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hinkley Point in Somerset already houses two power stations

Critics of the deal have warned of escalating costs, including in the so-called "strike price" - the guaranteed amount that consumers will pay for the electricity generated.
The UK government has guaranteed EDF a fixed price for the electricity it produces for 35 years.
Asked whether Britain's new nuclear power station should go ahead, Mr Corbyn said: "You have to look at the strike price, you have to look at the long term implications of it.
"The government has not yet concluded on that."
However, asked whether he would pull the plug if Labour came to power after the station had been built, he said: "If it's already built and in operation then of course not.
"But I do want to see, I must say, a much greater diversity of energy generation."
The Labour leader has given a series of media interviews ahead of the party's annual party conference, which begins in Brighton on Sunday.
He told the Guardian that Theresa May's government was in disarray and Labour under his leadership now represents the mainstream of British politics.
Image caption Mr Sarwar said he had taken the step to "demonstrate his commitment to public service"

Scottish Labour leadership candidate Anas Sarwar has announced that he has relinquished all his shares in his family's wholesale business.
The move follows criticism that United Wholesale (Scotland) did not pay all staff the real living wage.
Mr Sarwar said he had taken the step to "demonstrate his commitment to public service".
He added that it was also to ensure "the campaign debate can fully focus on policy issues".
The Glasgow MSP is standing against Richard Leonard in the Labour leadership contest, which was sparked by Kezia Dugdale's resignation last month.
Earlier this week Mr Sarwar denied being "one of the few" as he defended his family's firm over its failure to pay the real living wage to all staff.
He said United Wholesale (Scotland) Ltd did not pay everyone the real living wage of 8.45 an hour because it was "voluntary".
'Fully transparent'

Mr Sarwar's minority shareholding in the firm is said to be worth 4.8m.
In a statement released on Saturday, Mr Sarwar said he had signed a discretionary trust deed that meant he could never access the assets.
The beneficiaries of the trust will be Mr Sarwar's three young children, who he said would not access the assets until they were adults.
Image copyright United Wholesale (Scotland) Image caption Mr Sarwar says he has relinquished his entire shareholding in United Wholesale (Scotland) Ltd

The statement read: "To demonstrate his commitment to public service and to ensure the campaign debate can fully focus on policy issues, Mr Sarwar has today taken the decision to relinquish all his shares in United Wholesale (Scotland).
"The Glasgow MSP has always been fully transparent about his shareholding in the highly successful employer set up from scratch by his father, which Mr Sarwar plays no active role in and voluntarily waived his right to any dividend after becoming an MSP.
"He will now be unable to access the assets or take any remuneration for his lifetime, demonstrating his unswerving commitment to public service."
Father's achievements

Mr Sarwar said: "I will never apologise for being my father's son.
I am incredibly proud of his achievements, building a company from scratch than now employs around 250 workers - many in Nicola Sturgeon's own constituency.
"Scotland has cradled my family, nurtured it and gave it opportunity and success.
"And it's the Labour Party that allowed them to share that success to help others.
"I'm in the Labour Party because of those values and because I know our party remains the single best vehicle for change in this country.
"That's why I have dedicated my life to fighting for the values I believe in."
Mr Sarwar said earlier this week he was not a director of United Wholesale, had "no say" in how it operated and did not receive any remuneration from it.
He also said the firm did not pay everyone the real living wage because it was voluntary while he wanted to make it mandatory.
And he told BBC Scotland on Wednesday that he had received assurances from the company that it "wants to transition to a real living wage for all employees".
Image copyright UK Parliament

A Scottish Conservative MP has admitted she did not vote in last year's EU referendum because the decision was "very difficult".
Kirstene Hair said she left the choice to "everyone else" and decided to go with the "will of the UK".
But she said she had thought Remain would ultimately win the referendum.
Ms Hair was elected as the Tory MP for Angus after overturning an SNP majority of more than 11,000 in June's general election.
In an interview with the Courier newspaper, she said there had been strong arguments on both sides of the EU debate, but now "we all have to get behind" Brexit.
'Very difficult'

She added: "I didn't vote on Brexit.
I took the decision not to vote on it.
It was incredibly difficult.
The first time I've never voted in my life.
"It was very difficult because you get two arguments, very strong on both sides.
"I just ultimately couldn't make that decision and I thought I would therefore go with the will of the UK which, if I'm honest, I thought we would remain.
"But I left that to everyone else."
The 28-year-old politician, who is one of the youngest MPs at Westminster, went on to say: "Now I think we all have to get behind it and say, you know what, that's the way the country voted and we have to make the best.
"I do think we've got good opportunities for the UK."
Image copyright PA Image caption Black Rod is best known for summoning MPs to hear the Queen's Speech

Parliament is advertising for a new Black Rod to replace Lieutenant General David Leakey, who is retiring.
Black Rod is best known for a role in the State Opening of Parliament, knocking on the door of the House of Commons to summon MPs for the Queen's Speech.
But the post-holder has year-round responsibilities for the security and maintenance of the House of Lords.
The successful applicant can expect to earn up to 93,000 per year.
As well as organising ceremonial events, Black Rod manages a team of 30 staff involved in the day-to-day running of the House of Lords.
The famous image of Black Rod has its origins in a tradition dating back to the Civil War.
Image caption Current Black Rod David Leakey is retiring

Black Rod summons MPs to the Lords to hear the Queen's Speech but has the door to the House of Commons slammed in his face, and has to knock three times to gain entry.
He is the Monarch's representative in the House of Lords and the routine is symbolic of the House of Commons' independence from the Crown.
The vacancy is being advertised to external applicants as part of an open recruitment process.
However, most previous holders of the post have come from a military background - and current Black Rod Lieutenant General David Leakey, who was appointed in 2011, was no exception.
The closing date for applicants is 10 October.
Image caption Neil McEvoy and Leanne Wood both launched Plaid's local election campaign in March

Neil McEvoy is impossible to work with, Plaid Cymru leader Leanne Wood has said, following his suspension from the party's assembly group.
Ms Wood defended the decision in an email to a Plaid member who complained.
She claimed that Mr McEvoy was facing "further bullying allegations" and said other matters would "come to light".
Mr McEvoy, who was suspended from the Senedd group on Tuesday, said he did not engage in personal attacks which "distract from the real issues".
Plaid Cymru AMs forced the South Wales Central member out of the assembly group after he repeatedly stated his opposition to the party's support for the abolition of tenants' right to buy social housing.
It was the second time Mr McEvoy was suspended from the group this year.
He continues to serve as an AM but is effectively an independent.
Image caption Neil McEvoy has been suspended twice this year

In the email, sent in response to a complaint from a party member about the suspension, Ms Wood said: "I note your disappointment about the recent decision of the Plaid Cymru Assembly group in relation to Neil McEvoy.
"There is a process underway and there is a limit to what I can say or write now."
The Plaid leader confirmed Mr McEvoy was suspended for breaching a code of conduct put in place after his previous suspension, which followed a tribunal finding against him on allegations of bullying.
"This has absolutely nothing to with anything that Neil said about [lobbying company] Deryn or about what he says about other political matters," she said.
"His character, demeanour and attitude have proven impossible for our group to work with.
"The decision to suspend him was taken by the group, and this decision was taken unanimously."
Ms Wood continued: "You may not be aware that Neil McEvoy is also facing further allegations which include bullying allegations which are still to be dealt with by the party.
"There are many matters to which party members will not be aware, which I am unable to elaborate on in this email, but I am sure which will come to light in due course."
'Awkward questions'

In response, Mr McEvoy said he did not "engage in personal attacks which distract from the real issues".
"I was elected by the people of South Wales Central to do a job," he said.
"I'm here to hold the government to account and to ask the awkward questions."
Mr McEvoy added: "As a loyal member of Plaid Cymru, the public and members will note that whenever I've been asked about Leanne Wood, I have always publicly supported her."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The mayor of London is one of Labour's most powerful elected figures

London mayor Sadiq Khan is to address the Labour Party conference after initially being told he would not get a slot.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told BBC London: "Sadiq is speaking.
I'm delighted to say he is and I'm looking forward to listening to him."
He denied being "bounced" into giving Mr Khan a slot by Labour's conference arrangements committee.
"There was a discussion and suggestions were made, agreements were reached."
Labour's party conference begins in Brighton on Sunday, with thousands of delegates expected to attend.
Mr Khan, who has been critical of Mr Corbyn in the past and backed Owen Smith's leadership challenge last year, had not been expected to address the annual gathering.
Asked about whether he would be giving a speech on LBC radio two weeks ago, Mr Khan replied: "It doesn't look like it."
But Mr Corbyn told BBC London's political editor Tim Donovan the London mayor would address the conference, in an interview on Friday.
He said he had tried to reduce the number of "platform speakers" - leading politicians giving set-piece speeches in the main hall - because he wanted to increase the amount of time available for ordinary party members.
"I have done that to a large extent, there's going to be much shorter speeches from the platform but Sadiq will be speaking."
It has been reported that Labour's ruling National Executive Committee agreed to Mr Corbyn's plan to reduce the traditional platform speeches on Tuesday but the party's Conference Arrangements Committee subsequently ruled Mr Khan should be given a slot.
But Mr Corbyn said there was a "democratic process" involved in deciding who got to speak.
"It's not up to me," he said.
"There was a discussion and suggestions were made, agreements were reached.
Sadiq is speaking."
He praised Mr Khan's record of "incredible work" in dealing with the crises that have affected London this year and dismissed reports of a snub as "obsessive speculation".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Drivers and passengers react to news that Uber's licence in London will be revoked

Uber will not be issued a new private hire licence, Transport for London (TfL) has said.
TfL concluded the ride-hailing app firm was not fit and proper to hold a London private hire operator licence.
It said it took the decision on the grounds of "public safety and security implications".
Confirming it would appeal against the decision, Uber said it showed the world "far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies".
TfL's concerns include Uber's approach to carrying out background checks on drivers and reporting serious criminal offences.
What does the ruling mean?
Seven things Londoners will miss if Uber goes

Now what next for Uberisation?
Your views: Uber London loses licence

Uber's current licence is due to run until 30 September.
It has 21 days to appeal against TfL's decision and can continue to operate while any appeals are ongoing.
Some 3.5 million passengers and 40,000 drivers use the Uber app in London.
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said: "I fully support TfL's decision - it would be wrong if TfL continued to license Uber if there is any way that this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety and security."
Image copyright PA Image caption Taxi drivers have been campaigning against Uber, such as engaging in this "go slow" protest in 2014

Fred Jones, head of cities for Uber across the UK and Ireland, told the BBC Uber drivers had to pass the same safety checks as black cab and mini cab drivers in London.
There had been growing speculation that the app could be banned from London.
Opponents of the firm claim it causes gridlocked roads and does not do enough to regulate its drivers.
But one driver with Uber in London said: "I don't think it is a fair decision.
Uber offers a flexible schedule, and a weekly income."
Uber controversies

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Some 3.5 million passengers and 40,000 drivers use the Uber app in London

Uber's general manager in London Tom Elvidge said: "By wanting to ban our app from the capital, Transport for London and the mayor have caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
"If this decision stands, it will put more than 40,000 licensed drivers out of work and deprive Londoners of a convenient and affordable form of transport.
"To defend the livelihoods of all those drivers, and the consumer choice of millions of Londoners who use our app, we intend to immediately challenge this in the courts."
He said Uber operated in more than 600 cities around the world, including more than 40 towns and cities in the UK.
Analysis: From BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones

Throughout its short, tempestuous life, Uber has clashed with regulators around the world - and more often than not it has come out on top.
Its tactic has often been to arrive in a city, break a few rules, and then apologise when it's rapped over the knuckles.
Some regulators have backed down, others have run the company out of town.
In London, despite protests from angry taxi drivers, the company has had a relatively easy ride until now.
But a wave of bad publicity about its corporate culture, its lax attitude to checks on its drivers and its treatment of this freelance army seems to have spurred TfL into action.
Make no mistake, Uber will use every legal avenue to fight this ban.
It will argue that consumers, in the shape of the millions of mainly young Londoners who rely on its service, will be seriously let down if it can no longer operate.
But the courts will have to balance that with the serious concerns about public safety raised by TfL.
On social media, a fierce debate has broken out over the decision.
An online petition launched by Uber urging Sadiq Khan to reverse the decision to strip its London licence has been signed by tens of thousands of people in the space of a few hours.
Twitter user @Gabbysalaza_ said that she was "annoyed" at the decision as Uber allowed to her to get out of "uncomfy" situations if out at night.
Skip Twitter post by @gabbysalazar_ As a woman who lives alone and goes outside after dark, I'm really annoyed.
Uber is so useful (and cheap) when in uncomfy situations.
https://t.co/Q9iaMN1rrD  Gabriella Salazar (@gabbysalazar_) September 22, 2017 Report

Labour MP Wes Streeting, chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Taxis, called the decision "courageous" in a tweet.
James Le Lacheur called the decision a "victory" on Twitter.
Skip Twitter post by @JamesLeLacheur I've never felt the need to use the ethical colander that is #Uber Not once.
And I always make it home safely and cheaply.
This is a victory  Mx James Le Lacheur (@JamesLeLacheur) September 22, 2017 Report

General secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association Steve McNamara said it was the "right call" not to re-license Uber in London.
"This immoral company has no place on London's street," he said.
Across the world, Uber has been pushed out or denied access by local licensing laws.
Legislators in Darwin, in Australia's Northern Territory, are debating whether to allow Uber to return after a raft of reforms designed to open up the ride-sharing market were announced.
Uber is currently fighting a test case in Denmark after four if its drivers were found to be in violation of the country's laws requiring taxi meters.
'Devastating blow'

David Leam, of London First which campaigns for business in the capital, said London needed to be open to new ideas, business and services.
He said: "This will be seen as a Luddite decision by millions of Londoners and international visitors who use Uber, and will also hit London's reputation as a global tech hub."
James Farrar, chairman of the Independent Workers' Union of Great Britain's United Private Hire Drivers branch, said it was a "devastating blow" for the drivers who now face losing their jobs.
"To strip Uber of its licence after five years of laissez-faire regulation is a testament to a systemic failure at TfL," he said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Former TSB board member Philip Augar warns Today of problems with government's bank immigration checks

Resolving mistakes made when new rules come into force to freeze or close the bank accounts of illegal immigrants could be an "absolute nightmare", a former board member of TSB has warned.
Banks and building societies will carry out checks from January to see if account holders are legally in the UK.
MPs backed the move in 2016, but Philip Augar said mistakes would be made and "poor individuals" would suffer.
The Home Office said the system was "fair" but "firm".
Financial institutions will be provided with a list from anti-fraud organisation Cifas on people who are liable for removal or deportation from the UK or who have absconded from immigration control.
The organisations will then have to report any names they discover and freeze or close the accounts.
According to the Guardian, 70 million accounts will be looked at quarterly to check the immigration status of the holders.
'Flawless execution?'
Mr Augar, who also previously worked at the Home Office, said it was reasonable for "law breakers to expect the full weight of enforcement", but raised concerns about how mistakes would be addressed.
He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "This is in the hands of the Home Office and the banks, neither of which are exactly known for flawless execution.
"What happens when something goes wrong - if a bank account is frozen and the owner is entirely legal or if they've simply got the wrong name?
"Resolving those situations will be, in some cases, smoothly done, but I can imagine it being an absolute nightmare for some poor individuals.
"The problem is going to be multiple names will come up, the wrong names and bank accounts will be frozen, and it is how this is resolved, that will be the difficulty."
Image caption The rules were approved by parliament in December 2016, but will not come into force until January 2018

The checks form part of a series of measures in the Immigration Act 2016 aimed at encouraging illegal immigrants to leave the UK voluntarily.
It follows on from rules passed in 2014 intended to check the immigration status of anyone opening a new bank or building society account.
The Home Office said it would only share details of immigrants who were in the UK unlawfully.
This would include those who had exhausted all appeal rights and who should be denied access to banking services, Home Secretary Amber Rudd said.
Ms Rudd added migrants in the UK legally would "of course" be able to continue using their accounts.
'Very complex'

The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants criticised the action saying migrants "with every right to be here" will be affected.
Chief executive Satbir Singh told the Guardian: "The government's own record shows that it cannot be trusted even to implement this system properly.
"Immigration status is very complex, and the Home Office consistently gives out incorrect information and guidance."
A Home Office spokesman said: "We are developing an immigration system which is fair to people who are here legally, but firm with those who break the rules.
"Everyone in society can play their part in tackling illegal migration."
The plans also include a crackdown on landlords and employers if either knowingly provide a service to anyone who has no right to be in the UK.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Chief Constable Sara Thornton: Police will "always prioritise" terror fight

The UK's counter-terrorism effort is putting an unsustainable strain on policing, the head of the National Police Chiefs' Council has said.
Chief Constable Sara Thornton said resources were being diverted from mainstream policing in England and Wales, leading to backlogs in control rooms and slower response times.
She said the strain was "causing real problems" and "frankly unsustainable".
The Home Office said it was working with police on the demands they faced.
So far in 2017 there have been five terror attacks in the UK, killing 36 people.
Four people remain in police custody, including a 17-year-old boy, following last week's explosion at Parsons Green Tube station in which 30 people were injured.
Earlier this year, Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley wrote to the home secretary warning that the counter-terrorism policing network was not able to operate at "full strength".
He added that other areas of policing would be at "significant" risk if resources had to be diverted.
'Undermining trust'

Ms Thornton told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "When we respond to the sorts of attacks we saw only a week ago, it's not just our counter-terrorist police units, but the whole system of policing that responds.
"The current level of terrorism, added to the strain and stress the force is already under, is causing real problems and is frankly unsustainable."
She said having officer numbers at 1985 levels and crime figures up 10% in the last year created additional pressures.
"After Manchester attack, of the officers and staff that responded, three-quarters were paid for out of mainstream policing."
Image copyright EPA Image caption A response will "never be as good as preventing" attacks in the first place, Ms Thornton says

The current funding for forces across England and Wales is "no longer enough" and the counter-terrorism policing budget will be cut by 7% in the next three years, Ms Thornton added.
She warned a response would "never be as good as preventing" attacks in the first place.
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Cressida Dick said her force would "have to make hard choices in the future".
Ms Dick, who is in talks with the government over securing more funding for the Met, told LBC: "This is a shifting threat, not a spike, that puts a strain not just on counter-terror police but neighbourhood officers.
"This is not sustainable for my police service," she added.
In an earlier blog post, Ms Thornton wrote: "Fewer officers and Police Community Support Officers will cut off the intelligence that is so crucial to preventing attacks.
"Withdrawal from communities risks undermining their trust in us, at a time when we need people to have the confidence to share information with us."
Protecting the public from terrorism may require "difficult and unpalatable" decisions, she added.
Extra funding

BBC home affairs correspondent Danny Shaw said this was Sara Thornton's "most significant intervention" in the debate about police funding since the terror attacks in London and Manchester.
The Home Office says the government will do what is needed to keep the public safe.
A spokesman said: "We are increasing funding for counter-terrorism by 3.4bn and the home secretary announced 24m in extra support for CT [counter-terrorism] policing in addition to the 707m already committed for this year.
"We have also protected overall police funding in real terms since 2015 and we are sensitive to the pressures on police forces across the country.
"We are engaging with them on the demands they are currently facing."
The Home Office will pay 1.1m towards the costs of the controversial police investigation into allegations of sexual abuse against Sir Edward Heath.
The Wiltshire Police inquiry into the former prime minister, who died 12 years ago, began in 2015.
Two people were arrested and released as part of Operation Conifer.
There have been no charges.
Police will publish a "closure report" about the investigation, which has cost around 1.3m in total, on 5 October.
Angus Macpherson, the Wiltshire Police and Crime Commissioner, said the government "has waived the usual rule that the force should meet the equivalent of 1% of its budget before the Home Office will assist".
Wiltshire Police will pay around 190,000 towards the cost, with the government paying around 85%.
The major inquiry - codenamed Operation Conifer - began after Sir Edward, who led the Conservative government from 1970 to 1974, was accused of historical child sex abuse.
Sir Edward's friends have strongly criticised the investigation, and a psychologist who advised detectives claimed it was based on the allegations of a handful of fantasists.
The Crown Prosecution Service has not given a public assessment of any of the evidence gathered.
Wiltshire Chief Constable Mike Veale said: "Operation Conifer has attracted an unprecedented amount of public interest and I have stressed from the outset that we will be fully transparent when we are in a position to publish the summary closure report."
He added: "This has been a unique investigation with unprecedented challenges but one we, as the police service, had an obligation to progress in a proportionate and fully accountable manner."
Image caption The House of Lords has 798 members, making it the second-largest legislative body in the world

The House of Lords has defended its role after the Electoral Reform Society criticised "couch potato peers".
The society said peers who had spoken five times or fewer in the chamber in 2016-17 had claimed more than 4m in expenses.
And almost 4% of peers had not spoken or voted at all.
But a House of Lords spokesman accused the society of having a "narrow focus on spoken contributions" and said peers had a wider role.
The row follows a call from Commons Speaker John Bercow to cut the number of peers by half to about 400.
The House of Lords is conducting its own inquiry into ways to reduce its size.
The UK Parliament's second chamber has 798 members in total, making it the second-largest legislative body in the world, after the National People's Congress of China.
Members are not paid a salary but can claim an attendance allowance of up to 300 on days that the House sits.
Expenses rise

The Electoral Reform Society, which campaigns for the reform of Britain's voting system, said spending on House of Lords allowances and expenses in 2016-17 added up to 21,777,168 compared with 18,070,174 in 2014-15 - a 20% increase.
The campaign group said: "The most active 300 peers claim only half the expenses - showing the size of the Lords can be cut without significantly limiting its work."
It added that "4,086,764 has been claimed by the 36% of peers who spoke five times or fewer in the past year, many of whom simply turn up to vote" while over 1m had been claimed by "peers who voted 10 times or fewer".
Chief executive Darren Hughes said: "There appears to be a growing 'something for nothing' culture in our upper House, with tidy sums being claimed by those who barely contribute.
"And there are a worrying number of couch-potato peers and lobby-fodder Lords at a time when there is plenty to scrutinise - ostensibly the upper chamber's role."
He added: "Rather than spending immense sums on peers who fail to even speak up in Parliament, we need a fairly elected upper House - with a much smaller number of salaried peers - ending the rolling expenses scandal the chamber has become."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption John Bercow has said the House of Lords should not be bigger than the House of Commons

A House of Lords spokesman said the upper House's annual reports and accounts showed the claim of a 20% increase in expenses was "factually incorrect".
He said: "In the 2016-17 financial year, the total expenses claimed were 22.4m.
In 2014-15, they were 20.1m.
This is an increase of 11%, largely due to there being 15 more sitting days in 2016-17 [153 in 2016-17 compared with 138 in 2014-15].
The average daily attendance was the same in both periods."
The spokesman said: "Speaking in the chamber is only one of the ways members hold the government to account, and this research ignores members' contributions including amending legislation, asking the government written questions and serving on select committees - more than 320 members served on committees in the last session of Parliament - as well as parliamentary work away from the chamber.
"It is inaccurate to describe a House that tabled 5,608 amendments to legislation, asked government 7,395 written questions and published 170 committee reports in 2016-17 as a 'part-time' House.
"The Lords is an active and effective revising chamber."
The Electoral Reform Society said the House of Lords figures included staff and office costs, which had not increased by as much in percentage terms as expenses.
'Elected House'

The Liberal Democrats said the Electoral Reform Society's figures pointed to a need for "a democratically elected second chamber that is fully accountable to the public".
Lord Newby, who leads the party in the House of Lords, said: "Whilst the vast majority of peers provide good value for money to the taxpayer, these figures show that there are exceptions."
The last major reduction in the size of the chamber was in 1999, when the House of Lords Act cut the number of hereditary peers by more than 600 to 92.
There are currently 91 in the Lords.
More recent changes have included allowing peers to retire and introducing the power to expel them for wrongdoing.
Commenting on the Electoral Reform Society report, Labour MP and former minister David Hanson called for the removal of the remaining hereditary peers.
"Whether people speak or not, the Lords as it stands is no longer fit for purpose," he said.
"It is plainly wrong that an individual is given the right to pass and amend laws and question the government in Parliament by accident of birth."
In December 2016, the House of Lords backed an inquiry into ways to reduce the size of the chamber.
A cross-party committee, chaired by independent peer Lord Burns, is due to report in October.
Image copyright PA Image caption Sir Teddy Taylor had been ill for some months, his family said

The former Conservative MP and ardent Eurosceptic Sir Teddy Taylor has died aged 80, his family said.
Sir Teddy had been ill for some months and passed away at Southend Hospital on Wednesday, his wife Sheila Taylor said.
He first entered Parliament as MP for Glasgow Cathcart in 1964 and became MP for Southend East in 1979.
Mrs Taylor said: "The great love of his life was helping his constituents.
He really cared about Southend and was very well-liked by everybody here."
'Colossus of politics'

Sir Teddy was born on 18 April 1937.
He was educated at Glasgow High School and Glasgow University, and started his career as a journalist in Glasgow.
In his political career he was known for his fierce loathing of the Common Market, which later became the European Union.
Sir Teddy also supported the death penalty and Enoch Powell's campaign to stop immigration.
However, it was his hatred of the Common Market that led to his resignation as a junior Scottish minister in 1971 over Edward Heath's decision to take Britain into Europe.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sir Teddy, pictured in 1980 with his wife Sheila and sons George, left, and John

Having lost his marginal Glasgow Cathcart seat in 1979, he fought and won a by-election in Southend East, a seat he held until retiring from Parliament in 2005.
Sir Teddy was a "colossus of UK politics", James Duddridge, who succeeded him as Conservative MP for Southend East, said.
Paying tribute to Sir Teddy, he said: "He gave everything to his political life.
"Teddy spent much of his life opposed to British membership of the European Union.
"We campaigned together for Brexit and it is some comfort that before he passed he had seen the country come around to his way of thinking."
Image copyright PA Image caption Sir Teddy was known for his loathing of Britain being part of the European Union

Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson described Sir Teddy as "one of the great servants of our party in Scotland".
"Even now, 40 years on, many local people will remember his fierce commitment and dedication to Glasgow," she said.
"He was a true parliamentarian and a great local champion who will be remembered with fondness across the political spectrum."
Sir Teddy is survived by his widow, two sons and a daughter.
Image copyright Met Police Image caption Kim Briggs died after being injured while crossing Old Street in Shoreditch

The government is launching a review into whether a new law is needed to tackle dangerous cycling.
It will consider whether an equivalent offence to causing death by dangerous driving is needed for cyclists.
It comes after Charlie Alliston, who killed Kim Briggs while riding a fixed-gear bike with no front brakes, was convicted under Victorian law.
Mrs Briggs' widower Matthew Briggs welcomed the review, saying the case "highlighted a huge gap" in the law.
Alliston, 20, was cleared of manslaughter but convicted under the 19th Century offence of "wanton or furious driving".
On Monday he was sentenced to 18 months in a young offenders' institution.
After the conviction, Mr Briggs called for the introduction of new laws, including causing death by dangerous cycling.
Ministers are now seeking independent legal advice on this, with the review - covering the law in England, Scotland and Wales - due to report in the new year.
Announcing the move, the government said there had been a "series of high-profile incidents" involving cyclists and that in 2015, two pedestrians had been killed and 96 seriously injured after being hit by a bicycle.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dangerous driving offences should be extended to cyclists, says Labour's Heidi Alexander

Transport minister Jesse Norman said: "It's great that cycling has become so popular in recent years but we need to make sure that our road safety rules keep pace with this change.
"We already have strict laws that ensure that drivers who put people's lives at risk are punished but, given recent cases, it is only right for us to look at whether dangerous cyclists should face the same consequences."
He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the review will consider how the law should be updated "so there is a proper legal remedy if a pedestrian is seriously injured or killed by a cyclist" and whether or not there should be a new law.
But he added that was "only part of the problem" and the inquiry will consider "much wider elements of cycle safety affecting cyclists and pedestrians, but also the relationships with motorists".
The government said in this second phase of the review - which covers England but will may also impact the situation in Scotland and Wales - signage and public awareness would be among the issues looked at.
Some cycling groups point out the number of deaths caused by cyclists remains extremely low compared with the figures for cyclists and pedestrians killed and injured by motorists.
The government had been urged to act by Labour MP Heidi Alexander, Mrs Briggs' constituency MP, who said at Prime Minister's Questions that the current law was "hopelessly outdated and wholly inadequate".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Widower Matthew Briggs: "Sometimes you have to stand up and do what's right"

Mr Briggs told BBC Breakfast that he welcomed the review and was pleased the government had "responded so swiftly".
"It seems to me there is a yawning gap in the legislation that needs to be filled," he said.
"What I want is the police and the CPS to have a coherent law to be able to reach for in the future."
But he said the call for a legislation update was "not in any way anti-cycling".
"With the increase in the number of cyclists there is of course an increase in the risk that comes with it," he said.
"Just because what happened to Kim is rare... it doesn't mean there shouldn't be a remedy in law."
He added: "If I can get something good to come out of something so tragic, then I'll have done my job."
Paul Tuohy, chief executive of campaign group Cycling UK, said the consultation was an opportunity to keep cyclists and pedestrians safer.
"Cycling UK looks forward to working with the Department for Transport on this consultation to ensure it focuses on evidenced ways that keep our most vulnerable road users safe, by addressing risks such as dangerous roads, drivers and vehicles," he said.
"The proposed review of cycling offences needs to be carried out as part of the government's promised wider review of all road traffic offences and sentencing.
"This will ensure the justice system can deal with mistakes, carelessness, recklessness and deliberately dangerous behaviour by all road users."
What is wanton and furious driving?
Image copyright Commentaries on the Laws of England Image caption The law explained in the Commentaries on the Laws of England, published in 1867

Alliston was charged with an admittedly archaic offence - but it is the closest to dangerous driving a cyclist can be charged with.
Unlike a dangerous cycling charge, causing grievous bodily harm by wanton and furious driving takes into account injury.
It may sound slightly eccentric, but perhaps it is down to its wording which was coined in 1861.
Introduced under the Offences Against the Person Act, the charge was created to deter people from driving horse carriages recklessly.
It is now used when it is not possible to prosecute under the Road Traffic Act 1988 - ie, when the vehicle in the crime was not mechanically propelled - and in cases of serious injury or death caused by a cyclist's actions.
It carries a maximum penalty of two years' imprisonment and/or an unlimited fine.
Previous successful prosecutions under the offence include those against cyclists Darryl Gittoes and Darren Hall, who both knocked down pedestrians who later died.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says UN shortcomings risk undermining confidence in the organisation

Theresa May has warned the United Nations that Britain could withhold up to 30% of its 90m core funding each year unless the organisation reforms.
The PM told delegates at the UN general assembly there was a gap between "the nobility of its purposes and the effectiveness of its delivery".
In order to secure the full 90m, UN agencies will need to show they are efficient and transparent.
Mrs May urged the international body to "win our trust".
And she warned of a "crisis of faith in multilateralism" if the UN is no longer able to meet the challenges of the age.
Earlier this week, US President Donald Trump also threatened to withdraw funding from the UN unless it reformed.
The new UN secretary general, Antonio Guterres, has promised reforms to make it "more agile, transparent and joined-up".
Plans to make up to 30% of the UK's core funding conditional on making good on this pledge were first announced by International Development Secretary Priti Patel, who has also been at the UN Summit in New York.
Officials said it meant UN teams would have to co-operate more on the ground instead of setting up separate offices and operating independently of one another.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and International Development Secretary Priti Patel were among those watching the PM's speech

They also say the UN should be more transparent in its expenditure and there should be less competition for funds between different agencies.
In her general assembly address, Mrs May warned: "If this system we have created is found no longer to be capable of meeting the challenges of our time, then there will be a crisis of faith in multilateralism and global co-operation that will damage the interests of all our peoples."
The BBC's Nick Bryant, in New York, said the funding would be withdrawn not from the UN as a whole, but from certain agencies that the UK thinks are underperforming.
So some, like Unicef and the World Food Programme are not under threat, but there are others - such as a UN development agency - that the UK does not like, he added.
In the rest of her speech, she also highlighted the importance of the Paris climate change agreement, which Mr Trump has threatened to pull out of.
Minutes later, she held a meeting with the president, who said he expected the US to do "a lot of trading with the UK".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Failed asylum seeker Samim Bigzad was flown to Kabul

An asylum seeker has accused the home secretary of "playing" with his life after he was flown to Afghanistan against a High Court injunction.
Samim Bigzad said he spent five days hiding from gunmen in a Kabul hotel before being returned to the UK.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd is accused of contempt of court, but the Home Office says the order to take Mr Bigzad off a flight from the UK came "too late".
The 23-year-old, who was living in Kent, is now re-applying for asylum.
Law firm Duncan Lewis, representing Mr Bigzad, says the injunction was granted while he was waiting for the flight, and commenced contempt of court proceedings after the Home Office put him on that flight.
Mr Bigzad, who is back with a foster family in Ramsgate, said he was forced out of Afghanistan because the Taliban threatened to behead him for working with American firms in his job.
"The Home Secretary is just playing with my life," he said.
"When I came back to England I feel like I've come back to my home, I kissed the ground and I feel safe."
But, a Home Office spokesman said: "We took action to comply with the court order and worked to return Mr Bigzad as soon as possible despite significant logistical challenges in securing the necessary documentation and limited flight availability.
"We maintain that it was too late to disembark Mr Bigzad from the Istanbul to Kabul flight by the time the injunction was served, some 10 hours after the removal process began."
Image copyright @DLPublicLaw/Twitter Image caption Samim Bigzad's foster family met him at Heathrow airport and Fergus Hendry of Kent Refugee Action Network

Mr Bigzad came to the UK in 2015 to look after his father, who lives in Margate and suffers from Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome (PTSD).
He said: "I hope in the future just to play my cricket and study English and look after my dad."
Image copyright Getty Images

It is "crunch time" for UK finance firms in Brexit negotiations, an influential lobby group has said.
British businesses and the economy as a whole need a transition period as the UK leaves the European Union, The City UK said.
Economist and former Brexit campaigner Gerard Lyons also said a transition period would be good for Britain.
The UK government said it was making sure business voices were heard in the negotiations.
On the eve of Prime Minister Theresa May's much-anticipated speech on Brexit in Florence, the lobby group warned the UK is in danger of losing its place in the financial world much in the same way the Italian city did after the Renaissance.
The City UK said companies are already moving jobs overseas as Britain prepares to leave the European Union, and further faltering in Brexit talks will lead to irreversible decisions.
"For our industry, this really is crunch time," The City UK chief executive Miles Celic said.
Around 10,000 finance jobs will be shifted out of the UK or created overseas in the next few years if Britain is denied access to Europe's single market, a Reuters survey has suggested.
Business 'needs clarity'

The financial sector wants clarity.
"Many firms are already moving parts of their operations out of the UK and Europe.
When they've gone, it's hard to see them coming back," Mr Celic said.
"Even if the UK and EU agree the best possible Brexit deal by 2019, without urgent clarity on transitional arrangements, business will assume the worst and act accordingly," he said.
A spokesperson for the government said it is working with the business community to give it "as much certainty as possible as we move through the exit process."
"We have been clear that we believe a time-limited, implementation period is in the interests of both the UK and the EU and that negotiations on the future partnership should begin as soon as possible."
"We have intensified our engagement with the business community to ensure their voice is heard and reflected throughout our negotiations giving them as much certainty as possible as we move through the exit process," he added.
Transition period

UK economist and writer Gerard Lyons, who campaigned for Brexit, told the BBC that a temporary transition period would be good for the UK to avoid a "cliff edge".
However, he said that not all business fears were justified.
"Sometimes contingency planning is too extreme," Mr Lyons said, adding that "regulators can't determine where the market goes to."
He said that it would not be in the best interests of the UK or the EU for London to be dismantled as the major European financial hub.
"It is non-European business that will benefit," Mr Lyons said.
Having so many financial services in London increases competition and drives down prices, and fragmenting that market would hand the prize to a financial centre outside Europe such as New York or Singapore, he added.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Guy Verhofstadt is the link between EU negotiators and MEPs

The European Parliament's Brexit negotiator, Guy Verhofstadt, has said it is up to the UK to find a way to avoid new controls on the Irish border.
This echoes the position already laid out by the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier.
Mr Verhofstadt is in Northern Ireland to meet political leaders at Stormont ahead of a visit to the Irish border.
He will also meet business and community leaders in the Armagh-Monaghan border area.
Mr Verhofstadt is the link between EU negotiators and MEPs.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption One road crosses the border four times in 10 minutes

Although he is not directly involved in the Brexit negotiations, any deal between the EU and UK will need to be approved by the European Parliament.
The former Belgian prime minister is on a two-day visit to Ireland: He is set to meet Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar and address a joint committee of the Irish Parliament on Thursday.
Speaking in the Dil (Irish parliament) on Wednesday, Mr Varadkar said it would be "useful" if the Northern Ireland Executive and Assembly were to meet and say they did not want a trade border, rather than leave it for politicians in London to speak for them.
"The resurrection of the border problem is the consequence of the decision of Britain to leave the union," said Mr Verhofstadt.
"So it is their responsibility to come forward with solutions."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mr Verhofstadt will meet community leaders along the border

He said he had heard it suggested that Northern Ireland could remain part of the single market and the customs union and the problem would be solved.
"But the point is the UK government has to come forward with a proposal that solves the problem," he added.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Brian Renaghan's farm is split in two by the Irish border

Mr Verhofstadt also discussed his proposal that people from Northern Ireland could elect MEPs in the Republic of Ireland after Brexit.
People born in Northern Ireland are entitled to Irish - and hence EU - citizenship.
Mr Verhofstadt said there was a "fair question" about how those people would continue to participate in EU democracy.
The DUP has rejected his idea, which was also met with scepticism when he raised it in a European parliamentary committee earlier this year.
Image copyright Pacemaker Image caption Irish army and police patrolling the border during the Troubles

He said: "With every proposal there is scepticism, that's normal in politics, but we are debating it."
The MEP's visit comes ahead of next month's crucial summit in Brussels when leaders of the EU 27 will decide whether sufficient progress has been made in the first phase of negotiations to allow them to focus on future trading relations.
Speaking after her party's meeting with Mr Verhofstadt, Sinn Fin's Stormont leader Michelle O'Neill said he would see for himself the "major, catastrophic impact Brexit will have here".
Mrs O'Neill said they had a constructive meeting, adding: "I do find him an understanding man."
Democratic Unionist MEP Diane Dodds said her party wanted a "seamless" border, but rejected the suggestion that Northern Ireland could remain in the single market, or customs union.
"We will not countenance a solution that makes us different from other parts of the United Kingdom," said Mrs Dodds.
Image copyright PA Image caption The DUP says it wants to see a "seamless" border

Ulster Unionist leader Robin Swann said he had told Mr Verhofstadt that it was "a shame and a disgrace" parties were meeting him individually, in the absence of a power-sharing executive representing Northern Ireland.
He criticised the EU for "their intensity and their fixation to sort out the UK's financial contribution to the EU".
SDLP leader Colum Eastwood said Mr Verhofstadt understood the need to accommodate the "unique circumstances" of Northern Ireland.
He said the EU Parliament representative had described it as "madness" that Northern Ireland was trying to make a special case when there was no government in place in Stormont.
Allliance deputy leader Stephen Farry said his party wanted Northern Ireland to stay in the single market.
He said this would entail "some sort of regulatory border" with the rest of the UK, and the retention of freedom of movement with EU countries.
Transitional period

Mr Verhofstadt said earlier he did not want to speculate on reports that Theresa May was to use a keynote Brexit speech to offer to pay 20bn (18bn) into the EU budget during a two-year transitional period.
The Prime Minister is travelling to Italy to make a speech on Brexit, ahead of round of negotiations next week.
He said he hoped there would be a break-through on the financial settlement issue, and that it would be positive if the UK government started to discuss a figure.
The parliament's resolution on Brexit states that it is "especially concerned" by the impact on Northern Ireland and that is "crucial" to preserve the 1998 Good Friday Agreement in all its parts.
Mr Verhofstadt has previously said: "We will never accept a hard border again between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic."
Last month, he dismissed the UK's proposals for its future customs relationship with the European Union as "a fantasy".
The UK has said it will leave the customs union - the EU's tariff-free trading area - after Brexit.
Image copyright Pacemaker Image caption The government has repeatedly said it does not want to go back to the borders of the past

It has proposed an "innovative and untested approach" that would remove the need for any customs checks between the UK and the EU.
An alternative proposal involves a "highly streamlined arrangement" which would mean small businesses trading across the Irish border, avoiding any new tariffs or paperwork.
Both proposals have been met with a sceptical response by other EU leaders.
Image copyright Caroline Teo/GLA/PA Image caption Artist Gillian Wearing, said she was "really delighted that planning has been granted"

The first statue of a woman to be built in Parliament Square has been given planning permission.
A bronze casting of leading suffragist Millicent Fawcett will be unveiled next year to coincide with the centenary of women winning the right to vote.
The statue will be designed by Turner Prize-winning artist Gillian Wearing - the first female sculptor to have a work displayed in the square.
The Mayor of London said the statue was "long overdue".
"This will be one of the most momentous and significant statues of our time," Sadiq Khan said.
Image copyright Google

Ms Fawcett founded the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies in 1897, aged 50.
The organisation used peaceful tactics to campaign, including non-violent demonstrations, petitions and the lobbying of MPs.
It went on to lead to the suffragette movement emerging - the more radical and militant group led by Emmeline Pankhurst.
Image caption Sir Winston Churchill, Abraham Lincoln and Nelson Mandela are among those with statues in Parliament Square

The statue will portray Ms Fawcett holding a placard reading "courage calls to courage everywhere" - taken from a speech she gave after the death in 1913 of campaigner Emily Wilding Davison at the Epsom Derby.
The new statue will be paid for using the 5m fund announced in this year's spring Budget to mark next year's centenary of the first British women to get the vote.
Dame Millicent died in 1929, a year after women were granted the vote on equal terms to men.
Image copyright Hulton Archive/Getty Images Image caption Dame Millicent Fawcett was the founder of National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies

The announcement comes after years of campaigning.
A petition by activist Caroline Criado-Perez to build a statue of a woman in Parliament Square received more than 85,000 signatures on a petition.
Ms Criado-Perez, who also successfully fought for Jane Austen to feature on 10 bank notes, said she was "thrilled" with the project.
Image copyright EPA

Technology companies must go "further and faster" in removing extremist content, Theresa May has told the United Nations general assembly.
The prime minister will also host a meeting with other world leaders and Facebook, Microsoft and Twitter.
She will challenge social networks and search engines to find fixes to take down terrorist material in two hours.
Tech giant Google said firms were doing their part but could not do it alone - governments and users needed to help.
The prime minister has repeatedly called for an end to the "safe spaces" she says terrorists enjoy online.
Ministers have called for limits to end-to-end encryption, which stops messages being read by third parties if they are intercepted, and measures to curb the spread of material on social media.
At the general assembly, the prime minister hailed progress made by tech companies since the establishment in June of an industry forum to counter terrorism.
But she urged them to go "further and faster" in developing artificial intelligence solutions to automatically reduce the period in which terror propaganda remains available, and eventually prevent it appearing at all.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Google's general counsel Kent Walker defended its anti-terrorism efforts on BBC Radio 4's Today

"This is a major step in reclaiming the internet from those who would use it to do us harm," she said.
Together, the UK, France and Italy will call for a target of one to two hours to take down terrorist content wherever it appears.
Internet companies will be given a month to show they are taking the problem seriously, with ministers at a G7 meeting on 20 October due to decide whether enough progress has been made.
Kent Walker, general counsel for Google, who is representing tech firms at Mrs May's meeting, said they would not be able to "do it alone".
"Machine-learning has improved but we are not all the way there yet," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme, in an exclusive interview.
"We need people and we need feedback from trusted government sources and from our users to identify and remove some of the most problematic content out there."
Asked about carrying bomb-making instructions on sites, he said: "Whenever we can locate this material, we are removing it.
"The challenge is once it's removed, many people re-post it or there are copies of it across the web.
"And so the challenge of identifying it and identifying the difference between bomb-making instructions and things that might look similar that might be perfectly legal - might be documentary or scientific in nature - is a real challenge."
A Downing Street source said: "These companies have some of the best brains in the world.
"They should really be focusing on what matters, which is stopping the spread of terrorism and violence."
Technology companies defended their handling of extremist content after criticism from ministers following the London Bridge terror attack in June.
Google said it had already spent hundreds of millions of pounds on tackling the problem.
Facebook and Twitter said they were working hard to rid their networks of terrorist activity and support.
YouTube told the BBC that it received 200,000 reports of inappropriate content a day, but managed to review 98% of them within 24 hours.
Addressing the UN General Assembly, Mrs May also said terrorists would never win, but that "defiance alone is not enough".
"Ultimately it is not just the terrorists themselves who we need to defeat.
It is the extremist ideologies that fuel them.
It is the ideologies that preach hatred, sow division and undermine our common humanity," she said.
'Mystified'

A new report out on Tuesday found that online jihadist propaganda attracts more clicks in the UK than in any other country in Europe.
The study by the centre-right think tank, Policy Exchange, suggested the UK public would support new laws criminalising reading content that glorifies terror.
Image copyright AFP Image caption IS militants are moving to less well-known sites after being chased off mainstream social media

Google said it will give 1m to fund counter-terrorism projects in the UK, part of a $5m (3.7m) global commitment.
The search giant has faced criticism about how it is addressing such content, particularly on YouTube.
The funding will be handed out in partnership with UK-based counter-extremist organisation the Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD).
An independent advisory board will be accepting the first round of applications in November, with grants of between 2,000 and 200,000 awarded to successful proposals.
ISD chief executive Sasha Havlicek said: "We are eager to work with a wide range of innovators on developing their ideas in the coming months."
'International consensus'

A spokesman for the Global Internet Forum to Combat Terrorism, which is formed of tech companies, said combating the spread of extremist material online required responses from government, civil society and the private sector.
"Together, we are committed to doing everything in our power to ensure that our platforms are not used to distribute terrorist content," said the spokesman.
Brian Lord, a former deputy director for Intelligence and Cyber Operations at UK intelligence monitoring service GCHQ, said the UN was "probably the best place" to raise the matter as there was a need for "an international consensus" over the balance between free speech and countering extremism.
He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "You can use a sledgehammer to crack a nut and so, actually, one can say: well just take a whole swathe of information off the internet, because somewhere in there will be the bad stuff we don't want people to see.
"But then that counters the availability of information," adding that what is seen as "free speech" in one country might be seen as something which should be taken down in another.
Image copyright MOD

Military drone pilots fighting so-called Islamic State could be awarded medals, the defence secretary has said.
Sir Michael Fallon said there would be a review of how servicemen and women were recognised for contributions to UK operations "outside the battle space".
Medals are currently given on the basis of rigour and risk, and when people are physically exposed to danger.
Sir Michael said a rethink may be needed as the UK increasingly deploys unmanned aircraft on operations.
'Changing warfare'

Speaking on a visit to British troops in Iraq, he said: "The changing character of warfare provides new challenges; not just about how we fight but also how we recognise and support those who serve.
"As fighting has evolved, we have adapted, ensuring our troops have cutting-edge equipment including unmanned systems operated from outside the battle space.
"Our recognition of service, the risks taken, and the long-term effects must therefore adapt too."
Operation Shader is the operation targeting Islamic State, or Daesh as the government refers to the group, in Iraq and Syria.
Sir Michael added: "We need to examine how to provide medallic recognition for those making a vital contribution to Op Shader outside the battle space, from Reaper pilots taking life-and-death decisions to those who ensure our planes can strike Daesh targets."
'Critical role'

Announcing a medal for others involved in Operation Shader, he said: "It is only right that those who've performed above and beyond in this fight against the evil of our time get the recognition they deserve.
This medal will do just that.
"Our troops... have conducted over 1,500 strikes against Daesh terrorist targets and helped train nearly 60,000 Iraqi security forces.
"The campaign is not over but for those that have served, we rightly honour the critical role they have played in helping keep us safe."
Air Marshal Greg Bagwell, a former deputy commander of operations at the Royal Air Force, who oversaw the use of Reaper drones in Syria, said campaign medals were being defined by borders.
"That's a little 19th Century - the battle space today is a lot broader," he told BBC Radio Four's Today programme.
He said men and women were engaged in Operation Reaper for more than 1,000 days - not the 30 or 45 days involved in tours of duty.
They are "totally immersed" in the operation and it's demanding to maintain the levels of concentration to ensure "near-perfection every minute of every day", he added.
'Moral courage'

Colonel Richard Kemp, the former head of British forces in Afghanistan, said there was courage in conducting drone operations and taking human life from the relative safety of Lincolnshire, or wherever drone pilots might be.
"There's a moral courage in pressing that button, in executing a strike," he told Today.
"It can be more difficult to do that when you are very removed from the battlefield, and not in the intensity of battle."
Labour has called for recognition of servicemen and women fighting IS.
On his visit, Sir Michael met personnel from the Mercian Regiment, the Royal Engineers, the Intelligence Corps, and medical regiments at Erbil and Taji.
Image copyright Getty Images

The food industry fears it will be hit with the cost of a new inspection regime if Britain leaves the EU without a trade deal.
Industry figures have told the BBC supplies could be delayed and prices in the shops increased.
The government has set out proposals to make UK-EU trade "as frictionless as possible" after Brexit so trade can continue as before.
But these depend on securing a deal with the EU.
Currently, food arriving from, or being exported to, the EU must meet strict safety and quality standards.
This means it is not inspected at the border as rigorously as non-EU produce, but that might have to change if Britain leaves the single market without a new deal.
Jon Averns, City of London port health and public protection officer, said: "Certainly in the south coast ports, around Dover, the Channel Tunnel and so on, unless we have the ability to undertake checks elsewhere, then it would bring things to a standstill potentially."
Image caption Owen Paterson says UK families could save 300 a year on food after Brexit

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "There is the potential for delays.
And if we did have to additional checks, those would have to be paid for somewhere along the line, and inevitably the cost would be passed on to the consumer."
Katie Doherty, policy director of the International Meat Trade association, said: "In the event of... no deal, it's highly likely that these checks would apply to our goods, so this is something that both the government and the industry need to look at in both directions of trade."
Steve Davies, an international meat and poultry supplier based at London's Smithfield Market, said: "If there is no deal, you can only imagine there will probably be at some point... shortages and higher prices."
Former Environment Secretary and leading Brexit campaigner Owen Paterson conceded that "if there is absolutely no arrangement at all, there will be difficulties".
But he said setting up a new system of checks would not have to be "expensive" - and UK consumers would benefit from trade deals made with non-EU countries in Africa and elsewhere, something that is not currently allowed under EU rules.
"If we take off tariffs on food, we can give every single family in the country a 300-plus annual bonus - an 8bn hit upwards to the UK economy," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
The Today programme also spoke to Roger Saul, the former boss of fashion brand Mulberry, who now runs a farm in Somerset.
He said the weaker pound was boosting food exports and UK food retailers were starting to import less.
"We have found that with Sainsbury's, Waitrose, Ocado, all of them are starting to turn the focus on what they can buy in Britain."
Image copyright Reuters

A rise in the employment rate for women since 2008 is holding back wage growth globally, the OECD has told the BBC.
Chief economist Catherine Mann said women were paid less in general, while male employment rates remained weak, and that this had skewed the figures.
She also blamed poor productivity and workers and unions for putting more emphasis on job security than wages.
The think tank has raised its outlook for global growth for 2018 from 3.6% to 3.7%.
Ms Mann told the BBC World Service: "Employment rates for women have grown faster and are above where they were in 2008, but employment rates for men have not even gotten back to where they were.
"That [must be seen] in conjunction with what we know about women's wages - that women are paid less than men.
"You've got more women employed, as compared to men, so the algebra works out to be a downward pressure on wage growth."
Eurozone recovery

According to the OECD, the world's major economies are performing better as the eurozone catches up with US.
The Paris-based think tank raised its outlook for eurozone growth this year to 2.1%, up from 1.8% the last time it issued forecasts in June.
That put it on a par with the US, whose forecast of 2.1% was unchanged.
However, despite the revisions, it said "strong and sustained" medium-term global growth was not yet secured.
It also said business investment and trade remained weaker than needed to sustain healthy productivity growth.
Wage growth had been disappointing too, keeping inflation at low levels.
Ms Mann said: "The biggest risk to global growth is that we won't be able to change the short-term momentum we are seeing into long-term growth.
"Business investment has not rebounded [fully], and in the absence of productivity growth we can't have higher wage growth."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Vince Cable: "I ask you to join me on the journey as we, together, take the Liberal Democrats back to government"

Sir Vince Cable has said he can lead the Liberal Democrats back to power by offering a mix of "hope and realism".
In his first conference speech as leader, he said he was "impatient for success" and had the vision and "grown-up" approach to "fill a huge gap in the centre of British politics".
He called for higher taxes on foreign property speculators and second home owners to help tackle inequality.
And he claimed Brexit would be an act of "masochism", leaving the UK poorer.
The Lib Dems, he told activists in Bournemouth, were the "only real, undiluted pro-European" party in the country as he attacked the government's handling of the Brexit negotiations and what he said was Labour equivocation over whether to stay in the single market and customs union.
He said his party must not be solely defined by their opposition to Brexit - but he repeated his call for the public to have the final say on whether the UK actually leaves or not through a further referendum.
The 74-year old, who succeeded Tim Farron after June's general election, said the Lib Dems "did a lot of good and stopped a lot of bad" in their five years in coalition government with the Conservatives.
But the party - which increased its MPs from eight to 12 in June, but saw its vote share go down - had paid a "very high political price".
"Trust was lost," he said.
"For many voters, we still have to scrub ourselves hard to get rid of the smell of clearing up other people's mess."
'Huge challenge'

By the BBC's Eleanor Garnier in Bournemouth

Image copyright Getty Images

It was what you might call serious and sensible.
Firmly fixed behind the lectern, Vince Cable drew a sharp contrast with his predecessor, Tim Farron, who would bound around the stage, bubbling with energy.
He had no problem winning applause from the faithful Lib Dem audience but whether his first conference speech as leader will punch through to the wider electorate is another question.
This was not a policy-rich speech but an attempt to set out broad ambitions, the principles behind the way Sir Vince wants the Lib Dems to grapple with the biggest issues the country faces.
The Lib Dems look to him as a heavyweight politician, a former business secretary and one of the few to predict the financial crash.
But leading the Lib Dems is a huge challenge.
He needs to persuade voters of the party's stance on Brexit, improve on the disappointing general election result and make the party relevant in British politics once again.
But he insisted the Lib Dems must see their future as a party of government again, with radical solutions to what he said were the main challenges facing the UK, including "deeply corrosive" inter-generational inequality, low economic productivity, skills shortages and the cost of living and housing for young people.
On tuition fees, he said levels of student debt were a source of "real concern" and the party was ready to consider all options to improve the current system, including a graduate tax, in a wide-ranging review.
Barriers to young people getting on the housing ladder must be removed, he said, with councils being able to borrow to build affordable homes and private sector investment in new garden cities.
And he vowed to end the "stranglehold of oligarchs and speculators in our housing market," with "fierce tax penalties on the acquisition of property for investment purposes, by overseas residents".
Image caption Deputy leader Jo Swinson applauds Sir Vince's speech

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Lib Dem leader left the auditorium with his wife Rachel

Drawing on his parents' experience of going to night school after work to improve their prospects, he said all young people should be given an endowment or learning account to fund further studies at any stage of their lives - to be paid through the "fair taxation of wealth".
Calling for a bigger programme of investment in the railways, broadband and other infrastructure, to be funded by government borrowing, he said his party would be both pro-enterprise and pro-worker, prepared to stand up to tech giants over corporate tax avoidance.
But the former business secretary said the Lib Dems would never be a "something for nothing" party, contrasting them with Labour, for whom he suggested "budgeting was a bourgeois hobby".
He said politics was often a long game and he had learnt from personal experience - including losing his first wife to cancer and losing his seat in 2015 - that success was "often laced with setbacks" and endurance was vital.
"What the country needs is hope and realism," he added.
"In a Britain increasingly dominated by extremists and ideologues, I want us to fill the huge gap in the centre of British politics."
He said the Lib Dems had been proved right in their opposition to the Iraq war and their economic warnings prior to the 2008 banking crisis and they were right to take a stand on Brexit.
It was becoming ever clearer that the UK's exit from the EU was a "looming disaster" which could leave the UK poorer and weaker, he told party activists.
"There is another word for that - masochism.
It isn't illegal.
I am told some people pay good money to indulge in it.
But unlike masochists, the Brexit ideologues usually envisage someone else bearing the pain.
"And that pain will mainly be felt by young people who overwhelmingly voted to Remain."
He urged members of other parties to join the Lib Dems: "There are sensible grown-ups in the Conservative Party and Labour Party and the Greens.
And beyond them are millions of people deeply worried about what is happening.
"We have to put aside tribal differences and work alongside like-minded people to keep the single market and customs union, essential for trade and jobs."
Image copyright Getty Images

The 2017 general election was the moment when the internet finally delivered on its long-awaited promise of having a big effect, both on how individual people voted and the overall outcome of the election.
A flood of young voters, many of whom had relatively low levels of political knowledge, used the internet to get news about the general election.
This was crucial for boosting support for Labour and Jeremy Corbyn, according to new research on the dynamics of the 2017 vote.
In recent years, there has been talk about the power of the internet to affect elections.
Ahead of the 2017 general election, some pointed to a growth of pro-Labour websites and online forums as a potentially powerful weapon in Labour's arsenal.
Our study is one of the first to document how this online activity really did help Jeremy Corbyn and his party.
We've found that those who used the internet to get news about the general election were far more likely to have voted Labour.
And we observed that those who used the internet less often to gather political news and information were much more likely to vote Conservative.
This relationship is true for the entire electorate and across all age groups.
And it continues to have a strong and positive effect on how people voted, even after we take into account a whole range of factors including age, gender, social class, party identification, how people voted in the referendum and levels of education.
Overall, among all respondents, our research suggests that 16% used the internet "a great deal" to get information about the election, 23% used it "a fair amount", 23% "not very much" and 38% "not at all" or said they did not know.
However, those who use the internet more often were significantly more likely to vote Labour.
Sixty-one per cent of those who used the internet "a great deal" to gather news about the general election opted for Labour, compared with only 21% who voted Conservative.
Conversely, 56% who said they used the internet "not at all" voted Conservative, while 30% opted for Labour.
How much people use the internet also correlates with voting patterns among older people.
Again, those who said they use the internet a great deal were strongly pro-Labour and pro-Jeremy Corbyn.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The study found that Labour's vote was boosted by young people who followed the election online

These effects involve a combination of two factors: "mobilisation" (things that influence people to turn out and vote) and "persuasion" (things that influence their choice of party).
Turnout among people aged 18-29 was up by an estimated 19% on the previous general election in 2015.
Our data shows that both the decision to vote and the choices these young people made at the polls were associated with the volume of news about the election that they consumed online.
Another effect that we find relates to how knowledgeable people are about politics.
In our surveys, we tested people's political knowledge by asking if eight randomly selected statements were true or false and then counted the number of correct answers.
The statements included assertions like: "The minimum voting age for UK general elections is now 16 years of age," and "The chancellor of the Exchequer is responsible for setting interest rates in the UK."
Though internet usage and political knowledge are only slightly linked, it is clear that, after rigorous statistical tests, how knowledgeable people are about politics had significant effects on how they voted.
If survey respondents were frequent internet users but did not know much about politics they tended to vote Labour.
In contrast, if they weren't internet savvy but knew a fair bit about politics, they tended to vote Conservative.
These effects held across all age groups for both Labour and the Conservatives, with the exception of pensioners in the case of the Tories.
This means that those effects weren't caused by the age of the respondent, which at first sight is the obvious explanation for differences in internet usage among the voters.
Put simply, political knowledge continues to have a strong effect on Labour and Conservative voting even after we take statistical account of all of "the usual suspects" that are used to explain voting - such as social class, age, gender income, people's "left-right" placement and how they voted in the 2016 referendum.
The effects of internet usage and political knowledge work strongly through voters' images of the party leaders.
Even after we take account of a whole host of other things, like age and income, people with low political knowledge who used the internet to get their election news tended to like Jeremy Corbyn and dislike Theresa May.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May scored higher than Jeremy Corbyn among those who did not use the internet

For example, among those who said they used the internet "a great deal", the average score for Jeremy Corbyn on a 0 ("really dislike") to 10 ("really like") scale is 6.4, whereas among those who said they did not use the internet at all, his average score is much lower, only 3.4.
The pattern for Theresa May is the opposite: her average score among those who used the internet a great deal is 2.9, whereas among those who did not use the net, her average is considerably higher, at 5.3.
For Jeremy Corbyn, political knowledge, the survey suggests, has a negative effect on feelings about the Labour leader while internet usage has a positive effect.
For Theresa May, political knowledge has a positive effect on feelings about the Conservative Party leader while internet usage has a negative effect.
In contrast, people with high political knowledge who did not use the internet for general election news liked Mrs May and disliked Mr Corbyn.
About this piece

This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from experts working for outside organisations.
Harold Clarke is Ashbel Smith professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Matthew Goodwin is professor of political science at the University of Kent, Canterbury, Paul Whiteley is a professor of government at the University of Essex and Marianne Stewart is a professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Discover more about the methodology they used here.
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has used a speech in Florence to set out the UK's position on how to move Brexit talks forward.
With further negotiations planned next week, what did her speech tell us about the sort of Brexit deal we might end up with?
Reality Check correspondent Chris Morris has been scanning the speech.
Future of the EU

What's the significance?
It's worth noting that a lot of Brexit supporters in the UK jumped on Jean-Claude Juncker's State of the European Union speech last week - in which he set out an ambitious agenda of greater integration - as an example of why they wanted to leave in the first place.
The PM picked up on this - we're getting out of your way while you move in a different direction that we've never felt entirely comfortable with.
That's good for both of us she implied.
It slightly ignores the fact that many EU leaders wouldn't agree with Mr Juncker's proposals - but it's a point that will go down well on the Tory backbenches.
Success of Brexit

What's the significance?
The tone matters here.
Urging EU leaders to be creative, ambitious and to share a "profound sense of responsibility to make this change work" is a bit of a departure from the language in her last major speech on Brexit at Lancaster House in London in January.
It contained warnings of "an act of calamitous self-harm" for the countries of Europe if they sought to punish the UK, and the famous assertion that "no deal is better than a bad deal" for Britain.
The rest of the EU will take note of this more collaborative appeal but will also be watching to see whether the tone changes again in the prime minister's speech to the Conservative party conference next month.
Citizens' rights

What's the significance?
The prime minister is saying she wants to incorporate an agreement on EU citizens' rights into UK law, and she thinks UK courts should be able to "take into account" the judgements of the European Court of Justice.
It's a real guarantee, she says: "We want you to stay."
The trouble is that it's not what the EU is demanding.
The chief EU negotiator Michel Barnier insisted in a speech yesterday that the Court of Justice should remain the ultimate guarantor of any agreement.
The big difficulty here is that jurisdiction is a pretty black-and-white issue - there are few grey areas.
As things stand, the UK view is that British courts should have the final say, and the EU sees that as unacceptable.
Trade

What's the significance?
So the Prime Minister has ruled out a European Economic Area-style solution to a future relationship (this would be like Norway - part of the single market but not part of the EU).
Mrs May says it would still be too restrictive for the UK.
And she ruled out an ambitious free trade deal like the one the EU has with Canada - it would take too long and would ignore the fact that we start from a position where all our rules and regulations are the same.
So she wants a unique solution - a new deep and special partnership.
But in this speech she hasn't really given more details of exactly what that solution would be.
Transitional period

What's the significance?
This is important.
It means that during a transition period - the prime minister suggested two years as a possibility - all the rules will remain the same.
That means payments into the EU budget, free movement of people and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice would stay in place.
That's always been the position of the rest of the EU - it now appears that the UK has accepted that there is no way round this.
Mrs May confirmed that there will be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition, but that after Brexit they will be registered as they arrive.
That is something that the UK could already do under current EU rules, but it never has done so.
'Divorce bill'

What's the significance?
The prime minister is trying to reassure other member states that no net contributor will have to pay more, and no net recipient will receive less, during the current seven-year budget period, which runs until the end of 2020.
That suggests that the UK will provide the sum of roughly 20bn euros (18bn) in the two-year transition period that it has now proposed.
What's not yet clear is whether the UK thinks these payments will also cover some of its outstanding debts - debts that the EU insists have to be settled as part of a withdrawal agreement.
The rest of the EU will view the 18bn as payment for the UK being allowed to maintain its current role in the single market.
A lot depends on what exactly Mrs May meant by this key sentence: "The UK will honour commitments made during the period of our membership."
Note she didn't say "all" our commitments.
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Some critics dismissed Jeremy Corbyn's call for the state to take back control of water, electricity and rail

As Jeremy Corbyn prepares for his first party conference since a stronger than expected general election result, what would his plans for the state to take control of water, electricity and the railways mean for Britain?
Shareholders may not be fully compensated under Labour's nationalisation plans, it is understood.
Investors in companies judged to have behaved poorly since privatisation could lose out.
They will not necessarily receive the full market value of their shareholding.
Labour figures believe Parliament should consider how much companies have invested and how they have managed their assets when it calculates compensation.
English water companies would be a priority for public ownership, and Labour may make investors exchange shares for government debt - or gilts.
Prof David Hall, from Greenwich University, says the nationalisation of the failing bank Northern Rock - and a court case that followed - showed it was "perfectly reasonable" for the government to take ownership of a private company without fully compensating shareholders.
In Northern Rock's case, investors were paid nothing.
During Jeremy Corbyn's first leadership campaign John McDonnell - then Mr Corbyn's campaign agent, now shadow chancellor - warned a Labour government might take back recently privatised companies with reduced compensation or none at all.
Prof Hall says: "Some people think of it as the government just buying things on the stock market.
That's not how public ownership works."
Labour thinks privatisations in the 1980s and 1990s were a bad idea, and that privatised companies give consumers a bad deal.
'Bargain basement prices'

Mariana Mazzucato is the Director of UCL's Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose and a former Labour adviser.
Image copyright Mariana Mazzucato Image caption Prof Mariana Mazzucato warns poorly structured privatisation can sell the public sector short

She doesn't advocate the party's policy, but warns that privatisation without enough conditions attached can see businesses "benefiting massively from publicly created value".
They can get assets at "bargain basement prices," she says, and may not invest further but enjoy short-term profits.
"It ends up in the private sector, having [come] from the public sector, and [the new owner] not having done its part."
Labour says prices would be lower under public ownership because the state can borrow to fund investment more cheaply than private companies.
Disruptive?
Britain would need to borrow tens of billions of pounds to fund nationalisations, but would then hold valuable assets.
Supporters point out water, for example, was never privatised in Scotland and Northern Ireland, and is run by a not-for-profit company in Wales.
There are plenty of examples on the Continent of publicly run utilities.
But the details of Labour's likely plans show how disruptive they could be to some businesses.
Taking control of English water companies would see the state ordering companies whose shares are not listed on the stock exchange - some of whose owners are based abroad - to hand over equity in return for public debt.
Opponents say this would alarm investors, driving them and their money abroad.
With electricity, the party intends to take charge of the companies that run regional power networks by changing their licence terms.
Private companies would be left owning - but no longer controlling - electricity lines and substations.
Rail franchises - the rights to run trains in different parts of the country - would be taken up by the state as they expired.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Economist Sir John Vickers argues neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses

To sceptics and critics, there is a hole at the heart of the plan: any evidence that the state would do a better job than private companies.
Oxford economist and former head of the Office of Fair Trading Sir John Vickers says neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses where consumers can't shop around - such as control of water pipes.
Interference and inefficiency?
Independent regulation can deal with many problems, he says, but adds: "Memories can be short.
The previous era, the nationalised era, was not exactly glorious in terms of efficiency, customer service and investment in these sectors."
Put more robustly - nationalisation's critics think it would see a return to political interference and inefficiency.
Who's right?
There are clues, in not only longstanding public companies but also new ones.
Image copyright Bristol Energy

In Bristol and Nottingham, the city councils own their own energy retail businesses.
Bristol Energy was set up under a previous independent mayor, but the present Labour incumbent Marvin Rees says: "We are the shareholder as the city.
When we make a return, it comes back into the city.
People are buying a product off a company that invests in Bristol."
Public ownership for them means not just the principle of control, but ethical behaviour: advice for customers and seeking out the best deals for people who struggle to heat their homes.
Image copyright Bristol City Council Image caption Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees argues the Bristol Energy model can work

Crucially, if it works, it will be taxpayers, not shareholders, who benefit - if it works.
For now, Bristol Energy is losing money, more than 10m over two years.
The city has given the company loans and guarantees worth 17m.
The company expects to be profitable by 2021.
Plenty of new companies lose money, but when I ask Bristol Energy's managing director, Peter Haigh, how much he expects to have lost by 2021, I don't get an answer.
As with any business, failure is possible, and here taxpayers would bear the cost.
Neither side in this debate can prove by accountancy or precedent that nationalisation would see consumers better or worse off.
One group has been proven wrong though: those who paid the policy little attention when Labour's manifesto leaked before the general election because they thought the party leader was about to lead his party to political annihilation.
Mr Corbyn and Corbynism survived.
The nationalisation debate is back.
Image copyright Getty Images

The idea of a transition period after Brexit is being talked about more and more often.
But there's very little consensus on what it might look like.
Bespoke or off-the-peg?
In the frustratingly fuzzy terminology of Brexit, this tailoring choice, between something made to measure and ready-to-wear, is often used to describe the options for stitching together a relationship between the UK and the EU immediately after Brexit in March 2019.
This is not to be confused with the long-term "deep and special partnership" Theresa May promises.
Rather, it is what the prime minister describes as an "implementation period" but many others call "the transition" - the adjustment phase between Britain leaving the EU and arriving at some future and final destination.
When Mrs May talks about a "smooth" Brexit that avoids a "cliff edge", it is the arrangements for a transition phase she is referring to, covering customs systems, immigration controls, aviation regulation, criminal justice cooperation and more.
But 15 months on from the EU referendum, and with negotiations in Brussels apparently stuck, the UK government is under pressure (not least from business) to spell out what this transition phase might look like - to replace hazy rhetoric with specific proposals.
This is what cabinet ministers have been scrapping about, both in private and public through the summer, and it may be a focus of Theresa May's speech in Florence on Friday.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cabinet ministers have varying ideas on what a "transition phase" might look like

The Article 50 process allows only two years of negotiations to hammer out a withdrawal agreement (the terms of divorce), which should take into account "the framework for [the UK's] future relationship with the union".
With six months already gone, it's clear that neither side believes there's any chance of wrapping up and ratifying a new trade deal in that time.
In fact legally, the EU can conclude a new trade relationship with the UK only after Britain has left.
That's why the government now believes a transition period will be necessary.
It will have to be negotiated with the EU, of course, but what do we know about Theresa May's thinking?
Even though there is no formally stated government position, her ministers were very loquacious on the subject over the summer, and splits have been clear.
On 20 June, the Chancellor, Philip Hammond, pressed the need to negotiate "mutually beneficial transitional arrangements".
A month later, the Trade Secretary, Liam Fox, (a leading Leave campaigner) said any transition period had to end by the date of the next election, due in 2022.
In mid-August, the two cabinet ministers wrote a joint article stating a "time-limited interim period will be important to further our national interest and give business greater certainty - but it cannot be a back door to staying in the EU".
They also said the UK would be outside the customs union during this transition period.
Then on 12 September, Philip Hammond told a House of Lords committee the government was looking for a transition deal that looked "a lot like the status quo".
It's a fair guess that the Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson, does not.
His 4,300-word rumination in the Daily Telegraph on Britain's post-Brexit future made no mention of a transitional period.
Speaking afterwards in New York, Mr Johnson said the UK should not make any "extortionate" payments to the EU for access to the single market after Brexit, and insisted any transition period should not be "too long".
The argument goes on, and soon Theresa May will have to choose.
Although the cabinet does seem to broadly agree a transitional period is needed, it is a political minefield for the prime minister.
The government has been adamant that Britain will no longer be a member of the single market on Brexit day, and will leave the customs union.
Instead, it wants continued access to the single market and customs arrangements as frictionless as they are now, while having the freedom to strike trade deals with non-EU countries.
That's the "sweet spot" status quo Philip Hammond has talked about.
The Tories' opponents say this is a fantasy.
Over the summer, the Labour Party arrived at the view that the only way to minimise economic disruption during a transition period was to keep Britain in the single market (through membership of the European Free Trade Association and the European Economic Area) and the customs union.
It is one obvious "off the shelf" option.
But for many Eurosceptic Conservatives, it is a non-starter.
It would mean the continued free movement of people to Britain, a continued role for the European Court of Justice and a hefty price tag.
But Henry Newman, director of the think tank Open Europe, thinks a "pay-to-play" arrangement is what the UK is likely to seek.
"I think the UK is going to have to say it will voluntarily impose ECJ judgements, and voluntarily pay as if we were EU members during that period," Mr Newman says.
Furthermore, putting money on the negotiating table now to pay for a transition deal could be a way for the UK to unblock the stalled talks.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brexit talks in Brussels are currently focused on UK payments to the EU, rather than trade arrangements

How much?
The figure of 10bn euros a year for three years is often heard around Whitehall.
So long as payments do not continue beyond the transition period, Boris Johnson may be kept on board.
Apart from the cost, the big concern among Brexit-supporting Tories is that a transition deal that looks a lot like the status quo could harden into something permanent.
Prof Kenneth Armstrong is the author of Brexit Time: Leaving the EU - Why, How and When?
He believes that if the UK negotiates its way into the single market, the aim of then negotiating a comprehensive free trade agreement with the EU might be put off indefinitely.
The result?
"A UK that finds itself lost in transition," Prof Armstrong warns.
Complicating matters further for the UK is the fact the EU shows no inclination to sew together a bespoke transitional deal.
The EU's own negotiating mandate is clear that any transitional arrangements must be in the interests of the European Union, "limited in time, and subject to effective enforcement mechanisms".
EU leaders will not want the UK to have the benefits of the economic status quo without the obligations of membership.
"No cherry picking," is the mantra in Brussels.
The remaining 27 members of the EU are (so far) united in aims and tactics.
Even if Theresa May manages to bind her cabinet around a transition position that satisfies all wings of her party, it will still need the consent of the EU.
Negotiations with the EU are likely to move forward only if the UK is much more explicit about the price it is willing to pay and can map out where a transition will eventually lead.
Image copyright Getty Images

Labour's annual conference gets under way in Brighton on Sunday - what could the week hold for the expected thousands of delegates?
Party time

It's going to be noisy, colourful and big - Jeremy Corbyn did better than anyone expected at the general election, gaining an extra 30 MPs, and Brighton is the first chance his followers have had to celebrate that achievement en masse.
Party membership has increased to nearly 600,000, making Labour the biggest political party in Europe.
Mr Corbyn has said he is looking forward to "a brilliant conference, the biggest we've ever held".
But there are still tensions behind the scenes between the newly-dominant Corbynite wing of the party and the "moderates", some of whom will, no doubt, insist on ruining the party mood by pointing out that Labour did not actually win the election.
Preparing for an election

Making political predictions is unfashionable so it's anyone's guess whether there'll be another general election sooner rather than later.
With Theresa May trying to manage a minority government, Mr Corbyn is betting on the "sooner" option.
While most MPs headed for the beach, he spent the summer touring marginal constituencies ensuring his troops were on full election footing.
At conference, there'll be a big drive to train new members in Labour's latest campaign technology and techniques.
Instead of sipping warm wine (or Prosecco) at fringe meetings, many delegates will be drilled in "Promote", Labour's new digital marketing tool that spreads tailored messages via Facebook.
Humour

All sounding rather earnest so far?
Take heart from Billy Hayes, former leader of the Communication Workers Union, who told Progress magazine recently that older activists were marvelling at "the invention and humour of newer 21st Century socialists".
All one happy family?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jeremy Corbyn meets fans on his summer tour

Only a year ago, Labour MPs tried to oust Mr Corbyn as party leader.
Thanks to the support of members, he held on.
Since Mr Corbyn's surprise general election success, some MPs seem to have softened their stance, in public at least.
But those recent divisions, coupled with Labour's history of strife, do not simply vanish.
And there are several dimensions.
Grassroots members versus the Parliamentary Labour Party.... Blairites versus the Left...
Momentum versus "moderate" MPs.
But how vitriolic will any disagreements be?
In a pre-conference message Mr Corbyn felt moved to ask delegates to debate in a "comradely, respectful and honest way".
The conference will be a test of his skills in keeping divisions in check.
Brexit

All the recent headlines have been about Conservative splits, but the EU is a divisive issue for Labour too.
In fact, Brexit could cause one of the biggest arguments of all at conference.
Labour is getting the Brexit debate out of the way on Monday morning.
Most Labour MPs are Remainers although there are a handful of Leavers.
And more Brexit

So what exactly is Labour's position?
After a period of constructive ambiguity Labour announced last month it would support full participation in the single market and customs union during a "transitional period".
It was hailed as a dramatic policy shift, positioning Labour as the party of "soft Brexit".
But some Labour MPs believe they should be fighting to stay in the EU or at least to remain in the single market after Brexit.
Some support the idea of a referendum on any Brexit deal.
In short, it's unlikely the party will be able to unite behind one policy.
If delegates don't get enough Brexit on the conference floor there are plenty of fringe meetings, including one called: "What Brexit means for music."
Refreshments are provided, thankfully.
Personality politics

Mr Corbyn may profess to shy away from personality politics but his opponents won't.
The Conservatives are trying to frighten each other (and voters) with warnings about Mr Corbyn.
William Hague said this week that the Tories must unite or "Jeremy Corbyn will be the Prime Minister... completely ruining this country".
And if fear doesn't hit home, there's ridicule.
Sir Vince Cable joked that Mr Corbyn's "acolytes are focused on how to maximise the contradictions of capitalism".
Many people will learn about Mr Corbyn via the media.
It seems journalists may no longer have access to the conference floor, close to the action, and will have to watch from the balcony.
Hell hath no fury like a sketch-writer dumped in the cheap seats.
Corbyn's big speech

Image copyright Getty Images/PA Image caption There have been comparisons between Clement Attlee and Jeremy Corbyn

After a wobbly start, Mr Corbyn has grown in confidence as a political front man, getting to grips with an autocue, something he had never had cause to use during his decades on the back benches, and appearing more poised in media interviews and at the weekly bear-pit of Prime Minister's Questions.
His big speech on Wednesday will give him a chance to reach out beyond the party faithful in the hall into the homes of evening news viewers.
His supporters, such as MP Chris Williamson, say Labour will come to recognise Mr Corbyn as the best leader they've ever had - better than the post-war Labour leader Clement Attlee, another unflashy speaker.
But will his message cut through to sofa-bound floating voters?
Policy debates

Image copyright Reuters

We're told the party's election manifesto "For the Many, Not the Few" will be "fleshed out" at conference.
Key pledges include scrapping tuition fees and renationalising the railways.
On tax, Labour would introduce a 45p rate on salaries of over 80,000 and a 50p one for earnings above 123,000.
There would be more free childcare, guaranteed incomes for pensioners, 10,000 new police officers and 3,000 extra firefighers.
Will Mr Corbyn and his frontbench team - including shadow chancellor John McDonnell (above) - be able to flesh out answers to questions about whether there's enough money to pay for his plans?
Tinkering with the party machine

Labour's ruling body - the National Executive Committee - has agreed to Mr Corbyn's plans to hand more power to party members.
At the moment, they've got six representatives on the 35-member NEC.
Mr Corbyn wants to create three further seats for them.
There's an extra seat for the trade unions too.
The proposals require the approval of conference.
Team Corbyn says they are not technicalities but part of a "democratic revolution".
Critics say they signify Mr Corbyn 'tightening his grip on the party'.
Expect to hear a lot of that phrase.
The 'McDonnell amendment'

Jeremy Corbyn is also keen to reduce the amount of influence MPs have in who leads the party.
The current rule is that you only get on the shortlist if you have the backing of 15% of all Labour MPs and MEPs.
Mr Corbyn got on the shortlist by the skin of his teeth in 2015 thanks to some kindly Labour MPs who thought that including Mr Corbyn would widen the debate (It certainly did that).
In previous leadership elections, other left-wing candidates haven't been so lucky.
John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, failed to get on the shortlist twice.
Mr Corbyn wants to change the rules so that a candidate only needs the support of 10% of MPs.
This has become known as the McDonnell amendment.
It could mean other wannabe leaders don't have to rely on a pity vote from moderates.
Who gets to speak from the main stage?
Image copyright Getty Images

In recent years Labour conferences have often been a beauty parade of the party's big names giving set piece speeches in the main hall.
Momentum - Jeremy Corbyn's support group - and others on the left say they want to open it up to "ordinary" party members, back to the pre-New Labour days of conference debating and deciding on party policy.
Decisions about who gets to speak and what is debated are made by the Conference Arrangements Committee and Mr Corbyn apparently wants shorter and fewer set piece speeches.
There had been specualtion that London mayor Sadiq Khan and the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham would not get speaking slots, as "punishment" for their past criticisms of the leader, but The Guardian says Mr Khan will get to speak after the Conference Arrangements Committee "managed to secure him a slot".
But all these decisions could be easily be changed, right up to the last minute.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Nigel Mansell, Nigel Kennedy and Nigel Farage - the last of a dying breed?
Celebrities and sports stars are often credited with influencing parents' choice of baby names - but it seems that politicians rarely have the same effect.
He was barely off the television in 2016 - but in the year of his greatest political triumph, it now seems there was no surge in people wanting to name their baby after Nigel Farage.
Nigel as a baby name has been teetering on the brink of extinction in England and Wales for several years and has now all but disappeared, according to the latest Office for National Statistics figures.
At most there were two Nigels born in 2016 - the ONS doesn't keep the data to tell us whether it was two, one or zero - but we can says for sure that more people in England and Wales named their child Elvis - three - than Nigel last year.
It seems unlikely to be anything personal, or to do with Brexit - there was an increase to 39 in the number of Borises, after all - but instead must just be another casualty of the mysterious forces of fashion that dictate baby names in Britain.
Where are all the Kevins, Trevors, Sharons, Doreens or, for that matter, Brians now?
Why are names like Oliver, William, Olivia and Emily so popular?
Peak Nigel occurred in 1963 - the year before the former UKIP leader was born - when 5,529 babies were given the name.
Like Norman (14 babies in 2016), Clive (3), Trevor (6) and other popular baby boy names of the mid-20th Century, it has slipped steadily from use, and may have to wait a decade or two more for its inevitable revival - when it is no longer seen as a middle-aged chap's name.
If it's any consolation, its decline was not as steep as that experienced by some 1970s favourites.
The first Darren was elected to the House of Commons this year - Labour's Darren Jones.
He might well be the last, with just 55 Darrens registered last year.
Image copyright UK Parliament Image caption The first Darren in Parliament - and the last?
Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
How popular is my name?
Search for your name Boys Girls

You can tell a lot about a politician or a public figure from their first name.
Some are blessed with neutral-sounding names that can be easily adapted to any circumstance; others are not so lucky.
Tony Blair - who has had children named after him in Kosovo and Sierra Leone (we're not sure about Iraq) in honour of his military interventions in those countries - was rarely Anthony, unless he was appearing as a barrister.
David "call me Dave" Cameron was another prime minister with a classless moniker, unlike his posher-sounding Chancellor Gideon (39 babies in 2016), who changed his name to the ever-popular George (5,236) as a teenager.
Image copyright Getty Images

The current crop of party leaders are blessed with solid but rather unfashionable first names, befitting their age and background.
Theresa is on the slide from an already low base - 19 babies shared their name with the prime minister last year, compared with 34 two decade ago - and Jeremy hardly fared better in 2016, with 54 newborn boys sharing the Labour leader's name, compared with 108 in 1996.
Corbyn, though, is on the up as a first name - 18 in 2016 compared with less than three in 1996.
There were slightly more baby Vinces (14) than Lib Dem MPs.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd fares a lot better - there were 1,066 baby Ambers last year.
But although Brits have long named their children after film stars and other celebrities - with the new Star Wars film apparently inspiring some choices in 2016 - politicians have rarely been a source of inspiration.
Few named their children after Winston Churchill in the 1940s, although the name was popular in the Commonwealth.
But one political name has undergone something of a revival in recent years, with 26 children beginning their journey in life last year as Enoch - up from none two decades earlier.
It is not known how many - if any - named their offspring after controversial "rivers of blood" MP Enoch Powell, however.
Image caption Shadow chancellor John McDonnell does not have the support of some of his fellow MPs

The Labour leadership don't simply want to be prepared for the possibility of an early election.
With the recent manoeuvrings within government, they think it's increasingly likely.
And there was a danger that next week's Labour conference could have highlighted internal divisions rather than promoted unity.
Due for discussion was the so called "McDonnell amendment".
Opponents of the shadow chancellor named it after him to highlight how someone as unpopular as he is with his fellow MPs could be on a future leadership ballot if only 5% of parliamentarians nominated him.
Currently, the support of 15% of Labour MPs and MEPs is required.
An 'interim' compromise

So Labour's ruling NEC has agreed a compromise.
The threshold to take part in future leadership elections would be reduced - on an "interim" basis - from 15% to 10% of Labour MPs and MEPs.
Opponents of Jeremy Corbyn don't really see this as a compromise at all.
They believe that a candidate as left-wing as Jeremy Corbyn could well be nominated by 10% of the parliamentary party (and opposed by 90% of existing MPs) and win the contest when the left-wing membership gets its say.
But it's unlikely they will have enough votes to defeat this when the final decision is taken at Labour's conference.
Image copyright PA Image caption Jeremy Corbyn has kept his party on an election footing

Some on the left, however, including leading lights in Momentum, the group that formed out of the first Jeremy Corbyn leadership campaign, see this as too much of a compromise.
They think the left should take an historic opportunity to entrench its power.
But the party leader is moving rather more cautiously.
So what we will see are attempts to tip the balance of power in the party machine more in his favour, without driving critics out.
The make-up of the ruling NEC will be altered, with three more members elected by the largely Corbyn-supporting grassroots.
However, as a sop to opponents, a new union place on the NEC is likely to go to Usdaw - which didn't back his leadership.
Long grass

The more controversial reforms will be "long grassed" until next year as part of a wider review of the party's rules and structures.
Jeremy Corbyn himself will present its remit to the NEC on Tuesday and propose that the former MP Katy Clark - firmly on the party's left but liked and respected more widely - will be in charge of the process.
However, I have been sent the terms of reference for the review, and understand that one of the totems of the left - mandatory reselection - won't be part of its remit.
Image caption The terms of reference of the review will not include mandatory reselection

For many years those who have wanted to see more power in the hands of left-wing members have argued that sitting MPs should have to - in effect - apply for their own job between each election.
They will be disappointed that Jeremy Corbyn doesn't appear to be intent on creating a PLP in his image.
MPs have Theresa May to thank for this.
Her apparent vulnerability means that, practically, this wouldn't be a good time for a Labour leader to declare war on his parliamentary party.
But in truth, Jeremy Corbyn also believes the existing system can be used more effectively to unseat unpopular MPs.
Local constituency parties can re-adopt an MP on the nod but they also have the little-used power to ballot all party members in a particular seat on whether to open up the contest to challengers.
Image copyright PA Image caption A return to the Blairite past looks increasingly unlikely

I am told that another demand by the left to water down Tom Watson's power by creating a second deputy leader post won't be explicitly included in the review, but that the process wouldn't preclude this from being discussed.
So don't expect to see revolutionary changes to Labour's structures today.
Instead, there is likely to be another incremental shift in the balance of power away from MPs and towards both the party leadership and the more left-wing membership.
The changes wouldn't make a return to the Blairite past impossible - but it would be increasingly unlikely.
Richard Angell, the director of Progress - which calls itself Labour's "centrist pressure group" and is seen within the party as a Blairite outfit - is not impressed.
"We are now in a permanent campaign to undermine the role of MPs, marginalise their voice and get them to acquiesce," he says.
"Never before has a review of this kind been conducted from behind the closed doors of the leader's office."
Image copyright PA Image caption One of the party's former leaders wants to see "dangerous ideas" to the fore

It is more than two years since their much-criticised alliance with the Conservatives came to an end.
But there are those who worry the Liberal Democrats are still in something of a post-coalition haze, to coin a phrase having "lost a (ministerial) empire but not yet found a role".
The Brexit vote has, of course, given the party fresh impetus and, with membership numbers rising above 100,000, there is no shortage of new blood at this conference.
Tim Farron's speech - a very personal reflection on how the Lib Dems clawed their way back from the brink of extinction in 2015 under his leadership - was meant to show this is a party with plenty of life in it.
While it would be unusual to expect new policies so soon after an election and with a new leader feeling his way, the conference, so far, has hardly been teeming with new ideas, a state of affairs which led one ex-leader to bemoan the shortage of new thinking and the ceding of big ideas to the left and right of the political spectrum.
Paddy Ashdown's critique of the party in the run-up to the conference and appeal for a "ferment of debate" may have touched a nerve, as it was designed to do, but there are many activists who broadly agree with him.
"We made compromises and we became compromised," says Graham Neale, chair of the Green Liberal Democrats, of his party's five years in government.
"15 years ago we were seen as the green party and synonymous with that.
Since coalition we seem to have lost our way."
Others are more forgiving of the sacrifices the party had to make in government, when it was hugely outnumbered but still often managed to punch above its weight, and believe its leaders have learnt lessons.
Mick Clark, a member from Yeovil, says one of the party's abiding strengths is its willingness to look itself in the mirror.
"Looking at the coalition era, there were positives and negatives.
Any party that does not learn from its own mistakes and those of others is deemed to failure."
'Bold centrism'

He believes it would be a mistake for the Lib Dems to now follow the Conservatives and Labour down the route of what he describes as "emotionally-led" politics.
"Everybody loves hope but when it is false hope it is misleading," he says.
"As a party we do need to be bold, to remain true to our beliefs.
To say you are a bold centrist may sound something like an oxymoron, to say the middle ground is an adventurous place but we are the party of common sense policies."
A recurring theme talking to new members, particularly those who previously supported the Tories, is distaste about cuts to welfare budgets in the past two years and a desire for the Lib Dems to push back harder on issues ranging from housing benefit to disability living allowances.
"Liberal values and the way the world is moving require us to take a more radical view," says Michelle Booth, who joined the party last year and wants the leadership to focus on the most vulnerable in society.
Image caption The Lib Dems should be the champions of a zero-carbon Britain, environmentalists argue

"It is all very well saying centrist moderate but to get to where we want to be and where we need to be, we do need to be a bit more radical and stand up for what counts."
The environment, both in terms of promoting clean energy and protecting biodiversity, is another priority for many.
The Green Liberal Democrats are using the conference to launch a fully-costed plan for a zero-carbon Britain by 2050 which they claim goes well beyond what anyone else is envisaging, including the Greens.
"It means we are going to be more than credible on the environment," says Graham Neale.
"We have to be radical and find ideas that we can introduce into the mainstream."
While excited about the pace of technological change in the renewable sector, he is worried about the Lib Dems' continued support for nuclear power, in particular the "flawed" building of a new multi-billion reactor at Hinkley Point.
"It is so difficult to tie us in to a horizon for more than 20 years.
You saw last week that the strike price of wind is falling like a stone.
I can see why we need energy security but things are changing so quickly."
'Open wounds'

Talk to any Lib Dem about the process of revitalisation and it is hard to escape the shadow of student tuition fees and the impact that U-turn had on young voters - who flocked in their droves to Jeremy Corbyn at the election.
One young party member, from Wantage, in Oxfordshire, is hopeful that Labour will eventually let down young voters over Brexit and other issues but he says the party's tuition fees issue does need to be "put to bed".
"There is definitely a need to keep acknowledging that wounds were opened through the decisions at the start of coalition which were politically necessary but were badly handled," he says.
"But it is not a matter of apologising for ever.
Explain and be done and come out with something strong and new."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Tim Farron said the party had been vindicated time and time again over the years

It is hoped the emergence of a new, younger generation of MPs at the election, and the return of figures like Jo Swinson will broaden the party's appeal, as will its bottom-up, inclusive tradition of policy-making.
"Even though nationally the party might be struggling, you do see a lot of young people coming to conference because they want to be involved in shaping the offer that the party will make," says one member.
"That is important for young folk.
In this generation that we can all tap on our phones and contribute to thinking, a party which says this is your policy arena, you can get involved is really important.
"It is that next generational message, the idea that we are not going to be fighting for political short-termism which is really special about the Lib Dems."
Image copyright PA

Pants to Brexit was one of the more eye-catching chants - complete with props to hand - on show during Sunday's pro-EU march here at the English seaside.
Many of those present were wearing berets sporting the EU flag while one held an image of Edvard Munch's famous picture The Scream with the word Brexit superimposed on it.
Charlotte Morrow, a Lib Dem member from Somerset, said politicians had let the people down and she was alarmed by what she suggested was a "Little England" mentality creeping in over the future of EU citizens living in the UK.
"I don't like the rhetoric.
I don't like what I see.
I don't like that people now feel entitled to say 'leave, you are no longer welcome here.'"
But the mixture of slapstick, cheery defiance and apocalyptic imagery on display at the demo - organised by Dorset for Europe - belied a rather different argument going on nearby about how the UK's exit from the EU can be stopped.
Lib Dem activists overwhelmingly endorsed the leadership's call for the public to have the final say on the final terms of Brexit in the form of what is being dubbed an "exit from Brexit" referendum.
The option of a get-out clause for opponents of Brexit has always been popular among this most pro-European of parties.
It has gained greater traction since the general election result destabilised Theresa May's government and the parliamentary arithmetic of a hung Parliament threw supporters of a soft Brexit a lifeline.
Caron Lindsay, the editor of Lib Dem Voice, tweeted during the debate that it illustrated the unity within the party on opposing Brexit but agreement over the means is slightly less unanimous.
While in a definite minority, those voicing opposition to the idea of another referendum in the conference hall hinted at a wider unease within the party.
Image caption Lib Dems like Karen Lawrance says the party must stick to its beliefs

One member warned it was likely to be "toxic" for the 52% of the electorate who had voted to leave while another described it as akin to "flogging a dead horse" given the widely-held view that Article 50 is an irreversible process.
Mick Taylor, a former general election candidate who spoke against the idea, said afterwards while he acknowledged the "groundswell of opinion" in favour of another referendum and would respect the result, he had reservations.
"The problem with referendums is that they detract from the role of MPs.
The role of MPs is to be elected on behalf of the people they represent, go to Parliament and make decisions.
While the Calderdale activist wants Lib Dems to oppose Brexit "by all democratic means", he said the logic of holding a referendum on the same subject - albeit with a different premise - was principled but could be flawed.
"I don't think it has anything to do with differentiation.
I think it has to do with a genuine belief, which I don't share that having started the process with a plebiscite you need to finish it with one.
"Since Parliament is sovereign, the final decision will ultimately be taken by Parliament anyway.
The only thing that a plebiscite will do is delay a decision being taken."
But elsewhere, Sir Vince Cable's insistence that he is not just seeking a replay of the 2016 vote does find favour.
Image copyright PA Image caption Most Lib Dems applaud Vince Cable for toughening his language on Brexit

"The Lib Dems are united in stopping Brexit, it is just the method being discussed," says Karen Lawrence, from Worcester, who took part in the march.
While she is clear another a referendum won't settle the issue - "I think the country is apart on this issue and will be apart for years and years" - she feels it is an example of the radicalism ex-leader Lord Ashdown has called for in the wake of the underwhelming general election result.
"It is not a second referendum.
It is the first referendum on what the deal actually is," she insists.
"We have to stand by what we believe in.
We are not about doing what is popular for the whole country but do what is right as far as we are concerned."
For many, including Charlotte Morrow, a second referendum is an opportunity to right a wrong and allow 16 and 17-year olds, as well as EU citizens in the UK and all British expats on the continent, to have their say.
"If I thought it (the 2016 referendum) was fair and everyone here thought it was fair, they would be sat at home having their roast dinner today."
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince Cable's problem is crystallised at Prime Minister's Questions in the Commons.
He doesn't get much of a look-in.
Theresa and Jeremy have crossed swords, senior backbenchers on the government and opposition sides have spoken, the SNP's Ian Blackford has had his two questions, and then finally, as the session extends well beyond its once-normal half hour, with MPs drifting from the chambers to bag an early place in the canteen queue, the leader of the Liberal Democrats is called.
A bully pulpit it's not.
A single question at the fag end of an extended PMQs is not a commanding position from which to address the nation.
But, in parliamentary terms, this is as good as it will get for Sir Vince.
With just 12 MPs, his party is no longer entitled to more than a minimal slot at PMQs, and comes well down the pecking order in all the other parliamentary occasions, too.
Worse, MPs seldom see the need to hang around to listen to what it has to say.
Outside Westminster, the same problem is manifest.
Overshadowed

The start of Liberal Democrats' conference week was overshadowed by Boris Johnson's Brexit eruption.
The end of the week will be dominated by Theresa May setting out her vision of Brexit in Florence.
Sir Vince's speech was even blown off 24 hour news by President Trump's appearance at the UN.
That's showbusiness.
So how does a fourth party leader gain that most precious of political commodities - attention?
His predecessor, Tim Farron, never quite managed it, either in the Commons or outside.
A Lib Dem leader, typically, has to spend the first couple of weeks of a general election campaign introducing themselves to voters, who may not even be aware of their existence.
Mr Farron spent those vital days side-tracked into discussing his evangelical Christian views on gay sex.
After that his moment was lost.
Can I commend to Sir Vince a possibly unwelcome role model: David Owen?
Image copyright house of commons Image caption Former leader Tim Farron never quite won the battle for attention inside or outside Parliament

Having refused to join in the SDP's merger with the Liberals, and more recently having backed Brexit, the Doctor is not remembered with affection in Lib Dem circles, but bear with me.
In the mid-1980s, he kept the SDP, with just six MPs, in the national spotlight by sheer force of personality.
He offered a combination of eye-catching ideas and a shameless "anytime, anyplace anywhere" willingness to appear on the media, plus (and this is critical) he always had something interesting to say.
Sir Vince has many of the ingredients necessary to repeat this performance.
Like Dr Owen, he has few visible means of political support - but he does have a level of public recognition as a former cabinet minister, and from his appearance on Strictly.
More important, he has the credentials to speak on the big issue of the day, and be listened to.
In the 1980s, as the Cold War moved towards its end, Dr Owen could speak about the nuclear balance of terror and relations with the Soviet Union.
Post-referendum, Sir Vince can speak, with the authority of a former business secretary, about the implications for industry of the UK's future relations with the EU.
And more than that, as an ex-member of the coalition cabinet, he knows the key players in the Conservative government and can find the pressure points in their internal debate on Brexit.
The parallels don't end there.
With no internal rivals in his party, Sir Vince has considerable freedom of action - so he has a lot of room to be as pungent and as radical as he wants.
He can be a bruiser.
His wounding zinger to then Prime Minister Gordon Brown, noting his transformation "from Stalin to Mr Bean", was one of those rare parliamentary put-downs that did real damage.
Speeches like this one can matter.
Lib Dem insiders believe Nick Clegg's resignation speech in 2015, with its robust defence of liberalism, helped attract thousands of new members.
They hope that if their new leader finds the right words, that could happen again.
Image caption Sir Vince may not appreciate comparison with Lord Owen

Sir Vince's deadpan Yorkshire delivery is probably better suited to one-liners than 10-pagers, and he did indeed offer some effective-looking one-liners.
His speech also offered policy nuggets to groups of voters such as greens, pensioners and internationalists.
But to reach their target audience, he needs an effective social media presence - so one of his key tasks will be to assemble a team capable of putting his message across online.
Was it wise to revisit the coalition and student debt?
Sir Vince worked hard to exorcise the ghosts of the coalition era in general, and the policy U-turn on student tuition fees in particular, but he was the minister who proposed the coalition's tuition fee increase to the Commons, and reminding people of it may simply bring a fading issue back to mind.
His calculation must be that the Lib Dems' electoral rivals will certainly remember, and are bound to throw tuition fees at him.
Plus, some of the Commons constituencies the Lib Dems hope to gain or regain are university seats - hence the section about his work with the National Union of Students to find a way forward on student finance, and hence his proposal to "support all young people in future with an endowment or learning account, which they can use at any stage in life helping to finance further or higher education, either at the post-18 stage or later in life".
He also toyed with replacing the existing loan scheme with some form of graduate tax.
Strategic gamble

The central theme was his opposition to Brexit.
As the Lib Dem USP, it didn't work - much - at the last election.
But Sir Vince is doubling down and continues to offer voters "an exit from Brexit" via a referendum on the final deal with the EU.
He delighted his conference by describing the Brexiteers as "silly public schoolboys reliving their dormitory pillow fights".
And his money quote - "We will be denounced as traitors and saboteurs... but if the definition of sabotage is fighting to protect British jobs, public services, the environment and civil liberties, then I am a proud saboteur," - positions his party to capitalise if the government (or Labour) stumbles or splits over Brexit.
That is the big strategic judgement, or maybe gamble, in this speech, whatever else it has to say about housing, green issues or President Trump.
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince's signature has appeared on a number of Commons amendments to the EU (Withdrawal) Bill from Conservative Remainers and Labour's active pro-EU faction.
I doubt he anticipates a flock of defections from either side - but he has shown he's willing to co-operate across party lines, and in the long term that may widen cracks in Tory and Labour unity.
But it is also telling that there is not much sign of MPs from elsewhere signing Lib Dem amendments at the moment - and if the truth be told, the diminished strength of the Lib Dems would provide a rather fragile lifeboat for any pro-EU Conservative or Labour MPs.
If there is indeed to be an "anti-Brexit people's liberation front", it is a long way from materialising.
Building on his much-mocked comment that he could yet be prime minister, he ended his speech with the hope that his party could once again challenge for a place in government.
For that to happen he also needs luck.
Consistent success in council elections is all very well, but he really needs a run of by-elections in winnable Commons seats to show that the Orange Army is back in the game.
Image copyright AFP

Liberal Democrats are gathering in Bournemouth for their annual conference.
Here's a guide to the event which runs from Saturday to Tuesday.
Setting the scene...
Think back to 2015 when the Liberal Democrats took a hammering at the general election, punished for going into coalition with the Conservatives.
From 57 MPs, they were reduced to a rump of just eight.
Big names - Vince Cable, Ed Davey, Danny Alexander - were voted out.
The Lib Dems lost their status as the third largest party in the Commons - a role seized by the SNP.
Image copyright PA Image caption Sir Ed Davey lost his seat in 2015, but regained it in 2017

After their humiliating defeat the Lib Dems were the butt of jokes, often delivered by the Conservative politicians they'd been partners with for five years.
At conference 2017, the Lib Dems can take some comfort from the fact that the really tough times seem to be behind them.
Things have got better - with membership increasing since the end of the coalition years, a trend that accelerated after last year's EU referendum, thanks to the party's pre-Remain stance.
Women on board

Image copyright PA Image caption Christine Jardine is one of the Lib Dems four female MPs

The Lib Dems got a confidence boost last December when their candidate Sarah Olney won the Richmond Park by election - unseating the Conservative Zac Goldsmith.
Her victory was widely put down to Remain-voting constituents venting their anger over Brexit.
For a party that prides itself on gender equality, it was a source of embarrassment that after the 2015 election the remaining eight Lib Dem MPs were all men.
Thanks to this year's general election, four of their 12 MPs are now women: Wera Hobhouse, Christine Jardine, Layla Moran and Jo Swinson.
With the presence of women MPs on the podium at this year's conference, credibility is restored.
Soul-searching after the snap election

Image copyright AFP Image caption Sarah Olney - who won and lost Richmond Park - is now Sir Vince's chief of staff

It had looked as if the Liberal Democrats might carve out a role as the "go-to" party for the 48% who voted to stay in the EU.
They were understandably optimistic about gaining extra seats at the snap general election in June.
But it did not work out like that.
The Lib Dems only gained four additional seats, taking the number of MPs up to 12.
But their share of the vote actually went down to 7.4% from 7.9% in 2015.
Even the Brexit factor seemed to fade away with Zac Goldsmith winning Richmond Park back from Sarah Olney.
One casualty after the election was Tim Farron, who held his seat as an MP but lost the role of leader he had held since the summer of 2015.
At conference, there will be some soul-searching about how the Lib Dems position themselves.
Having spent five years in national government, it's hard to play the plucky outsider challenging the Establishment.
Time for some big ideas

Image copyright PA Image caption Lord Ashdown has warned members they must "think big" again

Do the Lib Dems really want to be a think-tank for rival parties again?
With British politics looking rather polarised, there might seem to be some empty space in the centre.
Former leader Lord Ashdown thinks it's time for the Lib Dems to produce some more eye-catching policies.
In a pre-conference letter to his party, he told members they were producing "very few new ideas" and must "think big" again.
New leader

Image copyright AFP

The party will be holding this year's conference with a new leader.
Sir Vince was crowned leader in July after no-one else stood for the role.
Aged 74, he brings plenty of experience - from his warnings about risks ahead of the financial crash, to his ministerial jobs in the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition.
And don't forget his appearance on Strictly Come Dancing.
He also showed some nifty footwork to win back the Twickenham seat at this year's election, two years after losing out to a Conservative.
He has appointed Sarah Olney as his chief of staff.
As documented above, she's had a rather lively start to her political career, but as a relatively fresh face might she help with the generating of fresh ideas.
Getting noticed

Image caption There was a time when everyone appeared to agree with a Lib Dem leader

Getting (positive) publicity hasn't been easy for Lib Dem leaders in recent years - but the conference will give Vince Cable a chance to reach out to voters.
He's got a head-start on recent incumbents because quite a few people know who he is.
The challenge for Sir Vince is to stir up some excitement.
Earlier this month he gave a considered speech to the Resolution think-tank on how to reduce inequality.
He called it a "social and economic weakness" in the UK and thinks it's one reason why the UK voted for Brexit.
He promised to make inequality a "theme" of his leadership.
Will he be able to translate that into appealing policies?
But remember when Nick Clegg wowed people at the party leaders' TV debates in 2010?
Sir Vince's speech on the last day of conference (Tuesday) is his big moment.
Will he unveil a dangerous new idea that captures media attention, or have the jokes to cut through on social media?
Brexit, Brexit, Brexit

Image copyright AFP

A big question for the Liberal Democrats is where they stand now on Brexit.
With the wheels for exiting the EU in motion, finding the right stance is trickier than it might appear.
At the general election - when Tim Farron was leader - the party argued for a referendum on any deal reached with the EU - the choice being: accept the deal or stay in the EU.
Vince Cable used to argue against another referendum.
Since becoming leader, he supports it.
Given how divisive Brexit is, the leadership may wish they could put Brexit on the backburner at the conference.
But activists want a bold position and there could be a lively debate on the second day of the conference if a motion to block Brexit altogether gets an airing.
Stephen Crosher is one of the activists moving the motion, which proposes that the Lib Dems urge the government to "reverse the triggering" (to detrigger?)
of Article 50, which set in motion the UK's exit from the EU.
One tactic to avoid attention is to point out other parties' weaknesses.
Sir Vince has tried to capitalise on differences within the Conservative and Labour Party.
At conference, he is likely to continue in this vein, suggesting that the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is, quietly, a hard Brexiteer.
The idea is to try again to lure to the Lib Dems the pro-EU voters who backed Mr Corbyn at the election.
Dissenters

The Lib Dems are not exclusively Hard Remainers so the "reverse Brexit" motion, if debated, would not necessarily get an easy ride.
In a Commons vote in March, the official Lib Dem position was to vote against triggering Article 50.
But two Liberal Democrat MPs - Norman Lamb and Greg Mulholland - voted for Article 50 to be triggered, arguing that the result of the referendum should be respected.
Brexit in many forms

Brexit will appear at many times and in many guises.
After lunch on Saturday there will be a debate about the impact on public services.
A motion tabled by the Lib Dem peer and former MEP Baroness Ludford accuses the Conservatives and Labour of being committed to a "hard Brexit including abandoning membership of the European Single Market".
It also says that more than half of the 10,000 doctors from European Economic Area countries are "considering leaving the UK" because of Brexit - and that applications from EU nurses to work in the NHS has fallen by 96%.
Whacky ideas

It's traditional to look out for what might seem wide of the mainstream ideas being debated at the Lib Dem conference, especially at fringe meetings.
Watch this space.
In the meantime, delegates can let off steam at the official Lib Dem disco on Saturday night or the "Communi-oke".
Key debates at the Liberal Democrats conference:

Saturday, 16 September

09.00-09.05 Opening of Conference by Baroness Brinton

09.25-10.10 Policy motion: Learning to Communicate in English

14.10-15.25 Policy motion: The Impact of Brexit on Public Services

17.50-18.00 Report: Campaign for Gender Balance

Sunday, 17 September

10.00-10.45 Policy motion: Armed Forces Personnel: Recruitment, Retention and Welfare

10.45-12.30 Consultative session: Europe

14.10-15.10 Question and answer session: Leader Sir Vince Cable

15.30-16.45 Policy motion: Safe Building Standards for all Homes

Monday, 18 September

10.00-11.00 Policy motion: Defeating Terrorism, Protecting Liberties 32

11.00-11.20 Speech: Former leader Tim Farron

14.10-15.10 Policy motion: Employment in the 21st Century

15.30-16.30 Policy motion: Encouraging Companies to be Responsible Corporate Citizens

Tuesday, 19 September

09.00-09.35 Policy motion: European Atomic Energy Community

11.10-11.50 Policy motion: Protecting Small Businesses

12.10-12.50 Policy motion: Gun and Knife Crime

14.10-15.30 Leader's Speech: Sir Vince Cable
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Election 2017: Highlights of TV election coverage

An at-a-glance guide to the key points of the UK General Election.
The headlines

The Conservatives have lost their Commons majority - the Tories are now the largest party in a hung Parliament

Theresa May says she will form a government and work with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs, after going to Buckingham Palace to see the Queen.
The PM says she is "sorry" for colleagues who lost their seats.
Jeremy Corbyn says she should quit and Labour wants to attempt a minority government

The Conservatives plus 10 DUP MPs have 328 seats - more than the other parties put together.
A so-called "progressive alliance" between Labour, SNP, Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru and Greens would have 314.
A majority is 326.
There are 262 seats for Labour - up 30 seats; 35 seats for the SNP, a loss of 21 seats; the Lib Dems are up four to 12 seats; Plaid Cymru on four seats; the Greens on one, and none for UKIP

UKIP leader Paul Nuttall has resigned

In Northern Ireland, the SDLP and the UUP have lost all their Westminster MPs after a night of big gains for the DUP and Sinn Fin

The Lib Dems had a mixed night with some former big figures returning - but ex-leader Nick Clegg losing his seat

Leader Tim Farron called on Theresa May to resign

The SNP remains the largest party in Scotland but the Conservatives have won 12 seats from them so far; Labour have won seven; the Lib Dems three

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP is ready to work with others to try to keep the Conservatives out of government and block their Brexit strategy

There is economic uncertainty reflected in the City

Voter turnout is up by 2% to 69% - the highest since 1997.
The vote share is Conservative 42%, Labour 40%, Lib Dems 7%, UKIP 2% and the Greens 2%.
Labour put in a strong showing in Wales, taking back Gower, Cardiff North and Vale of Clwyd from the Conservatives

Follow the latest news at it happens on our live page

Big scalps

Former Lib Dem Leader and one-time deputy PM Nick Clegg lost his Sheffield Hallam seat to Labour's Jared O'Mara

Former SNP leader and former first minister of Scotland Alex Salmond was unseated in Gordon by the Conservatives' Colin Clark on swing of 20%, and the SNP's Westminster leader Angus Robertson also lost to Tory Douglas Ross.
Eight Conservative ministers were among those who lost out - Jane Ellison, Gavin Barwell, Rob Wilson, Ben Gummer, James Wharton, Nicola Blackwood, Simon Kirby and Edward Timpson.
Other notable results

For more results, click here

Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
Find your constituency and candidates Enter a postcode or seat name Start typing to search Search for constituencies

What the parties are saying

Speaking outside Number 10, Theresa May said she intended to form a government which could "provide certainty and lead Britain forward at this critical time for our country".
She gave little detail on how the arrangement with the DUP may work.
DUP leader Arlene Foster confirmed she had spoken to Mrs May and they would speak further to "explore how it may be possible to bring stability to this nation at this time of great challenge".
Jeremy Corbyn said: "People have had quite enough of austerity politics" and Mrs May should "go and make way for a government that is truly representative of this country"

Mr Clegg warned of a "grave gulf" between young and old in the UK and said the next Parliament will preside "over a deeply divided and polarised nation"

Lib Dem leader Tim Farron said: "She called this election expecting a coronation, and took each and every one of us for granted in the most cynical way possible."
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Brexit "is in some trouble" if Jeremy Corbyn forms a coalition and he will "have absolutely no choice" but to come back into British politics

SNP Leader Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP has "won the election in Scotland" but she is disappointed to see losses: "We've got some reflection to do."
Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson: "Indyref 2 is dead in Scotland and Nicola Sturgeon needs to reflect on that."
"I'm afraid we ran a pretty dreadful campaign," said Conservative Anna Soubry who says the prime minister "needs to consider her position".
"I think it will be difficult for her to survive," DUP leader Arlene Foster on Theresa May.
Social media reaction

The hashtag #HungParliament shot to the top of Twitter's list of top UK trends after the general election exit poll predicted that the Conservatives would lose their overall majority.
More than 70,000 messages were posted in under an hour.
Read more here

The Cult of Curtice: Mild-mannered number-cruncher Professor John Curtice is a social media celebrity on a tense election night.
While UKIP's vote share is down, it is still all the rage on social media where the party has been trending all night.
Key video clips

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says the UK needs a period of stability

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn: "I'm very, very proud of the campaign my party has run"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Laura Kuenssberg says the result is a "total political disaster for Theresa May"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption This is the moment the general election exit poll is announced

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nick Clegg: 'There's a huge gulf between young and old'

Analysis

BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg:

The conversations have started not just about whether the Tories will be able to form a government, but whether or not Theresa May can stay in her job.
There is no one prevailing mood inside the Tory party.
As I write, Mrs May is holed up with her advisers inside Tory HQ.
But a former minister Anna Soubry has called for her to "consider her position" - political code for calling for her to resign.
Read more from Laura

John Curtice, Professor of Politics at the University of Strathclyde

This is the third post-war snap election called unexpectedly before a party's term of office had come to an end.
On the two previous occasions in 1970 and February 1974 the PM and the party lost office.
While there is no other conceivable administration in the new parliament other than a Conservative-led one, it remains to be seen whether the PM will retain her position.
However, so long as the Conservatives can reach an accommodation with the DUP they will have a working majority in the House of Commons.
BBC economics editor Kamal Ahmed:

When the general election exit poll was revealed at 10pm, the pound immediately dropped by 2% as investors took a position that a hung parliament was a possible outcome of the general election.
Why would that cause the currency to decline?
Because a hung parliament means that the government's direction of travel would be less certain.
Read more from Kamal

Philip Sim, BBC Scotland political reporter: If Prime Minister Theresa May does not appear to have had a particularly good night, Ruth Davidson, the Tory leader in Scotland, certainly has.
The Scottish Tories have more than doubled their returns in some places where the party was previously unelectable.
Read more from Philip

In pictures

Image copyright AFP Image caption The exit poll projected onto BBC Broadcasting House

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Jeremy Corbyn said he was "humbled" by the size of the vote for him

See more images from the night here

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mrs May said it was now incumbent on the Conservatives to offer "stability"

Image caption Nick Clegg: "Live by the sword, you die by the sword"

Image copyright EPA Image caption Nicola Sturgeon was disappointed by losses but said the SNP remained the biggest party in Scotland
The Conservatives have lost seats in Parliament and no longer enjoy an overall majority, while Labour has exceeded the expectations of pollsters and increased its number of MPs.
But this isn't the whole story...

1.
The Conservatives won 20 seats

Although it was a bad night for Theresa May's party overall, with 33 MPs ejected from Parliament, it actually won seats elsewhere.
The majority of their gains were in Scotland, where the Conservatives performed well against the SNP, unseating the former SNP leader Alex Salmond in Gordon.
The party also took six seats from Labour, and snatched Clacton from UKIP.
2. Who lost seats to Labour?
Labour's six losses were offset by 36 gains - 28 of which were from the Conservatives and two from the Lib Dems - including Nick Clegg's former seat of Sheffield Hallam.
The party also took six Scottish seats from the SNP.
Most of the changes were in Scotland and the north of England

Although the political landscape of Northern Ireland has also shifted dramatically with the UUP and the SDLP losing all of their MPs.
Changed seats All seats Please enable Javascript to view our results map Con

Con Lab

Lab SNP

SNP LD

LD PC

PC UKIP

UKIP Ind

Ind DUP

DUP SDLP

SDLP UUP

UUP SF

SF Green

More maps showing the changes from 2015 to 2017 are here.
The SNP saw some huge majorities disappear

The table below shows the largest majorities in the last general election in 2015 that have been overturned.
Nine of the largest 10 previously belonged to the SNP - a 14,000-vote majority won by the party's former spokesperson on social justice, Eilidh Whiteford, in 2015 has been converted into a 4,000-vote majority for the Conservatives.
Constituency (out of 650 so far) Result 2015 Majority 2017 Majority Banff & Buchan CON GAIN FROM SNP 14339 3693 Coatbridge, Chryston & Bellshill LAB GAIN FROM SNP 11501 1586 Ayr, Carrick & Cumnock CON GAIN FROM SNP 11265 2774 Angus CON GAIN FROM SNP 11230 2645 Stirling CON GAIN FROM SNP 10480 148 Ochil & South Perthshire CON GAIN FROM SNP 10168 3359 Rutherglen & Hamilton West LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9975 265 Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9974 259 Midlothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9859 885 Canterbury LAB GAIN FROM CON 9798 187 Oxford West & Abingdon LD GAIN FROM CON 9582 816 Glasgow North East LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9222 242 Moray CON GAIN FROM SNP 9065 4159 Gordon CON GAIN FROM SNP 8687 2607 Battersea LAB GAIN FROM CON 7938 2416 Kensington LAB GAIN FROM CON 7361 20 Aberdeen South CON GAIN FROM SNP 7230 4752 Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine CON GAIN FROM SNP 7033 7949 East Lothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 6803 3083 Warwick & Leamington LAB GAIN FROM CON 6606 1206 Reading East LAB GAIN FROM CON 6520 3749 Dumfries & Galloway CON GAIN FROM SNP 6514 5643 Foyle SF GAIN FROM SDLP 6046 169 South Down SF GAIN FROM SDLP 5891 2446 Colne Valley LAB GAIN FROM CON 5378 915 Mansfield CON GAIN FROM LAB 5315 1057 Portsmouth South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5241 1554 Stockton South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5046 888 Bristol North West LAB GAIN FROM CON 4944 4761 High Peak LAB GAIN FROM CON 4894 2322 Stroud LAB GAIN FROM CON 4866 687 Enfield Southgate LAB GAIN FROM CON 4753 4355 Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross LD GAIN FROM SNP 3844 2044 Bath LD GAIN FROM CON 3833 5694 Ipswich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3733 831 Renfrewshire East CON GAIN FROM SNP 3718 4712 Crewe & Nantwich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3620 48 Clacton CON GAIN FROM UKIP 3437 15828 Edinburgh West LD GAIN FROM SNP 3210 2988 Ceredigion PC GAIN FROM LD 3067 104 Keighley LAB GAIN FROM CON 3053 249 Leeds North West LAB GAIN FROM LD 2907 4224 Kingston & Surbiton LD GAIN FROM CON 2834 4124 Warrington South LAB GAIN FROM CON 2750 2549 Copeland CON WIN 2564 1695 Stoke-on-Trent South CON GAIN FROM LAB 2539 663 Sheffield Hallam LAB GAIN FROM LD 2353 2125 Middlesbrough South & Cleveland East CON GAIN FROM LAB 2268 1020 Dunbartonshire East LD GAIN FROM SNP 2167 5339 Cardiff North LAB GAIN FROM CON 2137 4174 Twickenham LD GAIN FROM CON 2017 9762 Walsall North CON GAIN FROM LAB 1937 2601 Peterborough LAB GAIN FROM CON 1925 607 Derbyshire North East CON GAIN FROM LAB 1883 2861 Lincoln LAB GAIN FROM CON 1443 1538 Southport CON GAIN FROM LD 1322 2914 Bedford LAB GAIN FROM CON 1097 789 South Antrim DUP GAIN FROM UUP 949 3208 Belfast South DUP GAIN FROM SDLP 906 1996 Weaver Vale LAB GAIN FROM CON 806 3928 Eastbourne LD GAIN FROM CON 733 1609 Brighton Kemptown LAB GAIN FROM CON 690 9868 Fermanagh & South Tyrone SF GAIN FROM UUP 530 875 Plymouth Sutton & Devonport LAB GAIN FROM CON 523 6807 Bury North LAB GAIN FROM CON 378 4375 Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk CON GAIN FROM SNP 328 11060 Vale of Clwyd LAB GAIN FROM CON 237 2379 Croydon Central LAB GAIN FROM CON 165 5652 Derby North LAB GAIN FROM CON 41 2015 Gower LAB GAIN FROM CON 27 3269
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May awaiting her constituency result in the early hours of Friday

The post mortem on how Theresa May managed to lose her majority in Thursday's general election after expecting to secure a landslide victory is well under way.
Here are 10 theories.
First things first.
Did she blow it?
The Conservatives came first in this election with 318 seats, with Labour the next biggest party on 262 seats.
The Conservatives got more votes that anyone else - 42.4% to Labour's 40% - and Theresa May's party got more votes than anyone since the record-breaking total John Major received in 1992.
And yes, that means she got more votes than Tony Blair's New Labour landslide in 1997.
So, you ask, in what sense did she blow it?
Well, she had 331 MPs - more than the 326 needed to have a Commons majority - when she decided to call the election with the aim of increasing her majority.
She also began the campaign with an undisputed opinion-poll lead in double figures and a landslide victory within her grasp.
She ends it having to try to do a deal with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to stay in power, and knowing that, the decision to call a snap election will go down as one of the biggest own goals in British political history.
So how did it come to this?
1) Deciding to call an election

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Reaction from Bristol: 'You're joking.
Why does she need to do it?'
Theresa May had been serenely racking up stunning approval ratings and huge opinion-poll leads.
Her constant refrain was "Brexit meant Brexit" and it seemed a serious, tough, honest and non-flashy politician was what the British people wanted.
Her honeymoon period felt like that of another self-consciously unshowy prime minister who came to power without an election - Gordon Brown.
But unlike Mr Brown in 2007, she did not allow speculation about a snap election to run rife only to blow her reputation by deciding not to call one after all.
She ruled out having an election.
And then she changed her mind.
She insisted she was acting in the national interest but others detected baser motives.
Jeremy Corbyn said: "How can any voter trust what the prime minister says?".
Nicola Sturgeon said it was a naked power grab and a bid to crush all opposition.
The public, like Brenda in Bristol, seemed weary of politics and voting.
2) The wrong type of campaign

Image copyright Getty Images

This was Theresa May's election - the Conservatives were some way off in the distance, if they were visible at all, at the start of the campaign.
But was she the right kind of candidate to be placed front and centre like this?
Katie Perrior, Mrs May's former director of communications thinks not.
Writing in the Times, she said: "If you run a presidential-style campaign with a woman who doesn't like media interviews, then you have to accept that it's better to do them and run the risk that they go badly than look like you are running scared.
Furthermore, if you want to brag that your candidate is a bloody difficult woman, then she has to show some empathy to remind people she is human after all."
3) Dodging the TV debates

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Home Secretary Amber Rudd and senior politicians from six other parties took part in the debate.
With huge poll leads at the start of the campaign it was quickly decided that Mrs May would not take part in anything as risky as a TV debate with her main challenger, Jeremy Corbyn, or risk meeting too many members of the public in big rallies.
That decision backfired when Mr Corbyn decided to take part in a seven-way debate with other party leaders - he did not make a big deal of her absence, but everybody else on the stage did.
The Green Party's Caroline Lucas said: "You don't say it's the most important election of our lifetime and not be bothered to show up."
Mrs May might have performed badly in the debate, but she arguably took a far bigger reputational hit by not taking part, as it opened her up to accusations she was running scared, or that she was complacently assuming victory.
4) Underestimating the opposition

Image copyright Reuters

Sporting history is littered with underdogs triumphing because they wanted to win more than their opponents, or put in more effort.
The same sometimes goes for politics.
In this election Mrs May seemed like she would be happy to say "strong and stable" from dawn until the sun set over the fields of wheat she "naughtily" ran through as a child.
There was little in the way of a positive message to entice floating voters.
Her campaign team did not seem able to conceive of the idea that anyone would take Mr Corbyn seriously.
They underestimated how well his anti-austerity message would go over with voters worn out by years of frozen wages and public spending squeezes.
Many commentators, on the left and right, who had written Jeremy Corbyn off as vote-losing liability have had to eat their words since the election.
Just about everyone underestimated his appeal, once he was given a chance to air his views unmediated by a largely hostile press.
5) Manifesto policies

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Anna Soubry has given a frank assessment of her party's campaign

The turning point of the campaign, according to insiders, was Theresa May's U-turn on social care.
Team May were apparently so confident of victory that they thought they could tackle the looming problem of social care costs - an issue parties scrapping to win elections have generally shied away from.
But within hours the main thing many people knew about the Conservative programme for government was that it included a "dementia tax" that could lead to more people having to sell their homes to pay for care.
The same went for means-testing the winter fuel allowance and ending the "triple lock" that guarantees a minimum 2.5% increase in the state pension.
Mrs May might have got away with the rapid U-turn on social care - something that is almost unheard of the middle of an election campaign - if she had owned up to it but she continued to insist that nothing had changed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May: This is the right way forward

Anna Soubry, an anti-Brexit Tory MP said this was the moment that she lost her "strong and stable" reputation.
Some Conservative MPs have suggested, off the record, that the 2017 manifesto was the worst the party has ever published.
Ms Soubry said it was more a problem of "appalling" presentation - not properly explaining the social care changes, which would actually have benefited many less well-off people - and allowing people to think free school meals for poor children were being axed, when in fact the plan was to end the free lunches for all infants, which benefits the better-off.
6) Not reacting to the Labour surge

Image copyright Reuters

Nick Timothy, pictured, who was forced out as Theresa May's policy adviser after the election result, suggests Team May were not even aware that there was a surge in Labour support as polling day approached.
In his resignation statement, he said this was "because modern campaigning techniques require ever-narrower targeting of specific voters, and we were not talking to the people who decided to vote for Labour".
Instead of pushing their message on the NHS and the energy price cap to get wavering Labour voters on side, they doubled down on what they thought was their strongest suit - Brexit and "strong and stable leadership" in contrast to a "coalition of chaos" under Mr Corbyn.
7) May's personality

Image copyright Getty Images

People knew very little about Theresa May before the campaign started - she had been home secretary for a long time but had not courted publicity like some of her cabinet colleagues.
An introvert, by Westminster standards, who does not like talking about her private feelings, she tended to come across as ill-at-ease on the TV sofa.
Like Hillary Clinton in last year's US elections, she was not a natural on the campaign trail either.
As Daily Mail sketch writer Quentin Letts pointed out at one event, she tended to look a bit miserable, or as he put it, a "glumbucket'.
Mr Corbyn, on the other hand, looked like he was enjoying himself.
At the end of the campaign, Mrs May had to rely on Boris Johnson, a natural political showman, to whip up the crowds.
8) Negativity and the youth vote

Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May spent a lot of time attacking Jeremy Corbyn's credibility and, as Nick Timothy has acknowledged, not enough time setting out her "positive plan for for the future".
There are shades of Clinton here again, who focused heavily on attacking her opponent's fitness for office rather than explaining what she would do with power.
Conservative attacks on Mr Corbyn's anti-terror record will have sounded alarm bells with older readers of Conservative-supporting newspapers.
They may have meant less to anyone under 30, who were more interested in what the Labour leader had to say about their future rather than who he was holding meetings with decades ago.
Labour countered Tory attack ads on Facebook with upbeat messages and celebrity endorsements.
Labour's successful push to get out the youth vote was a decisive factor in some seats, although there is still some debate about the size of the surge in voting among 18 to 24-year-olds.
The Tory campaign was widely criticised for being negative and uninspiring.
9) Fox hunting and 'the same old Tories'

Image copyright EPA Image caption Anti-hunting protesters marched on Downing Street

It may simply have been a repetition of a longstanding Tory policy but Theresa May's vow to hold a free vote on bringing back fox hunting is thought by some to have harmed her efforts to seal the deal with Labour voters flirting with the Conservatives.
It came up a lot on the doorstep, according to some reports, helping to "re-toxify" the Conservative brand among voters in traditional Labour areas, which Mrs May was banking on to win a big majority.
Like the social care U-turn, or the pledge to bring back grammar schools, it may have given anyone flirting with backing the Tories for the first time in their lives a reason not to switch their vote.
10) Events

Theresa May wanted the election to be about Brexit but the terror attacks in Manchester and London changed the course of the campaign.
Suddenly it was all about security and anti-terror policy.
This should have put the former home secretary in a strong position, and her statements on the attacks struck a suitably prime ministerial tone.
Labour's criticism of cuts to police numbers gave them a line of attack against Mrs May - but the pause in campaigning that followed the terrorist incidents resulted in a sombre and strangely off-kilter ending to the election.
Here is a selection of your views:

"Ignoring remain voters - too much focus on "no deal is better than a bad deal" and complaining that Remain voters were "citizens of nowhere" alienated the 48%.
Playing so much to the UKIP vote backfired in many areas of the country.
Evidence for this: the swing to Labour from Tories was much larger in Remain voting areas than Leave voting ones," Sue, York.
"Jeremy Corbyn was reckless and irresponsible in the promises he was making particularly to the youth voters.
Promising to give 'free university' at a cost to the UK of 11.5 Billion a year, is an example of the 'money tree' that pays for all !
Corbyn could afford to be reckless in his election promises because he didn't expect to win or be PM."
Ron, Stoke-on-Trent.
"The Conservatives underestimated the collapse in the number of votes for the UKIP party.
It must have been apparent that these votes would go somewhere and not necessarily all to the Conservative Party.
Clearly some of these went to the Labour Party.
The Labour Party will always have a strong backing in the cities and these extra votes from the UKIP party helped Labour get more seats.
This should have been anticipated and calculated before Mrs May called the election so some of her advisers and backroom staff got it clearly wrong and miscalculated - or was it Mrs May just determined to call the election whatever?," Jeff

"Definitely Fox Hunting swayed me.
I left the Labour Party as a member when JC became leader.
I didn't think he was electable (and he still might not be) and predicted a Labour wipe-out with him at the helm.
But as the election went on I was slowly taken back into the fold by his positive campaign.
I'd always agreed with his policies, just him as a leader I had doubts over.
The more he engaged though the more I cheered, and once the manifestos where published it was game over for the Tories.
But yes, the fox hunting was the initial game changer (as it was announced early on) - and then everything else just fell into place," Ian, Chester.
"I'm surprised that more hasn't been made of the proposed boundary changes, which would have reduced MPs from 650 to 600.
If May had forced these through and then called the election she would have undoubtedly won a majority, as they massively favour the Conservatives.
One report suggested that under the new boundaries Labour could be 10% ahead of the Tories and still not have a majority," Andrew, Loughborough.
"The Tories did not lose their majority over the stance favouring a hard Brexit.
They lost seats because the majority accept that Brexit will happen and all the other issues of economic and social policy were more important issues in the election.
Mrs May needs to ignore the pro Remain Major, Cameron and Clarke who are using the situation to try to reverse their defeat in the Referendum," Ian

"You've laid out some good reasons but as you state, both the Conservative and Labour vote increased...... why?
Because of a huge amount of tactical voting especially driven by social media.
A lot of the "Remainers" had been horrified about the way that she'd embraced a Hard Brexit and even though Labour supported Brexit, they felt that not voting Tory would potentially hinder this outcome.
Labour need to bear this in mind too.
As a lot of people like me "lent" them their vote," Paul, Newcastle-under-Lyme

"Was there any evidence to suggest that tactical voting also played a part in the demise of the Conservative majority?
Were voters were more likely to vote for their second choice party if it meant stopping a Tory candidate from winning their constituency?
Clearly this could have been a case in constituencies where non-contest agreements were forged e.g.
Brighton Pavilion (Caroline Lucas), and in Twickenham where there was an absence of any campaign leaflets from any parties other than Lib Dems and Conservatives," John, London

I am surprised by your list of reasons for the Conservative election results.
For me this is very much about Brexit and Theresa May's stance.
She was a remainer but since being elected has used a rhetoric which concerns much of the UK population.
So this result is a protest against hard Brexit which will damage the UK economy beyond repair.
It is also the young peoples's recognition that their vote matters.
Had they voted in the referendum the result would have been remain, and they are angry and want their voices heard, Louise, Hampshire

"The media, including the BBC, displayed an attitude of sneering contempt towards Jeremy Corbyn ever since he was elected Labour Party leader right up to the recent election campaign.
Even the Guardian only endorsed Corbyn at the last minute, when it sensed which way the tide was running.
This must raise serious questions about how 'free' our media really are, and who plots their editorial course.
Time for another independent enquiry, perhaps?," John, Coventry

"Another nail in the coffin of May's majority is her too-cosy relationship with Trump and particularly her failure to unreservedly condemn him for pulling the US out of the Paris Agreement.
Saying that she was 'disappointed' was nowhere near strong enough," Ron, Cambridgeshire

"It will be a rare day a Conservative calls another election without a 35 point lead in the polls.
No wonder Labour is cambering for another election, Labour would rather enjoy another election in the next six months.
Whereas, as a postman, I would not."
Paul, Lincolnshire

Everyone is tired of austerity, even those who are managing well.
It's interesting how many of the affluent, metropolitan elite voted Labour, even though they were the ones who would be paying the bulk of the extra taxes.
Whether they would have voted the same way if they'd thought he actually stood a chance of winning is a different question.
Paul, London
Autumn sees Britain's political parties gathering by the sea - or in big city conference centres - here's a round-up of this year's, which will be updated as they happen.
Liberal Democrats - 16-19 September in Bournemouth

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Liberal Democrat conference: Sir Vince Cable's full speech

The Liberal Democrats gathered by the seaside having modestly increased their tally of MPs to 12 in the recent general election, following an electoral drubbing in 2015 that left them with just eight.
In his keynote speech to conference, new leader Sir Vince Cable said he could lead the Lib Dems back to power by offering a mix of "hope and realism".
He called for higher taxes on foreign property speculators and second home owners to help tackle inequality.
And he claimed Brexit would be an act of "masochism", leaving the UK poorer.
Labour - 24-27 September in Brighton

Image copyright PA

The Labour Party's annual get-together comes after leader Jeremy Corbyn strengthened his position following the general election, having seen off a 2016 leadership challenge from MP Owen Smith.
Despite some, including MPs in his own party, predicting poll disaster for Labour under Mr Corbyn's leadership, the party gained seats and recorded a 40% share of the national vote in June 2017.
Ahead of this year's conference, Labour's National Executive Committee approved changes to the way leaders are elected.
The threshold for nominations to get on a leadership ballot has been lowered from 15% of MPs and MEPs to 10%.
Mr Corbyn did not have the backing of most Labour MPs as he became leader in 2015 but has won two leadership contests by a landslide due to his strong support among party members.
The changes, which now have to be agreed at the party conference, could make it easier to elect a left-wing successor to Mr Corbyn.
Conservatives - 1-4 October in Manchester

Image copyright PA

The Conservatives continue a trend over recent years for urban - as opposed to seaside - conferences with a return to Manchester.
Prime Minister Theresa May took what seemed a reasonably safe gamble when she called an election earlier this year, with her party well ahead of Labour in the opinion polls.
However, while the Conservatives increased their vote share they lost their majority in Parliament, after a much-criticised campaign.
The government now needs the support of Northern Ireland's 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to be sure of winning Commons votes.
Party members will gather with Mrs May in a weakened position and questions over cabinet unity on Brexit - prompted most recently by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson - dominating the headlines.
UKIP - 29-30 September in Torquay

Image copyright PA

UKIP members meet for a two-day conference which will see the winner of the party's latest leadership election announced.
UKIP's share of the vote in the general election collapsed to just 1.8%, prompting the resignation of then-leader Paul Nuttall.
Since UK voters backed leaving the EU in a referendum in 2016, the party which focused on getting the UK out of the EU has struggled to broaden its appeal.
Former leader Nigel Farage ruled out a return but 11 candidates are vying for the party's top job.
Green Party - 7-10 October in Harrogate

Image copyright Green Party

The Green Party of England and Wales achieved just a 1.6% share of the vote in the general election, though the party's sole MP, Caroline Lucas, retained her seat in Brighton Pavilion with an increased share of the vote.
Ms Lucas is leader of the party alongside Jonathan Bartley in a job-share arrangement, after the two ran for the leadership on a joint ticket.
According to the party's website, there will be a "co-leaders' speech" to conference.
SNP - 8-10 October in Glasgow

Image copyright AFP

After a stunning general election result in 2015 - when the party won 56 out of 59 Scottish seats - the SNP returned 35 MPs in 2017.
It is still the dominant force in Scottish politics and forms a minority government in the Scottish Parliament - but it lost 12 Commons seats to the Conservatives, six seats to Labour and three to the Lib Dems.
Leader Nicola Sturgeon has called for a second referendum on Scottish independence to be held at the end of the Brexit process, although the date of it has been put back in the wake of the general election.
A majority of Scottish voters backed continuing EU membership in 2016 and Ms Sturgeon has said Brexit would mean Scotland leaving the EU "against our will".
Plaid Cymru - 20-21 October in Caernarfon

Image copyright Plaid Cymru

Plaid Cymru gained a seat in the general election, taking their Commons total to four.
The party has 11 seats in the Welsh Assembly - the same number as the Conservatives but behind Labour.
However, Assembly Member Neil McEvoy has been suspended from the Plaid Cymru group following a row over policy on council house sales.
Plaid backs a move by the Labour Welsh government to stop council house sales - but in a Facebook post, Mr McEvoy said right-to-buy was the "one realistic way" many working-class people had of owning their own home.
In an email to party members, leader Leanne Wood said he was "clearly breaching" Plaid's rulebook.
Here is an easy-to-understand guide to Brexit - beginning with the basics, then a look at the negotiations, followed by a selection of answers to questions we've been sent.
What's happening now?
Theresa May is delivering a key speech in Italy on Friday seeking to turbocharge the UK's negotiations with European Union about the terms of its departure.
The key element is expected to be an offer to pay something along the lines of 18bn in return for a two year 'transitional period' in which the UK and EU economies continue to operate pretty much as closely together as they do now, after the official Brexit date of March 2019.
What does Brexit mean?
It is a word that has become used as a shorthand way of saying the UK leaving the EU - merging the words Britain and exit to get Brexit, in a same way as a possible Greek exit from the euro was dubbed Grexit in the past.
Why is Britain leaving the European Union?
A referendum - a vote in which everyone (or nearly everyone) of voting age can take part - was held on Thursday 23 June, 2016, to decide whether the UK should leave or remain in the European Union.
Leave won by 51.9% to 48.1%.
The referendum turnout was 71.8%, with more than 30 million people voting.
Find the result in your area

What was the breakdown across the UK?
England voted for Brexit, by 53.4% to 46.6%.
Wales also voted for Brexit, with Leave getting 52.5% of the vote and Remain 47.5%.
Scotland and Northern Ireland both backed staying in the EU.
Scotland backed Remain by 62% to 38%, while 55.8% in Northern Ireland voted Remain and 44.2% Leave.
See the results in more detail.
What changed in government after the referendum?
Image copyright PA

Britain got a new Prime Minister - Theresa May.
The former home secretary took over from David Cameron, who announced he was resigning on the day he lost the referendum.
Like Mr Cameron, Mrs May was against Britain leaving the EU but she played only a very low-key role in the campaign and was never seen as much of an enthusiast for the EU.
She became PM without facing a full Conservative leadership contest after her key rivals from what had been the Leave side pulled out.
Where does Theresa May stand on Brexit?
Theresa May was against Brexit during the referendum campaign but is now in favour of it because she says it is what the British people want.
Her key message has been that "Brexit means Brexit" and she triggered the two year process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
She set out her negotiating goals in a letter to the EU council president Donald Tusk.
How did the snap election change things?
Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May surprised everyone after the 2017 Easter Bank Holiday by calling an election for 8 June (it had been due in 2020).
She said she wanted to strengthen her hand in Brexit negotiations with European leaders.
She said Labour, the SNP and other opposition parties - and members of the House of Lords - would try to block and frustrate her strategy.
However Mrs May did not increase her party's seats in the Commons and she ended up weakened, having to rely on support from the 10 MPs from Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party.
You can get more detail on the 2017 election here.
What has happened to the UK economy since the Brexit vote?
David Cameron, his Chancellor George Osborne and many other senior figures who wanted to stay in the EU predicted an immediate economic crisis if the UK voted to leave and it is true that the pound slumped the day after the referendum - and remains around 10% lower against the dollar and 15% down against the euro.
But predictions of immediate doom were wrong, with the UK economy estimated to have grown 1.8% in 2016, second only to Germany's 1.9% among the world's G7 leading industrialised nations.
UK growth has slowed so far in 2017, but the economy is still expanding.
Inflation has risen since June 2016 to stand at 2.6%, but unemployment has continued to fall, to stand at a 42 year low of 4.4%.
Annual house price increases have fallen from 9.4% in June 2016 but were still at an inflation-beating 4.7% in the year to May 2017, according to official ONS figures.
Brexit talks are under way

They finally, officially, started on 19 June, 2017.
Here's a picture from that first session:

Image copyright Reuters

The UK and EU negotiating teams are scheduled to meet face-to-face for one week each month.
Their first tasks are trying to get an agreement on the rights of UK and EU citizens after Brexit, reaching a figure for the amount of money the UK will need to pay on leaving, the so-called "divorce bill", and what happens to the Northern Ireland border.
You can find out more about the talks here.
What is the European Union?
The European Union - often known as the EU - is an economic and political partnership involving 28 European countries (click here if you want to see the full list).
It began after World War Two to foster economic co-operation, with the idea that countries which trade together are more likely to avoid going to war with each other.
It has since grown to become a "single market" allowing goods and people to move around, basically as if the member states were one country.
It has its own currency, the euro, which is used by 19 of the member countries, its own parliament and it now sets rules in a wide range of areas - including on the environment, transport, consumer rights and even things such as mobile phone charges.
Click here for a beginners' guide to how the EU works.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How does the European Union work?
What is Article 50?
Article 50 is a plan for any country that wishes to exit the EU.
It was created as part of the Treaty of Lisbon - an agreement signed up to by all EU states which became law in 2009.
Before that treaty, there was no formal mechanism for a country to leave the EU.
It's pretty short - just five paragraphs - which spell out that any EU member state may decide to quit the EU, that it must notify the European Council and negotiate its withdrawal with the EU, that there are two years to reach an agreement - unless everyone agrees to extend it - and that the exiting state cannot take part in EU internal discussions about its departure.
What date will the UK will leave the EU?
For the UK to leave the EU it had to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty which gives the two sides two years to agree the terms of the split.
Theresa May triggered this process on 29 March, meaning the UK is scheduled to leave on Friday, 29 March 2019.
It can be extended if all 28 EU members agree, but at the moment all sides are focusing on that date as being the key one.
What's going to happen to all the EU laws in force in the UK?
The Conservative government has introduced the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill to Parliament.
If passed, it will end the primacy of EU law in the UK.
This "Great Repeal Bill" as it has been called, is supposed to incorporate all EU legislation into UK law in one lump, after which the government will decide over a period of time which parts to keep, change or remove.
The government is facing claims from Remain supporting MPs that it is giving itself sweeping powers to change legislation without proper Parliamentary scrutiny.
Read a full guide to the bill.
What is the Labour Party's position on Brexit?
Labour's position on Brexit was tweaked in mid-August, when the shadow Brexit secretary, Sir Keir Starmer, announced that the party now wanted to keep the UK in the single market and a customs union during a transition that could last for up to four years.
Labour would also accept free movement of people, payments into the EU budget and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice during the transition.
This is a considerably "softer" version of Brexit than the one advocated by the government, but there are still divisions within the party about whether the UK should try to stay in the single market in the longer term.
What do 'soft' and 'hard' Brexit mean?
These terms have increasingly been used as debate focused on the terms of the UK's departure from the EU.
There is no strict definition of either, but they are used to refer to the closeness of the UK's relationship with the EU post-Brexit.
So at one extreme, "hard" Brexit could involve the UK refusing to compromise on issues like the free movement of people even if meant leaving the single market.
At the other end of the scale, a "soft" Brexit might follow a similar path to Norway, which is a member of the single market and has to accept the free movement of people as a result of that.
What is the single market?
The single market is seen by its advocates as the EU's biggest achievement and one of the main reasons it was set up in the first place.
Britain was a member of a free trade area in Europe before it joined what was then known as the common market.
In a free trade area countries can trade with each other without paying tariffs - but it is not a single market because the member states do not have to merge their economies together.
The European Union single market, which was completed in 1992, allows the free movement of goods, services, money and people within the European Union, as if it was a single country.
It is possible to set up a business or take a job anywhere within it.
The idea was to boost trade, create jobs and lower prices.
But it requires common law-making to ensure products are made to the same technical standards and imposes other rules to ensure a "level playing field".
Critics say it generates too many petty regulations and robs members of control over their own affairs.
Mass migration from poorer to richer countries has also raised questions about the free movement rule.
Theresa May has ruled out the UK staying in the single market.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has said continued membership of the single has to be an option in negotiations with Brussels.
Read more: A free trade area v EU single market

What's the difference between the single market and the customs union?
The customs union ensures EU member states all charge the same import duties to countries outside the EU.
It allows member states to trade freely with each other, without burdensome customs checks at borders, but it limits their freedom to strike their own trade deals.
It is different from a free trade area.
In a free trade area no tariffs, taxes or quotas are charged on goods and services moving within the area but members are free to strike their own external trade deals.
The single market is a very different beast - it is not just about the trade in goods.
It allows the free movement of people, money and services as if the EU was a single country.
Who is negotiating Britain's exit from the EU?
Theresa May set up a government department, headed by veteran Conservative MP and Leave campaigner David Davis, to take responsibility for Brexit.
Former defence secretary, Liam Fox, who also campaigned to leave the EU, was given the new job of international trade secretary and Boris Johnson, who was a leader of the official Leave campaign, is foreign secretary.
These three are each set to play roles in negotiations with the EU and seek out new international agreements, although it would be Mrs May, as prime minister, who would have the final say.
Who's who guide to both sides' negotiators.
How long will it take for Britain to leave the EU?
The Article 50 process lasts two years so the intention is for the UK to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
EU law still stands in the UK until it ceases being a member.
But there is currently uncertainty about how final the break will be on that day - a number of UK and EU figures back the idea of having a "transition" period of up to three years to allow a smooth implementation of whatever Brexit deal is negotiated and minimise disruption to businesses and holidaymakers etc.
Why might Brexit take so long?
Unpicking 43 years of treaties and agreements covering thousands of different subjects was never going to be a straightforward task.
It is further complicated by the fact that it has never been done before and negotiators will, to some extent, be making it up as they go along.
The post-Brexit trade deal is likely to be the most complex part of the negotiation because it needs the unanimous approval of more than 30 national and regional parliaments across Europe, some of whom may want to hold referendums.
So why can't the UK just cut all ties in March 2019?
The UK could cut all ties, but Theresa May and others would like to avoid such a "cliff-edge" where current regulations on things like cross-border trade and travel between the UK and the EU ends overnight.
They think it would harm the economy.
What is the focus of negotiations between the UK and EU?
The priority issues in negotiations are:

1) Agreeing what rights EU citizens already in the UK - and UK citizens living in the rest of the EU - will have after Brexit.
2) Agreeing a figure for the amount of money the UK has to pay the rest of the EU "to settle its accounts", when it leaves.
3) Working out what will happen on the border between Northern Ireland, when it is outside the EU, and the Republic of Ireland, which is part of the EU.
The EU says it wants to make decent progress on these three issues before beginning talks about what the UK's relations with the EU will be like after Brexit.
Mrs May set out her negotiating priorities in the letter officially triggering the process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
Here's a guide to the key points.
How are the talks going?
There have been agreements on some technical points, but the chief EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, has said there had been no decisive progress on any of the main issues.
The UK's Brexit Secretary, David Davis, insists progress has been made.
The main sticking point at the moment is money - and the size of the bill the UK will pay to cover its outstanding obligations when it leaves.
The UK wants this to be as low as possible.
All the other countries in the EU want it to be as high as possible.
Because when the UK leaves, there will be a hole in the EU budget and they will have to cover the shortfall.
The UK government has published a series of papers setting out its position on issues such as future customs arrangements, and on the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Government policy is now that the UK will leave the single market and the customs union on the day of Brexit, but that it will try to replicate existing customs arrangements during a time-limited transition period.
What happens if there is no deal with the EU?
Prime Minister Theresa May says leaving the EU with no deal whatsoever would be better than signing the UK up to a bad one.
Without an agreement on trade, the UK would have to operate under World Trade Organisation rules, which could mean customs checks and tariffs on goods as well as longer border check for travellers.
There are also questions about what would happen to Britain's position as global financial centre and the land border between the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
There is also concern that Brits living abroad in the EU could lose residency rights and access to free emergency health care.
Here is a full explanation of what 'no deal' could mean

What happens to EU citizens living in the UK?
It has yet to be agreed.
All EU nationals lawfully resident in the UK for at least five years will be able to apply for "settled status" and be able to bring over spouses and children, under a 15-page proposal unveiled by Theresa May.
Mrs May says she wants to give reassurance and certainty to the 3.2 million EU citizens in the UK - as well as citizens of the three EEA countries and Switzerland.
But any deal on their future legal status and rights must be reciprocal and also give certainty to the 1.2 million British expats living on the continent after the UK leaves the EU - expected to be on 29 March 2019, she says.
Michel Barnier, who is leading the Brexit negotiations for the EU, said the UK's proposals did not go far enough and he wanted the same level of protection citizens currently have under EU law.
He has demanded more clarity and ambition from the UK government.
The key points of the UK's proposals are:

Those granted settled status will be able to live, work, study and claim benefits just as they can now

The cut-off date for eligibility is undecided but will be between 29 March 2017 and 29 March 2019

Family members of EU citizens living abroad will be able to return and apply for settled status

EU nationals in the UK for less than five years at the specified date will be able to continue living and working in the UK

Once resident for five years, they can apply for settled status

Those arriving after the cut-off point will be able to stay temporarily

But there should be "no expectation" they will be granted permanent residence

A period of "blanket residence permission" may apply to give officials time to process applications to stay in the UK

The Home Office will no longer require evidence that EU citizens who weren't working held "comprehensive sickness insurance"

Labour has said it would guarantee the rights of of EU citizens living in the UK to stay there on "day one" of a Labour government.
EU nationals with a right to permanent residence, which is granted after they have lived in the UK for five years, should not see their rights affected after Brexit.
What happens to UK citizens working in the EU?
A lot depends on the kind of deal the UK agrees with the EU.
If the government opted to impose work permit restrictions on EU nationals, then other countries could reciprocate, meaning Britons would have to apply for visas to work.
What about EU nationals who want to work in the UK

Any EU citizen already living and working in the UK will be able to carry on working and living in the UK after Brexit.
The current plan is that even after Brexit, people from the EU will be able to move to work in the UK during a "transition" phase of up to three years.
However they will have to register.
A permanent proposal for post-Brexit immigration is not likely to be known for a few months yet, although it is widely expected that there will be a work permit system along the lines of that for non-EU nationals.
What does the fall in the value of the pound mean for prices in the shops?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Shoppers will need to keep a close eye on how much they are spending

People travelling overseas from the UK have found their pounds are buying fewer euros or dollars after the Brexit vote.
Even if the pound regains some of its value, currency experts expect it in the longer term to remain at least 10% below where it was when the referendum happened.
This means exports should get a boost as UK goods will be cheaper, but imported goods will get more expensive - some price rises for food, clothing and homeware goods have been seen.
The latest UK inflation figures have the rate at 2.6%, above the target level, but not out of kilter with recent years.
Will immigration be cut?
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has said one of the main messages she has taken from the Leave vote is that the British people want to see a reduction in immigration.
She has said this will be a focus of Brexit negotiations as she remains committed to getting net migration - the difference between the numbers entering and leaving the country - down to a "sustainable" level, which she defines as being below 100,000 a year.
The rate of increase in the size of Britain's population has slowed significantly since the Brexit vote.
This has largely been driven by an increase in emigration from the UK by citizens of Poland and the other East and Central European countries.
There were still 246,000 more people coming to live in the UK than leaving in the year to March 2017, according to the latest estimates - some way above the government's target of 100,000.
Could there be a second referendum?
It seems highly unlikely.
Both the Conservatives and the Labour Party have ruled out another referendum, arguing that it would be an undemocratic breach of trust with the British people who clearly voted to Leave.
Will MPs get a vote on the Brexit deal?
Theresa May has promised there will be a Commons and Lords vote to approve whatever deal the UK and the rest of the EU agree at the end of the two year process.
This vote is currently proposed as a "take it or leave it" one.
Labour wants the vote to have the option of sending the UK team back to renegotiate.
It is worth mentioning that any deal also has to be agreed by the European Parliament - with British MEPs getting a chance to vote on it there.
Will I need a visa to travel to the EU?
The UK government wants to keep visa-free travel to the UK for EU visitors after Brexit and it is hoping this will be reciprocated, meaning UK citizens will continue to be able to visit EU countries for short periods without seeking official permission to travel.
If visitors from EU countries wanted to work, study or settle in the UK they would have to apply for permission under the proposals.
No agreement has been reached yet, however.
If it is decided that EU citizens will need visas to come to the UK in the future, then UK citizens will need visas to travel to the EU.
Image copyright Reuters

Will I still be able to use my passport?
It is a British document - there is no such thing as an EU passport, so your passport will stay the same.
In theory, the government could, if it wanted, decide to change the colour, which is currently standardised for EU countries, says the BBC's Europe correspondent, Chris Morris.
Has any other member state ever left the EU?
No nation state has ever left the EU.
But Greenland, one of Denmark's overseas territories, held a referendum in 1982, after gaining a greater degree of self government, and voted by 52% to 48% to leave, which it duly did after a period of negotiation.
The BBC's Carolyn Quinn visited Greenland to find out how they did it.
What does this mean for Scotland?
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Nicola Sturgeon says a new independence referendum in Scotland is likely

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said in the wake of the Leave result that it was "democratically unacceptable" that Scotland faced being taken out of the EU when it voted to Remain.
Ms Sturgeon has officially asked for permission for a second referendum to be held.
She had wanted the vote to be held between the autumn of 2018 and spring 2019, but after losing seats at the 2017 general election she has put her plans on hold with no referendum likely until 2021.
Theresa May has said a second referendum should not be held during the Brexit process.
What does it mean for Northern Ireland?
The land border between Northern Ireland and EU member the Republic of Ireland is a key part of the Brexit talks.
There is currently a common travel area between the UK and the Republic.
Like Scotland, Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU in last year's referendum.
The result in Northern Ireland was 56% for Remain and 44% for Leave.
The UK government has published a paper setting out its vision for a post-Brexit border.
It wants to avoid returning to a "hard border" - that means no physical infrastructure, such as customs posts.
There would be no CCTV cameras or number plate recognition technology at the border, or set back from it.
Instead, the UK government is arguing for a wide-ranging exemption under which small and medium-sized businesses will not have to comply with any new customs tariffs.
If the proposals are accepted, customs officials envisage using a mix of technology and physical checks to monitor the compliance of bigger businesses engaged in international trade.
Critics say the proposals lack credible detail, with Labour deriding the plans for the border as "a fantasy frontier".
Sinn Fein, which was part of the ruling coalition in the Northern Ireland Assembly before it was suspended, has called for a referendum on leaving the UK and joining the Republic of Ireland as soon as possible.
The Conservatives have rejected Sinn Fein's call, saying there was no evidence opinion had shifted in favour of a united Ireland.
How much has Brexit cost so far and how much will it cost by the end?
There is much debate about the long-term costs and benefits to the UK economy of Brexit - but what we do know for certain is that the EU wants the UK to settle any outstanding bills before it leaves.
There have been no official estimates published of the size of the bill, which covers things like pension payments to EU officials, the cost of relocating London-based EU agencies and outstanding EU budget commitments.
Various figures ranging from 50bn (44bn) to 100bn (88bn) euros have been bandied about but although the UK has agreed to meet its financial obligations, Brexit secretary David Davis has said: "We will not be paying 100bn."
The UK could leave without any Brexit "divorce bill" deal but that would probably mean everyone ending up in court.
If compromise can be achieved, and if payment of the bill were to be spread over many years, the amounts involved may not be that significant economically.
How will pensions, savings, investments and mortgages be affected?
During the referendum campaign, David Cameron said the so-called "triple lock" for state pensions would be threatened by a UK exit.
This is the agreement by which pensions increase by at least the level of earnings, inflation or 2.5% every year - whichever is the highest.
Theresa May had proposed ditching the 2.5% part of the lock in the party's election manifesto, but as part of the post-election deal with the DUP the triple lock was again guaranteed.
There was an early post-referendum cut in interest rates, which has helped keep mortgage and other borrowing rates low.
There are few signs yet that rising inflation have worried the Bank of England enough to consider raising interest rates.
But if that happened it would make mortgages and loans more expensive to repay - but would be good news for savers.
Will duty-free sales on Europe journeys return?
Image copyright Thinkstock

Journalists and writers on social media have greeted the reintroduction of duty-free sales as an "upside" or "silver lining" of Brexit.
As with most Brexit consequences, whether this will happen depends on how negotiations with the EU play out - whether the "customs union" agreement between Britain and the EU is ended or continued.
Will EHIC cards still be valid?
Image copyright Thinkstock

If you are already living in another EU country on the day the UK leaves the bloc, your EHIC card - which entitles travellers to state-provided medical help for any condition or injury that requires urgent treatment, in any other country within the EU, as well as several non-EU countries - will continue to work.
After that date, for EU citizens wishing to travel to the UK or UK citizens wishing to travel to the EU, it is unclear about what will happen because no deal has yet been reached.
Read more here.
Will cars need new number plates?
Probably not, says BBC Europe correspondent Chris Morris, because there's no EU-wide law on vehicle registration or car number places, and the EU flag symbol is a voluntary identifier and not compulsory.
The DVLA says there has been no discussion about what would happen to plates with the flag if the UK voted to leave.
Could MPs block an EU exit?
Could the necessary legislation pass the Commons, given that a lot of MPs in the current Parliament - all SNP and Lib Dems, nearly all Labour and many Conservatives - were in favour of staying?
The referendum result is not legally binding - Parliament still has to pass the laws that will get Britain out of the 28 nation bloc, starting with the repeal of the 1972 European Communities Act.
The withdrawal agreement also has to be ratified by Parliament - the House of Lords and/or the Commons could vote against ratification, according to a House of Commons library report.
So in theory they could block the UK's EU exit.
But in practice that is seen as very unlikely given that a majority of people voted for Brexit in the referendum.
Will leaving the EU mean we don't have to abide by the European Court of Human Rights?
The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg is not a European Union institution.
It was set up by the Council of Europe, which has 47 members including Russia and Ukraine.
So quitting the EU will not exempt the UK from its decisions.
The Conservatives are committed to sticking with the Human Rights Act which requires UK courts to treat the ECHR as setting legal precedents for the UK during the Brexit process.
There have been longstanding plans to repeal the act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights.
What about the European Court of Justice?
The Court of Justice of the European Union - to give it its full name - is the EU's highest legal authority.
It is based in Luxembourg.
It is an entirely different thing to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).
It is the ECHR not the ECJ that has often upset British politicians by making it harder, for example, to deport terrorist suspects.
The ECJ interprets and enforces the rules of the single market, settling disputes between member countries over issues like free movement and trade.
It is at the centre of pretty much everything the EU does.
Prime Minister Theresa May has vowed that Britain will not be under the "direct" jurisdiction of the ECJ after Brexit.
But the UK government has not ruled out remaining under its jurisdiction during the Brexit transition period that is planned after March 2019.
After that, there will need to be a new mechanism for settling disputes between the UK and the EU but what form that take has yet to be decided.
There has been talk of an ombudsman, or some other third party, being appointed to settle disagreements.
The UK has set out some ideas in a position paper, which was criticised for being too "vague".
The EU is insisting that its citizens in the UK should continue to enjoy the legal protection of the ECJ even after Brexit, guaranteeing their right to work and access to benefits among other things.
This is a major sticking point in the negotiations, with the UK saying EU citizens living in the UK should be subject to British law only.
Will the UK be able to rejoin the EU in the future?
BBC Europe editor Katya Adler says the UK would have to start from scratch with no rebate, and enter accession talks with the EU.
Every member state would have to agree to the UK re-joining.
But she says with elections looming elsewhere in Europe, other leaders might not be generous towards any UK demands.
New members are required to adopt the euro as their currency, once they meet the relevant criteria, although the UK could try to negotiate an opt-out.
Who wanted the UK to leave the EU?
The UK Independence Party, which received nearly four million votes - 13% of those cast - in the 2015 general election, but who saw their vote collapse to about a quarter of that at this year's election, has campaigned for many years for Britain's exit from the EU.
They were joined in their call during the referendum campaign by about half the Conservative Party's MPs, including Boris Johnson and five members of the then Cabinet.
A handful of Labour MPs and Northern Ireland party the DUP were also in favour of leaving.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to leave?
They said Britain was being held back by the EU, which they said imposed too many rules on business and charged billions of pounds a year in membership fees for little in return.
They also wanted the UK to make all of its own laws again, rather than being created through shared decision making with other EU nations.
Immigration was also a big issue for Brexit supporters, They wanted Britain to take back full control of its borders and reduce the number of people coming here to live and/or work.
One of the main principles of EU membership is "free movement", which means you don't need to get a visa to go and live in another EU country.
The Leave campaign also objected to the idea of "ever closer union" between EU member states and what they see as moves towards the creation of a "United States of Europe".
Who wanted the UK to stay in the EU?
Then Prime Minister David Cameron was the leading voice in the Remain campaign, after reaching an agreement with other European Union leaders that would have changed the terms of Britain's membership had the country voted to stay in.
He said the deal would give Britain "special" status and help sort out some of the things British people said they didn't like about the EU, like high levels of immigration - but critics said the deal would make little difference.
Sixteen members of Mr Cameron's Cabinet, including the woman who would replace him as PM, Theresa May, also backed staying in.
The Conservative Party was split on the issue and officially remained neutral in the campaign.
The Labour Party, Scottish National Party, Plaid Cymru, the Green Party and the Liberal Democrats were all in favour of staying in.
The then US president Barack Obama also wanted Britain to remain in the EU, as did the leaders of other EU nations such as France and Germany.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to stay?
Those campaigning for Britain to stay in the EU said it got a big boost from membership - it makes selling things to other EU countries easier and, they argued, the flow of immigrants, most of whom are young and keen to work, fuels economic growth and helps pay for public services.
They also said Britain's status in the world would be damaged by leaving and that we are more secure as part of the 28 nation club, rather than going it alone.
What about businesses?
Big business - with a few exceptions - tended to be in favour of Britain staying in the EU because it makes it easier for them to move money, people and products around the world.
Given the crucial role of London as a financial centre, there's interest in how many jobs may be lost to other hubs in the EU.
Some UK exporters say they've had increased orders or enquiries because of the fall in the value of the pound.
Others are less optimistic, fearing products for the European market may have to be made at plants in the EU.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Boris Johnson was one of the most prominent Leave campaigners

Who led the rival sides in the campaign?
Britain Stronger in Europe - the main cross-party group campaigning for Britain to remain in the EU was headed by former Marks and Spencer chairman Lord Rose.
It was backed by key figures from the Conservative Party, including Prime Minister David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne, most Labour MPs, including party leader Jeremy Corbyn and Alan Johnson, who ran the Labour In for Britain campaign, the Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru, the Alliance party and the SDLP in Northern Ireland, and the Green Party.
Who funded the campaign: Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to remain : The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
: The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Vote Leave - A cross-party campaign that has the backing of senior Conservatives such as Michael Gove and Boris Johnson plus a handful of Labour MPs, including Gisela Stuart and Graham Stringer, and UKIP's Douglas Carswell and Suzanne Evans, and the DUP in Northern Ireland.
Former Tory chancellor Lord Lawson and SDP founder Lord Owen were also involved.
It had a string of affiliated groups such as Farmers for Britain, Muslims for Britain and Out and Proud, a gay anti-EU group, aimed at building support in different communities.
Who funded the campaign: Vote Leave raised 2.78m.
Its largest supporter was businessman Patrick Barbour, who gave 500,000.
Former Conservative Party treasurer Peter Cruddas gave a 350,000 donation and construction mogul Terence Adams handed over 300,000.
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to leave: UKIP leader Nigel Farage was not part of Vote Leave.
His party ran its own campaign.
The Trade Union and Socialist Coalition also ran its own out campaign.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Will the EU still use English?
Yes, says BBC Europe editor Katya Adler.
There will still be 27 other EU states in the bloc, and others wanting to join in the future, and the common language tends to be English - "much to France's chagrin", she says.
Will Brexit harm product safety?
Probably not, is the answer.
It would depend on whether or not the UK decided to get rid of current safety standards.
Even if that happened any company wanting to export to the EU would have to comply with its safety rules, and it's hard to imagine a company would want to produce two batches of the same products.
Here are a selection of questions sent in - you can ask yours via the form at the end of this page

Which MPs were for staying and which for leaving?
The good news for Edward, from Cambridge, who asked this question, is we have been working on exactly such a list.
Click here for the latest version.
How much does the UK contribute to the EU and how much do we get in return?
In answer to this query from Nancy from Hornchurch - the UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out.
Only France and Germany contribute more.
In 2014/15, Poland was the largest beneficiary, followed by Hungary and Greece.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out

The UK also gets an annual rebate that was negotiated by Margaret Thatcher and money back, in the form of regional development grants and payments to farmers, which added up to 4.6bn in 2014/15.
According to the latest Treasury figures, the UK's net contribution for 2014/15 was 8.8bn - nearly double what it was in 2009/10.
The National Audit Office, using a different formula which takes into account EU money paid directly to private sector companies and universities to fund research, and measured over the EU's financial year, shows the UK's net contribution for 2014 was 5.7bn.
Read more number crunching from Reality Check.
If I retire to Spain or another EU country will my healthcare costs still be covered?
David, from East Sussex, is worried about what will happen to his retirement plans.
This is one of those issues where it is not possible to say definitively what would happen.
At the moment, the large British expat community in Spain gets free access to Spanish GPs and their hospital treatment is paid for by the NHS.
After they become permanent residents Spain pays for their hospital treatment.
In some other EU countries such as France expats of working age are expected to pay the same healthcare costs as locals but once they reach retirement age their medical bills are paid by the NHS.
If Britain remains in the single market, or the European Economic Area as it is known, it might be able to continue with this arrangement, according to a House of Commons library research note.
If Britain has to negotiate trade deals with individual member states, it may opt to continue paying for expats' healthcare through the NHS or decide that they would have to cover their own costs if they continue to live abroad, if the country where they live declines to do so.
What will happen to protected species?
Dee, from Launceston, wanted to know what would happen to EU laws covering protected species such as bats in the event of Britain leaving the EU.
The answer is that they would remain in place, initially at least.
After the Leave vote, the government will probably review all EU-derived laws in the two years leading up to the official exit date to see which ones to keep or scrap.
The status of Special Areas of Conservation and Special Protection Areas, which are designated by the EU, would be reviewed to see what alternative protections could be applied.
The same process would apply to European Protected Species legislation, which relate to bats and their habitats.
The government would want to avoid a legislative vacuum caused by the repeal of EU laws before new UK laws are in place - it would also continue to abide by other international agreements covering environmental protection.
How much money will the UK save through changes to migrant child benefits and welfare payments?
Martin, from Poole, in Dorset, wanted to know what taxpayers would have got back from the benefit curbs negotiated by David Cameron in Brussels.
We don't exactly know because the details were never worked out.
HM Revenue and Customs suggested about 20,000 EU nationals receive child benefit payments in respect of 34,000 children in their country of origin at an estimated cost of about 30m.
But the total saving would have been significantly less than that because Mr Cameron did not get the blanket ban he wanted.
Instead, payments would have been linked to the cost of living in the countries where the children live.
David Cameron said as many as 40% of EU migrant families who come to Britain could lose an average of 6,000 a year of in-work benefits when his "emergency brake" was applied.
The DWP estimated between 128,700 and 155,100 people would be affected.
But the cuts would have been phased in.
New arrivals would not have got tax credits and other in-work benefits straight away but would have gradually gained access to them over a four year period at a rate that had not been decided.
The plan will never be implemented now.
Will we be barred from the Eurovision Song Contest?
Image copyright BBC/Guy Levy Image caption To participate in the Eurovision Song Contest countries need to be a member of the European Broadcasting Union, which is independent of the EU

Sophie from Peterborough, who asks the question, need not worry.
We have consulted Alasdair Rendall, president of the UK Eurovision fan club, who says: "All participating countries must be a member of the European Broadcasting Union.
The EBU - which is totally independent of the EU - includes countries both inside and outside of the EU, and also includes countries such as Israel that are outside of Europe.
Indeed the UK started participating in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1957, 16 years before joining the then EEC."
What will happen to pet passports?
The answer to Alan Rippington's question, the European Commission says, is that pet passports will, like everything else, form part of the negotiations.
The UK introduced the pet passport scheme in 2000, replacing the previous quarantine laws.
It means you and your dog, cat or ferret can travel between the UK and the EU (and other participating countries) as long as it has a passport, a microchip and has been vaccinated against rabies.
Of course, until the UK actually leaves the EU, the scheme continues as normal.
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: "The UK has a long history of world-leading animal welfare and biosecurity standards, which we are committed to safeguarding and improving, securing the best deal for Britain as we leave the EU."
Has Brexit made house prices fall?
Image copyright PA

So far, the answer is no.
But there has been anecdotal evidence of house prices falling at the top of the market in Central London and the annual increase in the price of property has fallen from 9.4% at the time of the referendum to 4.9% a year later.
What is the 'red tape' that opponents of the EU complain about?
Ged, from Liverpool, suspects "red tape" is a euphemism for employment rights and environmental protection.
According to the Open Europe think tank, four of the top five most costly EU regulations are either employment or environment-related.
The UK renewable energy strategy, which the think-tank says costs 4.7bn a year, tops the list.
The working time directive (4.2bn a year) - which limits the working week to 48 hours - and the temporary agency workers directive (2.1bn a year), giving temporary staff many of the same rights as permanent ones - are also on the list.
Most of the EU-derived laws on the UK's statute books will be copied across into UK law so that businesses can continue to function on the day Britain leaves the EU, in March 2019.
Future governments will then be able to amend or scrap them.
Brexit may also generate "red tape" of its own - if the UK leaves the single market and the customs union, businesses could face more paperwork as they cross borders into EU countries.
Will Britain be party to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership?
Ste, in Bolton, asked about this.
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership - or TTIP - currently under negotiation between the EU and United States would create the biggest free trade area the world has ever seen.
Cheerleaders for TTIP, including former PM David Cameron, believed it could make American imports cheaper and boost British exports to the US to the tune of 10bn a year.
But many on the left, including Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, fear it will shift more power to multinational corporations, undermine public services, wreck food standards and threaten basic rights.
US President Donald Trump is not a fan of the TTIP agreement, which means it is now seen as unlikely to be agreed - but whatever happens, when the UK quits the EU it will not be part of TTIP and will have to negotiate its own trade deal with the US.
What impact will leaving the EU have on the NHS?
Paddy, from Widnes, wanted to know how leaving the EU will affect the number of doctors we have and impact the NHS.
This became an issue in the referendum debate after the Leave campaign claimed the money Britain sends to the EU, which it claimed was 350m a week, could be spent on the NHS instead.
The BBC's Reality Check team looked into this claim.
Before the vote Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt warned that leaving the EU would lead to budget cuts and an exodus of overseas doctors and nurses.
The Leave campaign dismissed his intervention as "scaremongering" and insisted that EU membership fees could be spent on domestic services like the NHS.
Since the referendum spending on the NHS has continued at the same level as planned.
EU citizens working for the NHS are expected to get the right to stay in the UK, although details on EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens elsewhere in the EU are yet to be finalised (see earlier answer).
Sally Miller bought a house in Spain nine years ago and plans to retire there in the next five years.
She asked how Brexit will affect this.
Image copyright Getty Images

The BBC's Kevin Connolly says:

The issue of free movement - the rights of EU citizens to live and work in the UK - was a huge issue in the Brexit referendum of course, and will be a big part of the exit negotiations.
We've heard quite a bit from the British side already with the government saying that securing the status and rights of EU nationals in the UK and UK nationals in the EU is one of the government's earliest priorities, and specifically that it is looking for a reciprocal deal.
So you might feel the mood music is encouraging but all we can say for sure is that, while there are no guarantees yet, it will be a big part of the Brexit negotiations to come.
Jonathan Eaton is a Briton living in the Netherlands with his wife, who is Dutch.
He asks what rights to benefits and housing he will have if he has to return to the UK.
Image copyright Getty Images

BBC assistant political editor Norman Smith says:

The short answer is there is no easy access to benefits.
As it stands at the moment, Brexit aside, you will have to pass what's known as a habitual residence test which was introduced in 1994 and applies to British citizens just as EU citizens.
The rules have been tightened up which means for some benefits, if you have been out of the country you can't even think about applying for the test for several months.
For example, when it comes to jobseeker's allowance, you cannot even take the test to apply for those benefits for three months.
And that was done to stop EU citizens coming here and just getting on benefits straight away.
After three months, you can take the test which looks at your English language skills, what sort of efforts you made to find work before coming to the UK.
It also considers how strong a tie you have to the UK, whether you have property or family here and what your intentions are in terms of staying and working, or returning.
But once you have taken the test, if you pass it then you should be eligible to apply for a range of benefits, as long as you meet the usual requirements in terms of income and showing you are looking for work.
That is likely to continue when we move fully on to Universal Credit.
The one sort of unknown in the whole system is what happens with Brexit negotiations, in terms of guaranteeing the rights of British nationals abroad.
And we simply don't know what that will involve and whether in any way that might impact on how soon you can apply for benefits when you come back to Britain.
Will I have to buy a new passport and driving licence, and will my rights to use them freely across Europe be taken away from me after Brexit, asks Francis Lee.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

At the moment UK passports carry the words European Union and British driving licences have the blue square with yellow flags of the EU.
That will presumably change after Brexit but it seems likely that the change will be phased in so that you'll simply get documents with the new design when the old ones expire.
That's what happened, I seem to remember, when the UK joined the EU.
Anything else would be expensive and risk flooding the system, after all.
The right to use them freely is an interesting question.
When we talk about restrictions on freedom of movement we generally mean the freedom to live and work in another country.
If Britain poses restrictions on the EU in that respect then it can expect some kind of response.
But in terms of tourism there are plenty of non-EU countries whose citizens can visit the UK for up to 90 days without a visa.
And, as part of the Brexit negotiations, you'd expect similar arrangements to be discussed for the UK.
Both sides need each others' tourists and, after all, if you can drive a car in the United States on a UK licence then it doesn't seem fanciful to assume that you'll be able to do the same in Europe in future.
It is very clear that the PM and the government want to leave the tyranny of the European Court of Justice.
Why has leaving the European Court of Human Rights (an organisation far more hated than the ECJ) been ignored, asks Barry Fryer.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

Two different courts here of course, so two different bits of politics.
Crucially, the European Court of Human Rights is not an EU institution and that's why discussions about leaving it have not formed a key part of the Brexit debate.
The European Court of Justice - the ECJ - is one of the primary institutions of the European Union and administers EU law.
So, while it might have a role in supervising a future trade deal, part of the goal of Brexit was to remove the UK from the ECJ's jurisdiction.
The European Court of Human Rights which, as Barry points out, can be even more controversial, is a body set up not by the EU but by member states of the Council of Europe, a separate institution which contains countries that aren't EU members.
It's this court which has produced rulings which have been controversial in the UK, including blocking the extradition of Abu Qatada and establishing the right of serving prisoners to vote in elections - and leaving the EU won't change anything here.
Adrian Wallis runs a small electronics company and wants to know about export tariffs after Brexit, and what they'd mean for his business.
Kevin Connolly says:

As long as Britain has been in the EU we haven't really talked much about tariffs.
That's because all trade within the European Economic Area is tariff-free.
On top of that the EU has trade agreements with 52 other countries as well.
After Brexit, Britain is going to have to negotiate new deals all on its own.
That's both a problem and an opportunity.
For example you can use tariffs against foreign imports to protect businesses you care about, as the EU does with agricultural produce, but you do then run the risk of retaliation from your trading partners.
The key body in all of this is the World Trade Organisation and at the moment the UK is only a member via its membership of the EU.
Image copyright Thinkstock

One bit of good news is that the UK will automatically become a member in its own right as soon as it leaves the EU.
That matters because in the period when the UK is negotiating a new trade deal with the EU, and that could take years, trade would be conducted under WTO rules.
At the moment, for non-food items, that implies an average tariff of about 2.3%.
But suppose the EU were to impose a 10% tariff on UK car imports, for example.
Well, then the UK could impose the same tariff on German and French cars.
In theory, an economist would say that creates a situation where everyone has an incentive to sort out a better deal for their consumers.
The snag is that these things take years, if not decades.
They tend to be done on a country-by-country and sector-by-sector basis.
So if Adrian is waiting to find out the implications for his business, then I'm afraid he's going to have to be patient.
Maybe very, very patient.
What impact will leaving the European Union have on the UK's long term political influence in Europe, asks Peter Hoare.
Norman Smith says:

There are basically two views on what will happen in terms of clout when outside the EU.
View one is that the UK projects power and influence in the world, working through organisations such as the EU and that on our own it'll be a much diminished force.
View two is that unencumbered by the other 27 members, the UK can get on with things and start adopting a much more independent, self-confident, assertive role on the world stage.
My take is that not much is probably going to change.
I say that because the UK'll still be a member of significant organisations such as the UN and Nato, and will still be co-operating with EU partners.
For example, there will still be close ties on defence with the French.
The UK will still be the same old Britain, will still have significant military force, will still be a wealthy country and will still be a nuclear power, so I don't think people will suddenly think the UK's an entirely different country.
Are other countries likely to leave the EU and if so could we start a new free trade area, asks David John.
Kevin Connolly says:

Funnily enough, I was discussing this question just the other day with a French politician, a conservative and a real Europhile, and he said he thought if there was a free vote in France tomorrow, as the right wing National Front would like, that the French would vote to leave.
But generally speaking I can't see much prospect of a tidal wave of insurrectionist, exitism sweeping the continent.
When a country like Ireland has a spat with the EU about tax, for example, it does annoy Irish politicians, but most mainstream leaders in the Europe have grown up with the idea that the EU has brought peace and prosperity for decades.
Image copyright Getty Images

Lots of them see plenty that irritates them about the European Union, but they mainly argue that the benefits hugely outweigh the irritations.
And in countries where you do find Euroscepticism, such as Poland and Hungary, there is also a healthy awareness that there are huge financial benefits to membership.
As for the future, we will see.
If the UK were to get a fantastic Brexit deal then maybe others would be tempted to go.
But the truth is, lots of European politicians want the EU to be tough with Britain precisely to stop other countries from following it through the door.
As to Britain forming its own free trade area, I think it seems an awfully long shot and on balance it is unlikely, not least because there are not that many free countries around available to recruit into another free trade area.
Britain could perhaps join the Free Trade Association along with Norway, Lichtenstein and Switzerland.
But of course it would be joining under existing rules, so the likeliest future for a post-Brexit UK, I think, is a future where it tries to do the best deal possible with the EU and then looks around for other free trade deals.
But that would fall short of creating a free trade area based on the UK itself.
What will happen to the borders in Gibraltar and Northern Ireland, asks Nigel May.
Kevin Connolly says:

I think the question of what is going to happen to borders after Brexit is one of the most difficult of the lot.
Since 1985 when Spain joined the EU, it has basically been prevented from closing the border with Gibraltar as a way of applying pressure to the British territory.
In fact, 12,000 Spanish people cross into the territory to work every day and the area of Spain around Gibraltar is a pretty depressed area so they are important jobs.
On the other hand, the Spanish have talked openly about this being an opportunity to get Gibraltar back.
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo, its minister of foreign affairs, said in September the UK's vote to leave the EU was "a unique historical opportunity in more than three hundred years to get Gibraltar back".
But at a minimum, as things stand, it looks to me as though they could certainly re-impose border controls if they chose to.
Image copyright Getty Images

The situation with Ireland's border is more complex.
For those of us for whom Northern Ireland is home, the total disappearance of military check points on the border is one of the most tangible daily reminders of the end of the Troubles and no one wants a border like that back.
But, when the day comes when Ireland is in the EU and the UK is not, then the Irish border of course is also going to be the UK's land border with the European Union.
Conservative leader Theresa May has said we don't see a return to the borders of the past, but the reality is that if Britain leaves the common customs area, then presumably some sort of checks are going to be necessary on that border.
And if the UK wants to stop Polish or Romanian migrant workers using Dublin airport as a back door into the UK, then it is going to have to do something about that too.
The UK has published a paper setting out its preferred options.
Of course, what it will all mean for towns and villages like Belleek and Belcoo in County Fermanagh, which more or less straddle the border, is hard to imagine.
How will access to healthcare change for expats living in the EU, asks Veronique Bradley, who lives in Italy.
Kevin Connolly says:

Healthcare is one of those issues that remains relatively simple as long as the UK remains in the EU.
It is just part of a range of citizens' rights that apply across the entire union.
After Brexit, I suppose there will be two possibilities.
The first and easiest would be that the negotiators come up with a reciprocal deal that keeps the current arrangements, or something a bit like them, in place.
If they don't, the situation will depend on the individual country where you live.
For the Bradleys in Italy, for example, residents from non-EU countries, and that will soon include the Brits, will have to finalise their residency status, acquire an Italian identity card and then apply for an Italian health insurance card.
If they visit the UK at the moment, access to the NHS for non-resident Brits is not straightforward unless you have a European health insurance card.
The right to treatment is based on residency, not on your tax status.
So, even if you live abroad and pay some British tax on a buy-to-let property for instance, you might find yourself getting a bill for any NHS treatment you end up getting while you are back in the UK.
What will happen to EU nationals who lived and worked in the UK and now receive a British state pension, asks Peter Barz, a German citizen living in the UK.
Norman Smith says:

If you are an EU national and you get a British state pension, nothing much should change, because the state pension is dependent not on where you come from, but on how long you have paid National Insurance contributions in the UK.
So it doesn't matter whether you come from Lithuania or Latvia or Transylvania or Timbuktu, what counts is how much you have paid in terms of National Insurance contributions.
There is one wrinkle though and that is that you have to have paid in for at least 10 years.
Image copyright Getty Images

Under the current rules, if you are an EU citizen and haven't paid in for 10 years, you can point to any contributions you have made in your native country and say, "I paid in there", and that will count.
That works for EU countries and another 16 countries with which the UK has social security agreements.
Once we have left the EU, you will no longer be able to do that unless we negotiate new reciprocal agreements.
If we don't then potentially, if you have paid in fewer than than 10 years' worth of National Insurance contributions, you will not get a British state pension.
Is it possible to be both an EU citizen and not an EU citizen, asks Declan O'Neill, who holds an Irish passport.
Kevin Connolly says:

I should probably declare some sort of interest here as a dual Irish and British national myself.
Of course, anyone born in Northern Ireland has an absolute right to carry both passports.
Declan might be happy to know that this is one of the few questions where I can't see a downside as long as you are happy and comfortable carrying both passports.
Image copyright Getty Images

The Irish document means you continue to enjoy the benefits of EU citizenship, and the British passport will give you full rights in the UK at the same time.
Call it one of the clear joys of coming from Northern Ireland, alongside the rolling hills, rugged coastline and enjoyable breaks between the showers.
All you have to do is remember to carry the Irish passport when you are joining the EU citizens-only queue at the airport in future.
Is there a get-out clause for Article 50, asks Gillian Coates.
Norman Smith says:

I think the honest answer is you would have to be a legal eagle to answer this.
But my take on it is that legally it looks like once we trigger Article 50 we are locked in, and that is certainly how the European Parliament reads it.
And there is a view that if we were in this two-year process after triggering Article 50 and we wanted to get out of it, then ultimately that would be a decision for the European Court of Justice.
Image copyright Thinkstock

However, in the real world I think it is likely to be rather different, whatever the legal protocol.
I think the truth is, if we were trundling along and decided it was all going to be catastrophic and we have got to pull up the handbrake pretty sharpish, a lot of other EU countries would be probably be laughing at us, but I think at the same time they would probably be quite pleased we weren't going.
So I think the short answer is: legally, it doesn't look so good if you want to get out of it, but politically, it probably can be done with the support of other European leaders.
Eric Degerland asks when UK passports are going to change.
Kevin Connolly says:

This takes us to the heart of an issue that lots of people really care about.
It will be a real and palpable sign of Brexit when there is a new UK passport without the words "European Union" on the front cover.
Sadly, the short answer is we don't really know when the change will come about.
Image copyright Getty Images

But we can say that the cheapest thing for the government to do would be to phase in the new passports as people's old ones expire.
So if you're looking forward to getting back that blue hard-back passport we had in the old days, you may have a long time to wait.
The BBC's Reality Check team answered some of your questions about Theresa May's plans for EU citizens living in the UK.
Will Irish citizens be exempt from this five-year residency requirement, and continue to be afforded equal treatment with UK nationals?
Yes, Irish citizens residing in the UK will not need to apply for settled status to protect their entitlements as the UK government is committed to protecting the Common Travel Area arrangements.
Would EU citizens still be able to move to the UK in the next two years until March 2019?
Yes, they would.
The UK is a member of the EU until it withdraws, so the freedom of movement rules will apply until then.
Why shouldn't British courts have full jurisdiction over the rights of EU citizens living in the UK?
Wasn't that the whole point of Brexit?
The UK government says the European Court of Justice will not have jurisdiction over EU citizens' rights.
The EU demands that it does.
This is an important sticking point in the Brexit negotiations.
How can a lifetime stay be guaranteed?
Could a future government change the law?
Once the UK leaves the EU, any future government will in principle be able to propose amendments to the rules and the UK Parliament would decide on the new law.
I plan to retire to France within the next two years and buy a property.
Will this be possible after Brexit?
You can buy property and retire anywhere in the world, subject to the rules of the country you are retiring in.
So, you'll be able to do that but we don't know what your exact rights will be until the UK and EU conclude the citizens' rights negotiations.
I'm an EU national living in the UK but my wife is from outside the EU.
Is her status going to change?
Your wife, as a family member of an eligible EU citizen who has been resident in the UK before we leave the EU, will also be eligible to apply for settled status with you, provided that she too meets the settlement criteria and has been in a genuine relationship with you while resident in the UK.
Theresa May has formed her new government after the Conservatives lost their majority in the general election.
The prime minister's room for manoeuvre in the reshuffle was limited when her party was left with 318 MPs and Labour had 262.
Here's what we know so far.
The list will be updated as new appointments are made.
Prime Minister - Theresa May

Image copyright Reuters

Theresa May stays as prime minister despite not achieving the mandate for Brexit she had called the election for.
The UK's second female PM took up the role after David Cameron resigned in the wake of the EU referendum result.
She had previously been home secretary for six years.
Theresa May: Full profile

Election 2017: Key points at-a-glance

First Secretary of State - Damian Green

Image copyright AFP

Damian Green has been promoted to a new role the prime minister did not have in her first cabinet - that of first secretary of state.
As the same time he also replaces Ben Gummer as minister for the Cabinet Office after Mr Gummer lost his seat in the election.
The move effectively makes the former work and pensions secretary, a friend and ally of Theresa May, her second in command.
It could see Mr Green standing in for Mrs May at PMQs when she is not available.
The role - which was previously held by George Osborne and, under Labour, Peter Mandelson - gives Mr Green seniority over other cabinet ministers.
Chancellor of the Exchequer - Philip Hammond

Image copyright PA

Philip Hammond remains as chancellor of the exchequer.
He was foreign secretary under David Cameron from 2014 to 2016, having previously served as defence secretary and transport secretary.
Mr Hammond, 61, is seen at Westminster as the ultimate safe pair of hands steering Britain's economy through the post-Brexit period ahead.
Sometimes mocked as "box office Phil" for what some see as his dull delivery, he forged a reputation in the shadow Treasury team as the Tories' public spending "axeman".
Foreign Secretary - Boris Johnson

Image copyright AFP

No change at the Foreign Office as Boris Johnson keeps his job.
Despite hints from some of the newspapers that Mr Johnson, 52, may turn his hand to trying to lead the party, he has categorically dismissed such claims.
Mr Johnson said that while the public would be wondering about the future of the current government, Mrs May had got the biggest Conservative mandate anyone had achieved for decades.
"I'm going to be backing her, and absolutely everybody I'm talking to is going to be backing her as well."
Home Secretary - Amber Rudd

Image copyright Reuters

Amber Rudd remains as home secretary despite only narrowly holding her seat as MP for Hastings and Rye.
During the election campaign, she stood in for the PM in the BBC's televised debate in May.
Ms Rudd was previously energy and climate change secretary, a position she held for just one year.
The former investment banker, venture capitalist and financial journalist, aged 53, decided to enter politics in her 40s in order to get "a grip on her life".
Secretary of State for Exiting the EU - David Davis

Image copyright Reuters

David Davis keeps his job of secretary of state for exiting the European Union - or "Brexit secretary".
The role was created in July to take the lead in negotiating the UK's exit from the EU.
A veteran Eurosceptic, he has previously held the positions of Conservative party chairman and shadow deputy prime minister.
Between 2003 and 2008, he was the shadow home secretary under both Michael Howard and David Cameron.
Mr Davis, 68, lost to David Cameron in the 2005 Tory leadership contest.
Defence Secretary - Michael Fallon

Image copyright AFP

Michael Fallon has kept his job at the Ministry of Defence - a position the 65-year-old has held since 2014.
He was Conservative MP for Darlington from 1983 to 1992 - initially during Margaret Thatcher's time in Downing Street - and after leaving Parliament was later re-elected as MP for Sevenoaks in 1997.
A former Conservative Party deputy chairman, Mr Fallon has previously served as energy and business minister, and before that secretary of state for business and enterprise.
Secretary of State for International Trade - Liam Fox

Image copyright AFP

Liam Fox, 55, continues as the secretary of state for international trade.
He was made secretary of state for defence in 2010 but resigned in 2011 over allegations he had given a close friend, lobbyist Adam Werritty, access to the Ministry of Defence and allowed him to join official trips overseas.
Mr Fox stood in the leadership race against Theresa May but was eliminated in the first ballot after winning the support of just 16 MPs.
He told reporters he was "delighted" to keep the job he has held since July last year.
"It's now time for the whole of the Conservative party to rally behind the prime minister and get a government in the national interest."
Justice Secretary - David Lidington

Image copyright PA

Former Leader of the House of Commons David Lidington gets the job of justice secretary, replacing Liz Truss.
He had been Europe Minister since 2010 but moved across to aid the smooth running of the Commons in 2016.
The Cambridge history graduate and father-of-four has been MP for Aylesbury since 1992.
He previously worked for BP and mining firm Rio Tinto.
Leader of the House of Lords - Baroness Evans

Image copyright PA

Baroness Evans of Bowes Park keeps her job as the leader of the House of Lords.
When appointed in 2016, it was her first ministerial role since being ennobled by David Cameron in 2014.
She attended London's Henrietta Barnett School and Cambridge University before becoming deputy director of the Conservative research department, deputy director of the Policy Exchange think-tank and chief operating officer of the New Schools Network - the organisation which ran Michael Gove's free schools programme.
Health Secretary - Jeremy Hunt

Image copyright Reuters

Jeremy Hunt remains in his post despite the problems within the NHS.
He took over the health portfolio following a cabinet reshuffle in 2012, and at the time described the appointment as the "biggest privilege of my life".
But in a tweet he admitted there were "challenges ahead, but also huge opportunities to make our NHS even better".
Last year, Mr Hunt was locked in a battle with the British Medical Association over a new contract for junior doctors, which led to a series of strikes.
Education Secretary - Justine Greening

Image copyright PA

Justine Greening has kept her roles as education secretary and minister for women and equalities.
She is part of the most diverse Parliament yet as she openly defines herself as a lesbian.
At London Pride in 2016, the 48-year-old announced in a tweet she was in a same-sex relationship, saying "I campaigned for Stronger In but sometimes you're better off out!".
Ms Greening replaced Nicky Morgan at education in 2016, leaving her international development secretary post, which she was promoted to in 2011.
She has been MP for Putney since 2005.
Transport Secretary - Chris Grayling

Image copyright Reuters

Chris Grayling remains as transport secretary in Theresa May's cabinet.
The former Leader of the House has been dealing with Southern Rail's disrupted services, the question of Heathrow's third runway and the high speed rail link, HS2.
He also served as shadow transport secretary from December 2005 to 2007.
Culture Secretary - Karen Bradley

Image copyright Getty Images

Karen Bradley has kept her role as Culture, Media and Sport Secretary.
She had been working with Theresa May as a Home Office minister since 2014.
She was first elected MP for Staffordshire Moorlands in May 2010.
Environment Secretary - Michael Gove

Image copyright EPA

Michael Gove has made a comeback, with the prime minister bringing him back into cabinet and appointing him environment secretary.
In the 2016 reshuffle he was sacked as justice secretary and before that he served under David Cameron as education secretary and chief whip in the Tory-Lib Dem coalition.
Despite campaigning alongside Boris Johnson for Brexit, he withdrew his support for Mr Johnson to be Conservative leader and prime minister, choosing instead to stand himself.
He was eliminated in the final round of voting by MPs, coming third.
Mr Gove's surprise move to stand for the leadership effectively dashed his colleague's hopes of winning and prompted Mr Johnson's withdrawal from the contest.
Work and Pensions Secretary - David Gauke

Image copyright AFP

A sideways step for David Gauke, with the PM appointing him as the new work and pensions secretary.
He was previously the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, who attends cabinet but does not have a ministerial role.
Mr Gauke has been the MP for Hertfordshire South West since 2005.
He is a qualified solicitor and worked for a leading City firm until he was elected.
Communities Secretary - Sajid Javid

Image copyright AFP

Sajid Javid keeps his job as secretary of the department for communities and local government.
He held this position in 2014 before being appointed to business secretary a year later.
A former managing director of Deutsche Bank, Mr Javid has been MP for Bromsgrove in Worcestershire since 2010.
He stood on a "joint ticket" with Stephen Crabb for the leadership election, hoping to be chancellor if Mr Crabb had become PM.
Northern Ireland Secretary - James Brokenshire

Image copyright PA

James Brokenshire continues as the Northern Ireland Secretary.
He previously worked with the PM at the Home Office, where he was immigration minister.
From 2011 to 2015, he served as security minister at the Home Office with responsibility for domestic national security and counter-terrorism.
This included supporting the home secretary with oversight of the work of MI5 and the national police counter-terrorism network.
Mr Brokenshire's responsibilities also included the government's counter-terrorism strategy and he was part of the prime minister's "extremism taskforce".
He also led negotiations with the Jordanian government to secure the deportation of the radical cleric Abu Qatada.
Welsh Secretary - Alun Cairns

Image copyright PA

Alun Cairns, MP for the Vale of Glamorgan, remains in his cabinet role as secretary of state for Wales.
The 46-year-old, who was born in Swansea and is a graduate of the University of Wales, Newport, was elected in 2010.
He worked in banking for a decade before his election to the Welsh Assembly.
Scottish Secretary - David Mundell

Image copyright Reuters

David Mundell will continue as secretary of state for Scotland.
He is one of 13 Scottish Conservatives to be in Parliament after this snap election.
Former prime minister David Cameron first appointed Mr Mundell to the post when he held his Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale seat for the third consecutive election in 2015.
In January 2015, Mr Mundell became the first openly-gay Conservative cabinet secretary.
Conservative Party chairman and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster - Patrick McLoughlin

Image copyright AFP

Patrick McLoughlin remains as the Conservative Party chairman and chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
He left his role as transport secretary in 2016 but has been an MP since 1986.
The former miner also served as chief whip after being appointed to the role in David Cameron's first cabinet.
Business and Energy Secretary - Greg Clark

Image copyright PA

Greg Clark keeps his job as secretary of state of business, energy and industrial strategy.
The role, when it was created by Labour's Gordon Brown, was originally called the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Last year, it was merged into the new department and lost the "climate change" part of its name.
Environmentalists immediately expressed concern that the reshaping of departments showed the government was downgrading climate change as a priority.
International Development Secretary - Priti Patel

Image copyright Reuters

Priti Patel remains as International Development Secretary.
She was promoted from her role as employment minister, which she held for a year, in 2016.
Ms Patel became MP for Witham in 2010 and joined the front bench as a Treasury minister in 2014.
She is no stranger to controversy, having previously advocated bringing back the death penalty and was accused of "divide and rule politics" during the referendum campaign for claiming that "biased" immigration policy prevents curry chefs from outside the EU from working in the UK.
On her appointment, she immediately faced calls to guarantee the UK's legal commitment to spending 0.7% of GDP on overseas aid.
In other appointments:
Video

Theresa May has suggested an "implementation period" of "around two years" after the UK leaves the EU in 2019.
At her speech in Florence, the prime minister said "neither the UK, nor the EU and its members states, will be in a position to implement smoothly many of the detailed arrangements" in their post-Brexit relationship.
She said people and businesses should only have to plan for one set of changes, and her suggestion meant: "These arrangements will create valuable certainty."
Video

Becoming a senior police officer traditionally requires rising up through the ranks, after years on the beat.
But under the government's Direct Entry scheme, civilians with talent and outside experience can apply to join forces in England and Wales in senior roles.
Daily Politics reporter Emma Vardy was given an exclusive opportunity to meet one officer who has spent 12 months making the transition from civilian life, to senior cop, with Hampshire Constabulary.
Video

For years the age of political leaders was dropping, with relative youth considered an asset for Barack Obama, Tony Blair and David Cameron.
But that appears to be in reverse with the average age of the three biggest UK-wide party leaders now 67, as Daily Politics presenter Jo Coburn asks if there is a right age for a political leader?
Video

Labour's national executive committee unanimously passed a proposal for tougher action against anti-Semitism, which will be put to next week's conference.
Supporters say it offers a solution to tackle anti-Semitic, racist and sexist abuse of party members, and should help win back Jewish voters.
Ellie Price reports from north London.
Video

Brexit is a "self-inflicted wound" and a "denial" of the decline of Britain after its empire, the novelist Martin Amis has said.
Speaking to the Today programme, Mr Amis said he was as depressed as his friend Ian McEwan about Brexit.
"I don't like the kind of nostalgic utopia that has been booted about," he said.
Video

Most people will have heard about Article 50 - triggered by Theresa May in March formally starting the Brexit process - but there is now talk about Article 127, which some think needs a starting gun too.
As well as being a member of the EU, the UK is part of the European Economic Area (EEA), signed by countries within the single market, as Daily Politics presenter Jo Coburn explains.
Watch the studio debate about Article 127 with MPs Kwasi Kwarteng and Heidi Alexander
The help-seeking voicemails from a nursing home where 11 people died during Hurricane Irma have been deleted from Florida Gov.
Rick Scotts cell phone, according to a report.
CBS4 in Miami reported Friday that it requested copies of the voicemails but the governors office said they had been deleted.
The voicemails were not retained because the information from each voicemail was collected by the governors staff and given to the proper agency for handling, a spokeswoman told the outlet.
At least 11 patients at the Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills have died since Irma hit South Florida.
The fierce storm knocked out a transformer that powered the home's air conditioner.
Under state law, the temperature was not supposed to exceed 81 degrees.
The state said some of the deceased had body temperatures between 107 and 109 degrees.
Four voicemails were left on Scotts phone, according to the report.
Natasha Anderson, an official at the nursing home, said she left messages asking for help to get the air conditioner back on.
Scott had given his number out to emergency, hospital and nursing home officials ahead of the storm.
None of this changes the fact that this facility chose not to call 911 or evacuate their patients to the hospital across the street to save lives, a spokeswoman for Scott told the outlet.
Scott directed the Agency for Health Care Administration to terminate the Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills as a Medicaid provider.
The program provides health care for low-income individuals and families.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Former White House adviser Steve Bannon will head to Alabama to campaign for Roy Moore  the Christian conservative who is running against the candidate endorsed by President Trump in the states Republican Senate race.
A source close to Bannon confirmed to Fox News that Bannon, along with Duck Dynasty star Phil Robertson, will headline a rally for Moore on Monday night.
Trump has endorsed Luther Strange, the appointed incumbent senator, in the runoff, which takes place Tuesday.
The president held a rally for Strange on Friday evening.
Stranges campaign has benefited from the support of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and political organizations tied to him.
TRUMP CAMPAIGNS IN ALABAMA FOR SENATE CANDIDATE LUTHER STRANGE

The race has divided Trump from some of his usual allies.
Bannon, who left the White House last month after serving as Trumps chief strategist, is backing Moore, the states former chief justice.
Steve is excited to support President Trump and his agenda by fighting back against Mitch McConnell and battling lobbyists like Luther Strange, the source said.
Bannons appearance at the rally was first reported by Axios.
Meanwhile, Vice President Mike Pence is scheduled to fly to Alabama on Monday to campaign for Strange.
Strange, the former attorney general in Alabama, was temporarily appointed to the seat in April after Attorney General Jeff Sessions joined the Trump administration.
Moore, known in Alabama as the Ten Commandments Judge, is a Christian conservative who is famous for having been removed twice from his position on Alabamas Supreme Court.
The winner of the GOP runoff will face Doug Jones, a former U.S. attorney under the Clinton administration who was endorsed by former Vice President Joe Biden.
Biden has announced plans to campaign for Jones in Alabama in October.
Fox News' Peter Doocy contributed to this story.
Professional sports has been caught in President Trumps crosshairs as of late after he issued stinging attacks against protesting athletes and team owners.
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect ...," Trump said in tweets Saturday afternoon.
"Our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
The president, who spent the earlier part of this week targeting worldwide foes and U.S. senators, began his attacks on pro sports in earnest Friday night when he blasted NFL players for kneeling in protest during the national anthem.
He also called out league owners for not punishing what he considered an act of disrespect.
Were proud of our country," Trump said during a political rally in Alabama.
"We respect our flag.
Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say get that son of a b---h off the field, right now, out?
Hes fired.
LEBRON JAMES, KOBE BRYANT BLAST TRUMP AFTER CURRY-WHITE HOUSE TWEET

Trumps comments on players like Colin Kaepernick resulted in sharp backlash overnight, however he didnt stop there.
In an early morning tweet, he rescinded Golden State Warriors Stephen Currys invitation to attend a White House event honoring the team winning the 2017 NBA championship.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Trump wrote.
The tweet came a day after Curry told ESPN that he did not want to attend the event and that the team would send a statement if the players collectively voted on not attending.
The NBA did not immediately react to Trump's tweet about Curry on Saturday.
NBA Commissioner Adam Silver told The Players' Tribune back in July he believes teams should visit the White House when invited, though also said he would not order anyone to make such a trip.
"I think that these institutions are bigger than any individual politician, any individual elected official," Silver said then.
"And it concerns me that something like going to the White House after winning a championship, something that has been a great tradition, would become one that is partisan.
I will say, though, even though I think that teams should make decisions as organizations, that I would also respect an individual player's decision not to go."
As for Trumps comments on the NFL, the leagues president said they were disrespectful.
The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture," Goodell said in a statement.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities.
The NFL Players Association issued its own statement.
The peaceful demonstrations by some of our players have generated a wide array of responses, DeMaurice Smith, the unions executive director, said in a statement.
Those opinions are protected speech and a freedom that has been paid for by the sacrifice of men and women throughout history.
However, the line that marks the balance between the rights of every citizen in our great country gets crossed when someone is told to just "shut up and play."
To be sure, the NFL players sitting or kneeling during the anthem, at the start of the game, has sparked a national debate, with some arguing that Kaepernick not being hired this year in the NFL is a response to his outspokenness.
Championship-winning teams attending the White House ceremony has become an increasingly political issue since Trump became president.
NFL Super Bowl champ New England Patriot quarterback Tom Brady's decision not to attend his team's White Hose event in April sparked controversy, despite Brady thanking Trump and citing family issues.
Thank you to the president for hosting this honorary celebration and for supporting our team for as long as I can remember, Brady said in a statement.
In light of some recent development, I am unable to attend todays ceremony, as I am attending to some personal family matters.
Trump has met with some teams already in his first year in office.
Clemson visited the White House this year after winning the College Football Playoff, some members of the New England Patriots went after the Super Bowl victory and the Chicago Cubs went to the Oval Office in June to commemorate their World Series title.
The Cubs also had the larger and more traditional visit with President Barack Obama in January, four days before the Trump inauguration.
Trump, from the start of his winning 2016 presidential campaign, has attacked people with whom he disagrees, including calling Florida GOP Sen. Marco Rubio little Marco, and most recently North Korean leader Kin Jun Un little Rocket Man, for his continued rocket launches in pursuit of a nuclear arsenal.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price on Saturday defended his using of private planes for official travel, saying he welcomes an internal review of the flights that have recently come under scrutiny but acknowledged the optics in some of this dont look good.
He promised to stop flying private on official business until the review is done.
I dont think there will be any charter trips until this review is complete," Price told host Leland Vittert on Fox News America's News Headquarters.
"I think thats appropriate because of the concerns that weve heard.
Price said all the flights were work-related and used for official business, including for trips related to the opioid crisis or the recent hurricanes.
But weve heard the criticism, Price said.
Weve heard the concerns.
And we take that very seriously and have taken it to heart.
The HHS inspector general's office said Friday the agency is reviewing Price's charter flights to see if they violated government travel regulations, which generally require officials to minimize costs.
We will cooperate fully with it, Price said.
I instituted or initiated as well an internal departmental review of the procedures and processes that we go through for official travel to determine whether there are any changes or reforms that are necessary.
And if there are, then we look forward to instituting those, because we welcome this review.
He added, We want to make certain that we have the full confidence not just of this administration but the American people.
INVESTIGATORS REVIEWING HHS CHIEFS PRIVATE CHARTER FLIGHTS

Price, a fiscal hawk as a Republican congressman, was asked to respond to past comments of him criticizing then-House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in 2010 for flying over our country in your luxury jet.
I think the issue with the speaker, the former speaker, was a different matter, he said.
Politico first reported on Price's trips earlier this week.
According to the outlet, Price flew on charters to visit community health centers in New Hampshire and Pennsylvania.
One leg was from Dulles International Airport in the Washington suburbs to Philadelphia International Airport, a distance of 135 miles.
On Saturday, Price said the private plane travel is not the norm for him.
Weve taken many, many trips in cars, sometimes four and five hours at a time, he said.
So this isnt the routine.
These were 11 trips about an eight month period of time.
Fox News Alex Pappas and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said Saturday that President Trumps recent comments about players kneeling during the national anthem are divisive and show a lack of respect for the pro football league and its players.
The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture," he said in a statement.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities.
Goodell's statement follows Trump's comments during a rally Friday night in Alabama in which he slammed NFL players for knealing during the national anthem.
Were proud of our country," Trump said.
"We respect our flag.
Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say get that son of a b---h off the field, right now, out?
Hes fired.
Professional quarterback Colin Kaepernick, when he played last year for the San Francisco 49ers, knelt during the playing of the anthem before the start of games, in protest to police brutality and other concerns about the direction the direction of the country.
Other NFL players have since followed Kaepernicks actions.
The TV rights to an upcoming novel co-written by former President Bill Clinton has been acquired by Showtime, the premium cable television network said late Friday.
Showtime Network Inc. called the novel, co-written with bestselling author James Patterson, a powerful, one-of-a-kind thriller.
I'm really enjoying writing this book and working with Jim, Clinton said in a statement.
I cant wait to see Showtime bring the characters to life.
The network said the novel -- titled The President is Missing -- has the level of detail that only someone who has held the office can know.
Showtime chief executive and President David Nevins said getting the rights to the novel was a coup of the highest order for the network.
The novel is scheduled for release in June 2018.
The White House is such an exciting world to explore and is made even more so with the unique insights of a former president, Patterson said.
Clinton, a Democrat and the countrys 42nd president, has published several nonfiction books including Putting People First: How We Can All Change America.
Patterson holds the record for most No.
1 New York Times bestsellers by a single author, selling more than 380 million copies worldwide.
Among them is Womens Murder Club.
Showtime won a bidding war for the books rights.
The networks affiliation with CBS, and the corporation's boss, Leslie Moonves, helped seal the deal, according to the Associated Press.
President Trump on Saturday rescinded Golden State Warrior star Stephen Currys invitation to the White House, after Curry suggested he doesnt want to go to the Washington event that will honor his teams 2016-2017 NBA championship.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Trump tweeted Saturday morning.
On Friday, Curry told ESPN that he doesnt want to go the White House event but that the team will decide collectively.
He also seemed to suggest that not going would be part of the resist-Trump movement, saying the move would give the Warriors an opportunity to send a statement that hopefully encourages unity, encourages us to appreciate what it means to be American, and stand for something.
Whether Trump has rescinded just Curry or the entire teams invitation is unclear.
Championship-winning teams attending the White House ceremony has become an increasingly political issue since Trump became president.
BRADY AMONG SEVERAL NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS PLAYERS WHO SKIPPED WHITE HOUSE VISIT

NFL Super Bowl champ New England Patriot quarterback Tom Brady decison not to attend his team's White Hose event in April sparked controversy, despite Brady thanking Trump and citing family issues.
Thank you to the president for hosting this honorary celebration and for supporting our team for as long as I can remember, Brady said in a statement.
In light of some recent development, I am unable to attend todays ceremony, as I am attending to some personal family matters.
Tteammates Martellus Bennett, Devin McCourty, Chris Long, LaGarrette Blount, Donta Hightower and Alan Branch also skipped the ceremony.
Trump has also recently taken issue with NFL players not standing for the playing of the national anthem before games.
The White House also hosts events for college championships teams, too.
President Trump, with his United Nations debut over, turned his attention Saturday to make-or-break senators in their chamber's upcoming ObamaCare vote, encouraging GOP Sen. Rand Paul to find a way to vote yes.
The Senate is scheduled next week to vote on another plan to repeal and replace ObamaCare, the Cassidy-Graham bill, which like other previous attempts this year by the GOP-controlled chamber appears a few votes shy of passage.
I know Rand Paul and I think he may find a way to get there for the good of the Party!
Trump said Saturday morning in one of several tweets.
WHAT IS GRAHAM-CASSIDY?
The Senate has until Sept. 30 to pass the bill with a simple, 51-vote majority under the so-called budget reconciliation procedure.
Republicans have 52 members in the Senate.
However GOP Sens.
Paul, of Kentucky; Lisa Murkowski, of Alaska; John McCain, of Arizona, and Susan Collins, of Maine, appear holdouts, as in previous votes.
Alaska had a 200% plus increase in premiums under ObamaCare, worst in the country.
Deductibles high, people angry!
Lisa M comes through, Trump tweeted Saturday about Murkowski.
The House earlier this year passed an ObamaCare replacement measure.
But the Senate has failed on at least two tries, frustrating Trump who made a major campaign promise of dismantling former President Barack Obamas signature 2010 health care law.
No Democrats support congressional legislation to end the law.
Under the Cassidy-Graham bill, states would have more flexibility in managing federally-backed health insurance by giving states funds through block grants.
McCain, recently diagnosed with brain cancer, cast the deciding vote in August to nix a repeal-replace bill backed by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.
He said Friday that he would not vote for the Cassidy-Graham bill.
Trump slammed McCain on Saturday in three tweets:

John McCain never had any intention of voting for this Bill, which his Governor loves.
He campaigned on Repeal & Replace.
Let Arizona down!"
he wrote, followed by: "Arizona had a 116% increase in ObamaCare premiums last year, with deductibles very high.
Chuck Schumer sold John McCain a bill of goods.
Large Block Grants to States is a good thing to do.
Better control & management.
Great for Arizona.
McCain let his best friend (South Carolina GOP.
Sen.Lindsey Graham) down!
A Democratic candidate for mayor in New Orleans allegedly masturbated during an Uber ride in California earlier this year, authorities said.
A female driver allegedly caught Frank Scurlock, who has campaigned calling for a safer New Orleans, pleasuring himself on a trip to a West Hollywood hotel on Feb. 10, Santa Monica Chief Deputy City Attorney Terry White told The Advocate.
Charges in connection to the incident werent filed until Aug. 31 because of questions regarding jurisdiction in the case, White said.
Scurlock  known locally for his slogan to Make New Orleans Fun Again  is scheduled to be arraigned in Los Angeles Criminal Court on Oct. 16, two days after the mayoral primary in New Orleans.
The female Uber driver reported to police that she was transporting Scurlock on a highway near Santa Monica when she heard noises coming from the back seat.
The driver then stopped the car and opened the passenger car door where Scurlock was sitting and found him with his erect penis in his hand, White said.
The driver then went to a nearby gas station to call police and Scurlock allegedly fled the scene, White said, referencing the womans statement to police and prosecutors.
The woman then took investigators back to the hotel where she initially picked Scurlock up, The Times-Picayune reports.
They went back to the hotel and were able to get a name, White told the newspaper.
Based on the name, they got a picture and put it in a photo lineup, and the driver identified him.
If found guilty of a misdemeanor charge of lewd conduct, Scurlock would need to register as a sex offender in California.
Its unclear if he would also need to register as a sex offender in Louisiana if convicted, according to The Advocate.
The allegations brought against me are without merit, Scurlock said in a statement obtained by WDSU.
It has been many months since this alleged incident occurred.
I await my day in court and expect to be vindicated.
Scurlock was also arrested in May at the Jefferson Davis statue in New Orleans, where he allegedly approached an officer at a protest by opponents of a plan to remove the statue.
Scurlock told The Advocate after his arrest that he opposed the monument being removed because it could start a Civil War II.
He was initially charged with obstructing a public passage, but the charge was later changed to assault before a judge dismissed the case altogether, The Times-Picayune reports.
Scurlock, a native of New Orleans, is the son of John Scurlock, who founded Space Walk Inc., a bouncy house manufacturing company, in 1958, according to a biography on his campaign website.
Frank and his family have grown Space Walk Inc. into a multi-million-dollar company that operates in 200 communities across the country, the website reads.
Frank built Spacewalk into Americas leader in inflatable fun.
Spacewalk is in its third generation of family leadership under his son Mials Scurlock.
In a statement to The Post, Scurlocks son, Mials, said his father divorced from his mother, Patricia Murphy, in 2013.
Murphy at that point bought Scurlock out of the family business, he said.
My mother solely owns the trademark, the statement read.
Further, she is the 100% shareholder.
Scurlock has been estranged from his family since 2013, according to the statement provided by his son, Mials.
Scurlock was formerly registered as a Republican, but has since registered as a Democrat, The Times-Picayune reported in July after his May arrest.
President Trump held a rally in Alabama on Friday ahead of a Sept. 26 primary election to be held in the state.
Sen. Luther Strange, who was appointed to finish out Jeff Sessions term when he was tapped as the U.S. attorney general, faces former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore in a runoff next week.
Follow FoxNews.com's live blog below.
Mobile users click here.
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., on Friday said he "cannot in good conscience vote" for the latest GOP Obamacare repeal plan.
McCain is one of four Republican senators who have been undecided on the proposal, known as the Graham-Cassidy bill, and his opposition dealt the bill's chances a significant blow.
Health care stocks jumped on the news.
In a statement, McCain said his opposition stemmed in large part from how rapidly the bill, nicknamed for Republican Sens.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, was being pushed through the Senate in order to meet a September 30 procedural deadline.
McCain said he cannot vote for the bill without knowing how it will affect premiums, how much it will cost, and how many people it would help or hurt.
"Without a full CBO score, which won't be available by the end of the month, we won't have reliable answers to any of those questions."
he said.
McCain also noted that, in theory, the bill could be a good piece of legislation.
"I would consider supporting legislation similar to that offered by my friends Senators Graham and Cassidy were it the product of extensive hearings, debate and amendment.
But that has not been the case," he said.
Also on Friday, Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said she is leaning toward voting no on Graham-Cassidy.
Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul has already expressed his opposition to the bill, which he said didn't fully repeal the Affordable Care Act.
The bill would not pass if Collins, McCain and Paul voted against it.
Republicans have until Sept. 30 to pass a health care bill with a simple majority.
After that, they will need 60 votes, a nearly impossible threshold to meet as Democrats have been united in opposition to the Republican Obamacare repeal efforts.
The fourth undecided vote is Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, who has expressed her concerns about the bill to fellow senators.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has pledged to bring Graham-Cassidy to the floor for a vote before the end of the month.
McCain's decision to oppose Graham-Cassidy also has a personal component: Graham is the Arizona lawmaker's best friend in the Senate, and many in Washington mistakenly believed that this decades-long friendship would help to sway McCain's vote.
Shortly after McCain released his statement Friday, Graham publicly reassured his friend that there were no hard feelings.
The White House was not so forgiving.
"A vote against Graham Cassidy is a vote to save Obamacare," said Vice President Mike Pence, speaking in his home state of Indiana.
"This is not going to be easy," he said of the faltering repeal effort.
"But let me be clear.
The Republican majority in Congress was not elected to save Obamacare, they were elected to repeal and replace it.
So it's time for every member of the Republican majority to keep their word to the American people."
The remarks seemed to point squarely at McCain, but the Trump administration has good reason to worry.
McCain's opposition significantly reduced the likelihood that Graham-Cassidy will garner enough votes to pass.
And this slimmer chance of success could prompt other senators who've supported the bill so far to flip their yes votes to nays.
Later Friday, White House director of legislative affairs Marc Short responded to McCain's statement, saying that Republicans will continue to push for success in repealing Obamacare.
"At this point, we're only two votes away.
We'll continue working to get the votes of Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowksi," Short said.
When asked if there could potentially be a deal sweetener for Alaska, Short said "there isn't such a thing in this bill."
He also said it was too soon to talk about a bipartisan effort.
Two senators to watch on this front are Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Mike Lee, R-Utah, both of whom have previously expressed concerns that Graham-Cassidy doesn't go far enough toward fully repealing Obamacare.
Now that there's blood in the water, conservatives like Cruz and Lee could decide that voting "no" on Graham-Cassidy will burnish their credentials with conservative voters more than voting yes on an imperfect bill that ultimately collapses.
If Republicans fail to repeal or replace the Affordable Care Act, they will effectively break a promise that GOP lawmakers have been making to voters ever since Obamacare was first signed into law in 2010.
President Donald Trump campaigned on repealing and replacing the law, as well.
President Donald Trump on Friday called reports of Facebook ads that were purchased by fake Russian accounts a "hoax," less than a day after Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the company would share the content of the roughly 3,000 ads with congressional investigators.
"The Russia hoax continues, now it's ads on Facebook," Trump wrote in a tweet early Friday morning, before pivoting to attack his opponent in last year's election, Hillary Clinton.
"What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?"
The tweet marked the first time the president has weighed in on the Russian ads, which Facebook says were aimed at "amplifying divisive social and political messages" in an apparent attempt to influence the 2016 elections.
A White House spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request from CNBC for clarification about what exactly the president thinks is false about the ads.
Facebook announced on Sept. 6 that it had discovered the ads while reviewing its content.
It has since shared them with Justice Department Special Prosecutor Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 elections.
Mueller's probe has so far ensnared a number of Trump's presidential campaign aides, infuriating Trump in the process.
Concept of tax reform is popular, but details not as much: Republican strategist 1:08 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 02:04

In late summer, the Commerce Department and the U.S. Trade Representative submitted a report to the White House that contained a "menu of options," according to one trade official who had seen the document.
White House officials  among them, NEC director Gary Cohn and then-strategist Steve Bannon, for instance  wrestled with widely varying viewpoints and could not agree on a course of action, according to two senior administration officials and an outside advisor close to the White House.
When Secretary Ross briefed lawmakers on the progress of the investigations into steel and aluminum in July, he said a final decision was on hold because of the "legislative calendar," three attendees told CNBC.
At the time, the White House was still pushing the Senate to pass the Better Care health care plan.
Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) described the briefing in a podcast with the Alliance for American Manufacturing.
"The president doesn't seem to think we can do two things at once, that we could do health care and this," Brown said, referencing the fears the steel investigation could "cost some [Republican] votes."
Brown feared waiting until after tax reform efforts to unveil an announcement would delay the decision "basically forever," concluding the industry would have been better off if the White House "hadn't even brought it up."
The White House plans to announce the result of its 232 investigation before the President goes to China in November, according to two senior administration officials and a lobbyist briefed on the plan.
A further delay on a tariff announcement would not only keep congressional frustration at bay, officials say it would also arm the U.S. with economic leverage when approaching conversations of national security  issues that prior Administrations have sought to de-link.
"At various times, the president has indicated he's willing to pull his punches on trade issues if it serves a broader interest," said Ambassador Michael Froman, U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) for the Obama administration and chief negotiator on the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
It's unclear how the so-called softening would play out as the U.S. renegotiates NAFTA.
Public comments from Lighthizer and the president himself have taken a harsher tone.
Trump, in the weeks that followed, suggested no fewer than four times that the U.S. would, in fact, withdraw from the agreement.
Even so, USTR officials in private offer a measured approach.
A USTR official said before the first round of negotiations that the U.S. would draw from previously ditched trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, if it was deemed the "best text out there."
"The president continues to say what he said on the campaign," said Cindy Braddon, president of Braddon Group, which has engaged with the White House and Congress on trade issues.
"But the staff is more transparent with their consultations with Congress."
Wilbur Ross: Tax reform is biggest factor for growth 7:45 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 03:47

Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said Friday that the Trump administration doesn't want to "unnecessarily irritate" Congress on the path to a tax overhaul bill.
On Friday, CNBC reported that the White House is softening its stance on trade  including on steel and NAFTA  as it seeks to preserve Republican votes on tax reform.
When asked whether President Donald Trump is willing to take a softer stance in order to win some bipartisan support on tax reform, Ross told CNBC, "Well what we don't want to do is things that will unnecessarily irritate the Senate."
"We need the votes there and as proven with health care, it is a very fragile margin," Ross added in an interview on "Squawk Box."
"So, it's a question of timing more than it is direction."
"The president is not going to be suddenly happy with trade deficits.
He's not going to be happy with exporting jobs.
But the real priority is going to be getting the tax bill through," Ross said, adding the president has not forgotten his "campaign promises.
Earlier this month, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin insisted that a tax overhaul would happen this year and added that the administration is "super focused" on the goal.
Tax reform will be the "biggest incremental factor" in getting the U.S. growth rate over 3 percent, Ross said Friday.
"That extra percentage point of growth is huge," he said.
"It's $10 trillion over 10 years.
It's $3 trillion of more federal revenue.
So, it's a linchpin."
Ross said lowering the corporate tax rate will be of huge importance and then "a little bit of redistribution, so the people in the lower brackets get the real benefit."
In the interview, Ross also spoke on NAFTA and said that autos and auto parts are a key area in overhauling trade agreement.
Watch: Wilbur Ross: Autos and auto parts make up more than 100% of trade deficit
War of words with North Korea escalates: Here's what we know 7:20 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 02:09

The war of words between President Donald Trump and the leader of North Korea escalated Friday, with Trump saying Kim Jong Un "will be tested like never before."
In a tweet, Trump called Kim "a madman who doesn't mind starving or killing his people."
Trump's latest tirade came after the North Korean dictator chastised Trump, calling the president's United Nations address earlier this week "unprecedented rude nonsense."
"The mentally deranged behavior of the U.S. president openly expressing on the UN arena the unethical will to 'totally destroy' a sovereign state, beyond the boundary of threats of regime change or overturn of social system, makes even those with normal thinking faculty think about discretion and composure," Kim said in a statement circulated by state news agency KCNA.
Early Friday, Kim said that Trump's remarks at the U.N. merit the "highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history."
The heated rhetoric comes as North Korean Minister of Foreign Affairs Ri Yong Ho said that his country may consider a test of a hydrogen bomb in the Pacific Ocean, according to a report from South Korea's official news agency Yonhap.
Ri said the potential test of "the most powerful detonation of an H-bomb" would be one possible "highest-level" action against the U.S., according to the report.
CNBC's Christine Wang and Leslie Shaffer contributed to this report.
Wilbur Ross: Autos and auto parts make up more than 100% of trade deficit 7:41 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 02:49

Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told CNBC on Friday that autos and auto parts are a key area in overhauling the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement.
The "scariest part" of NAFTA as it's currently written is that autos and auto parts make up nearly all of the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico and Canada, Ross said on "Squawk Box."
"Without that there would be a surplus," he said.
Autos and auto parts from areas outside of the U.S., Mexico and Canada coming into the trade bloc are a big problem, said Ross  a billionaire, who before joining the Trump administration, made his fortune investing in distressed assets.
"The sharp growth is parts coming in from outside NAFTA, from China, from Southeast Asia," he said, stressing a free trade zone is supposed to benefit the principals, not outside nations.
Mexico and Canada "should be against substituting U.S.-made parts for ones coming in from outside of NAFTA," he argued.
With the third round of NAFTA renegotiations kicking off this weekend, Ross pushed the urgency to get a new deal done.
"In 2018, the U.S. Trade Promotion Authority, the so-called fast track, runs out.
And given the nature of Congress, we don't know if that will be renewed," he said.
"Without fast-track, it would be very hard to get any trade deals."
Another complicating factor is key elections next year in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, he said.
"If you get too much into 2018, the political calendar will overwhelm the trade calendar."
Despite repeated attacks against NAFTA by President Donald Trump and his administration, a new IPSOS poll showed strong support among Americans, Mexicans and Canadians for cooperation among their nations.
Fifty-eight percent of Americans, 79 percent of Mexicans and 74 percent of Canadians support the idea of their countries participating in one of the world's biggest trading blocs.
On the 2016 campaign trail and as president, Trump has said he would ditch the 23-year-old pact unless major changes are made.
Canada last month suggested it could walk away if the U.S. pushed to remove a key dispute-settlement mechanism.
However, that's viewed as a last-ditch measure.
Mexico's foreign minister last week told Reuters that if NAFTA were to vanish "there would be no leap into the abyss," adding Mexico would deepen trade with other nations.
Meanwhile, the White House has been softening its stance on trade in the hopes of preserving GOP votes on tax reform, sources indicate to CNBC.
Responding to that report, Ross said in Friday's "Squawk Box" interview, "What we don't want to do is things that will unnecessarily irritate the Senate, because we need the votes there."
Reuters contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump on Friday railed at Republicans who oppose the latest attempt by congressional lawmakers to repeal Obamacare.
Trump called out Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky in particular, saying in a tweet that lawmakers who vote against the bill sponsored by Sens.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Bill Cassidy, R-La., will forever be known as "the Republican who saved ObamaCare."
Republicans have reportedly been offering sweeteners for Alaska in an effort to win GOP Sen. Lisa Murkowski's vote for the bill.
CNBC could not immediately confirm details of any possible offer to Murkowski.
"It is almost like one of Mr Trump's reality shows.
Which Mr Trump does Alabama want?
The demagogue or the dealmaker?
It is fair to say most Americans would prefer the latter.
But Alabama Republicans, like the president's base, are untypical of most of America."
Either outcome will be clarifying.
Shortly after Mr Bannon was fired, Mr Trump sent mixed signals on whether he would stick to his original campaign promise.
First he announced that within six months he would start deporting "Dreamers"  those who came to the US illegally as children  unless Congress said otherwise.
The right applauded.
Shortly after that he said he was open to a deal with Democrats that would legalise the Dreamers' status.
Mr Trump hinted he might even drop his insistence on funding for the Mexican border wall.
The right erupted in fury.
Breitbart News, Mr Bannon's disruptive website, branded the president "Amnesty Don".
Alabama's Republicans will now decide if their loyalty is to Mr Trump or to the cause on which he campaigned.
It is almost like one of Mr Trump's reality shows.
Which Mr Trump does Alabama want?
The demagogue or the dealmaker?
It is fair to say most Americans would prefer the latter.
But Alabama Republicans, like the president's base, are untypical of most of America.
Mr Bannon's goal is to force Mr Trump to stick to his campaign message.
In his view, the president has no core ideology: he responds to market signals.
Applause is the key index.
In the past few weeks Mr Trump has won ovations from Washington centrists and cable shows, such as Morning Joe.
Should this continue, he could acquire a taste for bipartisanship, which would damage Mr Bannon's cause.
Mr Trump could start doing deals with Democrats.
Worse, he could become an establishment Republican.
Mr Bannon's aim is to save Mr Trump from himself.
The backdrop is an America in which two-party politics is decomposing.
The gulf between the Democratic moneyed elites and its grassroots is also widening.
Do not expect Mr Trump to settle on any grand strategy.
He is both a symptom and personification of America's political breakdown.
If his candidate prevails in Alabama next week, the battle will shift to other races.
There are bitter Republican primaries brewing in Mississippi, Nevada and Arizona.
Mr Trump has yet to decide whether to endorse the incumbents or Mr Bannon's insurgents.
Given his fickle nature, the president is unlikely to stick to any battle plan for long.
By contrast, Mr Bannon is digging in for the strategic long haul.
Even after being cast out, his influence remains.
This week Mr Trump gave the most nationalist speech yet delivered by a US president to the UN general assembly.
It could have been written by Mr Bannon.
Every time Mr Trump wanders off script, Mr Bannon will give him a reason to think twice.
Though Mr Trump was speaking to fellow leaders in New York, his audience was at home in sweet Alabama.
More from the Financial Times:

Poland pins hopes on electric-vehicle future

Commercial property investors descend on booming Bucharest

Russia to nationalise big private lender B&N
House Speaker Paul Ryan visited Houston on Thursday and said the House expects to pass another round of hurricane relief funding as early as next month.
"The Trump administration is still totaling up what's going on in Florida, Texas, and Puerto Rico," Ryan told a group of aid workers, after surveying the destruction wrought by Hurricane Harvey last month across the Houston area.
"We're waiting for an estimate from the Trump administration on what's needed in Congress, and we'll act on that request, I anticipate, sometime in October," Ryan said.
Ryan also indicated that more work will need to be done at the federal level to shore up vulnerable coastlines.
"The bigger picture, whether it's bayous or levies, that's something we're going to need to have a bigger conversation about, to make sure we can guard against this happening again," he said.
"Just flying over Houston, the devastation is something that none of us have ever seen in our lives.
This is an unprecedented disaster that will require a very bold response at all levels of government."
Ryan was accompanied by the Lone Star State's two Republican senators, John Cornyn and Ted Cruz.
The chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, R-N.J., and the chair of the Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Texas Republican Rep. John Carter.
In early September, the House Speaker worked hard to marshal support within his fractured caucus for a $9.7 billion hurricane relief funding bill.
It was ultimately passed with the help of Democratic support, even though more than 90 Republicans voted against it.
Harvey was the most destructive storm to hit Texas in modern times, ripping through the state during the last few days of August and resulting in at least 81 deaths and billions of dollars in property damage.
In the weeks since Harvey came ashore, two more hurricanes, Irma and Maria, have caused billions of dollars more in damage to Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
President Donald Trump on Thursday signed an executive order expanding his authority to target people and institutions that do business with North Korea.
Through the measure, the president aims to cut off the communist dictatorship's funding and deter its nuclear and missile ambitions amid a string of recent tests and provocations.
"North Korea's nuclear weapons and missile development is a grave threat to peace and security in our world and it is unacceptable that others financially support this criminal, rogue regime," Trump said before a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and South Korean President Moon Jae-in.
"Our new executive order will cut off sources of revenue that fund North Korea's efforts to develop the deadliest weapons known to humankind.
The order enhances the Treasury Department's authorities to target any individual or entity that conducts significant trade in goods, services or technology with North Korea."
The isolated nation has tested ballistic missiles and an apparent hydrogen bomb in recent weeks in the face of international economic sanctions and warnings.
On Tuesday, Trump told the U.N. General Assembly that the U.S. "will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea" if it is forced to defend itself or its allies.
GOP Texas Rep. Jeb Hensarling told CNBC on Thursday U.S. taxpayers should not have to foot the bill for at-risk homes that have flooded over and over again, a problem highlighted by the two hurricanes that hit the United States over the past month.
"We have these repetitive loss properties," said the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.
"So for example, we have one property outside of Baton Rouge [Louisiana] that has a modest home worth about $60,000 that's flooded over 40 times.
The taxpayers have paid almost half a million dollars for it."
"At some point, God is telling you to move," Hensarling added in an interview on "Squawk Box."
"If all we do is force federal taxpayers to build the same home in the same fashion in the same location and expect a different result, we all know that is the classic definition of insanity," he said.
Hensarling also said the U.S. has some "fairness issues" and said he doesn't believe a "factory worker in Kansas ought to be subsidizing a millionaire's beach condo in Florida."
"If we had a robust competitive market that would help educate people about the risk of flood and a lot of that would get rolled into the homeowner's policy," he said.
Some homeowners with property near flood-prone areas should make their homes more resilient or relocate out of the flood zone, Hensarling suggested.
Earlier this month, President Donald Trump signed a bill providing $15 billion for Hurricane Harvey disaster relief, which incorporated an extension of the federal flood insurance program.
Homeowners who had purchased flood insurance could expect some help.
Others without insurance will have to find assistance through relief aid and donations.
Nearly five years ago the state of Kansas underwent what was dubbed a real live "experiment" in tax reform when Republican Gov.
Sam Brownback enacted a tax package that brought down personal income-tax rates and also eliminated income tax for pass-through entities.
These included LLCs, S-corps, partnerships, farms and sole proprietorships.
The idea was to stimulate the local economy with spending, hiring and small-business growth.
The majority of small businesses in America are structured as pass-throughs, passing through their business income to owners who are then taxed at the individual level.
Entrepreneurs like Kelly McCracken, owner of Amazing Smiles of Kansas City, saw savings of thousands of dollars a year under Brownback's cuts, allowing her to invest in her business.
For her company the experiment worked as planned.
"We hired other small businesses to help with our website and SEO, we hired another employee and most recently made a durable equipment purchase," she said.
Public opinion signals a narrow path for President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans to press their tax cut agenda, according to the latest NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll.
The survey shows no groundswell of support for tax cuts.
Fully 62 percent of Americans say taxes for the wealthy should be increased; 55 percent say taxes on corporations should go up.
At the same time, 57 percent of Americans say taxes should be cut for small businesses.
And a 54 percent majority agrees that a major tax cut for corporations would encourage them to expand and add jobs.
Those conflicting indicators mean "there aren't people at the barricades (pushing) in either direction," said Republican pollster Bill McInturff, who helps conduct the NBC/WSJ poll.
And that means both parties have the chance to gain the upper hand by mounting effective public arguments.
For Republicans, that means emphasizing the benefits of tax cuts for small business and job creation.
While college-educated voters remain skeptical of the jobs argument, it draws 60 percent support among the white, working-class Americans who propelled Trump to the presidency.
"Talking to their base, the Republicans will have a case to make," said Peter Hart, the Democratic pollster who works with McInturff on the survey.
For Democrats, it means emphasizing the benefits of GOP proposals for corporations and the wealthy.
Independents and white voters want higher taxes on both by almost as much as Americans overall do.
Considering all potential options, Americans remain split on their bottom-line prescriptions for Congress.
Just 4 percent want a tax cut just for businesses, while 24 percent want a cut only for individuals.
Another 28 percent want both business and individual tax cuts.
But the largest single group, 42 percent, says Congress should not cut taxes at this time.
Most striking of all is how muted opinion on taxes has become.
A 55 percent majority calls their own tax burden "about the right amount," exceeding the 40 percent who say they pay "more than their fair share."
In some ways, Republicans are fighting uphill as they look ahead to the 2018 midterm elections.
By 48 percent to 42 percent, Americans say they want Democrats rather than Republicans to win control of Congress.
The poll also underscores the internal turmoil the GOP faces.
Just 36 percent of self-described Republicans expresses satisfaction with the performance of House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, while 59 percent of Republicans say they are dissatisfied.
Just one-third of Americans say Trump has accomplished "a great deal" or "a fair amount," as president, while two-thirds say "only some" or "very little."
By nearly 3-to-1 margins, the public disapproves of Trump's use of Twitter and his handling of the violent white nationalist protests in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Yet one key GOP indicator improved.
The telephone poll of 900 adults, which carries a margin for error of 3.27 percentage points, was conducted Sept. 14-18 after Trump's handling of recent hurricanes as well as his deal on the budget and debt limit with Democratic congressional leaders.
The share of Americans who approve of Trump's job performance ticked up to 43 percent, from 40 percent in August.
The share who disapprove edged down to 52 percent from 55 percent.
Trump to African leaders: I've so many friends going to your countries trying to get rich 3:29 PM ET Wed, 20 Sept 2017 | 01:29

President Donald Trump on Wednesday was met with silence when he congratulated the leaders of African countries on the continent's economic progress, telling them, "I've so many friends going to your countries, trying to get rich.
I congratulate you.
They're spending a lot of money."
Trump delivered the remark at a luncheon he hosted with the leaders of many of the 54 diverse nations on the African continent.
And while Trump almost certainly meant it as compliment, and even seemed to pause for applause, not one attendee clapped.
For centuries, Europeans and Americans have exploited Africa's natural resources and labor force, not least during the trans-Atlantic slave trade.
In the post-Colonial era, the U.S. government has supported dozens of authoritarian regimes on the African continent, while American companies have made billions of dollars from deals with dictatorships.
The House Financial Services Committee is seeking information about trading in Equifax options nearly three weeks before the credit reporting company disclosed a massive data breach, a source familiar with the inquiry told CNBC.
A lawyer for the committee has reached out to traders, looking for a possible explanation for the spike in options trading on Aug. 21, weeks after Equifax discovered the breach internally in late July but before it publicly disclosed it.
News of the breach, which compromised personal information for up to 143 million people, has sliced more than 34 percent off Equifax's share price this month.
On Wednesday afternoon, Federal Reserve Chairman Janet Yellen said it was "a very serious" data breach.
"We would really urge consumers now to be careful in monitoring their credit reports and financial situation."
Yellen added, "We're working with the banks to supervise, to make sure, to take appropriate actions with respect to their business processes."
The trading in Equifax options in August was unusual given how lightly they trade normally.
And the size of the trade could have generated millions in profit.
On Aug. 21, 10 times as many Equifax options were bought than in the entire month of July.
On that day, 2,600 contracts, representing the right to sell 260,000 shares of Equifax at $135 each in September, were bought for 60 cents to 70 cents each.
At the time, Equifax shares traded around $140.
The lawyer for the committee, which is chaired by Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, has asked whether that size of trade is normal, where the options traded, and what types of traders would be active in the type of transaction in question, according to the source familiar with the inquiry.
The options would pay if Equifax shares fell below $135 in September, which is exactly what happened.
Once the breach was disclosed on Sept. 7, the shares sank.
At Tuesday's $93.47 closing price, the profit on the options trade would be more than $10 million.
The number of inquiries and formal investigations into Equifax and its handling of the breach and its disclosure continue to mount.
On Tuesday, Massachusetts filed a lawsuit saying Equifax didn't properly protect the consumer data under its control, and several other states continue to investigate.
The Federal Trade Commission has also confirmed it is investigating.
Federal prosecutors in Atlanta, where Equifax is based, are also looking into the matter.
"The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Georgia is working with the FBI to conduct a criminal investigation into the Equifax breach and resulting theft of personal information," said U.S. Attorney John Horn in a statement.
The office wouldn't comment further.
In addition to the data breach itself, stock sales by three Equifax executives have come under scrutiny.
The executives, including Equifax's chief financial officer, sold $1.8 million of stock just days after the breach was detected internally, though a spokesperson for Equifax has said they weren't aware of the incident at the time of the sales.
The Senate Finance Committee has already asked for additional information from Equifax about the breach and the timing of the insider stock sales.
Yellen: I have not had a further meeting with President Trump 3:28 PM ET Wed, 20 Sept 2017 | 00:38

Fed Chair Janet Yellen would not say Wednesday if she knew whether President Donald Trump will reappoint her as head of the central bank.
"I have said that I intend to serve out my term as chair and that I'm really not going to comment on my intentions beyond that," Yellen told reporters following the Fed's two-day policy meeting.
"I will say that I have not had a further meeting with President Trump.
I met with him early in my term and I've not had a further meeting with him."
Yellen did have breakfast with the president's daughter and advisor, Ivanka, in July.
It is unclear what the pair discussed.
Yellen's term as chair expires in February.
The president has said he is considering her for another term.
"I like her and I respect her, but I haven't made that decision yet," Trump told reporters earlier this month.
Trump has said he considered choosing his top economic advisor Gary Cohn to lead the Fed after Yellen.
However, Trump soured on Cohn following his criticism of the president's response to violence at a white supremacist rally last month.
About 38 percent of respondents to the CNBC Fed Survey this month expect Trump to reappoint Yellen.
Graham-Cassidy bill would use block grants based on state's enrollees 7:08 PM ET Wed, 20 Sept 2017 | 01:46

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell plans to bring a last-ditch bill to repeal and replace big parts of Obamacare to a vote in the Senate next week, a spokesman for the Kentucky Republican said Wednesday.
"It is the leader's intention to consider Graham-Cassidy on the floor next week," McConnell's spokesman said.
But it remained unclear Wednesday whether McConnell has lined up enough Republicans in the Senate to pass the bill.
The statement came shortly after McConnell met with the bill's co-sponsor, Sen. Lindsay Graham, R-S.C., and after Graham met separately with Alaska's two senators, whose support would be crucial for the bill to pass.
The bill, co-sponsored by Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La., sets up a block grant system to allot money to states.
Many of them are expected to see less federal funding under the plan than they currently get.
The deadline for passage is Sept. 30, when authorization for a fast-track procedural tool known as reconciliation expires.
President Donald Trump tweeted his support for the bill earlier Wednesday, and criticized Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky for opposing it.
Republicans need 50 senators to vote for the bill to win passage, assuming a tie-breaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence.
While the GOP has a majority of 52 seats in the Senate, party leaders have not been able to get more than 49 Republicans to vote for Obamacare repeal bills this year.
In July, Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska was one of three GOP senators to oppose a final version of a repeal bill, ensuring its defeat.
Murkowski has not said how she would vote on Graham-Cassidy.
Neither has Dan Sullivan, a Republican who is the state's other senator.
The focus is also on Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., whose vote against the last GOP attempt to overhaul the health-care system killed the measure.
McCain has not given a clear sense of where he stands this time.
Every Democrat and independent in the Senate is opposed to Obamacare repeal.
President Barack Obama on Wednesday called it "aggravating" to see the repeated Republican attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Obama's comment came as the Graham-Cassidy plan, the latest in a string of GOP efforts to roll back his signature achievement, gained traction in the Senate.
Republican Senate leadership aims to consider the bill on the floor next week, before the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office can assess the sprawling plan's effects on health-care coverage and premiums.
The 44th U.S. president said "it is aggravating" to see lawmakers push bills that he said would reduce coverage, raise costs or create uncertainty for people with pre-existing conditions.
"And all of this being done without any demonstrable economic or actuarial or plain common sense rationale  it frustrates," Obama said at an event in New York for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
"And it's certainly frustrating to have to mobilize every couple of months to keep our leaders from inflicting real human suffering on our constituents.
But, typically that's how progress is won and how progress is maintained."
The Senate has failed to pass several plans to repeal Obamacare this year, backed by Obama's successor, President Donald Trump.
GOP leaders argue that the current system is untenable and has left consumers with rising costs.
Obama acknowledged that U.S. health care has flaws which need to be addressed.
But he criticized the alternatives offered by Republican lawmakers this year.
The Graham-Cassidy plan is a last-ditch effort to follow through on the key Republican campaign promise to repeal Obamacare.
Lawmakers face a Sept. 30 deadline to use budget rules which allow them to pass a plan with only Republican votes.
The health-care bill sets up a block grant system to allot money to the states.
Many of them are expected to see less federal funding under the plan than they currently get.
The senators backing it say it will give states more control over their health care rather than the federal government.
It faces a tough fight and potentially razor-thin margin in the Senate.
Critics have expressed concerns that it will drastically increase the number of uninsured Americans and lead to fewer financial protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
Ten bipartisan governors have urged the Senate not to pass the plan, while numerous major health-care groups have criticized the bill.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Bill Cassidy, R-La., have argued it will not lead to more people uninsured or fewer protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
The CBO will not be able to assess those effects before the Senate would aim to vote on the plan.
All of the previous health-care plans backed by the Senate GOP leadership would have led to millions more uninsured, according to the CBO.
California's attorney general plans to file a lawsuit on Wednesday challenging President Donald Trump's plan to construct a wall along the border with Mexico, the state AG's office said, adding to the obstacles facing a key Trump campaign promise.
Trump has insisted Mexico would pay for building the wall, which experts said could cost about $22 billion and take more than three years to complete.
With Mexico refusing to pay, Trump has said since taking office in January that the wall will initially need U.S. funding, but that he will find a way to make Mexico ultimately pay for it.
Democrats in the U.S. Congress, however, firmly oppose the border wall, and at least some Democratic senators would need to vote for its inclusion in a spending package.
Democratic attorney generals including California's Xavier Becerra have sued the Trump administration on a range of issues.
The border wall lawsuit set to be filed on Wednesday will allege that Trump's wall violates federal environmental standards, as well as constitutional provisions regarding the

separation of powers and states' rights, a Becerra spokesperson said.
Last month the Trump administration said it had selected four construction companies to build concrete prototypes for a wall, which will be 30 feet (9 meters) tall and about 30 feet wide and will be tested in San Diego.
Republican senators are struggling to articulate why they are rushing to pass their last-ditch effort to repeal and replace Obamacare over the next 10 days before running into their September 30 deadline.
In interviews with Vox on Tuesday, nine Republican senators primarily argued that their "Hail Mary" bill  spearheaded by Sens.
Lindsey Graham (SC) and Bill Cassidy (LA)  would return federal power to the states, giving them greater flexibility to improve their health systems locally.
"The heart of the legislation takes the policymaking role of Washington and sends it to the states," Texas Sen. Ted Cruz said.
Far less clear is exactly how Graham-Cassidy would pull off this feat without resulting in millions of Americans losing their insurance  and the number of millions is still unknown, since any vote would likely have to come before the Congressional Budget Office completes its analysis of the bill.
The GOP senators insisted that the tens of billions in cuts to federal health spending proposed in the bill would not result in coverage losses because, they said, the states would have more flexibility.
More from Vox:

The Emmys made fun of Donald Trump.
So he dissed their ratings on Twitter.
Bill Cassidy just said his bill "covers more people."
That's hard to believe.
Polls: Trump's approval ratings are ticking up

"They can do it with less money," said Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK), who was unable to explain how or why.
Other Republican senators, meanwhile, fell back on political explanations for a bill that experts warn could result in millions losing their insurance.
"If we do nothing, it has a tremendous impact on the 2018 elections," said Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS).
"And whether or not Republicans still maintain control and we have the gavel."
And then some members of the upper chamber acknowledged that the spending changes might have a big impact, but argued their home states would not be negatively impacted.
"Four of our states are getting a disproportionate amount of money from health care now," Sen. Richard Shelby (R-AL) said.
The bill, he added, "wouldn't cut Alabama."
(Numbers from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities suggest Alabama would receive more than $1 billion in additional funding under the bill, but most states would see big cuts.)
The stakes of the Republican rush to repeal and replace Obamacare could hardly be higher.
The GOP has less than two weeks to pass a repeal-and-replace plan before their budget reconciliation instructions expire, and the insurance of tens of millions of Americans hangs in the balance.
Vox conducted the interviews with nine Republican senators throughout the Capitol and Russell Senate Office Building on Tuesday.
Transcripts of those conversations follow.
"All politics is local," like the law of gravity, usually overpowers opposing forces.
On repealing Obamacare, Republicans are testing it one more time.
With special rules preventing a Democratic filibuster set to expire in 10 days, President Donald Trump and the GOP-led Congress aim to quickly pass the bill sponsored by Republican Sens.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana.
Like earlier failed attempts to replace Obamacare, it would sharply cut federal health spending and leave millions fewer Americans with insurance.
But Graham-Cassidy, through its formula for allocating that shrinking federal pie, makes unusually vivid trade-offs between states that win and lose in the process.
To pass it, GOP leaders will need the votes of Republican senators whose states will receive less money so that other states can receive more.
The biggest reason is that the bill repeals Obamacare's expansion of Medicaid.
Under the expansion, the 31 states plus the District of Columbia that have been willing to cover more people under Medicaid got a large chunk of federal money to do so.
Graham-Cassidy takes that money back, throws it into a giant federal pot with other current Obamacare subsidies, and then distributes it among all states in the form of block grants.
The result: All 16 states that would get more health-care money in 2026 than under Obamacare are states that have declined to expand Medicaid, according to calculations by the health-care consulting firm Avalere.
Of the 27 Republican senators representing those states, none has yet signaled opposition to the bill.
To pass Graham-Cassidy, however, Republicans need 23 more votes from among the 25 GOP senators representing states that would get less money.
That won't be easy.
Two "yes" votes will come from Cassidy and co-sponsor Sen. Dean Heller of Nevada.
They are defying opposition from Louisiana's health secretary and Nevada's governor, who fear the bill would harm their states.
Yet others aren't so willing.
Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, which Avalere calculates would receive $5 billion less in 2026, has announced his opposition; the staunch conservative explained that Graham-Cassidy doesn't do enough to get rid of Obamacare.
Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, which would get $1 billion less, has signaled her likely "no" vote.
With all Democrats opposed, that means one additional Republican defection would sink the bill.
The Republican-controlled state that would lose the most is Arizona, which would get $11 billion less in 2026.
That turns up the heat on Arizona Sens.
John McCain, whose opposition sank the previous Obamacare repeal effort, and Jeff Flake, who voted for the last bill.
Arizona's Republican Gov.
Doug Ducey, by endorsing Graham-Cassidy, has made it easier for them to vote "yes."
Other Republican governors from states that would lose ground have not been so accommodating.
Bill Walker of Alaska, which would lose $1 billion, has joined a bipartisan group of governors in opposition.
That increases pressure on Alaska's GOP Sens.
Lisa Murkowski, who also opposed the earlier Obamacare repeal, and Dan Sullivan.
So did Gov.
John Kasich of Ohio, which would lose $9 billion.
That makes it harder for wavering GOP Sen.
Rob Portman to vote yes.
Other loser states with Republican senators include Florida ($4 billion), Arkansas ($6 billion), Pennsylvania ($6 billion), and West Virginia ($1 billion).
In the end, undecided Republican senators could look past the impacts on their own states and vote with their party to avoid backlash from core supporters over a broken promise on Obamacare repeal.
Trump has supported each iteration of the repeal effort even though the loss of health benefits would disproportionately harm his white working-class base.
But more often than not home-state interests prove decisive.
Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas once burnished his reputation as an ideologically pristine champion of fiscal conservatism by opposing legislation aiding victims of Superstorm Sandy.
He reversed course in recent weeks after Hurricane Harvey ravaged Texas.
Moreover, Cruz has broken with his normal ideological ally, Paul, to support Graham-Cassidy.
According to Avalere, Texas would receive $35 billion more federal money in 2026 under the law, making it the biggest winner of any state.
Correction: This article was updated to reflect how Sen. Jeff Flake voted on the previous Obamacare repeal effort.
The new Obamacare repeal bill being pushed hard by Senate Republicans could slash federal health funding to states by more than a whopping $4 trillion through the next 20 years, a new analysis finds.
The same report said that at least $215 billion in federal funds to states would be whacked by 2026, and warned that those cuts would grow dramatically over the following decade if Congress didn't appropriate additional money under the controversial Graham-Cassidy bill.
Those eye-popping projections from the Avalere Health consultancy were disclosed Wednesday as GOP leaders in the Senate and the Trump administration lobbied the handful of Republicans who have not publicly supported the bill yet.
Graham-Cassidy would, among other things, eliminate the expansion of Medicaid benefits to poor people under Obamacare, and also would eliminate the federal subsidization of health insurance purchases in the individual plan market.
While the bill would award federal block grant funds to individual states to craft their own health insurance programs, there would be a net reduction in how much money the government would allocate compared with what it currently does under the Affordable Care Act.
Republicans, who hold 52 Senate seats, need at least 50 senators to pass the bill, which faces a Sept. 30 deadline for approval.
A slew of health advocacy groups and governors of both political parties are opposed to the law because they say it would lead to millions more people losing their health insurance.
Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at Avalere, said that the significant, long-term federal funding reductions to states seen under the bill would hit hardest those states that have already expanded their Medicaid programs under Obamacare to cover more low-income people.
"States would have broad flexibility to shape their markets but would have less funding to subsidize coverage for low- and middle-income individuals," Pearson said.
Avalere found that through 2026 there would be 34 states, along with the District of Columbia, that would see net federal health funding cuts under Graham-Cassidy.
Seven of those states would see their funds slashed by more than $10 billion apiece during that time frame.
California alone would lose $78 billion in funds, and New York would lose $45 billion.
The funding losses would accelerate after 2026, because Graham-Cassidy does not appropriate money beyond that year.
"While funding for 2027 and beyond may be appropriated in the future, the bill currently creates a block grant funding cliff in 2027," Avalere noted.
"The ability of the Congress to appropriate additional funding is uncertain and could be constrained by the need to offset the cost."
If Congress doesn't agree to extend funding under the bill starting in 2027, federal health funding to states would drop by a net of $489 billion through that year, compared with what they would receive if Obamacare remained in place.
There would be 39 states, along with D.C., that would face reduced funds, "and 18 states with reductions of greater than $10B," Avalere's report said.
"By 2027, only 11 states would see an increase in funding under [Graham-Cassidy] compared to current law," according to the report.
However, if the funding isn't extended, by 2036, all states would see a reduction in the money they would have otherwise gotten under Obamacare.
The total amount cut could be in excess of $4 trillion, Avalere said.
"Federal funding reductions range from $4B in South Dakota to $800B in California," according to the report.
U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that he had made a decision on whether or not to pull the United States out of the 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers, but he declined to say what it was.
Trump, when asked by reporters, said: "I have decided."
If Trump does not certify in October that Iran is complying with the agreement, the U.S. Congress will have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions waived under the pact.
President Donald Trump on Wednesday urged Republican senators to push through a last-ditch attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act before the end of the month.
In a tweet, the president for the first time explicitly endorsed the health-care plan spearheaded by Sens.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Bill Cassidy, R-La.
The senators are rushing to pass the bill before a Sept. 30 deadline to use budget rules that would allow them to approve it with only Republican votes.
The health-care bill sets up a block grant system to allot money to the states.
Many of them are expected to see less federal funding under the plan than they currently get.
"I hope Republican Senators will vote for Graham-Cassidy and fulfill their promise to Repeal & Replace ObamaCare.
Money direct to the States!"
Trump wrote on Twitter.
The senators backing it say it will give states more control over their health care rather than the federal government.
It faces a tough fight and potentially razor-thin margin in the Senate.
Critics have expressed concerns that it will drastically increase the number of uninsured Americans and lead to fewer financial protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
Ten bipartisan governors have urged the Senate not to pass the plan, while numerous major health-care groups have criticized the bill.
The GOP's last-ditch effort to repeal "Obamacare" would redistribute hundreds of billions of dollars in federal financing for insurance coverage, creating winners and losers among individual Americans and states in ways not yet fully clear.
Independent analysts say the latest Senate Republican bill is likely to leave more people uninsured than the Affordable Care Act, and allow states to make changes that raise costs for people with health problems or pre-existing medical conditions.
After closed-door meetings Tuesday, supporters seemed confident but acknowledged they're not sure if the bill can pass.
There's only a narrow window for the Senate to act under special budget rules that expire at the end of the month.
The Congressional Budget Office has said it doesn't have time to complete a full analysis of the impact on coverage before the deadline.
The biggest changes would start in 2020  the next presidential election year.
That's a political risk for Republicans, since health care changes often involve unforeseen problems.
A key feature of the legislation from Sens.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana would put the ACA's financing for subsidized private health insurance and Medicaid expansion into a giant pot and redistribute it among states according to new formulas.
States could obtain federal waivers allowing them to modify insurance market safeguards for consumers.
For example, states could let insurers charge higher premiums for older adults.
The 31 states that expanded Medicaid are likely to see a funding reduction over time, as well as states, like Florida, where many residents received subsidies for private health insurance, said Larry Levitt of the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation.
"Every state has to start from scratch creating its own health insurance program, in some cases with reduced federal funding and in some cases with increased federal funding," Levitt said.
"I don't think at this point anybody knows what states are going to do."
Following the framework of previous Republican bills, the new legislation would also limit overall federal financing for Medicaid, which serves more than 70 million low-income people.
That feature affects the entire program, not just former President Barack Obama's expansion to cover more low-income adults.
It would change the current open-ended nature of Medicaid financing, a move that prompts deep concern from hospitals, doctors, nursing homes, consumer groups, and some state officials.
"The bottom line is most states will experience a reduction in federal funding under the bill," said Caroline Pearson of the consulting firm Avalere Health.
"States that expanded Medicaid are likely to see some of the biggest cuts."
Graham says his bill will allow states to take the initiative on health care, designing programs that work best under local conditions.
"I believe that most Republicans like the idea of state control of health care rather than Washington, D.C., control," he said.
"We've come upon an idea that is uniquely Republican."
But Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, sees problems.
"It seems that it has many of the same flaws as the bill that we rejected previously," said Collins, one of three GOP senators whose opposition derailed the last Republican legislation.
Here's a look at some winners and losers under the bill:

Winners  People who don't believe the government should require individuals to purchase a costly private service like health insurance.
The bill would repeal "Obamacare's" unpopular requirements for individuals to have coverage and for larger employers to offer coverage.
The trade-off is that without such a legal requirement, more people are likely to be uninsured.
And an accident or unexpected illness can make that a costly decision.
Losers  People with health problems or with pre-existing medical conditions could be charged more if the state they live in obtains a waiver from current requirements that forbid insurers from charging higher premiums based on health status.
States could also seek waivers from the current requirement that insurers cover 10 basic kinds of services, such as maternity and childbirth, or mental health and substance abuse treatment.
Winners  Medical device manufacturers.
The bill would repeal an ACA tax on the industry.
But it would leave in place Obama's tax increases on upper-income individuals, a feature that may cause problems among some conservatives.
Losers  States that expanded Medicaid, including 17 with Republican governors.
The more generous federal match for the expansion would be phased out, and some of the money would be redistributed to states that did not expand their programs.
Winners  People who use tax-sheltered health savings accounts for health care expenses.
Contribution limits would be raised and consumers could use their accounts to pay insurance premiums, not just out-of-pocket costs such as copays and deductibles.
Wal-Mart, Target and PepsiCo on Wednesday joined an expanded group of nearly 800 companies calling in a letter for U.S. legislation to protect immigrants brought into the country illegally by their parents from deportation, according to organizer FWD.us.
The retailers and other companies asking Congress to pass a permanent replacement for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, reflect broadening pressure on political leaders to find a solution for the roughly 800,000 immigrants known as "Dreamers."
A group of businesses less than half the size and weighted toward technology companies sent a similar letter in August, before President Donald Trump said he would end the program.
The new letter reflects Trump's decision and asks for a permanent solution to let DACA recipients remain in the United States.
Trump said that DACA immigrants who have work permits that expire before March can apply to renew them for another two years, if they do so before Oct. 5.
Both letters were spearheaded by FWD.us, a pro-immigration group co-founded by Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg.
The very first incarnation of the letter included signatories from major technology companies such as Apple, Microsoft and Amazon.com and Alphabet's Google.
But over the course of several days, a much broader swath of the U.S. economy, from media firm Viacom to private equity firm TPG signed on.
The newer letter adds firms like biotech firm Becton, Dickinson and Co, according to a copy of the letter and signatures seen by Reuters.
"That you see business leaders from every major sector of the economy come out and ask Congress to pass a permanent fix for DACA right away shows that this is a bipartisan issue that has strong support," Todd Schulte, president of FWD.us, told Reuters.
The new letter calls on Congress to "immediately pass the bipartisan DREAM Actor similar legislationthat gives Dreamers the permanent legislative solution they deserve."
The DREAM Act, first introduced in Congress in 2001, would provide Dreamers with a way to become U.S. citizens after first becoming permanent residents.
DACA, a set of executive actions introduced by President Barack Obama in 2012, didn't include a pathway to citizenship, which would require an act of Congress.
Some conservatives in particular object to offering citizenship to DACA recipients.
Activists including United We Dream also are encouraging DACA recipients and companies they work for to be public about their situation.
Enrique Ramirez was brought to the United States from Mexico when he was two years old.
He graduated from Harvard University and is now attending law school at the University of Texas at Austin.
"There's been so much money invested in me by this country, wouldn't even a conservative person want me to contribute to my community here?"
Ramirez said.
DACA shields recipients from deportation and allowed them to work and attend school legally if certain requirements were met.
Speaking on ABC television on Sept. 19, Apple CEO Tim Cook said he was "encouraged" that leading Democrats and Republican President Trump have said they are near a deal on DACA legislation.
Apple has said it has 250 DACA beneficiaries among its ranks.
"We think it's essential that we not only let them stay in this country, but welcome them," Cook said of DACA recipients.
"I am encouraged that Congress will pass a law to make this permanent."
Other tech companies are looking to pair with local groups to help DACA recipients.
Ride-haling firm Uber Technologies Inc said that is holding a series of town-hall meetings in 10 cities to answer drivers' questions about DACA changes, and that it plans to donate $500,000 to local groups that can help drivers with issues like paperwork and application fees.
When Hillary Clinton took the guest's seat on "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," she was in a mood to put Russian President Vladimir Putin on the psychiatrist's couch.
Clinton said Tuesday night that Putin interfered in the presidential election in part because of her work as secretary of state, which brought the two into conflict on various occasions.
That, she said, evolved into a grudge on his part.
She said the fact she's a woman "does seem to get him agitated."
And she mocked Putin for "manspreading" at one meeting.
That's an aggressive posture where a man sits with legs splayed.
And she says Putin is "tied up with his anger and disappointment" with the Soviet Union's collapse.
Meantime Clinton called President Donald Trump's U.N. speech "very dark, dangerous."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told The Associated Press in an interview Tuesday that he heard positive news in President Donald Trump's United Nations address: "that the U.S. would not impose its way of life on others."
"I think it's a very welcome statement, which we haven't heard from an American leader for a very long time," said Lavrov, who sat down with the AP and Russia's Tass news agency directly after meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
Lavrov blamed the Obama administration for the collapse in relations between Moscow and Washington.
The U.S. enacted a series of steps against the Russian and Russian diplomats in December, including new sanctions and expelling 35 Russian diplomats, to punish Russia for meddling in the U.S. elections, a charge Russia has denied.
Moscow responded by limiting the size of the U.S. diplomatic staff in Russia.
In his speech to the General Assembly, Trump said "We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to watch."
He also said, "Strong, sovereign nations let diverse countries with different values, different cultures, not just coexist, but work side by side on the basis of mutual respect."
Lavrov pointed to those statements while acknowledging relations are at "a very difficult and a very low point, which is the legacy of the Obama administration."
But he said that what Trump had said during the election campaign, and what he continues to say now, is that he wants to have good relations with Moscow.
President Donald Trump said he was "sorry" about an incident where Turkish security personnel attacked protesters in Washington D.C., according to an account from Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
In an interview with PBS NewsHour released Tuesday, the Turkish head of state said Trump expressed regret about the matter during a phone conversation.
The White House subsequently pushed back on that claim.
"President Trump called me about a week ago about this issue.
He said that he was sorry, and he told me that he was going to follow up on this issue when we come to the United States within the framework of an official visit," Erdogan said, according to a translation from PBS.
A White House official denied that Trump had said "sorry" for anything related to the brawl during the call.
"They discussed a wide range of issues but there was no apology," the official told CNBC.
Widely circulated video of the incident appears to show Turkish bodyguards beating prone protesters, even as Washington police are struggling to pull them away.
A grand jury in Washington has indicted 15 Turkish security guards for beating up Kurdish protesters during Erdogan's visit to the U.S. capital in May.
Washington's police chief called the incident a "brutal attack" on peaceful protesters, while the U.S. State Department described the situation as "deeply disturbing."
U.S. President Donald Trump is using money donated to his re-election campaign and the

Republican National Committee to pay for his lawyers in the probe of alleged Russian interference in the U.S. election, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters.
Following Reuters exclusive report on Tuesday, CNN reported that the Republican National Committee paid in August more than $230,000 to cover some of Trump's legal fees related to the probe.
RNC spokesperson Cassie Smedile confirmed to Reuters that Trump's lead lawyer, John Dowd, received $100,000 from the RNC and that the RNC also paid $131,250 to the Constitutional Litigation and Advocacy Group, the law firm where Jay Sekulow, another of Trump's lawyers, is a partner.
The RNC is scheduled to disclose its August spending on Wednesday.
The Trump campaign is due for a disclosure on Oct. 15.
The U.S. Federal Election Commission allows the use of private campaign funds to pay legal bills arising from being a candidate or elected official.
While previous presidential campaigns have used these funds to pay for routine legal matters such as ballot access disputes and compliance requirements, Trump would be the first U.S. president in the modern campaign finance era to use such funds to cover the costs of responding to a criminal probe, said election law experts.
Smedile said the RNC payments to Trump's lawyers were "from a pre-existing legal proceedings account and do not reduce by a dime the resources we can put towards our political work."
It was not clear how Trump's legal costs related to the Russia probe would be allocated between the campaign and the RNC, one of the sources said.
Dowd declined to say how the president's legal bills were being paid, adding: "That's none of your business."
Special counsel Robert Mueller is looking at possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in last year's election, and whether Trump may have obstructed justice by firing Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey, among other actions.
Moscow has denied meddling in the U.S. election, and Trump has denied any collusion or obstruction.
Reuters could not determine how large a legal bill Trump has incurred to date from his lawyers on the Mueller investigation.
Trump hired his longtime New York lawyer Marc Kasowitz to head his defense team in May, but Kasowitz stepped down in July, with Dowd taking over the lead role, according to people familiar with the situation.
Special White House counsel Ty Cobb, who is a salaried staff member, is also working on the matter.
The Trump campaign has paid law firm Jones Day almost $4 million, according to campaign filings, mostly for routine campaign legal expenses like ballot access disputes, vendor contracts, human resources and compliance with state and federal laws.
It has also responded to Russia-related inquiries on behalf of the campaign by, for example, providing documents to Congress.
There is, of course, no small measure of irony in Mr. Trumps decision to side with the establishment forces that lined up against his campaign for president.
If Mr.
Strange, who was appointed to fill the seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, wins, Mr. Trump will deal a blow to some of the same anti-Washington forces that propelled his own rise.
But Mr. Trump has taken a liking to Mr.
Strange, who, he noted at the rally, has not asked for any presidential favors, and several Senate Republicans have told him that Mr. Moore would be an unreliable ally.
And should Mr.
Strange prevail, the president will have established himself as the dominant force on the right, someone able to transcend the establishment-versus-Tea Party divide that has shaped Republican politics for the last eight years.
Trump becomes the validator of what the outsider, conservative perspective is, said Steven Law, who runs the Senate Leadership Fund, a group inspired by Senator Mitch McConnell that is pouring over $10 million into the race on behalf of Mr.
Strange.
You had groups on the far right that thought they had the monopoly on that, but theyve been supplanted by Trump.
But should Mr.
Strange lose, it would sow fresh doubts about Mr. Trumps influence and create new headaches for party leaders.
Other establishment-aligned candidates may find that the president is unable to inoculate them from populist challengers.
If Roy Moore wins, Bannon and all the other of those people will pop out of the woodwork everywhere, said Senator Richard C. Shelby, the veteran Alabama Republican, referring to the former Trump adviser Stephen K. Bannon, who has taken a leading role against the preferred candidate of his former boss.
Mr. Bannon aims to do just that.
He argues that should Mr. Moore win, Senate Republicans from Arizona and Nevada to Tennessee and Mississippi could find themselves in great peril.
Whats more, House Republicans, who are already facing a growing number of populist challengers, could face an even bigger wave of them.
And Mr. Moores success could prompt wealthy conservative donor families like the Mercers to invest more in the insurgency, said Scott Reed, the top political strategist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More immediately, the congressional wing of the party would be saddled with an often inflammatory Senate candidate who could invite a surge of Democratic money into Alabama and set off a host of questions about his provocative views on social issues that few Republican officials want to litigate.
Photo

Mr. Moore, 70, who rose to fame after he was removed from the bench for refusing to remove a statue of the Ten Commandments from the lobby of the State Supreme Court, is a pre-Trump-era Christian conservative, far more focused on issues of sex and morality than race and identity.
Reading from prepared remarks at a debate on Thursday in Montgomery, Mr. Moore declared that crime, corruption, immorality, abortion, sodomy, sexual perversions sweep our land.
And appearing at a Baptist church last month in Jasper, Mr. Moore mused about what same-sex marriage could lead to.
Maybe you can marry a horse or a cow, or five men or five women, he said.
It is the sort of message that terrifies Republican elites, who fear he could be a more weaponized version of Todd Akin, the 2012 Missouri Senate candidate who lost after saying womens bodies could block a pregnancy in cases of legitimate rape.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Roy Moore would be the Todd Akin of 2017 and 2018 for every Republican on the ballot, said Karl Rove, the Republican strategist, who is aligned with the Senate Leadership Fund.
Republicans will be asked, Do you agree homosexuality should be punished by death, do you believe 9/11 was a result of Gods anger?
Hell say outrageous things, the media will play it up, and every Republican will be asked, Do you agree with that?
Locally, some Republicans are also uneasy about the prospect of Mr. Moore  whose lead in the polls over Mr.
Strange, 64, is in the single digits  being their nominee.
They worry that the Democratic candidate, Doug Jones, a former federal prosecutor, could run well among moderate voters and create a competitive race.
Mr. Moore won his last re-election to the state court by just a four-point margin in 2012, a year in which Mitt Romney carried the state by 23 points.
I think theyll go after that seat, Mr. Shelby said of the Democrats approach should Mr. Moore win on Tuesday.
That is less likely if Mr.
Strange captures the nomination, he said.
If Luther wins, hes in.
The Senate Democratic campaign arm has lined up a pollster to test Mr. Joness strengths and Mr. Moores vulnerabilities.
And Alabama Democrats are openly rooting for the former judge.
We want Roy Moore to win that primary, said Patricia Todd, a Democratic state representative from Birmingham.
He gives us a better shot in the general election.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Todd, who is also the state director for the Human Rights Campaign, said national gay donors should pay attention to the implications of Mr. Moores potential nomination.
It could really send a message across the country, she said.
Many Republicans here believe that they will retain the seat, even if Mr. Moore is the nominee and it requires more money and attention than the national party would typically bestow on a deep-red state.
At his rally on Friday, Mr. Trump said that both Mr.
Strange and Mr. Moore were good men, and the president, seeming to hedge his bets, has said he will campaign for Mr. Moore in the general election if he wins the primary.
And to the anti-establishment wing of the party, Mr. Moores success would be a further vindication of Mr. Trump, no matter his allegiance of the moment to Mr.
Strange.
This will be very similar to what happened last November: The people spoke, said Mack Butler, a state representative from Mr. Moores home county.
Mr. Butler added, We expect Tuesday to have a victory, and the president of the United States will call Judge Moore and congratulate him, and then hell be on the Moore train.
But for Republican elites, this contest has grown into something far larger than just a battle for a single Senate seat.
To groups like the McConnell-backed Senate Leadership Fund, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Rifle Association, which are sending mailers and airing television ads in the closing days of the race, Alabama is their chance to halt a rebellion.
It is, after all, not just the president who is putting his prestige on the line: Mr. Bannon is making an aggressive push for Mr. Moore, turning Breitbart News into a virtual arm of the former judges campaign and planning to appear with the former judge on the elections eve.
If Mr. Moore falls short, it will raise questions about the potency of Mr. Bannons populist army  and reveal the limitations of running against the establishment and Mr. McConnell when Mr. Trump is siding with party leaders.
It would remind Bannon whos in charge, and I think give the president and the governing wing of the party momentum, said Mr. Reed of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, who is working with business leaders here to turn out votes for Mr.
Strange.
Thats why were going all in to shut it down now.
For months, Mr. McCain has lamented a Senate legislative process that avoided hearings or formal bill-drafting procedures and excluded Democrats.
On Friday, he said those tactics were intolerable.
We should not be content to pass health care legislation on a party-line basis, as Democrats did when they rammed Obamacare through Congress in 2009, Mr. McCain said.
If we do so, our success could be as short-lived as theirs when the political winds shift, as they regularly do.
Photo

A bill of this magnitude requires a bipartisan approach, Mr. McCain added.
Those concerns were compounded by the decision of Republican leaders to press forward with a vote next week before the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office could complete a full analysis of the Graham-Cassidy legislation.
The budget office is expected to provide a preliminary fiscal assessment early in the week, but it indicated that it would not be able to complete an analysis of the bills effects on health insurance coverage or premiums by Sept. 30.
That date is critical because Republicans, who hold 52 seats in the Senate, have until the end of this month to make use of special budget rules that would allow them to pass a repeal bill in the Senate with only a simple majority, rather than 60 votes.
If Republicans could get 50 votes, Vice President Mike Pence would break the tie in their favor.
Of course, Im disappointed, Mr. Cassidy said in an interview, but that doesnt mean that Im going to stop working for those folks who cant afford their premiums.
We are still working.
We are still hoping.
Mr. Graham, mindful of their longstanding relationship, was gracious.
My friendship with John McCain is not based on how he votes, Mr. Graham said, but respect for how hes lived his life and the person he is.
President Trump, who has promised to scrap President Barack Obamas signature domestic achievement, said late Friday he would not abandon his goal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maybe were going to do it now  its a little tougher without McCains vote, Ill be honest, he said Friday night at a campaign rally for Senator Luther Strange, Republican of Alabama, who is locked in a tough primary runoff for his seat.
The most well be is one or two votes short, Mr. Trump said.
You cant quit when you have one or two votes short.
You cant do it.
And those people are not going to be liked by the communities that they come from.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A spokeswoman for the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, declined to comment on whether he would press forward with a vote.
Democrats have vowed that if the repeal legislation could be killed, they would press to resume bipartisan negotiations on legislation to stabilize health insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.
Republican leaders squelched those talks, led by Senators Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, as they pushed for passage of a full repeal bill.
John McCain shows the same courage in Congress that he showed when he was a naval aviator, said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.
I have assured Senator McCain that as soon as repeal is off the table, we Democrats are intent on resuming the bipartisan process.
If the bill dies at the hands of Senators McCain, Paul and Collins, it would be another blow to Mr. Trump, who has tried to pressure Republicans to fall in line.
It would also be another setback for a party that now controls the White House and both houses of Congress, but has not been able to produce any major legislative achievements.
Republican lawmakers have promised for seven years to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, but they have found that verbally assailing the health law is far easier than actually undoing it, even with a president who shares their goal.
Its a loss for Republicans, said Representative Mark Walker of North Carolina, the chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee.
I think were all going to be held accountable to some degree.
What that means in next years elections, I dont know.
But this is going to bite for a while.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Graham-Cassidy bill would take much of the money provided under the Affordable Care Act and send it to the states, with vast discretion over how to use it for health care or coverage.
The bill has been met in the last few days with a torrent of criticism from consumer groups, doctors, hospitals, insurance companies, governors and state Medicaid officials.
Photo

Under the bill, states would have more authority over how to use federal funds, but most states  including Arizona  would receive less money under the bill than under the Affordable Care Act, according to studies by the Kaiser Family Foundation and health policy consulting firms.
The bill would also give states the ability to opt out of insurance regulations under the health law.
States could seek federal waivers that would allow insurers to charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing medical conditions or to omit certain benefits that they are now required to provide, such as maternity care or mental health care.
Republican leaders will now likely have to change an opponents mind, but if anything, more opponents could emerge, with Ms. Murkowski on the top of the list.
Alaskas governor, Bill Walker, an independent, publicly opposes the bill and has joined nine other governors in signing a letter urging the Senate to reject the proposal.
In an interview, Mr. Walker said he did not believe any special accommodation could be reached for his state, because the overall structure was so damaging to Alaska.
He said he had communicated his concerns extensively to Ms. Murkowski.
Alaska would fare very, very poorly, he said.
Nothing has been brought to my attention that would increase my comfort level.
A spokeswoman for Ms. Murkowski, Karina Petersen, said the senator is studying the matter.
Senator Murkowski is still focused on how the bill will impact Alaska, specifically, Ms. Petersen said.
Shes continuing to gather data and is looking at the details of the bill to determine whats best for her state.
Doug Ducey of Arizona, a Republican, supports the Graham-Cassidy proposal, and Mr. McCain had made a point of emphasizing that he was keenly interested in the views of his states governor when contemplating whether to vote for repeal legislation.
But Mr. Duceys position was not enough to sway Mr. McCain.
I take no pleasure in announcing my opposition, Mr. McCain said.
Far from it.
The bills authors are my dear friends, and I think the world of them.
I know they are acting consistently with their beliefs and sense of what is best for the country.
So am I.

Mr. McCain said that if the repeal attempt failed, he hoped the leaders of the Senate health committee would resume their efforts to devise a short-term bipartisan solution to some of the problems plaguing insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.
Mr. Alexander and Ms. Murray have been working on a bill to stabilize markets by providing money for subsidies paid to insurers so they can reduce out-of-pocket costs for low-income people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the Senate health committee, and Ms. Murray, the top Democrat on the panel, held four hearings in two weeks and were nearing an agreement on legislation.
But their efforts were derailed when the White House and Senate Republican leaders pushed hard for a vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill, in the face of opposition from every Democrat in the Senate.
Better control & management, Mr. Trump wrote.
Great for Arizona.
McCain let his best friend L.G.
the president added, referring to Mr. McCains close relationship with Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, one of the bills sponsors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trumps latest weekend Twitter fusillade came the morning after Mr. McCain surprised the president and his top aides by abruptly announcing that he could not in good conscience support the health care proposal by Mr. Graham and Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, saying it was a partisan plan whose costs and impacts on the health care of millions of Americans were unknown.
The move by Mr. McCain, whose no vote against an earlier iteration of a health care repeal bill killed that effort in July, dealt yet another setback to Mr. Trumps effort to fulfill his promise to do away with Barack Obamas signature health care law.
Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, had already come out in opposition to his partys last-ditch health care effort, and Senate leaders can afford to lose only two of their members in a chamber that is divided 52 to 48.
Mr. Trump, speaking at a rally in Alabama on Friday night, recalled Mr. McCains earlier defection with dismay, imitating the Arizona senators thumbs-down gesture to indicate his opposition on the Senate floor, and saying it was terrible, honestly, terrible when he cast the deciding no vote.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That was a totally unexpected thing, Trump said, to boos from the Huntsville crowd.
The president had embraced the legislation in recent days, making telephone calls to wavering senators and dispatching Vice President Mike Pence to Capitol Hill to try to build support for its passage.
Mr. McCains announcement that he would not vote for it came just hours after the president had warned in a Friday post on Twitter that any Republican who opposed the measure will forever (future political campaigns) be known as the Republican who saved ObamaCare.
On Saturday, Mr. Trump appeared to be nurturing hopes that the legislative effort could be kept alive.
He expressed hope that Mr. Paul would rethink his opposition to the Graham-Cassidy measure, without explaining why the Kentucky senator, who had complained that the bill left the Affordable Care Acts essential structure intact, might do so.
He also indicated that Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who had wavered publicly about the measure, would support it.
Ms. Murkowski was one of three Republican senators who voted against the repeal proposal in July, and she has come under an intense spotlight yet again as Mr. Trump and Republican leaders push for passage of the Graham-Cassidy bill.
But while Mr. Trump hopes she will support the bill, the governor of Alaska, Bill Walker, an independent, opposes it and has said he has communicated his concerns to Ms. Murkowski.
White House officials were working to determine whether there was a way to salvage the bill and win over critics and fence-sitters, but a spokeswoman offered no immediate explanation for Mr. Trumps tweet that appeared to suggest Ms. Murkowski was already a convert.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A spokeswoman for Ms. Murkowski, Karina Petersen, said on Saturday: Senator Murkowski has seen the presidents tweet but is still analyzing the bill and waiting to hear from C.B.O.
to determine its potential impacts for Alaskans.
She understands that premiums have risen, the toll that is taking on many Alaskans, and the need for health care reform.
But she also wants to understand what this proposal means for the people she represents before deciding how she will vote on it.
Before Mr. McCains announcement, Republican leaders had planned to move forward with a vote next week, though the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has yet to complete a full analysis of the Graham-Cassidy legislation.
The budget office is expected to provide a preliminary fiscal assessment early in the week, but it indicated that it would not be able to complete an analysis of the bills effects on health insurance coverage or premiums by Sept. 30.
Mr. Trump seemed to have given up all hope of persuading Mr. McCain to back the measure, returning to Twitter on Saturday evening, 12 hours after he initially ripped into the Arizona senator, to hammer him again and invoke the premium increases that people in his state have experienced under the current health law.
Democrats are laughingly saying that McCain had a moment of courage, Mr. Trump wrote.
Tell that to the people of Arizona who were deceived.
116% increase!
We need to know who is coming into our country.
We should be able to validate their identities, said Miles Taylor, the counselor to the secretary of homeland security.
He said the new restrictions represent a significant increase in toughening national security standards and protecting the homeland.
The administrations critics expressed deep reservations about the new restrictions and left open the possibility that they will file additional legal challenges once the list of countries is revealed.
We tend to look at anything coming out of this White House with a great deal of skepticism, said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
While it has been clear that a neutral vetting system across the board needs to be looked at on its merits, this seems to be a third rescue of the failed Muslim ban.
In stark contrast to the original travel ban, which was implemented with virtually no notice only days after Mr. Trump took office, officials said the new travel restrictions were developed after intense negotiations with security officials in countries around the world.
Those officials were given standards they must meet in order to avoid travel restrictions, including the ability to verify the identity of a traveler, communicate electronic passport information, use biometric devices and share information about terrorist and criminal networks with the United States.
Countries that did not meet those standards as of mid-July were given 50 days to comply or face the threat of severe travel restrictions, officials said.
It was crystal clear, Mr. Taylor told reporters on Friday.
To countries who failed to meet or accept the new requirements, Mr. Taylor said, the message from American diplomats was blunt: You will face potential consequences from the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the end, officials said that some of those countries added measures to improve security for passports and to better identify potential terrorist threats.
They will not face additional travel restrictions.
But other countries either could not meet the tougher vetting standards or willfully refused to engage with the United States government.
People in the countries that will be identified by Mr. Trump will soon face new travel restrictions, officials said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Trump administration will ensure that the people who travel to the United States are properly vetted and those that dont belong here arent allowed to enter, said Jonathan Hoffman, the assistant secretary of homeland security for public affairs.
Mr. Trumps original ban blocked all travel to the United States by refugees as well as nationals of seven countries, including Iraq, which was later deemed to have improved its screening of potential travelers and was taken off the banned list.
The ban caused chaos at airports around the country and prompted a torrent of criticism from immigrant rights activists, lawmakers in both parties, business executives, academic leaders and diplomats from around the world.
A furious legal assault on the presidents travel ban delayed its implementation for months, as federal judges agreed with immigrant rights groups that the original ban unconstitutionally targeted a particular religion or exceeded the presidents statutory authority to block immigration.
In June, the Supreme Court allowed the travel ban to take effect, with some significant restrictions, while the justices consider the merits of the case.
The changes to be announced this weekend could have a profound impact on the court case, complicating the review by the justices and potentially making parts of the case moot even before the oral arguments, which are scheduled for Oct. 10.
Officials from the Department of Justice declined to answer questions about whether they intend to take any actions related to the court case before the oral arguments.
A spokesman for the department told reporters that we are continuing to vigorously defend the presidents executive order.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The original travel ban included restrictions on entry into the United States by refugees from around the world.
The new rules do not appear to alter the limits on refugees, leaving that question open for the Supreme Court to decide.
The justices are likely to seek new input from lawyers for the government and for the groups challenging the travel ban before arguments begin.
Restrictions on travel are not unique to the Trump administration.
The Department of Homeland Security employs almost 2,000 people in about 80 countries around the world screening high-risk travelers seeking to visit the United States.
For years, customs officers in the Immigration Advisory Program worked with airline employees and foreign security officials to review passenger ticketing data and examined documents in an attempt to detect fraud.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agents and State Department counterterrorism officials are also stationed at diplomatic posts to screen visa applicants for ties to terrorism, drug smuggling and human trafficking and to help ensure that ineligible applicants do not receive visas.
Dozens of officers at the National Targeting Center, which is run by Customs and Border Protection, have combed through passenger lists and cargo manifests since the days after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Officers help identify which passengers should be subject to additional questioning by customs officers.
Mr. Trump and his national security officials have argued from the beginning that the travel ban was intended to give the government time to ensure that those practices were sufficient to make sure that terrorists are not able to enter the United States using travel documents for people on vacation or seeking temporary employment.
Critics accused the administration of basing threat assessments of travelers solely on the religion of the majority of people who lived in the nations identified by the executive order.
Some counterterrorism experts say a targeted vetting system that screens individuals on a case-by-case basis makes more sense than a total ban on travelers from certain countries.
Vetting those coming to the United States against the broadest array of intelligence and law enforcement information is good security.
Banning people because of their religion, ethnicity or country of origin is not good security and counter to our constitutional principles, said John D. Cohen, a professor at Rutgers University and a former senior Homeland Security Department official during the Obama administration.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Cohen other counterterrorism experts said the Trump administration should beef up the existing programs that are intended to prevent criminals and national security threats from entering the country.
Berkeley has come to be seen as a battleground in national debates over interpretations of the First Amendment, and this month, Free Speech Week was the latest major point of contention.
Many students and teachers condemned the event as a forum for hateful messages.
Photo

Some posters promoting the speeches included expletives and references to commie trash and thugs in black masks.
They were being investigated by university police to determine whether they constituted hate speech.
A spokesman for the Berkeley Patriot did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
A letter from Marguerite Melo, a lawyer representing the group, said it was forced to cancel Free Speech Week because the university resisted the event by failing to communicate, making bureaucratic demands and endangering participants by refusing to rent out secure venues.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The university disputed that account.
It is extremely unfortunate that this announcement was made at the last minute, even as the university was in the process of spending significant sums of money and preparing for substantial disruption of campus life in order to provide the needed security for these events, Dan Mogulof, a spokesman for the university, said in an emailed statement.
He added that event organizers had missed deadlines, failed to confirm speakers and canceled a venue reservation.
Claims that this is somehow the outcome desired by the campus are without basis in fact, he said.
Mr. Wintrich, one of the scheduled speakers, said on Thursday that the event did not seem to be well organized.
The fact of the matter is it was speculated as far back as last week that this event would not happen, he said in a video posted on Twitter.
A lot of my friends, we had all planned on speaking at and attending this event, and last week it got very weird, he said.
It got really shifty.
Some of the speakers advertised for the event, such as Ann Coulter and Steve Bannon, were never confirmed, the university said.
Mr. Yiannopoulos acknowledged on Saturday that there were some hiccups with the speakers, for which I take personal responsibility.
Another planned speech by Mr. Yiannopoulos was canceled in February after a violent demonstration.
And in April, the university canceled a speech by Ms. Coulter, citing security concerns.
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Photo

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Photo

Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
The debate over any visit proved irrelevant, however, when Mr. Trump weighed in on the subject with a tweet on Saturday.
The response from players was swift.
Several players in both leagues condemned the announcement, in a throwback of sorts to the days when political statements by star athletes like Muhammad Ali, Bill Russell, Tommie Smith and John Carlos were more common.
Potentially the boldest response to Mr. Trump came from the Warriors chief rival, LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers:

Mr. Curry was also supported by Chris Paul, the Houston Rockets point guard, who also happens to be the president of the N.B.A.s players association.
While Mr. Curry has yet to respond, his teammate, the outspoken Draymond Green, unsurprisingly weighed in.
As an organization, the Warriors were far more politically reserved than Mr. Green, saying in a statement, In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that well constructively use our trip to the nations capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No stranger to controversy involving Mr. Trump, Jemele Hill, the ESPN host, also supported Mr. Curry.
Ms. Hill was recently embroiled in a debate centered on her reference to the president as a white supremacist, and his offices call for her firing.
Mr. Trump has found just as swift a response from players and personalities connected to the N.F.L.
over his comments about players like Colin Kaepernick who have sat or knelt during the national anthem to protest the treatment of black people by the police.
At a rally in Alabama, Trump said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these N.F.L.
owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
Hes fired!
Hes fired!
Among the players to respond to Trumps statements was Chris Conley, a wide receiver for the Kansas City Chiefs.
In a series of strongly-worded tweets, Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, said he was fine with being fired for what he believes in and rejected the labels put on players by the president.
Richard Sherman, the outspoken Seattle Seahawks cornerback, said:

The topic seemed to elicit opinions from all over, with Sean Combs, the businessman and music mogul, asking N.F.L.
players to make a statement before tomorrows games.
And none other than Ed Asner, the 87-year-old comedian, tackled the subject.
Amid all the chaos online, Ayesha Curry, the wife of Stephen, took the high road in the matter, refocusing the discussion on bigger events going on around the world.
Photo

On this weeks episode:

In President Trumps Washington, a new wave of lobbyists have the relationships and political capital to get things done.
Robert Stryk is one such lobbyist.
When Mr. Trump won the election, Mr. Stryk saw an opportunity for expansion and took it.
Nicholas Confessore, a political investigative reporter for The Times, spoke with Mr. Stryk about how he has leveraged relationships in the Trump administration for political and business success.
For more coverage of the change on Washingtons K Street, the lobbying epicenter, read Mr. Confessores piece in The Timess magazine.
How to Get Rich in Trumps Washington 

How do I listen?
If you dont see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The New Washington for free, follow the instructions below.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On your iPhone or iPad:

Open the preloaded app called Podcasts; it has a purple icon.
If youre reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there.
(You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type The New Washington.)
The Fed chairman also plays a leading role in financial regulation and will have to navigate calls by Republican leaders, including Mr. Trump, to roll back some of the rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.
Ms. Yellen was a principal architect of those more stringent regulations and has said the financial system is much stronger as a result.
Mr. Trump has criticized many of the banking rules, saying they are excessive and impeding economic growth.
The candidates to replace Ms. Yellen all share those concerns to varying degrees.
Given the high stakes, Mr. Trumps decision has become a source of intrigue in political and economic circles this year.
There is also a growing sense of urgency: Both Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke, were nominated in October, leaving ample time for the Senate to hold confirmation hearings.
Mr. Trump has said he does not plan to make a decision until later in the year, leaving little time for the Senate to act given the tight calendar.
Aides say he is not yet focused on the search.
Additional candidates could ultimately be considered.
The administration officials and the other person with knowledge of the search requested anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the job in question.
A White House spokeswoman had no immediate comment, and Mr. Cohn, Mr. Taylor and Mr. Warsh did not respond to requests for comment.
A Fed spokeswoman said Ms. Yellen and Mr. Powell declined to comment.
The next Fed chairman is likely to begin the four-year term in an atmosphere of relative tranquillity during one of the longest economic expansions in American history.
But the Fed is confronting a number of difficult issues.
One question is whether it can do more to increase economic growth.
Another is whether the Fed will be ready for the next economic downturn.
In addition to a Fed chairman, Mr. Trump also must fill four open seats on the seven-member board.
That means he can immediately appoint a majority of Fed governors, putting his stamp on the institution.
He has made just one choice so far, nominating Randal K. Quarles to be the Feds vice chairman for supervision.
That nomination is pending, though Mr. Quarles is expected to be confirmed.
Photo

Mr. Trump has deputized four officials to lead the selection process for the Feds next chairman, said one person familiar with the search: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin; two of Mr. Cohns aides on the National Economic Council, Jeremy Katz and Andrew Olmem; and John DeStefano, the White House personnel director.
Mr. Cohn, who initially participated in conversations about the potential nominees for Fed governor seats, has removed himself from the discussions about the central banks next chairman, given that he is a potential candidate for the job, said several people with knowledge of his involvement.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Cohn left the No.
2 position at Goldman Sachs to join Mr. Trumps administration as head of the National Economic Council.
He quickly developed an easy rapport with the president, who is said to value Mr. Cohns knowledge of markets and finance.
Mr. Cohn has played a major role in the administrations push for a tax-cut bill; he also has been a moderating voice in internal debates on issues like restricting free trade.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In a July interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Trump described Mr. Cohn and Ms. Yellen as candidates for the Fed job.
The next month, Mr. Cohn publicly criticized the presidents response to a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, creating tension.
But the two men have reestablished a comfort level, and Mr. Cohn remains a candidate.
Mr. Cohn is a strong advocate for easing financial regulation, which he argues is unnecessarily impeding economic activity.
But he has rarely spoken publicly about monetary policy; the other four candidates whose names are known all have significant experience with monetary policy.
Mr. Warsh, who served on the Feds board between 2006 and 2011, was a member of Mr. Trumps business advisory council and has informally advised him on a range of economic issues.
That may be a significant advantage, given the presidents demonstrated preference for people he knows and trusts.
Mr. Warsh is married to Jane Lauder, the daughter of Ronald Lauder, a friend and occasional adviser to the president.
Mr. Warsh is a lawyer by training and a banker by trade before entering public service in 2002 as a member of President George W. Bushs National Economic Council.
After leaving the Fed, he joined the Hoover Institution, a public-policy think tank run by Stanford, as a visiting fellow.
He has been a vocal critic of the Feds economic stimulus campaign under both Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Yellen, arguing it has been ineffective and may have dangerous side effects.
At a Hoover conference in May, he said the Fed needs to be aggressive and powerful in responding to financial crises, but remain more traditional when the market is not in crisis.
Mr. Taylor, a colleague of Mr. Warshs at Hoover, has offered a similar critique of Fed policy.
Mr. Taylor served in the Treasury Department during the Bush administration but he is best known as an academic economist.
He wrote a formulaic approach to monetary policy, known as the Taylor Rule, which suggests that the Fed should be raising rates more quickly.
He also has closely advised House Republicans on legislation that would require the Fed to adopt such a policy rule.
Mr. Powell, the only Republican on the Feds board, is regarded as a centrist voice on both monetary policy and regulatory issues.
In internal discussions and public remarks, he has sometimes pushed back against the most ardent supporters of the Feds postcrisis stimulus campaign.
Similarly, he has sometimes raised questions about changes in financial regulation.
But on both fronts he has consistently voted with the majority.
A Treasury Department official under President George H.W.
Bush, Mr. Powell then built a fortune as a partner at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, before he was nominated to the Fed by President Obama in 2012.
His experience at the Fed, and his connections both in the financial world and in the Republican Party, could make him an attractive candidate.
But his track record suggests he may be less likely than some of the other candidates to press for dramatic changes in monetary and regulatory policies.
In the meantime, the Pentagon has rushed dozens of technical specialists to Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan to help protect American troops and to train and, in some cases, equip local allies against the drone threat, which has killed more than a dozen Iraqi soldiers and wounded more than 50.
The aircraft, some as small as model airplanes, conduct reconnaissance missions to help Islamic State fighters attack American-backed ground forces.
Other drones drop bombs or are rigged with explosives to detonate on the ground.
These things are really small and hard to detect, and if they swarm in groups, they can overload our ability to knock them all down, said J. D. Johnson, a retired three-star Army general who previously commanded the threat-defeat agency, and now heads Army programs for Raytheon.
The threat is very resilient and well-resourced, and we have to be looking one or two moves ahead to defeat it.
American troops are using an array of jammers, cannons and other devices to disrupt, disable or destroy the enemy drones, often quadcopters rigged with explosives.
And the military has increased airstrikes against Islamic State drones on the ground, their launch sites and their operators.
Video

This isnt just an Iraq and Syria problem; its a regional and global problem, Lt. Gen. Michael Shields, director of the threat-defeat organization and one of the two generals overseeing the effort, said in a telephone interview.
These are airborne I.E.D.s, meaning improvised explosive devices.
Indeed, the drone threat is going global.
Iranian drones have buzzed United States Navy ships more than a dozen times in the Persian Gulf this year.
In Europe, American and allied soldiers accustomed to operating from large, secure bases in Iraq and Afghanistan now practice using camouflage netting to disguise their positions and dispersing into smaller groups to avoid sophisticated Russian surveillance drones that could potentially direct rocket or missile attacks against personnel or command posts.
In the United States, the authorities voice increasing concerns about possible Islamic State-inspired drone attacks against dams, nuclear power plants and other critical infrastructure.
Over the summer, the Pentagon issued classified guidance to base commanders around the country to warn local communities to keep commercial drone hobbyists away from installations.
Earlier this month, an Arabic publication offered guidance from the Islamic State, also called ISIS or Daesh, to its followers on how to evade American drones.
This past week, the Islamic State released through its Amaq news agency a video of an operation in which its fighters tracked what it identified as a Syrian news media vehicle and then dropped a munition on it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres a D.I.Y.
aspect to this, said Don Rassler, a researcher at the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, which has studied Islamic State drones.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The peak of the threat came this spring during the fight to wrest Mosul from Islamic State control in northern Iraq, military officials said.
Since then, the military has repeatedly attacked Islamic State drones in the air and on the ground.
Earlier this month, the Pentagon said it had killed Junaid ur Rehman, a senior Islamic State drone pilot trainer and engineer, in an airstrike near Mayadin, Syria, south of Raqqa.
We are destroying their launch points, were killing their engineers, were dismantling their manufacturing facilities and their users, said Col. Ryan Dillon, a spokesman for the American military in Iraq.
Here in Washington, however, Pentagon officials worry about the rapid spread of armed drones to other conflict zones, where the United States and its local partners may be less prepared to confront the threat.
In February, the Defense Department created a special task force headed by Lt. Gen. Anthony R. Ierardi, a top officer on the militarys Joint Staff, to coordinate a Pentagon-wide counter-drone campaign along with General Shields.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he aint going!
So therefore aint no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
Mr. James wrote on Twitter, where he has nearly twice as many followers as the president.
Mr. James later elaborated in a video on Instagram.
Mr. Trump also drew an unusually strong rebuke from the commissioner of the N.F.L., whose owners include many donors to, and friends of, the president.
Mr. Trump made the commissioner, Roger Goodell, a foil, accusing him of stoking disrespect for the country by criticizing him.
The Warriors, in a statement, said they would use a visit to Washington in February to highlight issues of diversity and inclusiveness.
By midafternoon, a spokesman for the University of North Carolina national championship basketball team confirmed the team would not be going to the White House, but he said it was a scheduling conflict, not a response to the days back-and-forth.
Many athletes have been moved to comment on race and social justice more frequently in the past year after a series of police shootings of unarmed African-Americans and the support Mr. Trump has received from white supremacists.
Last year, Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice.
He left the team this season and has not worked since, inspiring debate over whether teams are punishing him, while many players have knelt or made gestures in support of him during the anthem.
At the same time, some owners of N.F.L.
teams have suggested players should not take part in political demonstrations during the game.
None appeared to speak up for Mr. Trump on Saturday, though, with the exception of two by left-leaning owners, they did not criticize him either.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trumps outbursts against athletes and their leagues came as he was smarting from yet another setback in his effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and as he worked to stoke enthusiasm among his core supporters in the deeply conservative state of Alabama, where he attended a campaign rally for Mr.
Strange, who many of them regard as an establishment Republican unworthy of their backing.
The president often uses freewheeling campaign speeches and Twitter to berate and insult critics in unvarnished language and to whip up core supporters.
In the past week, he branded North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, as Rocket Man and criticized Senator John McCain of Arizona for opposing Republican attempts to dismantle the health care law.
Photo

But Mr. Trumps broadsides this time focused on some of the most prominent African-American athletes in the country, who have international followings and have called out the president for his lack of tolerance and divisive views on race.
They come about a week after the president called on ESPN to apologize after Jemele Hill, one of the sports networks anchors, who is black, referred to him on Twitter as a white supremacist and a bigot.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Ms. Hills utterances were a firing offense.
The denial of a visit to the White House by the Warriors was not the first time the president tried to pre-empt a snub by dealing one of his own; last month, he abruptly announced that he was disbanding two of his business advisory councils after some members said they would resign from them to protest his equivocating response to racially charged violence in Charlottesville, Va., at a march organized by neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
At the Alabama rally, Mr. Trump said the protests would stop if fans left games when players did not stand for the anthem.
The only thing you could do better is if you see it, even if its one player, leave the stadium, he said.
With the N.F.L.
struggling to make the game safer in light of scores of players who have been found to have severe brain damage from hard hits, Mr. Trump complained that the game was being ruined by referees trying to control unnecessarily rough tackles.
Today if you hit too hard  15 yards!
Throw him out of the game!
he said, adding: Theyre ruining the game!
Theyre ruining the game.
Thats what they want to do.
They want to hit.
They want to hit!
It is hurting the game.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In an unusually strong rebuke of the president on Saturday, Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., said the president failed to understand how the league and its players work together to create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, he said in a statement.
Mr. Goodell, who leads a league in which about three-quarters of the players are black while about the same percentage of fans are white, has tried to find a middle ground between the players and his bosses, the owners of the leagues 32 teams.
More than half a dozen owners contributed to Mr. Trumps inauguration, and many of them donate heavily to conservative causes.
Some owners, including Robert K. Kraft of the New England Patriots, consider Mr. Trump a personal friend.
Coincidentally, the owners are now discussing whether to renew Mr. Goodells contract, which expires in 2019.
Even before the presidents remarks, the league has been trying to weave its way through an often fierce and uncomfortable debate inside the N.F.L.
and among fans about whether the anthem protests disrespect the military and country or are simply an effective way to publicize issues players want to highlight.
Mr. Trump has a history of antagonizing the N.F.L., dating to the 1980s, when he and the fledgling United States Football League successfully sued it for antitrust violations.
Though Mr. Trump won in court, his efforts bankrupted the U.S.F.L.
His name surfaced in 2014 as a potential buyer for the Buffalo Bills.
The presidents comments seemed to embolden players.
Detroit Lions tight end Eric Ebron questioned why players were told not to talk about politics, yet the president could speak about sports.
Does anyone tell trump to stick to politics, like they tell us to stick to sports?
he wrote.
He added smh for shaking my head.
Michael Thomas, a defensive back with the Miami Dolphins, urged fellow players not to back down.
Continue to use your voices and your platforms for racial equality and to stop injustices in our communities, he wrote on Twitter.
This is bigger than us!!
To back up such talk, Mr. Kim will probably carry out more weapons tests, analysts said.
Further raising jitters on Saturday was a tremor detected near North Koreas underground nuclear-testing site.
It raised fears of another detonation, but South Koreas meteorological administration said it appeared to have been a natural earthquake.
We now cant avoid the military tensions on the Korean Peninsula further escalating, said Cheong Seong-chang, a North Korea expert at the Sejong Institute, a research think tank outside the South Korean capital, Seoul.
Part of the reason that the standoff between North Korea and the United States is intensifying is that South Korea lacks capabilities to confront North Korea while the North ignores the South and insists on dealing only with the United States.
Photo

As the crisis spiraled over the last few days, China found itself a bystander  an uncomfortable role for President Xi Jinping, who was most likely seething about Mr. Kim and about the North Korean governments criticism of Chinas most vaunted institution, the Communist Party, as its leadership prepares to meet, analysts said.
The Korean Central News Agency, which is run by Pyongyang, referred to a coming party congress in Beijing in unflattering terms on Friday.
The quiet in Beijing illustrated Chinas almost complete lack of influence in controlling its estranged ally and its unsuccessful efforts to persuade Mr. Trump to tamp down his language, they said.
Fearful of failing and of losing face in a peacemaking role, Mr. Xi would be reluctant to make any diplomatic or strategic moves before the party congress opens in Beijing on Oct. 18, analysts said.
Mr. Xi was left merely humoring Mr. Trump by agreeing to tougher sanctions at the United Nations this past week.
I think Chinas diplomatic leverage over North Korea is zero, said Feng Zhang, a fellow at the Australian National Universitys department of international relations.
North Korea doesnt want to see Chinese envoys and is not interested in Chinese views.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

President Moon Jae-in of South Korea has also found his room for diplomacy shrinking, as North Korea and the United States locked themselves in what he called an escalating vicious cycle of provocations and sanctions.
North Korea has not even bothered to respond to Mr. Moons calls for dialogue as it accelerates its missile and nuclear tests.
When he came to power in May, Mr.
Moon found little leverage left over North Korea: Under his conservative predecessors, South Korea had cut off all trade ties and pulled out all investments in North Korea.
Photo

We need a breathing room, an easing of tensions, Mr.
Moon told reporters on Friday on his way home after attending the United Nations General Assembly meetings in New York.
Mr. Trump, however, has said talking is not the answer and ridiculed South Korea for talk of appeasement.
In response to what it called the Norths reckless behavior, the Pentagon said on Saturday that the Air Force had sent B1 bombers and F-15 fighters over waters north of the Demilitarized Zone separating the two Koreas.
It was the furthest north any U.S. fighter or bomber aircraft have flown off North Koreas coast in the 21st century, the Pentagon said in a statement.
Despite the tightening sanctions, Pyongyang is unlikely to stop weapons tests until it believes it has enough leverage to enter talks as an equal with Washington, some South Korean officials and analysts say.
It will reach that point when it has secured a capability to deliver a nuclear payload to the mainland United States, they added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Although the regional powers in Asia say they want North Korea to stop developing nuclear weapons, they are also playing a complex game of geopolitical chess among themselves, which is partly why the North Korean nuclear crisis has been such an intractable problem for more than two decades.
While Mr. Trump is hinting at military action to rid North Korea of its nuclear weapons, South Korea opposes the use of force, fearing war on the peninsula and an attack on Seoul.
China also does not want war on its border, hoping that North Korea will remain a useful Communist buffer against South Korea and its ally, the United States.
Mr. Kims refusal to listen to China shows how far apart China and North Korea have become, said Chen Jian, emeritus professor of history at Cornell University.
Kim and North Korea are making more trouble and headaches for Xi and Beijing than anyone else in todays world, Mr. Chen said.
Why should China fight a war against the U.S. for Kim and North Koreas sake?
Photo

On Saturday, China said it would ban exports of some petroleum products to North Korea, as well as imports of textiles from its neighbor, to comply with new sanctions by the United Nations Security Council.
Chinas support of the new sanctions was largely a nod to Mr. Trump and would not be sufficient to bring the North Korean economy to its knees and force it to the negotiating table, Chinese experts said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Xi has displayed contempt for Mr. Kim, who is half his age and whom he has never met.
His new envoy for North Korean negotiations, Kong Xuanyou, cannot go to Pyongyang because the North Koreans will not let him.
Knowing that Mr. Kim is a lost cause, Mr. Xi would be more likely to turn to Mr. Trump for solutions  but only after the end of the party congress.
Beijing will try to cool down things with Trump before going to Pyongyang, said Sun Yun, a fellow in the East Asia division at the Washington-based Stimson Center.
Xi just had a phone call with Trump earlier this week, and the Chinese see this channel of communication as open and effective.
In a reflection of North Koreas festering anger at China, the Korean Central News Agency carried a column by a writer called Jong Phil at the same time it issued Mr. Kims denunciation of Mr. Trump on Friday.
The commentary said that North Korea owed little to the Chinese and that Beijing should consider North Korea more than a buffer zone that protects it from gangsters invasion.
The commentary also questioned whether the Chinese news media should be entitled to enter the coming party conference hall because recent reports had been betraying the peoples of the two countries.
Some China experts considered the commentary an attack on a fellow Communist government in almost unheard-of terms.
This is a very big and serious matter, and certainly unprecedented, Mr. Chen of Cornell said.
Even during the Cultural Revolution, when Chinese-North Korean relations reached the lowest point, and the Red Guards were making all kinds of nasty attacks on Kim Il-sung  Kim Jong-uns grandfather  the eldest Kim avoided personally attacking his comrades in Beijing.
Buried in the Affordable Care Act is a provision that could help promote all of these goals.
That provision allows states to waive nearly all of the rules about how they run their insurance marketplaces under Obamacare, if they can prove that their replacement plan would offer similarly comprehensive insurance to just as many people, at the same or lower cost.
An older, related program allows states to make modifications to their Medicaid program that dont cost the federal government more money, if the states adhere to various guidelines.
The Obamacare program, known as the state innovation waiver, was set up to kick in this year.
And, so far, it appears that only a handful of states wish to refashion the Obamacare status quo.
Two states have put waivers into effect.
Hawaii used one to do away with Obamacares small-business insurance marketplace.
Alaska established a special fund to pay medical bills of patients who needed very expensive care, lowering the premiums on the market.
Several other states have applied for waivers of various sorts, and these are undergoing federal review.
Why havent more states come forward?
One reason is that coming up with a brand-new health care system is hard, and not every state may be interested in doing it.
Another is that states have complained that the Obamacare application rules are too strict and onerous.
The rules require states to pass legislation endorsing a state plan, to undergo a six-month review, and to adhere to tests to make sure that the new plan will protect the people who are helped by Obamacare.
States have also said that it can be hard to make related reforms to both the marketplace and Medicaid programs, since they must undergo separate reviews for their budgetary effects.
Photo

But in recent hearings, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions has been discussing options to address state requests, and ease the process.
The committees chairman, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, has been pushing for changes that would make it easier for states to try new policy approaches.
And Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking member, was willing to make some concessions in exchange for a promise to fund insurance subsidies caught up in a court fight.
The Alexander-Murray negotiations were shelved as the Graham-Cassidy bill picked up steam, but they could begin again.
In his statement, Mr. McCain mentioned the Alexander-Murray negotiations as an avenue for bipartisan reform and said, I hope they will resume.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The idea of the innovation waiver originally came from the Democrats.
Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon wrote the provision because he wanted states to have more options.
An expanded innovation program might lead to more experiments from the left  something approaching a single-payer system from a state like Vermont, say  as well as those from the right.
But making it easier for states to receive waivers could be a way for Republican senators to give states more flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There were, of course, many other features of the Republican bill that could not be easily replicated by waiver.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have redistributed a big pool of federal funding among states.
And it would have changed the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, putting spending on poor children, disabled Americans and many people living in nursing homes on a strict diet.
Any bipartisan deal would require the votes of at least eight Democrats, which makes drastic changes to the current rules unrealistic.
But there remain opportunities for state experimentation.
The Trump administration has signaled that it is eager to help promote state flexibility.
Tom Price, the secretary of health and human services, wrote to governors in March, urging them to apply.
Not every state has felt its proposals were welcomed with enthusiasm so far.
If a top Republican concern is about the rigid structure of Obamacare, and states really want to build their own systems, there are still avenues to move in the direction Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy have sketched.
But while they might achieve many of the same policy goals, those efforts are likely to be cast as Obamacare revisions, not replacements.
For many states, the calls on Friday were the first official confirmation that they were on the list  even though state election officials across the country have been calling for months for the federal government to share information about any hacks, as have members of Congress.
It is completely unacceptable that it has taken D.H.S.
over a year to inform our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for information, Californias secretary of state, Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement.
The practice of withholding critical information from elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy.
Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that is investigating Russian meddling in last years election, has been pushing the department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states.
He said states need such information in real time so that they can strengthen their cyber defenses.
We have to do better in the future, he said.
The Department of Homeland Security said it recognized that state and local officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election infrastructure.
We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners, the department said in a statement.
The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide details about what had been sought.
But election officials in several states said the attempts were linked to Russia.
The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the states systems were targeted by Russian government cyber actors.
Josie Bahnke, Alaskas elections division director, said computers in Russia were scanning election systems looking for vulnerabilities.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A spokeswoman for the National Association of Secretaries of State said the group had requested a list of the states where there were hacking efforts.
In most cases, states said they were told the systems were not breached.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states the targeting was preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.
The targets included voter registration systems but not vote-tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks, but most were unsuccessful.
Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter systems.
Other states said their cybersecurity measures turned back efforts to get to crucial information.
There are constant attempts by bad actors to hack our systems, Iowas secretary of state, Paul Pate, a Republican, said in a statement.
But we continue to deflect those attempts.
Colorado said the hacking did not quite amount to a breach.
Its really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would break into your computer, said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado secretary of states office.
Its not an attack.
I wouldnt call it a probe.
Its not a breach, its not a penetration.
Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that hackers obtained information from a company that provided software to manage voter registrations in eight states.
The May report said hackers sent phishing emails to 122 local election officials just before the November 2016 election in an attempt to break into their systems.
The latest disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel investigates whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between Russia and associates of President Trump.
Mr. Trump, a Republican who defeated Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate, in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax.
He says President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has vehemently denied the conclusions of numerous American intelligence agencies.
For states that were told they were not targets, the news brought relief.
This is one time we like being at the bottom of the list, said Lisa Strimple, a spokeswoman for Nebraskas secretary of state.
When does rhetorical bombast turn into a real bomb?
Senator Benjamin Cardin of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in an essay for Foreign Policy magazine.
The presidents inflammatory and irresponsible threat does not keep America or our Asian allies safe.
Other presidents have responded viscerally to North Korean leaders but not so publicly.
Mr. Bush once told senators that Mr. Kims father and predecessor, Kim Jong Il, was a pygmy who acted like a spoiled child at the dinner table.
But he did that in private.
President Barack Obama made a point of ignoring Mr. Kim and his son.
Advisers in recent weeks have presented Mr. Trump with several pre-emption options that included cyberattacks against military or dual-use facilities, according to senior officials.
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis noted that the United States had not attempted to destroy the unarmed missiles that have been tested so far, because they were not on track to hit American territory, or allies like Japan.
So far, the president has declined to explicitly lay out a red line that, if crossed, would provoke some sort of action.
One senior official said that acting to prevent an atmospheric test, which would risk radiation spreading in the winds toward populated areas, could well result in a very different decision.
Such an operation would be highly risky even if it would be far more surgical than Mr. Trumps threat this week to totally destroy North Korea if forced to defend the United States or its allies.
Should the United States find that North Korea was loading a nuclear warhead onto an intercontinental ballistic missile, the choices would be limited, according to officials who have participated over the years in the Pentagons secret war games designed to anticipate various forms of a crisis on the Korean Peninsula.
For the moment, despite his bellicose language, Mr. Trump has chosen the path of economic pressure, signing a new order on Thursday intended to cut North Korea off from the international banking system with measures that, in some ways, went significantly beyond previous efforts to punish outlier nations like Iran.
The White House hopes that further isolating North Korea will eventually force Mr. Kim to come to the negotiating table.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Conservatives who bristled at what they considered Mr. Obamas weak approach offered few complaints about the presidents taunting escalation, arguing that Mr. Kim was a bully and the best way to stand up to a bully was to match him, rhetorical blow for rhetorical blow.
Some urged Mr. Trump to even go beyond that, given that North Korea now has a significant nuclear arsenal with missiles that could even strike the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The question is, do you wait for one of those?
Or, two?
Representative Duncan Hunter, a California Republican, said in a radio interview Thursday.
Do you preemptively strike them?
And thats what the president has to wrestle with.
I would preemptively strike them.
You could call it declaring war, call it whatever you want.
John Hannah, who served as national security adviser to former Vice President Dick Cheney, said it was hard to imagine any previous president getting into the rhetorical muck with the likes of Mr. Kim.
But he noted that all of those predecessors failed miserably to resolve the North Korean nuclear threat, their measured tones doing nothing to stop a dictator from developing a devastating arsenal.
Is it a high risk strategy?
Mr. Hannah, now senior counselor at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, said of Mr. Trumps approach.
For sure.
Is it worth trying, in light of the historical record of dismal U.S. failure to stop the North Korean program?
Perhaps.
That question was part of the discussion at the United Nations General Assembly on Friday as world leaders debated the wisdom of Mr. Trump vs. Mr. Kim.
Australia, a close American ally, said the fault lies with North Korea.
The security of millions of people is at risk as a result of North Koreas refusal to abide by international laws and norms, Julie Bishop, the countrys foreign minister, told the world body.
But Cuba, the longtime American antagonist, blamed Mr. Trump for raising the temperature.
We reject the threat to totally destroy the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, home to 25 million human beings, said its foreign minister, Eduardo Rodrguez Parrilla.
War is not an option in the Korean Peninsula.
Hitting an unarmed missile on the launching pad  or on a mobile missile launcher  would risk starting a conflict that the North could quickly escalate, potentially with a conventional attack on Seoul, the capital of South Korea.
But hitting a nuclear-armed missile could trigger exactly the nuclear detonation that the United States would be trying to prevent, depending on any safety mechanisms that the North has built into its weapons to keep them from accidentally detonating if they suffered a sharp shock.
Intercepting a warhead using missile defenses runs other dangers, White House officials have been told.
If the American antimissile systems missed  against a single warhead, which should be the simplest target  it would undercut confidence in an infrastructure the United States has spent $300 billion to build over the past four decades.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If a hit succeeded, it could still spread nuclear material below  less of an issue over the water, but a serious problem if the interception occurred over land.
In recent days, administration officials have sought to emphasize that they do believe there are viable military options despite deep doubts by many national security veterans  if for no other reason that it carries no deterrent value if North Korea concludes that the United States would never try.
There are a lot of military options that can be done, Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, told reporters on Thursday.
And so the president is not going to spell out specifically what hes going to do, when hes going to do it, or where hes going to do it.
But there are many options that hes discussed with his national security team that, should North Korea do anything irresponsible or reckless, that he has to choose from.
Text posted with the video on YouTube said, Russia is waging war on the U.S.  Morgan Freeman explains why we need to pay attention before its too late.
Mr. Freeman looks at the camera and intones: We have been attacked.
We are at war.
In the video, Mr. Freeman accuses Mr. Putin, the Russian president, of secretly using cyberwarfare around the world like the true K.G.B.
spy he is.
The Russians have used propaganda and false information to undermine world democracies and to sow distrust of their news media, their political processes and even their neighbors, Mr. Freeman continues, often pausing for dramatic effect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We need our president to speak directly to us and tell us the truth, he says.
Then, taking a seat behind a desk, Mr. Freeman outlines remarks that he says President Trump ought to make.
Mr. Freeman is no stranger to presidential politics  at least of the fictional kind.
In the 2013 movie Olympus Has Fallen, he played a speaker of the House who becomes the acting president after the president and vice president are taken hostage during an attack on the White House.
But Mr. Freemans dabbling in real-world politics provoked sharply worded criticisms from Russian officials and news outlets.
The BBC reported that the Rossiya 24 news channel had assembled psychiatrists who attributed his comments to a Messianic complex resulting from playing God in several films.
Vadim Zavodchenkov, a weatherman for the channel, said Mr. Freeman was ill because of overwork and marijuana use.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Putins press secretary, Dmitri S. Peskov, said the accusations in the video were groundless and of an exclusively emotional character, the BBC reported.
Representatives for Mr. Freeman did not respond to emails on Friday evening.
Rob Reiner, the actor and producer, announced the creation of the Committee to Investigate Russia this week on Twitter.
He described it as trying to help Americans recognize and understand the gravity of Russias continuing attacks on our democracy.
Congressional committees are investigating, among other things, the Russian governments involvement in the election through an extensive social media campaign, targeted online ads and other methods.
Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, is also investigating connections between Russia and Mr. Trump and his associates, including whether they conspired to influence the election.
On Twitter on Friday, Mr. Trump called the investigations a hoax and said the Fake News Media wielded the greatest influence by supporting the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton.
Earlier, in Hong Kong, Mr. Bannon spoke behind closed doors to investors at a conference sponsored by a politically connected Chinese investment bank.
Among his themes was that China and other Asia countries had thrived against the West by running mercantilist trade systems.
To avoid a trade war, Mr. Bannon told his audience, China must cease its economic war against America.
His meeting with Prince bin Zayed came at a sensitive moment, days after Mr. Trump failed to broker a resolution to a bitter dispute pitting Qatar against Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
Qatars neighbors cut off diplomatic ties and imposed a blockade after accusing Doha of a multitude of sins, from financing militant groups to currying favor with Iran.
Mr. Bannon got to know Prince bin Zayed during the presidential transition when the Emirates royal met him at Trump Tower, along with Mr. Trumps son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Michael T. Flynn, who was to become Mr. Trumps first national security adviser.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Bannon declined to discuss the details of his meetings.
But it is not hard, given his views and recent proximity to Mr. Trump, to guess why foreign leaders would seek him out.
He still talks to the president from time to time, even if the White House plays down the frequency of those contacts.
More than his value as a conduit, Mr. Bannon is viewed as the intellectual force behind the political movement that carried Mr. Trump to the White House.
Now back in his old job at the far-right media outlet, Breitbart News Network, he is pushing his agenda and punishing those who he believes are traitors to the cause.
For Mr. Bannon, getting time with Mr. Wang put him as close as he could get to President Xi himself.
A former mayor of Beijing and executive vice governor of Guangdong Province, Mr. Wang, 69, is the presidents right-hand man, particularly in carrying out his crackdown on corruption in the Communist Party.
Mr. Wang meets regularly with prominent Americans, including Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, and Henry M. Paulson, the former Treasury secretary.
People who know Mr. Wang describe him as well-read, intellectually curious and unafraid to engage in fierce debates with his visitors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wang met with Bannon for two reasons, said Jeffrey A. Bader, who served as President Barack Obamas top adviser on China.
He was persuaded that Bannon still has influence with the administration.
Hes also a guy who likes to think on a big scale, and likes to talk to other people who think on a big scale.
Mr. Bannon, who once lived in Shanghai, has said he views China as the greatest long-term threat to the United States.
A hundred years from now, this is what theyll remember, he declared in a recent interview.
What we did to confront China on its rise to world domination.
China right now is Germany in 1930, Mr. Bannon said.
Its on the cusp.
It could go one way or the other.
I dont believe conservative speech is hate speech in the first place, but if it was, itd be very clearly protected.
Just as the students have a right to protest peacefully these speakers if they see fit.
William Veroski, 22, an interdisciplinary studies major from Orcutt, Calif.
I understand the privilege that free speech is

Photo

At U.C.
Berkeley, I was surrounded by strong-minded and opinionated individuals who debated and engaged in discussions that emboldened my opinions and views.
I speak with more passion about my convictions than ever before but now being back in Pakistan I understand the privilege that free speech is as well.
I speak up against the blasphemy laws and it is not uncommon for me to be silenced, told of the dangers to my life for even discussing such issues from those around me.
Umar Akram, 22, a 2017 graduate from Lahore, Pakistan, with a double major in economics and political science

Its the ultimate irony: suppressing free speech under the banner of free speech.
Photo

Speech that questions the very humanity of any person on campus has no place in a university.
Lets call it what it is: hate speech.
There are people claiming that certain members of our community are not fully human, and were being asked to legitimize this as an admissible argument?
This is speech that attempts to limit the free speech rights of entire categories of people by virtue of their ascribed identities.
Its the ultimate irony: suppressing free speech under the banner of free speech.
Zachary Levenson, 34, a graduate student from Richmond, Va., working toward a Ph.D. in sociology.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some students were angered that the university has to spend money and provide security to provide a space on campus for these speeches.
Others believed outsiders who werent part of the campus community were disrupting their education.
These protests dont belong on our campus

Photo

During the talk by Ben Shapiro, the helicopters over campus were so loud it was hard to focus on schoolwork, and last year my program almost had to cancel a final exam because of campus safety alerts.
These protests dont belong on our campus, especially since a lot of people coming to start violence at these events are not even part of the campus community.
Sofia Hamilton, 24, a Ph.D. student from San Anselmo, Calif., studying civil and environmental engineering.
It is very disruptive for students who pay upward of $30,000 and are just trying to graduate

Photo

There will be over 200 police on campus in riot gear.
There will be helicopters circling the campus all week while most students will be taking midterms.
This is a school, first and foremost.
I believe all people should be able to speak here, but ultimately, it is very disruptive for students who pay upward of $30,000 and are just trying to graduate.
Matt Flynn, 29, an electrical engineering and computer science major from Vacaville, Calif.

Im worried that groups like Antifa are going to come back

Photo

Im worried that groups like Antifa are going to come back and as a result, students who are just trying to get through the day will not only feel physically in danger, but will also feel a sense of frustration and anxiety and danger from the idea that public funds (a.k.a.
the financial aid of innocent students) could be threatened as a result of the weeks activities.
Aurora L., 21, a peace and conflict studies major from Walnut, Calif.

A majority of students who shared their stories expressed concern about their safety.
However, they were divided over who was to blame: the speeches and their participants, or the protesters.
Many believed violent protests in the past and a heavy police presence has cast a shadow over campus.
I am thoroughly petrified and fearful of my safety

Photo

I am thoroughly petrified and fearful of my safety on this campus during Free Speech Week as a black woman.
I have chosen to not attend my lectures next week in efforts to keeping myself safe on a campus that does not keep my safety as their number one priority.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story



 Kathryn Taylor Swain, 21, a rhetoric and African-American studies major from Los Angeles.
I worry about the safety of queer and trans students

Photo

I worry about the safety of queer and trans students like myself here who must wrestle with the questions, Should I step back into the closet this week?
Is that even possible?
Is that weak, or is that wise?
Claire Danna, 20, an English and media studies double major from Los Angeles.
An institution of learning and new ideas has become a hotbed for the violent repression of differing opinions

I am concerned about violent left-wing groups like Antifa and BAMN [By Any Means Necessary] harming students and innocent civilians as they have in the past.
Hopefully a large police presence like there was at the recent talk by Ben Shapiro will dissuade the majority of the violence, but it is truly sad that an institution of learning and new ideas has become a hotbed for the violent repression of differing opinions.
Malcolm Crawford, 22, a molecular and cell biology major from Los Angeles.
I fight off waves of panic terrified someone will assault me for being of color

Walk around U.C.
Berkeley.
You will see barricades, cement blocks stacked on top of each other, officers strapped head to toe in riot gear, signs that tell students that we are trespassers and will be prosecuted if we step foot in certain areas of our own campus.
I fight off waves of panic terrified someone will assault me for being of color, for being a woman, for being a student.
This is a violent assertion of white privilege at a school largely made up of minorities.
Salina I., 21, a sociology major from San Francisco
That was evident at the Emmy Awards on Sunday, where Sean Spicer, who served in the West Wing as a perpetually beleaguered press secretary, wheeled out a little podium onstage to lampoon his past assessment of the crowd size at Mr. Trumps inauguration.
Even Stephen K. Bannon, President Trumps former chief strategist who has returned to the helm of Breitbart News, took time to drop by 60 Minutes to indulge his own myth as a bomb thrower  or, in his words, a street fighter.
Tevi Troy, who served as the deputy secretary of Health and Human Services during President George W. Bushs administration and wrote a book about pop culture and the presidency, said that it was relatively rare to see fixtures from a Republican presidential administration receive such high exposure on television and social media.
I think part of it is, there was a lot of attention on Trump aides in part because of internal divisions, Mr.
Troy said.
The Trump show has attracted a lot of attention and ratings, and people are following this stuff more closely than the maneuverings of White House aides under Bush.
In the days since his appearance on the Emmys, Mr. Spicers re-entry to public life has been as fraught as his time at the White House.
He lashed out at some journalists and threatened legal action against a reporter who reached out seeking comment.
In a series of direct Twitter messages, Mr. Scaramuccis sister, Susan, said that her brother had similar problems with the press.
The media hasnt got him right on anything, she wrote.
Everything is completely false.
They have portrayed him completely different then he is.
And people are feeding into that and it grows.
Photo

But on Friday on The View, Mr. Scaramucci, 53, made nice with the news media, claiming he had asked that the cameras be turned on in the White House briefing room because reporters wanted their parents to see them on TV.
(Mr. Spicer had many off-camera White House briefings.)
Mr. Scaramucci continued to strike a demure tone as the hosts of The View asked him questions about his rifts with Mr. Spicer, Mr. Bannon and Reince Priebus, the presidents former chief of staff.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We have Republican-on-Republican crime all the time, Mr. Scaramucci said about Mr. Spicer.
Im not going to hit back at him.
Mr. Scaramucci, already a tabloid fixture who seems to share his former bosss flare for creative vocabulary, returned to his usual persona after the commercial break.
He called Mr. Spicer Liar Spice from the Spice Girls.
He also took aim at Mr. Bannon, who received the brunt of his vulgar tirade this summer.
On Friday, Mr. Scaramucci said that Mr. Bannon had white nationalist tendencies and a messianic complex.
The View promptly distributed snippets of the drama on social media.
On The View, Mr. Scaramucci, who is still awaiting the close of the sale of his SkyBridge Capital hedge fund investment firm, sounded not like a Wall Street guy but like a politician.
He tested out some Trumpian phrases on the audience.
Raise your hand if you love the Washington establishment, he instructed the crowd.
The swamp has to be drained, ladies and gentlemen.
People in the crowd, who had been trained to throw up their hands on command, kept their hands down and stayed quiet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Scaramucci also addressed criticism that he had supported a president who had made disparaging comments about women and what Joy Behar, a show co-host, called a crazy health care repeal effort.
At this, audience members, who had been instructed to clap along with their political views, loudly applauded.
We might be normalizing you, said Ms. Behar, a friend who was the first person to call Mr. Scaramucci after he had been fired.
Yeah, maybe, Mr. Scaramucci fired back.
I dont think youll be able to normalize me.
Im a lot like you.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Behar, who declined a request for comment, said Mr. Scaramucci did great as she was whisked away from the set.
Mr. Scaramucci declined interviews with The New York Times, but when asked in a Twitter message who was running the Twitter account for the nascent Scaramucci Post, Mr. Scaramucci replied with a Santa Claus emoji.
And these guys, he added, copying and pasting an image of a pair of goggled Minions from the Despicable Me movie.
As long as the public remains interested in palace intrigue, Mr. Scaramucci has said he is interested in a TV career.
Earlier this week, he appeared as a host on TMZ Live in Los Angeles.
There, he speculated about political speaking fees, calling himself the Zagats of such things, estimating his own fee to be around $40,000.
To help sort through his post-White House options, Mr. Scaramucci has hired a publicist, Howard Bragman, who runs a publicity company called Fifteen Minutes.
The two men have been cagey about unveiling their plans, and have been careful to swat down rumors that the Long Island-bred Wall Street veteran is interested in political office, though he has been privately known to flirt with the idea.
A person is like a flower, Mr. Bragman wrote in an email.
You need to watch them unfold to appreciate the beauty.
Buried in the Affordable Care Act is a provision that could help promote all of these goals.
That provision allows states to waive nearly all of the rules about how they run their insurance marketplaces under Obamacare, if they can prove that their replacement plan would offer similarly comprehensive insurance to just as many people, at the same or lower cost.
An older, related program allows states to make modifications to their Medicaid program that dont cost the federal government more money, if the states adhere to various guidelines.
The Obamacare program, known as the state innovation waiver, was set up to kick in this year.
And, so far, it appears that only a handful of states wish to refashion the Obamacare status quo.
Two states have put waivers into effect.
Hawaii used one to do away with Obamacares small-business insurance marketplace.
Alaska established a special fund to pay medical bills of patients who needed very expensive care, lowering the premiums on the market.
Several other states have applied for waivers of various sorts, and these are undergoing federal review.
Why havent more states come forward?
One reason is that coming up with a brand-new health care system is hard, and not every state may be interested in doing it.
Another is that states have complained that the Obamacare application rules are too strict and onerous.
The rules require states to pass legislation endorsing a state plan, to undergo a six-month review, and to adhere to tests to make sure that the new plan will protect the people who are helped by Obamacare.
States have also said that it can be hard to make related reforms to both the marketplace and Medicaid programs, since they must undergo separate reviews for their budgetary effects.
Photo

But in recent hearings, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions has been discussing options to address state requests, and ease the process.
The committees chairman, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, has been pushing for changes that would make it easier for states to try new policy approaches.
And Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking member, was willing to make some concessions in exchange for a promise to fund insurance subsidies caught up in a court fight.
The Alexander-Murray negotiations were shelved as the Graham-Cassidy bill picked up steam, but they could begin again.
In his statement, Mr. McCain mentioned the Alexander-Murray negotiations as an avenue for bipartisan reform and said, I hope they will resume.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The idea of the innovation waiver originally came from the Democrats.
Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon wrote the provision because he wanted states to have more options.
An expanded innovation program might lead to more experiments from the left  something approaching a single-payer system from a state like Vermont, say  as well as those from the right.
But making it easier for states to receive waivers could be a way for Republican senators to give states more flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There were, of course, many other features of the Republican bill that could not be easily replicated by waiver.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have redistributed a big pool of federal funding among states.
And it would have changed the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, putting spending on poor children, disabled Americans and many people living in nursing homes on a strict diet.
Any bipartisan deal would require the votes of at least eight Democrats, which makes drastic changes to the current rules unrealistic.
But there remain opportunities for state experimentation.
The Trump administration has signaled that it is eager to help promote state flexibility.
Tom Price, the secretary of health and human services, wrote to governors in March, urging them to apply.
Not every state has felt its proposals were welcomed with enthusiasm so far.
If a top Republican concern is about the rigid structure of Obamacare, and states really want to build their own systems, there are still avenues to move in the direction Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy have sketched.
But while they might achieve many of the same policy goals, those efforts are likely to be cast as Obamacare revisions, not replacements.
But those two top contenders combine for lower than 50 percent odds in our expert survey  meaning that our panelists thought there was a better-than-even chance that the appointment will be one of many contenders with individually modest but collectively high chances of rising to the top of the presidents list.
Compared with PredictIt, an online marketplace based on news events, our experts saw slightly lower odds for either of them.
On Thursday afternoon, trading on PredictIt implied 30 percent odds for Ms. Yellen and 28 percent for Mr. Warsh.
Using our expert survey  and comments from some of the participants in it  heres a guide to President Trumps options as he makes perhaps the single most consequential economic decision of his first year in office.
Yellen reappointment: continuity and bipartisanship

Theres a tradition of reappointing Fed chairmen who were originally appointed by a member of the opposite party.
President Obama did so with Ben Bernanke; Bill Clinton with Alan Greenspan; and Ronald Reagan with Paul Volcker.
That tradition has helped keep the Fed, with its vast power over the economy and financial system, insulated a bit from politics, but President Trump has no obligation to follow it.
The case for renominating Ms. Yellen is straightforward.
She has presided over four years of steady economic expansion and rising financial markets.
She moved cautiously toward raising interest rates even though the economy seemed to be approaching full employment.
By contrast, some more conservative contenders for the job have indicated they want to raise rates more quickly, which could endanger the economy as President Trump approaches midterm elections in 2018 and a potential re-election battle in 2020.
After criticizing her during his campaign, President Trump has had some kind words for her, saying in July that he liked her and that shes done a good job.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, as President Trump dabbles in making deals with Democrats, reappointing Ms. Yellen could serve as an expression of good faith to Democratic senators.
As administration officials focus on tax legislation and other priorities on Capitol Hill, it might be helpful to them to nominate someone who might sail through confirmation, rather than demand a bruising, time-consuming battle.
Shes a known quantity, and there is less risk of disrupting the financial markets if the president renominates Dr. Yellen, said Brian Gardner, managing director of Washington Research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and one of the panelists.
Although President Trump is unorthodox in many ways, every president wants calm financial markets.
The case against Ms. Yellen is similarly straightforward: She is a liberal economist in a government dominated by conservatives.
She is a cerebral academic serving during the presidency of a bombastic businessman.
And she is a staunch defender of the work the Fed and other bank regulators have done to try to limit risk in the financial system  including in a high-profile speech last month  amid an administration focused on deregulation.
Kevin Warsh: well connected, but with baggage

Our experts consensus was that Mr. Warsh has slightly better odds than Ms. Yellen.
He was a Fed governor from 2006 to 2011, and was a member of Mr. Bernankes inner circle in shaping the Feds extraordinary (and often extraordinarily unpopular) actions to battle the global financial crisis.
He is well connected in conservative political circles and is now a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.
Before joining the Fed, where he was the youngest governor in the institutions history, he worked in the George W. Bush White House and at Morgan Stanley.
He has a law degree, but no advanced degree in economics.
Mr. Warsh has been a skeptic of the Feds efforts to boost the economy through quantitative easing and has advocated raising interest rates more quickly.
He also has a regulatory philosophy more in line with the administrations.
The Race to Be the Next Fed Chairman Appears to Be Wide Open Experts surveyed by The Times believe that Kevin Warsh and Janet Yellen stand the best shot at being appointed to lead the central bank, but combine for less than a 50 percent chance.
EXPERT CONSENSUS PREDICTIT Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22% Expert Consensus PredictIt Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22%

Another factor that might weigh in Mr. Warshs favor with the president?
Mr. Warshs father-in-law is Ronald Lauder, of the Este Lauder cosmetics fortune, a major Republican donor with longstanding ties to Mr. Trump.
If Mr. Warsh is nominated, expect significant blowback during the confirmation process from Democrats, who are likely to accuse the 47-year-old Mr. Warsh of being underqualified, of being responsible for the 2008 bank bailouts and inclined to regulate banks too lightly now, and of being too overtly political for the traditionally nonpartisan Fed chairmanship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whatever happened to Gary Cohn?
Not long ago, Gary Cohn, the head of the White House National Economic Council, looked like the leading candidate to be the next Fed chairman.
In late July, his odds were 46 percent on PredictIt.
But now our panel puts those odds at 12 percent, and PredictIts odds were about the same.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A former No.
2 at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Cohn has been reported to have swung out of favor with Mr. Trump after criticizing his response to racially motivated violence in Charlottesville, Va.
But there were some reasons to be skeptical of Mr. Cohns appointment to the Fed chairmanship even before that.
Mr. Cohn has a hard-charging style that would be an unusual fit for an agency that is run more like an academic department.
The last businessman to become Fed chairman, G. William Miller, was appointed by President Jimmy Carter and lasted only 18 months in the job.
And given his rsum, Mr. Cohns nomination would surely set off a heated confirmation battle.
Democrats would be eager to criticize the administration for naming a recent top executive at Goldman Sachs to be the nations most powerful financial regulator.
Some populist Republicans might join them.
Still, given the way people move in and out of Mr. Trumps favor, and his preference for appointees with business experience, a Cohn appointment cant be ruled out.
The other contenders

The expert consensus is that there is about a one-in-three chance collectively for the other possible nominees, even as each of them individually is viewed as having single-digit odds.
Foremost among them are several of the names we would probably be hearing about if a conventional Republican president were in the White House.
John B. Taylor is a respected economist at Stanford who worked in the George W. Bush administration and has been an influential voice among congressional Republicans who want to see the Fed bound by stricter rules governing its actions.
Glenn Hubbard was a top economic adviser to Mr. Bush who is dean of Columbia Business School.
Larry Lindsey was another top adviser to Mr. Bush and a former Fed governor with an economics doctorate from Harvard.
Our panels consensus odds for the three were 8, 7 and 6 percent, respectively.
Their doctorates and affiliations with top universities may actually be downsides in an administration that has shown disdain for academic expertise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another intriguing possibility is Jerome Powell, known as Jay, a current Fed governor who served in the George H.W.
Bush Treasury Department and was a partner at the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm.
If Mr. Trump wanted a nominee who would probably maintain continuity with current Fed policy but was more conservative and business-minded than Ms. Yellen, Mr. Powell would be a below-the-radar option.
The panel rates his odds of ending up in the job at 5 percent.
A range of other names has emerged in various reports, including the F.D.I.C.
vice chairman Thomas Hoenig and John Allison, the former chief executive of BB&T bank, but our panel assigns them only long-shot odds.
The surprise factor

Mr. Trump loves a surprise.
In his search for a secretary of state, for example, he considered numerous prominent options before going with Exxons chief executive, Rex Tillerson, a bit of an out-of-left-field choice.
As he focuses on the choice for Fed chief, a similar pattern could reappear, and a less conventional choice could emerge.
Thats why the consensus of our panel is that theres a 10 percent chance the nominee is not on this list at all.
Then again, in another appointment that has some similarities to the Fed chairmanship, the selection of a Supreme Court nominee, Mr. Trump went with a respected conservative jurist in Neil Gorsuch.
As Mr. Trump starts focusing on the Fed chief decision in the months ahead, that may be the biggest decision of them all: whether to look at conventional qualifications, or go with a surprise.
Either way, with Ms. Yellens term coming to a close and a crowded calendar of Senate business that could stand in the way of a confirmation vote, the clock is ticking.
ABOUT OUR PANEL: The odds listed here are based on a survey of 11 savvy observers of the Fed and economic policy making who were asked to offer a probability on each of the potential nominees listed.
Their probabilities were to add to 100 percent, including the odds on rest of field, or another nominee emerging.
Those odds were then averaged to create a consensus probability of each selection.
The participants were: Shehriyar Antia of Macro Insight Group; Tony Fratto of Hamilton Place Strategies; Brian Gardner of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods; Krishna Guha of Evercore I.S.I.
; Roberto Perli of Cornerstone Macro; Douglas Rediker of International Capital Strategies; Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute; Phillip Swagel of the University of Maryland; Diane Swonk of DS Economics; Eric Winograd of AllianceBernstein; and Mark Zandi of Moodys Analytics.
Republican voters were roughly 40 points more likely than Republican elites to believe that controlling illegal immigration should be a top priority of American foreign policy (61 percent to 20 percent).
They were less likely to support the resettlement of Syrian refuges to the United States (27 percent to 71 percent).
And they were more likely to believe that immigrants and refuges entering the United States are a critical threat to the nation (55 percent to 16 percent).
Similar differences exist on issues of trade, globalization and Social Security.
These patterns help explain how Mr. Trump emerged as a viable candidate and eventual winner of the G.O.P.
nomination in 2016.
He went where Republican voters were, signaling this with his exhortations about building a wall and banning the entry of all Muslims, for example.
His candidacy was helped by the fact that other contenders wouldnt echo him to compete for those votes explicitly.
Photo

The survey patterns also suggest an upside for President Trump regarding his meetings and agreements with Democratic leaders.
He will be more in line with Republican elites on those topics  the type who routinely win support from a plurality of Republican voters.
Perhaps more important, protecting the children known as Dreamers (the beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program) is not seen by the public as the same as other immigration issues.
Most people  including many Republican voters  believe that once people have lived in the country for years, held a job, learned English, and are willing to pay back taxes, they should be able to stay.
Whether President Trumps recent moves are politically nave or shrewd turns on how worried he is about losing support among the Republican voters whom he courted specifically over illegal immigration, and whether these voters think that an agreement on DACA portends a broader softening on border control.
His base has stuck by him through many unimaginable episodes: Mr. Trump himself described their loyalty by saying that he could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldnt lose voters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He might be right.
Gabriel Lenz, a University of California, Berkeley, political scientist, has written a book about what happens among voters when leaders change positions on issues.
The book is titled Follow the Leader?
which gives you a hint of how things turn out.
On most issues, when candidates change their minds, supporters will mimic the change instead of abandoning the candidates.
As the book description says, In many cases, citizens first pick a politician and then adopt that politicians policy views.
But President Trump might also be wrong about this.
Using similar methods to Mr. Lenzs, Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California, Irvine, has conducted research on long-held predispositions, like views about people who are different from you.
Mr. Tesler found that voters are less likely to change those kinds of positions to follow their party leaders.
Candidates who change their minds on straightforward policy issues like the tax rate are likely to see their voters change their minds on those issues.
The same is not true for topics drawing on racial or ethnic attitudes.
Mr. Trump regularly changes his mind on all sorts of things, so if his voters dont come along, he could always return to his earlier position to court them.
He has done it before on immigration.
After the 2012 presidential election, Mr. Trump criticized the Republican Party for its loss and warned that the party would continue to lose presidential elections if it comes across as meanspirited and unwelcoming toward people of color.
He went on to compliment the Democrats on immigration  not on their policies, but on their tone.
They didnt have a policy, he said, but what they did have going for them is that they were not meanspirited about it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What they were is they were kind, he added.
Mr. Trumps tone three years later was much less kind than the party line in 2012.
He even criticized a Republican primary opponent, Jeb Bush, for saying that illegal border crossings were motivated by an act of love and commitment to family.
Now, hes testing the deep affection of his base once again by seemingly going back to a kinder approach on immigration.
The language of the bill provides them with a nearly unlimited range of policy options to use the money in the service of providing health care access, and no templates or fallback options.
Republican governors from 15 states have endorsed the bill, saying that adequately funded, flexible block grants to the states are the last, best hope to finally repeal and replace Obamacare.
States could use the money in any number of ways: state insurance programs, subsidies for private insurance, direct payments to health providers, high-risk pools or more.
They would be free to preserve the central consumer protections created by Obamacare, or to decide to allow insurers to limit benefits or charge higher prices to sicker customers than healthier ones.
The challenges would fall into two major categories.
First, states would need to make political choices about what they want their system to look like.
Next, they would need to submit applications, hire contractors and build new systems to run them.
Neither would be easy.
The bill would make health care an active, high-stakes political debate in all 50 states.
Under Obamacare, states had limited, rather binary policy choices, and even those were hard for state governments to make quickly.
States had to decide whether to run their own insurance marketplaces or to let the federal government do it for them.
After a Supreme Court ruling in 2012, they had a choice about whether to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more childless adults, or to stick with their prior programs.
Many states took longer than two years to answer even those comparatively simple questions.
Photo

Consider, for example, a state like Virginia, where a Democrat sits in the governors office but Republicans run the legislature.
Political consensus might prove elusive.
Fights could erupt even among more politically homogeneous states that support Obamacare.
One house of the California legislature recently voted to adopt a single-payer health care system.
The flexibility presented by the bill might open a heated debate about whether to adopt such an approach  or build something more like the Affordable Care Act, which is currently working well there.
There are also the challenges of state legislative calendars: Texas legislature, for example, is not scheduled to convene until 2019.
In some ways, a clean slate is much more complicated than very discrete decisions, said Larry Levitt, an executive vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health research group.
Mr. Levitt described the challenges facing states under this legislation as formidable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In contrast with an earlier bill from Mr. Cassidy, which offered a default option for uncertain states, there is no backup plan in the bill.
The Obamacare coverage programs would disappear everywhere in 2020, and any state unable to make a plan and submit an application would be ineligible for the new grant funding.
If a state succeeds in obtaining the funding but doesnt have a functioning new system on Jan. 1, 2020, consumers and markets would be thrown into chaos.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the bills block grant formula, Mississippi would be one of the biggest winners, eligible for substantially more health care money than it gets now.
Still, Mike Chaney, the states insurance commissioner, said that he was wary about the change.
Which evil do you like better, the one you know or the one you dont know?
Mr. Chaney said.
There are better ways to do this.
Once states choose a policy approach, they would need to bring it to life.
If they adopt a government-run approach, in which people can enroll in a single public health plan, they will need to develop the parameters for that program and put it out to bid.
If they select something similar to Obamacare  some sort of insurance market with income-based subsidies  they will need technology systems that allow them to verify peoples eligibility and income, and link state assistance with their insurance purchases.
Most states have lengthy contracting processes, in which they must request proposals and review multiple bids before signing up vendors.
Those deals would need to be in place before any software building begins.
The Obama administration had nearly four years to develop and build its enrollment system, HealthCare.gov, which barely functioned at the outset.
Peter Lee, the executive director of the California marketplace, Covered California, which is considered one of the countrys most successful, said that his system was barely finished in time, and he had the ability to call up local technology C.E.O.s for advice.
Andy Slavitt, who joined the Obama administration in 2014 to help rebuild the ailing HealthCare.gov, and is strongly opposed to the Republican bill, said it would be close to impossible for most states to build meaningful systems for providing health insurance on such a timeline.
This is a fantasy document developed without the benefit of talking to people who have actually had to operationalize these things before, he said.
Passage of the bill would set off a state rush for help from the limited group of contractors who have built big systems.
Mike Leavitt, a Republican who was Secretary of Health and Human Services under George W. Bush, and a governor of Utah, now runs a consulting firm that helps states build and manage exchanges.
He said he supported the general idea of giving states more power.
He was optimistic that some states could adopt out-of-the-box systems within two years, but probably not all.
There are different levels of complexity involved in states, and theres different levels of capacity, and theres different levels of experience, he said.
Many experts I spoke with were confident that most states would find some way to get the federal money, given how big the stakes were.
They were less sure about whether states would be able to use it in a way that would provide health coverage quickly to the people currently served by Obamacare.
The metaphor I think about is its saying, Were going to continue having a freeway full of fast-moving cars, but were going to remove the lane line and the speed limits and say we hope things work out,  Mr. Lee said.
The bill is structured as a sort of slow-motion repeal of the health laws main coverage programs.
Though the bill establishes the new state block grant program for a decade, all of the programs money expires after 2026.
That makes it different from the Obamacare overhaul bill passed by the House and a previous bill considered by the Senate, which would have made modifications and cuts to those programs, but preserved them in perpetuity.
The expiration of the health laws programs alone would probably mean that about 23 million fewer Americans would have health coverage, if compared with current law, according to an estimate the Congressional Budget Office made in regard to a previous repeal bill.
In the meantime, analysts say, the individual insurance markets could face enormous changes.
The legislation rolls back popular consumer protections in Obamacare, leaving each state to decide what minimum benefits must be covered or if customers with pre-existing illnesses should be protected from higher prices.
Not every state would drop these provisions, but several might.
One of the few Obamacare requirements that would remain is to allow children to stay on their parents insurance policies until age 26.
The budget office has said it does not have time to analyze the full effects of the bill before the Senate hopes to consider it, though it will provide some overall estimates of its effects on the federal deficit.
While a floor vote is not certain yet, Republicans are racing against the clock.
They are considering the bill under special budget rules that allow them to pass it with a simple majority of votes in the Senate.
That opportunity expires when the fiscal year ends at the end of Sept. 30.
The legislation also does little to stabilize the individual market from now until when the states would have to administer new health programs in 2020.
Insurers are sharply raising their prices for 2018 because lawmakers have not committed to funding the so-called cost-sharing subsidies that help insurers reduce deductibles and co-payments for low-income customers.
The bill does not fix this problem.
The legislation also eliminates the tax penalty that people who refuse coverage face  the individual mandate  which could discourage insurance enrollment among healthier people, who are critical to making the program work.
Insurance companies, some of which are only reluctantly staying in the market, may think twice about whether they need to remain while the alternatives are being worked out.
This mix of policies during the two-year transition period is similar to that imagined in earlier Republican bills.
The budget office said that such an environment would cause insurance prices to spike by 20 percent and about 15 million fewer Americans to have health coverage in 2019.
The block-grant formula would affect who is covered, by shifting money to states with the greatest number of low-income residents and away from states that have tried to provide more of their middle-income citizens with insurance.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recent analysis from the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that, by 2026, blue states with low numbers of uninsured residents, including New York and Massachusetts, would experience substantial reductions in federal funding.
Poorer states with high uninsured rates, like Texas and Mississippi, would see increases.
Many of the states that make out better financially could have obtained more Obamacare funding if they had chosen to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more low-income residents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The bills formula shifts around the current pot of money based on how many residents in each state are close to the poverty line, and also seeks to equalize payments, regardless of differences in the price of medical care in different regions.
It redistributes from higher income to lowest income, said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at Avalere Health.
It also redistributes among the states.
Like several earlier Republican health bills, this one would also change the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, which even before Obamacares expansion to poor adults in many states covered tens of millions of vulnerable Americans, including poor children, older Americans in nursing homes, adults with disabilities, and many pregnant women.
The program currently pays for 49 percent of all births and 64 percent of all nursing home residents bills.
The Graham-Cassidy bill moves funding for the Medicaid expansion population into the state block grant.
It would also convert the rest of the program from an open-ended commitment of paying a share of those peoples medical bills to a capped allotment for each person every year, set to grow by a fixed amount.
Independent analysts have said that the change would cause substantial shifts in financial responsibility to states, ultimately leading to reductions in benefits or in the number of Americans covered by Medicaid over time.
Most Americans receive insurance through their employers, and they, too, would probably see changes under this bill.
The legislation would eliminate Obamacares penalties for employers that decline to offer their workers affordable coverage.
The changes to benefit rules in some states could, through a complicated interplay of law and regulation, allow insurers to impose annual or lifetime limits on coverage for some people covered under employer plans.
More than half of plans had such limits before they were barred by the Affordable Care Act.
With all these changes in the Cassidy-Graham bill, the states might have considerable difficulty coming up with plans of their own by 2020, when the current system of covering their residents under Medicaid and the health laws insurance market would end.
Youve only got two years to figure all of this out, said Robert Laszewski, an industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. You need a comprehensive plan to phase Obamacare out to something that replaces it.
But the bill faces substantial challenges, both political and procedural.
Here are three reasons the effort may not succeed  and one very important reason it might.
Photo

1) Rand Paul is a hard no, which makes the math difficult.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has been making a big point of how he dislikes this bill and wont vote for it.
He said so in a series of tweets on Monday.
Then he held a news conference, saying he was immovable.
Without his vote, Senate leadership can afford to lose only one more.
Senator John McCain of Arizona has offered mixed messages on the bill, and suggested on Monday that he was not yet endorsing the bill but might eventually.
So far, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Senator Susan Collins of Maine have voted against every previous repeal attempt.
They even voted against opening debate on the process that permitted consideration of the Graham-Cassidy option.
If Mr. Paul holds firm, one of those two will need to change her mind.
Its possible that Mr. Paul will switch sides, but hes made it hard for himself to do so.
Ms. Murkowski and Ms. Collins have said nothing about their intentions.
But both raised objections about cuts to Medicaid in the earlier bill, and the new bill contains similar reductions.
The bills funding formula also appears to be unkind to both Alaska and Maine.
2) Theres a huge redistribution of money between states in the bills formula.
Losers include states with must-get senators.
The legislation sets up a complex formula for who gets what chunk of federal health care spending.
The formula is devised to equalize spending among states.
Currently, some states spend much more on Medicaid and the exchanges than others, either because they cover more people or because their systems are more generous or expensive.
That redistribution of money means that some states would come out as big winners, but others would absorb big reductions.
Mr. Cassidy has pointed out that more than a third of Affordable Care Act spending goes to four states: California, New York, Massachusetts and Maryland.
Thats roughly true.
These are populous states that expanded their Medicaid programs and tend to have costly health care systems.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But its not just big, blue states that would lose out.
According to estimates from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank, Alaska, Arizona, Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, for example, would end up with less money by the end of a decade.
Those states all contain Republican senators who have expressed some unease with earlier versions of Obamacare repeal, and they might wish to keep the bill off the floor to avoid a tough vote that would pit their broad political commitments to repeal against the more parochial concerns of their constituents.
(Similar concerns might also crop up in the House, where a final vote would eventually need to be held.)
Over the long term, every state would lose money under the proposal.
The big block grants would expire altogether in 2027.
3) The timing is tight, and the bill still has a long way to go, leaving little room for error.
Republicans are trying to pass the bill using a special budget procedure called reconciliation.
That process allows them to pass the bill without needing any Democratic support, but it comes with a number of rules.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the reconciliation process, the bill requires an estimate of costs from the Congressional Budget Office.
The office indicated that it would offer an initial assessment by early next week, but could not provide detailed estimates about what would happen to insurance coverage or premiums for several weeks.
The score could discourage some senators from supporting the bill; an incomplete assessment might discourage others.
The bill will also need to be reviewed by the Senates parliamentarian to ensure that its provisions adhere to rules for the budget process.
Some provisions, including restrictions on funding for abortion providers and the new option of work requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries, could run afoul of the rules and be scrubbed out in the Byrd Bath.
Any funding formula changes made to the bill to please reluctant senators could slow things down.
The parliamentarian has said that the Senate process needs to be wrapped up by the end of the month.
That means that the bill needs a score, a Byrd Bath rules review and a vote in the Senate by the end of Saturday, Sept. 30.
Then the legislation would need to go back to the House, where, after midnight of that day, it could not be changed again, only voted up or down.
1) But Obamacare repeal is a core promise for Republicans.
Republicans have been running on a promise to repeal Obamacare since 2010, and this bill appears to be their last chance to achieve that goal in the foreseeable future.
Though they could initiate a new budget process to try again with health care, the president and congressional leadership want to use the process instead to pass tax reform.
Many members of Congress (and their staffs) are weary of the recent health care fight, which has been bruising and has yielded little political upside.
But even for lawmakers with doubts about this particular piece of legislation, the prospect of a win on an issue dear to their base  not to mention getting President Trump to stop jeering that they are wasting time and couldnt get it done  could be a powerful motivating force.
To better understand one of the most heated American policy debates, we conducted a small tournament to explore the idea of what makes a great health care system, and which nation might do it best.
A panel of judges chose between Germany, Switzerland, France, Britain, Canada, Australia, the United States and Singapore.
We hope that readers will consider this to be merely the beginning of a discussion, not the end.
In fact, we look forward to writing articles in which we answer reader questions and ask other experts with different views to weigh in.
Wed like to hear from you.
Have you experienced a health care system outside the United States?
Tell us its best or worst feature.
And what advice would you give Americans?
Photo

The Bernie Sanders Medicare for All plan promises rapid, sweeping change to the American health care system, with the elimination of all private insurance and the creation of a costly new government insurance program that will cover everyone and nearly every medical service.
But deep in its back pages is a more modest fallback plan.
The bill, introduced this week, has attracted the endorsement of 15 Democratic senators, including several of the partys most ambitious liberals.
But many more Democrats this week said theyd like to pursue more limited steps to expand health insurance coverage and the governments role in the system.
It turns out that the Sanders bill also has provisions along those lines.
Taken together, the bill encapsulates much of the coming Democratic debate about the direction of health care.
In the statements of the bills co-sponsors, one can detect an openness to less transformational approaches to health reform.
This bill is aspirational, and Im hopeful that it can serve as a starting point for where we need to go as a country, Senator Al Franken of Minnesota wrote in a Facebook post.
He described the bill as a marker and one way to achieve universal coverage.
Parts of the Sanders bill help establish a road map for what some other strategies might look like.
The provisions are tucked into Title X of the bill and describe the four-year transition between current policy and the Sanders bills goal of a Medicare-for-all system.
During that interim, some younger Americans would be able to buy access to the traditional Medicare program, which is now mainly for those 65 and up.
The provisions would also establish an option for Americans to buy access to a Medicare-like government plan that would be sold on the Obamacare exchanges.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Medicare buy-in section comes from Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, who has introduced the provision as a stand-alone bill.
Notably, that 13-percentage-point advantage is biased by the fact that people more inclined to like Mr. Trump  older, white, heterosexual Christian men  happen to be overrepresented in manufacturing jobs.
The Trump manufacturing advantage shrinks to just three percentage points after taking into account demographic factors (race, age, gender, sexuality, religion and educational attainment) and becomes entirely insignificant after including attitudes about racism.
Trump voters are far more likely to disagree with statements like I am angry that racism exists and White people in the U.S. have certain advantages because of the color of their skin.
Manufacturing sector exposure is among the least important factors in predicting Trump support.
Trumps Small Edge With Manufacturing Workers After taking into account demographic variables, geographic variables and attitudes about race, much of the difference between manufacturing workers and those in other sectors disappears.
No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2 No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2

In fact, Gallup survey data from August shows that American adults who approve of the way Mr. Trump is handling the presidency are actually less worried than other Americans about how trade competition will affect their job.
Just 6 percent of employed adults who approve of Mr. Trump say they are worried about their job going overseas, compared with 11 percent who disapprove.
Nor is technology a big concern.
Only 9 percent of Trump supporters are worried that their job will become obsolete as a result of technology compared with 15 percent of those who dont approve of the president.
Likewise, exposure to trade competition played no apparent role in persuading Obama voters to switch to Mr. Trump.
People who voted for President Obama in 2012 accounted for about 12 percent of all Trump voters, but again, these voters were not disproportionately involved in the manufacturing sector, either nationally or in swing states.
Around 8.7 percent of Trump voters who also voted for Mr. Obama in 2012 work in manufacturing, compared with 9.5 percent of Trump voters who voted for Mitt Romney.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exposure to trade is even less important for far-right voters in Europe than it is for Trump voters.
Using data from the European Social Survey, I find that working in manufacturing raises the probability of voting for a far-right party in the most recent election by less than one percentage point, using no demographic control variables.
Adding the same controls as above  religion, race, age, education, gender  eliminates even that small effect.
As in the United States, European far-right voters were far more likely to express concerns about immigration and race, saying, for example, that they are discriminated against, or that being white should be an important factor in determining whether foreigners are allowed to migrate.
By contrast, voters reporting positive interactions with people from other races were much less likely to be far-right voters.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

None of this is to say that economics is unimportant to nationalist voting.
Both Trump voters and European far-right voters are distinguished by their strong dissatisfaction with the present state of the national economy, even controlling for demographic factors and attitudes on race and immigration.
Likewise, both groups are more likely to report that their family income situation is either difficult (for European far-right voters) or has gotten worse in the last four years (for Trump voters), even though family income is no lower for either group of voters.
In fact, its significantly higher for the average Trump voter.
This is consistent with previous Gallup research showing that Trump supporters seem to need a much larger financial cushion than those who view him unfavorably in order to feel good about their finances, perhaps because of their fears over the future of the country.
Trumps Advantage With People Who Said the Economy Was Getting Worse Voters who said the national economy had gotten worse or much worse over the past year were much more likely to vote for Mr. Trump, even after adjusting for demographic and other variables.
No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26 No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26

Even if nationalist voters are not direct victims of trade, many might still oppose it out of a belief  however mistaken  that cooperation with foreigners must come at the expense of their fellow citizens.
While this view has historically been advanced by anticapitalist academics, it has seen new life among white nationalists on the right.
Voters on the far right and left have many valid grievances about the failure of conventional parties to create a fair, vibrant economy.
I have written a report published by Gallup and the U.S. Council on Competitiveness that elite, domestically focused business interests have set up barriers to competition, driving up their own incomes and the prices paid by consumers and taxpayers.
The anti-trade story may be diverting attention from those and other economic problems that seem to have helped nationalist candidates gain support from people who might not otherwise gravitate toward chauvinistic views.
That doesnt mean they have the same party loyalty of older left-of-center generations.
Theyre more likely to register as independent.
The young were nearly three times as likely as voters over 30 to vote for a third-party candidate last November.
About one in 10 voted for the Green Party candidate, Jill Stein, or the Libertarian candidate, Gary Johnson, or another candidate or write-in option.
This could be a reflection of the fact that many young Americans had their first glimpse of national politics during the hotly contested ideological battle between Bernie Sanders and Mrs. Clinton in the 2016 Democratic primary election.
Young millennials  and Im one of them  have experienced Democratic Party infighting practically since their political life began.
The infighting has continued in recent months: Should Democrats allow anti-abortion candidates?
Is single-payer insurance the one true path forward for health care?
Should the party make its main priority courting working-class whites?
As important as it would be for Democrats to unite and to keep left-of-center voters from straying, it would be even more helpful to win Republican converts.
A recent report from Pew Research Center found that 23 percent of young Americans who identified as Republican or independent-leaning-Republican switched to identifying as Democrat or independent-leaning-Democrat from 2015 to 2017.
The same report estimated that just 9 percent of young Democrats or those who lean Democratic switched to the G.O.P.
My analysis of survey data from the 2010-2014 C.C.E.S.
panel survey finds that these recent levels of Republican-to-Democrat switching are around 11 percentage points higher than past levels.
The 2016 C.C.E.S.
data corroborates this story, showing that about 75 percent of young Republicans voted for Donald J. Trump  about 20 points lower than the level of Republican voters older than 30.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That all sounds promising for Democrats.
But you might have noticed something in November 2016: This trend wasnt enough to produce a victory for Mrs. Clinton.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The turnout among those 18 to 29 was just 43 percent in 2016, compared with 60 percent for the entire electorate.
And in recent midterm elections, they have voted at rates no higher than 21 percent, which is less than the 36 percent overall average.
If those turnout patterns hold true in the 2018 midterms, young millennials will cast a measly 10 percent of total ballots.
So even if the Democrats do add 25 percent of young Republicans to their ranks, it will amount only to roughly 3 percent of the electorate in 2018.
What may be more important than the level at which young Republicans are switching parties are their reasons for doing so.
The Pew Research Center report found that 84 percent of the Republicans-turned-Democrats (regardless of age) disapproved of President Trump.
Fifty-four percent strongly disapproved.
A recent poll conducted by Gallup found approval of Mr. Trump among millennials to be near 23 percent.
This would equate to a decline of 10 percentage points since Inauguration Day, slightly outpacing the nine-point decline among all Americans.
Not only is the president an unpopular figure with young Americans, but he has been also been growing more unpopular over time.
Could President Trump be turning away the young in such a way that it could cause the Republican Party long-lasting harm?
Millennials tend to have more fluid partisanship, maybe because they havent cemented political attachments yet.
But theres evidence that your early political years are your most formative: Once you settle on a party, you tend to stick with it.
Another hope for Democrats is that the young have been activated by the Trump presidency, and there is some evidence of this.
They could match the rise in turnout in the highly publicized special election in Georgias Sixth Congressional District in the spring.
Voters 18 to 29 represented 10.6 percent of the electorate in that contest, up from 6 percent in the 2014 midterms.
(The Democrat, Jon Ossoff, still lost.)
Photo

Photo

Across the Atlantic, too, there are clues that young people are more politically active, after being stunned by the Brexit vote.
Sixty-four percent of voters 18 to 24 turned out in the 2017 British elections, an increase of 16 percentage points since the most recent contest in 2015.
Whats more, that age group supported the leader of the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn, a socialist, by 20 points more than it did in 2015.
But Democrats still shouldnt count on the young to rescue them in 2018 or 2020.
The 2020 election is supposed to be the first presidential race in which millennials outnumber baby boomers.
The 2016 turnout numbers, however, offer a stark reminder: Boomers, who lean Republican, turned out to vote at a rate 23 percentage points higher than that of millennials.
And in the 2014 midterms, they outnumbered the millennial electorate by a factor of three.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Unless that changes, boomers, though they may be outnumbered by millennials, may continue to decide their future.
Mr. Sanders says that the transition to the Medicare program would achieve several goals: It would ensure universal coverage, it would improve the affordability of health care for many Americans and it would save the country money.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whether it can achieve that third goal depends a great deal on how the new Medicare-for-all system would be managed, and the Sanders plan leaves a lot of those details unclear for now.
Covering everyone would not, by itself, make the health care system in the United States as inexpensive as those of other nations with universal health care systems.
That sort of cost control would require its own set of policies and difficult choices.
In his news conference introducing the bill on Wednesday, Mr. Sanders focused his ire on insurance and drug companies, two profitable sectors of the health care system.
But insurance and drug company profits dont make up the bulk of Americas health care spending.
Single-payer advocates argue that the simplicity of a single, government payer would reduce paperwork and office staff, and that is almost certainly true.
But most spending in the health care system is on medical care from doctors and hospitals  and squeezing savings there may be harder.
To get savings from those areas might require reducing doctors pay or hospitals numbers of medical professionals.
It could require eliminating some medical treatments that are currently offered.
Even cutting spending on pharmaceuticals would have ripple effects, potentially limiting access to new or expensive treatments, or reducing investment in new technologies.
The bill specifies that Medicare would be run with an annual budget, leaving government officials to decide how to make the countrys medical spending conform to such totals every year.
It also says that the government should evaluate the effectiveness of different medical treatments.
Such a system has precedent: Several countries, including Canada and Britain, establish health care budgets that must be met and assess the value of medical services to determine what should be covered.
But such budgets and limits have been politically toxic in the United States, where politicians have been reluctant to say that the government should restrict care.
The Affordable Care Act established a theoretical limit on spending per Medicare beneficiary, establishing a board that would reduce costs if a cap were met.
But that board, assailed as a death panel, has never been called upon to make such choices, for no members have ever been nominated to it.
Mr. Sanders sells the bill as a broad expansion of care, by ensuring that all Americans have similar, broad benefits and little financial exposure to medical bills.
At Wednesdays event, he stood flanked by several prominent Democratic co-sponsors and medical providers who offered testimonials about how a Medicare-for-all plan would improve access to needed health care.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The plan increases the generosity of Medicare substantially.
It adds coverage for dentistry, optometry and audiology care, not part of the traditional program.
It also eliminates premiums, deductibles and most co-payments for medical care, which are significant costs for many people.
The size of the Medicare budget is also unspecified.
In part, thats because the Sanders bill does not establish a funding mechanism for its planned overhauls.
In a separate white paper, Mr. Sanderss office spells out some possible revenue sources, including increases to payroll taxes, and to high-end income taxes and some corporate taxes.
But those funding streams, politically risky in their own right, would need to be debated and measured before the realistic scale of the Medicare-for-all budget would be clear.
This different Medicare would face the push and pull of expanded reach and fixed means: one that would tend to increase the cost to the government for care, and one devised to reduce it.
Just what sort of Medicare program results would depend on the government that runs it.
Theres an argument to be made that we should cut back on his activities or make him go to bed earlier so that he gets more sleep.
Teens arent wired for that, though.
They want to go to bed later and sleep later.
Its not the activities that prevent them from getting enough sleep  its the school start times that require them to wake up so early.
More than 90 percent of high schools and more than 80 percent of middle schools start before 8:30 a.m.
Some argue that delaying school start times would just cause teenagers to stay up later.
Research doesnt support that idea.
A systematic review published a year ago examined how school start delays affect students sleep and other outcomes.
Six studies, two of which were randomized controlled trials, showed that delaying the start of school from 25 to 60 minutes corresponded with increased sleep time of 25 to 77 minutes per week night.
In other words, when students were allowed to sleep later in the morning, they still went to bed at the same time, and got more sleep.
Photo

There are costs to pushing back the start times of schools, of course.
Our local school system, like many others, uses the same buses for elementary, middle and high school.
Not wanting to start elementary school too early, it starts high school earlier to save money on transportation.
Other costs to delaying start times come after school, when later school end times result in later after-school activities.
These can interfere with parents work schedules and run into evening hours, when it gets dark and additional lighting might be necessary.
A Brookings Institution policy brief investigated the trade-offs between costs and benefits of pushing back the start times of high school in 2011.
It estimated that increased transportation costs would most likely be about $150 per student per year.
But more sleep has been shown to lead to higher academic achievement.
They found that the added academic benefit of later start times would be equivalent to about two additional months of schooling, which they calculated would add about $17,500 to a students earnings over the course of a lifetime.
Thus, the benefits outweighed the costs.
This was a reasonably simple analysis, though, and it did not persuade many schools to change.
A recent analysis by the RAND Corporation goes much further.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Marco Hafner, Martin Stepanek and Wendy Troxel conducted analyses to determine the economic implication of a universal shift of middle and high school start times to 8:30 a.m. at the earliest.
This study was stronger than the Brookings one in a number of ways.
It examined each state individually, because moving to 8:30 would be a bigger change for some than for others.
It also looked at changes year by year to see how costs and benefits accrued over time.
It examined downstream effects, like car accidents, which can affect lifetime productivity.
And it considered multiplier effects, as changes to the lives of individual students might affect others over time.
They found that delaying school start times to 8:30 or later would contribute $83 billion to the economy within a decade.
The gains were seen through decreased car crash mortality and increased student lifetime earnings.
Since it would take at least a year for any students affected by changes in start times to enter the labor market, there would be no gains in the first year.
Costs, however, would accrue immediately.
These included about $150 per student per year in transportation costs and $110,000 per school costs in upfront infrastructure upgrades.
Even so, by the second year, the benefits outweighed the costs.
By 10 years, the benefits were almost double the costs; by 15 years, they were almost triple.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wed be remiss if we didnt acknowledge other potential costs not included in this calculation, including parental difficulty in adapting to later school start times.
But even in a model where the per-student, per-year cost was increased to $500, which would compensate most parents for delays, and where the upfront per school cost was increased to $330,000, the economic benefits to society would still outweigh the costs in the long run.
Further, its important to understand that these benefits may actually be underestimates.
The researchers were careful to model only outcomes for which they had empirical data from sleep duration, such as car crashes and academic performance.
They didnt model other real, but quantifiably unknown, benefits, like improvements in rates of depression, suicide and obesity, or the overall effects on health.
Some schools are beginning to take this seriously, but not enough.
When it comes to start times, the growing evidence shows that forcing adolescents to get up so early isnt just a bad health decision; its a bad economic one, too.
But this is a weak foundation on which to base a conclusion that Medicaid is driving the opioid epidemic.
Responding to these facts when they were first noted, a Department of Health and Human Services statement said, Correlation does not necessarily prove causation, and additional research is required before any conclusions can be made.
In a post on the Health Affairs blog, Andrew Goodman-Bacon, an economist at Vanderbilt, and Emma Sandoe, a Ph.D. student in health policy and political analysis at Harvard, recommend that, to understand the opioid epidemic and Medicaids role better, we should look much further back than 2013.
For example, OxyContin prescriptions for noncancer pain grew by a factor of almost 10 between 1997 and 2002, long before the A.C.A.
was signed into law.
Drug-related mortality rates doubled between 1999 and 2013, the year before most states expanded Medicaid.
Further, while it is true that drug-related deaths have grown more rapidly in expansion states than in other states, that more rapid growth started in 2010, before the A.C.A.
expansion.
This suggests that causes other than Medicaid are more likely.
Given the timing of these findings, there is little evidence to support the claim that Medicaid expansion caused the increase in opioid-related deaths, Ms. Sandoe said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Yes, Medicaid could still be playing a role, but as with all correlations, its important to consider both directions of causality.
Its possible that states experiencing larger growth in drug deaths might have been more eager to expand Medicaid programs.
After all, Medicaid also provides financial support for drug abuse treatment.
One study found that prescriptions for medications that treat opioid addiction increased by 43 percent in Medicaid expansion states, relative to states that did not expand their programs.
When Gov.
John Kasich, a Republican, talks about why hes happy that Ohio expanded the Medicaid program, he often cites the opioid crisis in his state.
Craig Garthwaite, a Republican labor economist of Northwestern Universitys Kellogg School of Management, said: Its not that there isnt a single case of an individual insured by Medicaid developing an opioid habit or illicitly obtaining drugs.
But the evidence to date doesnt suggest that this is the net effect.
Another way to test the Medicaid-opioid connection is to examine a dose response.
States with higher levels of uninsurance saw greater coverage gains through Medicaid.
If more Medicaid causes more opioid death, then states that added more Medicaid beneficiaries should see greater increases than states with smaller coverage expansions.
But Mr. Goodman-Bacon and Ms. Sandoe show that the opposite holds.
Counties in states with historically higher levels of uninsurance (and therefore greater subsequent growth in Medicaid) had lower growth in drug-related death rates from 2010 to 2015.
This relationship holds within expansion and nonexpansion states separately.
Or course, drug-related deaths include those from prescription opioids as well as those from black-market drugs (like heroin and fentanyl).
Medicaid directly enhances access only to the former.
This makes it hard to identify the role of Medicaid in the opioid crisis definitively, which is all the more reason to be cautious about suggesting the program is fueling it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The really sad thing here is that these numerical arguments have the veneer of seriousness, and as a result, they can drive really bad policy, Mr. Garthwaite said.
Providing health care through insurance means providing access to both its benefits and harms.
No one seems concerned that the increased access to health care that private insurance provides might lead more people to take opioids  only that Medicaid could.
Its also interesting to note that no one makes assertions that increased coverage, even increased Medicaid coverage, probably leads to more deaths by medical errors.
We should not look at harms in isolation.
Even if Medicaid does enhance access to prescription opioids, thereby playing a role in their misuse, that is far from the only thing the program does.
Medicaid provides many other benefits, about which weve written, including increased access to substance use disorder treatment.
To use a theoretical Medicaid-opioid connection (for which the evidence is weak anyway) to justify scaling back Medicaid ignores the larger picture  that it is a crucial aspect of our safety net, providing access to health care and financial protection that many low-income Americans could not otherwise obtain.
If you see more and more members of Congress saying, I support single-payer, it is because now they know it is not as politically risky as it used to be, Mr. Sanders said in an interview.
Youre not being an outcast.
Youre not being a fringe member of Congress.
If polling shows that a strong majority of Democrats support single-payer, what is the problem with coming on board?
But the road to single payer may be treacherous.
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has described the Affordable Care Act as part of a slippery slope to government-run health care.
Anthony Wright, the executive director of Health Access California, a consumer advocacy group that favors single-payer, says the journey to such a system is instead more like climbing a mountain.
We may decide the view is fine here, he said.
And it will be tough to get to the summit.
The talking points about single-payer are clear and appealing to many progressives.
They promise a system that covers everyone and is cheaper, simpler and less profit-oriented.
But the details matter.
While it is true, as advocates often mention, that much of the world has some form of universal health care, there is wide variation in how those systems work.
Nearly any single-payer plan would require substantial disruptions in the current health care system, upending the insurance arrangements of the 156 million Americans who get their coverage from work, changing the way doctors, hospitals and drug companies are paid, and shifting more health care spending onto the government ledger.
Such a proposal would reshuffle the winners and losers in our current system.
Photo

Democrats are overwhelmingly for something that sounds like an all-government or significantly government-run system, said Robert Blendon, a health policy professor at Harvard who studies public opinion.
At this stage, most people that are saying that dont know what the it is.
The Republican slogan repeal and replace had some popularity, too, particularly with the Republican base.
The United States health care system is expensive and full of dysfunctions, making it susceptible to anti-establishment critiques.
But when Republicans took control of the government this year, they found themselves unable to coalesce around a single health care plan.
Various options, which government analysts said would have resulted in at least 20 million fewer Americans with health insurance, were deeply unpopular with the public.
Repeal and replace went from a very popular idea, getting rid of Obamacare, to a real proposal with winners and losers and trade-offs, said Drew Altman, the president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health policy research group.
Mr. Altman said that Democrats were benefiting from that shift now, as the defenders of the status quo.
A splashy new health care proposal, with its own winners and losers and trade-offs, could reverse that political momentum, he said.
If they immediately switch the focus to their own sweeping health care plan, they could lose that opportunity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Still, the recent momentum suggests that single-payer may become a standard position for a certain type of liberal candidate.
Joe Trippi, a Democratic campaign strategist, compared the issue to earlier opposition to the Iraq war.
Its not proven yet that you could take the country there, but I think Democrats would respond more to a nominee who wants to take the country there than one who is half-loafing it, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For now, the top Democrats in Congress have yet to embrace a single-payer bill.
Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, has emphasized the need to shore up the Affordable Care Act.
Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader, said that single-payer was one of many options under study.
Their hesitance may reflect the challenging politics of the issue, despite the recent increase in support.
The polls suggest that many voters may be more taken with the single-payer slogan than with the nuts and bolts.
A recent survey by Kaiser found that initial support of 55 percent for single-payer dropped by about a third when supporters were told of criticisms that it might increase their taxes, give the government too much control over health care or eliminate the Affordable Care Act.
Each of those critiques would probably be made prominently by Republican opponents of the policy.
Leaders of liberal states saw support for the idea erode as they confronted those political realities.
In Vermont, the framework of a single-payer system passed the state legislature in 2011, only to be abandoned after experts estimated the system would require the state to double its tax revenue.
A single-payer referendum in Colorado was voted down last year, 79 percent to 21 percent.
And a recent California single-payer bill was shelved after steep cost projections, though a commission is continuing to explore options.
Those results have some advocates of universal coverage worried that a push for single-payer could undermine efforts to make health coverage more expansive through smaller steps.
Incrementalism is not a four-letter word, said Ron Pollack, the chairman emeritus of Families USA, a group that pushed hard for the Affordable Care Act, who outlined his views in a recent essay on Vox.com.
Single-payer advocates say that support will build as lawmakers engage in more serious discussion and policy making.
Mr. Sanderss bill is expected to be more comprehensive than past proposals.
This thing is getting really serious, said Mr. Conyers, who has watched support for his bill build over time.
People in the Senate are saying thoughtful things and are looking at it from more than a philosophical or theoretical point of view  theyre looking at how we get it right here in America as soon as possible.
But some advocates who have worked in the trenches are less sanguine.
Andy Slavitt, who ran the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the Obama administration, has thrown himself into health care advocacy since the election.
But he worries that the quick shift among his peers on single-payer could backfire.
That could be the Democrats version of the thing that they promised to do for seven years and couldnt do, he said.
Thats where prescription drug monitoring programs come in.
They collect data from pharmacies to track what prescriptions for controlled substances patients have filled.
The databases can be used to assess whether patients are getting more opioids than they can safely use.
In addition, they can be used to tell if patients are getting other drugs, like a benzodiazepine, that are dangerous to use in combination with an opioid.
According to research summarized by the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics at the University of Pennsylvania, prescription drug monitoring programs can help reduce the amount or strength of opioids prescribed and dispensed.
When physicians or dentists check the database and see a worrisome pattern of dispensed opioids, they can deny or change a prescription, screen for an opioid or other substance use disorder, and even counsel the patient to seek other forms of pain management or addiction treatment, if warranted.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dr. Zachary Meisel, an author of the Leonard Davis review, uses a drug database when he practices in the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania emergency department.
In related work, he found that the databases often prompt conversations about opioids between provider and patient.
In other cases, he said, prescription drug monitoring programs help dispel a suspicion that a patient is seeking additional opioids.
Monitoring programs are mitigating the opioid epidemic.
One study, published in Health Affairs, found theyre associated with a decline in the chance a patient with pain will receive a Schedule II opioid prescription, to 3.7 percent from 5.5 percent.
The study was based on a sample of 26,275 doctors office visits in the 24 states that started drug monitoring operations during 2001-2010.
The results of another study  of Medicare beneficiaries over 2007-12 in 10 states  suggest that such programs are associated with reductions in the strength of opioid medications dispensed and the duration of opioid prescriptions.
Deaths related to oxycodone use fell 25 percent in 2012, after Florida created a monitoring program.
Photo

But other work shows that having access to a prescription drug monitoring program is not enough.
States can make the programs much more effective by mandating prescribers to engage with it.
Twenty-five states require prescribers  physicians and dentists  to register with their state database.
This forces prescribers to push through the first barrier to use  just signing up  and seems to make a difference.
One study, published this year in Health Affairs, found that states that required prescriber registration saw a 10-percentage-point reduction in use of Schedule II opioids among Medicaid enrollees, relative to states that did not require registration.
Most, but not all, states with mandatory registration also require prescribers to consult their state databases before prescribing an opioid.
A study published in Health Services Research this year found that states requiring this experienced a reduction in the duration of opioid prescriptions in the Medicare population.
Another study, also of the Medicare population, found that mandatory use was associated with fewer patients getting opioids from multiple doctors  so-called doctor shopping  and with patients holding a smaller supply of the drugs.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Studies expanding beyond the Medicare population to include younger Americans find that use mandates reduce admissions to treatment facilities for opioid use disorder.
A New York study of prescriptions by dentists in an urgent care center found that when its mandatory program went into effect, opioid pills prescribed went down 78 percent.
When states roll out monitoring programs, opioid-related overdose deaths fall, according to one study.
And they decline more in states that mandate their use.
Though some studies have not found that such programs reduce opioid use or opioid-related mortality, it could be because they do not distinguish between programs with such mandates and those without.
Nevertheless, prescription drug monitoring programs have limitations.
They can track only dispensed drugs, not black-market drugs (like heroin and fentanyl).
And though they can be used to tell how many and what kinds of opioids are dispensed, they cant tell who takes them or if theyre diverted to the black market.
The programs could also be more effective if more prescribers used them.
One study found that only about half of primary care physicians use the database.
Among those who use them, many do not do so routinely.
The data monitoring programs could be more useful if integrated with other health data and shared across states, as recommended by the opioid commission.
Doing so could make it easier to combine prescription data with other data that could indicate problems  like a history of mental health or substance use disorders.
These data, together, can help predict who is most likely to suffer adverse outcomes from prescribed opioids.
This is an approach being adopted by the Department of Veterans Affairs, with an evaluation underway.
[Disclosure: I am involved in that evaluation.]
Prescription drug monitoring programs are not the only tool to combat the opioid crisis.
Other state laws that tighten regulations of pain clinics and combat doctor shopping can help, too, reducing overdose deaths and admissions to treatment facilities.
Wider distribution of naloxone, which can reverse an opioid overdose, and public education on its delivery can also help, as can greater access to safe means of disposing of unused pills.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Prescription drug monitoring programs have shown promise, but so long as relatively inexpensive heroin and fentanyl are available on the street, they will never be a full solution on their own.
