NEW YORK (Reuters) - President Donald Trump and the sports world engaged in an intensifying spat on Saturday after he called for National Football League owners to fire players who protest during the U.S. national anthem and disinvited a National Basketball Association star from a White House visit.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said on Saturday that Trumps statements revealed unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL and its players.
Goodells statement was released a day after Trump suggested any protesting football player was a son of a bitch and should lose his job.
Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now...
He is fired, Trump said on Friday at a rally for Alabama Senate Republican candidate Luther Strange.
Later on Saturday, Trump said in Twitter messages, that if NFL players wanted the privilege of high salaries they should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOURE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick stirred a polarizing national debate in 2016 after refusing to stand during pre-game renditions of the Star Spangled Banner to protest police violence against African-Americans.
Several players have made similar gestures of protest before games since Kaepernick initiated his protest.
As commissioner, Goodell reports to NFL owners, some of whom have supported Trump in the past.
New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, a major Trump presidential campaign donor, was confirmed by the Senate last month as Trumps pick to serve as U.S. ambassador to Britain.
The union representing professional football players also rejected Trumps comments, saying it would defend their right to freedom of expression.
This union will never back down when it comes to protecting the constitutional rights of our players as citizens, tweeted DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the National Football League Players Association, referring to the First Amendments guarantee of the right to free speech.
FILE PHOTO: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally for Senator Luther Strange in Huntsville, Alabama, U.S. September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

The White House could not be reached immediately to comment on the statements by Goodell or the union.
NBA players also struck back against comments by the president on Saturday.
Protesting football players were not the only professional athletes targeted by Trump in recent days.
Slideshow (3 Images)

In an early morning Twitter message on Saturday, the president rescinded a White House invitation to basketball star Stephen Curry, who had said he would vote against the planned visit by the NBA champion Golden State Warriors.
Trump said Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Trump tweeted.
The Golden State Warriors said in a statement that the team had intended to meet to discuss the potential visit at the first opportunity on Saturday morning.
We accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited, the team said.
LeBron James came to Currys defense, disputing Trumps assertion that visiting the White House was an honor.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
James, a prominent supporter of Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential elections, said on Twitter.
Reporting by Joel Schectman and Barbara Goldberg; Editing by Marguerita Choy and Mary Milliken
Tennis - Laver Cup - 2nd Day - Prague, Czech Republic - September 23, 2017 - Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer of team Europe in action against Jack Sock and Sam Querrey of team World.
REUTERS/David W Cerny

PRAGUE (Reuters) - Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal took care of business in their singles matches before teaming up in an eagerly anticipated doubles pairing to extend Europes lead over players from the rest of the world in the inaugural Laver Cup on Saturday.
The new team tennis event, kicking off in Prague and moving to the United States next year, was a first chance for the worlds top two players to play competitively side by side.
Putting aside a rivalry rekindled this season after Spaniard Nadal and Swiss Federer swept all four grand slams, the pair outlasted and outclassed Americans Sam Querrey and Jack Sock to win 6-4 1-6 1-0(10-5) in the weekends headline match.
The doubles victory put Team Europe up 9-3 going into the final day when the four matches are each worth three points.
We will always forever be rivals as long as we are active.
And after this we will be rivals again, said Federer, ranked number two in the world and holder of 19 career grand slam titles to top-ranked Nadals 16.
But this was something very special.
Knowing you can trust him in the big moments, seeing his decision-making, seeing his thought process, it was very interesting.
It was definitely a different day to other days in my life, he added.
The Laver Cup, named after Australian tennis hero Rod Laver, is attempting to add new excitement to the sport in an already crowded calendar and was the brainchild of Federer and his sports management company Team8.
The Europeans are the clear favorites with five of the worlds top seven players and have won five of the six singles matches in the first two days.
In Saturdays first match, Federer cruised through 6-4 6-2 against world number 16 Querrey.
Tennis - Laver Cup - 2nd Day - Prague, Czech Republic - September 23, 2017 - Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer of team Europe react during the match.
REUTERS/David W Cerny

Nadal then glided through his first set before the hard-hitting Sock fought back to force a third set, which under the events rules is a rapid-fire, 10-point tiebreak.
Sock, who had teamed up with Australian Nick Kyrgios on Friday to take down Nadal and Czech Tomas Berdych to get Team Worlds only point on the opening day, again had to claw his way out of a hole.
But Nadal kept his nerve and ended the match with a winner at the net on the sleek, black hardcourt at O2 Arena to win 6-3 3-6 1-0(11-9).
Slideshow (8 Images)

In the evening session, Kyrgios defeated Berdych, taking late control to win 4-6 7-6(4) 1-0(10-6).
Nadal and Federer capped the evening with a thrilling win over Querrey and Sock, even after an early miscue almost caused Nadal to hit his partner as they both went for an overhead smash.
We played with too much energy, so went for everything, Nadal said of the near-miss.
After Federer served to take the first set, the American pair flew through the second 6-1 with some big serves.
Two crushing winners at the net by Nadal gave him and Federer the momentum to take them easily through the tiebreak.
Despite questions over competitiveness most matches have been tight and players have shown their approval.
The Team World bench has stood out with players joking around, choreographing their celebrations after points and leading the crowd in the Mexican Wave.
Editing by Clare Fallon
U.S. first lady Melania Trump meets with Team USA prior to attending the opening ceremony of the Invictus Games in Toronto, Canada September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

TORONTO (Reuters) - U.S. first lady Melania Trump, on her first solo international trip, on Saturday invited Britains Prince Harry to visit the White House.
Trump, 47, who was in Toronto for the opening ceremony of the Invictus Games for wounded soldiers, wished the U.S. team luck in a brief speech.
On behalf of my husband and our entire country, I want to thank you and your families for all you have sacrificed to keep us safe, Trump said.
I also want to wish you good luck but I know you wont need it, she added.
Take that fighting spirit that I know you have and bring home the gold.
Harry, 33, who is fifth in line to the British throne, set up the Invictus Games three years ago.
More than 550 injured and wounded servicemen and women from 17 allied nations are taking part in 12 adaptive sports in the games, which end on Sept. 30.
The meeting between Trump and the British prince lasted about 20 minutes, according to Trumps spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham.
They will each meet separately with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and attend the opening ceremony of the games on Saturday evening.
Reporting by Nichola Saminather; Editing by James Dalgleish
Gold medallist Turkey's Asli Cakir Alptekin smiles during the women's 1500m victory ceremony at the London 2012 Olympic Games at the Olympic Stadium August 11, 2012.
REUTERS/Eddie Keogh

ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Asli Cakir Alptekin, who won Olympic gold at London 2012 before being stripped of the title, has been banned for life by the Turkish Athletics Federation for a third doping offense, state-run Anadolu news agency have reported.
Alptekin won the 1500 meters title in London, a race where six of the first nine finishers have served drugs bans before or since, leading some to refer to it as the dirtiest race in history.
The 32-year-old was stripped of her 2012 Olympic and European titles in 2015 and suspended for eight years by the Turkish Athletics Federation.
She returned to the track this year, however, after the ban was halved and its start date backdated to 2013.
She finished 11th in the European Champion Clubs Cup Cross Country event in Portugal in February.
Asli Cakir, who wrote history by winning a gold medal in the 2012 London Olympics, has received her third punishment for doping, Anadolu said on Friday.
We will never ever give ground to those who become involved in doping.
Everyone should know this, Turkish Athletics Federation Chairman Fatih Cintimar told Anadolu.
The IAAF, athletics governing body, have not responded to a Reuters request to confirm the suspension.
Reporting by Daren Butler; Writing by Pete Hall; Editing by Toby Davis
FILE PHOTO - Former NFL player Aaron Hernandez looks at the gallery during the murder trial at the Bristol County Superior Court in Fall River, Massachusetts, March 18, 2015.
REUTERS/Dominick Reuter/File Photo

BOSTON (Reuters) - The National Football League on Friday vowed to vigorously fight a lawsuit filed on behalf of former New England Patriots star Aaron Hernandezs family that claimed his severe chronic traumatic encephalopathy led to his suicide.
Hernandez, 27, hung himself in April in a Massachusetts jail where he was serving a life sentence for the 2013 murder of an acquaintance.
His death stunned his friends and fans, coming just five days after he was acquitted of a separate 2012 double homicide.
The lawyer who secured his that acquittal, Jose Baez, on Thursday sued the league on behalf of Hernandezs 4-year-old daughter and fiancee, Shayanna Jenkins, saying a severe case of the brain disease CTE that Hernandez developed as a player contributed to his death.
The suit seeks $20 million.
Researchers on CTE at Boston University diagnosed the brain condition after Hernandezs death based on an autopsy.
CTE, which currently can be diagnosed only in a dead persons brain tissue, is linked to repeated head trauma and can lead to aggression and dementia.
It has been found in athletes including Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau and Pro Bowl safety Dave Duerson, both of whom committed suicide.
We intend to contest the claim vigorously, NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart told reporters on a conference call.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe is misguided.
His personal story is complex and doesnt lend itself to simple answers.
Hernandezs two murder trials painted a picture of a young man who witnesses said regularly used illegal drugs and frequently worried about being challenged and disrespected by strangers.
He was found guilty in 2015 of murdering acquaintance Odin Lloyd in an industrial park near his home.
Earlier this year he was found not guilty of fatally shooting two men outside a Boston nightclub in 2012.
The prior conviction on Lloyds killing was vacated by a judge following Hernandezs death due to a quirk in Massachusetts law that allows such a move if a defendant has not exhausted all possible avenues of appeal.
Prosecutors have challenged that judges decision.
Lockhart said the league changed more than 50 rules intended to reduce the risk of CTE in football.
Those include more sideline tests of players and banning the most dangerous head-to-head hits.
Hernandez had a $41 million contract with the Patriots when he was arrested in June 2013 and charged with Lloyds murder.
Reporting by Scott Malone; Editing by Cynthia Osterman
FILE PHOTO - President of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee Denis Masseglia holds the logo as he attends the presentation of the Paris candidacy for the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris, France, February 17, 2016.
REUTERS/Benoit Tessier

(Reuters) - French Olympic Committee President Denis Masseglia cannot imagine a situation that will lead to the country boycotting next years Winter Olympics in South Korea amid growing concerns over tensions in North Korea.
France Sports Minister Laura Flessel said on Thursday that if the crisis deepened and our security cannot be assured, the French Olympics team will stay at home, before adding were not there yet.
If the Games take place, I cannot imagine that France would not be there, Masseglia told Reuters by telephone on Saturday.
If the Games take place it means that the IOC (International Olympic Committee) believes security conditions are met.
North Korea leader Kim Jong Un said on Friday the North would consider the highest level of hard-line countermeasures in history against the United States in response to President Donald Trumps threat to destroy the North.
The Games, scheduled for Feb. 9-25 next year in Pyeongchang, will take place just 80 km (50 miles) from the demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, the worlds most-heavily armed border.
The two countries remain technically at war after their 1950-53 conflict ended with a truce and not a peace treaty.
Masseglia, however, has no doubt that the IOC will provide a safe Games.
Its the biggest sport organisation in the world, monitoring the biggest sport event in the world, he added, before turning his attention to the 2024 Summer Olympics being hosted by France.
If the IOC says that the Games are being held, we dont have to doubt them.
And lets remember we are in a position where we have to deliver the 2024 Games.
Masseglia added that in a worst case scenario, an Olympic truce would certainly prevail.
Anyway, if there is a conflict, obviously we wont be thinking about the Games, he said.
South Korea President Moon Jae-in said on Wednesday the country was pushing to ensure security at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.
In a meeting with International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach, Moon said South Korea was well aware of the concerns.
Reporting by Julien Pretot; Editing by John O'Brien
Sep 23, 2017; Atlanta, GA, USA; Paul Casey plays his shot from the second tee plays his shot from the second tee during the third round of the Tour Championship golf tournament at East Lake Golf Club.
Mandatory Credit: John David Mercer-USA TODAY Sports

(Reuters) - Englands Paul Casey held a one-stroke lead over Americans Kevin Kisner and Brooks Koepka midway through the third round of the Tour Championship at East Lake in Atlanta on Saturday.
Casey, in the chase for the FedExCup and its $10 million bonus, started impressively with three birdies and an eagle in his first seven holes before consecutive bogeys left him at 10-under.
The eagle came at the par-5 sixth hole where Casey sank a 11-foot putt.
Kisner and Koepka were 9-under through 13 holes with Australian Jason Day among those still on the course at 8-under

Webb Simpson, joint overnight leader with Casey and Justin Thomas, stood at 7-under through 10 holes while Thomas was at 6-under through nine after three bogeys.
Sundays winner of the season-long FedExCup standings, which will be determined by the outcome of the Tour Championship, will receive a $10 million bonus.
Americans Jordan Spieth and Thomas were 1-2 in the standings through Fridays play.
Reporting by Gene Cherry in Raleigh, North Carolina,; Editing by Neville Dalton
TOKYO (Reuters) - Defending champion Caroline Wozniacki crushed new world number one Garbine Muguruza 6-2 6-0 on Saturday to advance to the final of the Pan Pacific Open as the Dane remained on course for a third title at the Tokyo tournament.
The third seed rallied from a set down to win her previous two matches but the 27-year-old wasted no time seizing control of her semi-final against Wimbledon champion Muguruza.
The Dane broke the top seeded Spaniards opening service game and repeated the feat twice more to cruise through the first set.
A stunned Muguruza, who had not lost a set in the previous rounds, was unable to gain any momentum and was shut out for the remainder of a match that was wrapped up in exactly one hour.
I thought I played a good match today and stayed aggressive and served well, Wozniacki told reporters, noting that playing tough opponents in her previous matches had helped toughen her up.
They played very aggressive and went for their chance.
So it was very difficult and today I just managed to start strong, added Wozniacki, who will contest her seventh final of the season after losing her previous six.
Muguruza, who was chasing her first title since being crowned world number one this month, said she was very disappointed but would not dwell on the loss and instead focus on upcoming tournaments.
Today maybe my best tennis wasnt there.
She played good and Im not going to think a lot about this, the 23-year-old said.
Thats it.
In Sundays final, Wozniacki will face Russias Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, who earlier withstood a furious rally to beat Angelique Kerber 6-0 6-7(4) 6-4 to advance.
The match appeared headed for a blowout after 26-year-old Pavlyuchenkova, seeking her third title this year, took the first eight games against the former world number one.
However, Kerber dug in and broke Pavlyuchenkovas serve in the third game of the second set before the 29-year-old German forced a tiebreaker and stole the second set.
A rattled Pavlyuchenkova dropped the first three games of the final set but regained her composure to win six of the final seven and notch the victory.
It was really a tough match today, another three setter, Pavlyuchenkova said.
Angelique is a former number one so you never expect an easy match with her.
Shes such a great fighter.
Kerber said she struggled to find her feet at the start of the match.
In the first set I was completely not in my rhythm, not in my game, and she started very well, she said.
I tried to turn it around and I won the second set.
So in the end, it was still a good match.
Wozniacki leads Pavlyuchenkova 5-1 in their head-to-head meetings, although the pair have not faced each other since 2012.
Reporting by Chris Gallagher; Editing by Peter Rutherford/John O'Brien
MADRID (Reuters) - Valentino Rossi made a remarkable comeback to qualify third for the Aragon MotoGP on Saturday just three weeks after suffering a broken leg, with team mate Maverick Vinales taking pole ahead of Jorge Lorenzo.
The 38-year-old Italian showed no signs of the injury that he suffered while riding an off-road enduro bike.
Vinales finished quickest in the final free practice session and carried that form through to qualifying, sealing pole position ahead of fellow Spaniard Lorenzo of Ducati with team mate Rossi also on the front row for Sundays race.
Hondas British rider Cal Crutchlow starts fourth, while Championship leader Marc Marquez is fifth after falling two minutes from the end.
Reporting by Joseph Cassinelli; Editing by Toby Davis
2016 Rio Olympics - Basketball - Final - Men's Gold Medal Game Serbia v USA - Carioca Arena 1 - Rio de Janeiro, Brazil - 21/8/2016.
Head coach Mike Krzyzewski (USA) of the USA congratulates Carmelo Anthony (USA) of the USA during the latter part of the game.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton

(The Sports Xchange) - The New York Knicks agreed to trade 10-time All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony to the Oklahoma City Thunder, according to multiple reports on Saturday.
The Thunder will send center Enes Kanter, forward Doug McDermott and a 2018 second-round pick via the Chicago Bulls to the Knicks, league sources told ESPNs Adrian Wojnarowski.
The 33-year-old Anthony will waive his no-trade clause and his $8.1 trade kicker to accommodate the deal, according to ESPN.
A trade call is scheduled for Monday to finalize the deal with the league office, sources told The Vertical.
Anthony previously told the Knicks he would only waive his no-trade clause for the Thunder, Houston Rockets and Cleveland Cavaliers.
Anthony joins MVP Russell Westbrook and newly acquired All-Star forward Paul George in the reshaped Western Conference contender.
Both players reportedly played a significant role in recruiting Anthony to waive his no-trade clause.
The Thunder are making a major commitment with the deal, incurring $27 million in luxury tax for the 2017-18 season.
Anthony has two years and $54 million left on his contract, including a player option for $27.9 million on the 2018-19 season.
Talks between Thunder general manager Sam Presti and Knicks GM Scott Perry intensified in 24 hours before Saturdays agreement, league sources told ESPN.
Anthony could take part in the start of Thunder training camp on Tuesday in Oklahoma City.
The Knicks said on Friday that Anthony would return to the team for the start of training camp, but an increased level of urgency began over the weekend, The Vertical reported.
Anthony had a no-trade clause as part of the maximum contract he signed in 2014 and declined a trade from the Knicks throughout the turmoil of Phil Jacksons tenure as president of basketball operations.
Anthony averaged 22.4 points on 43.3 percent shooting along with 5.9 rebounds and 2.9 assists in 74 games with the Knicks last season, his seventh in New York and 14th in the NBA.
Editing by Gene Cherry
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

France has become the first nation participating in the 2018 Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, to express doubts about going, given the ongoing tensions with North Korea, Reuters reported.
If the nuclear crisis deepens and "our security cannot be assured, the French Olympics team will stay at home," French Sports Minister Laura Flessel said Thursday on French radio.
But "we're not there yet," she added.
The games are being held in February just 50 miles from the heavily armed demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, currently trading threats  also involving the United States  after the north's recent nuclear and missile tests.
"Safety and security is one of the most important aspects of Games preparations," a spokesman for the organizing committee told Reuters in a statement.
Here's the Olympic Torch Relay Route to Pyeongchang
The question of the day at New York Giants practice Saturday remained: Will Odell Beckham, Jr. play Monday night against the Detroit Lions?
The three-time Pro Bowl wide receiver is hobbled by a high ankle sprain suffered in the second preseason game against the Cleveland Browns.
He missed last Sunday's 19-3 loss to the Dallas Cowboys and was questionable on the team's injury report Saturday.
His participation in the light practice session was once again limited, like it was all week.
Coach Ben McAdoo addressed the situation before Saturday's workout, but did not shed any light whether the star pass catcher would be able to play.
"We'll see how it goes," McAdoo said.
"We'll get in there and do a little bit of work (Saturday).
Then tomorrow, we'll go in and have our launch day.
We'll take a look at him tomorrow and see how it goes.
"It's a medical decision.
We're just seeing his level of confidence and where he is sticking his foot in the ground.
Communication is a two-way street.
It's visual and verbal."
McAdoo was asked if he would consider using Beckham if he wasn't 100 percent physically.
"That's tough to say," McAdoo said.
"The biggest thing is you don't want to put a player out there that is going to do any harm to himself or injure himself any more than he is.
It is an injury.
It's a tough injury.
He's fighting through it and doing everything he can to get back, but we're going to be smart with him.
We're going to do what's best for the player."
Earlier in the week, Beckham called his injury a "six-to-eight week thing."
The injury took place four weeks ago.
"As bad as I wanted to play (last Sunday night in Dallas), it just wasn't there," Beckham said after practice Thursday.
"As much as I was trying my hardest to get out there, it just wasn't enough time.
If it's hurting, the doctors are going to hold you.
I want to play that bad.
I'm working my best to get to 100 (percent), so once I do get there, there won't be any more problems.
At the moment, we just don't know.
We're just kind of day to day.
It's getting better, so we're going in the right direction."
When asked Thursday if he could play Monday night, Beckham replied, "I can't tell you that right now, but I'm trying my hardest, that's for sure.
I'm looking forward to it.
Prime-time game on Monday night, you want to be in it."
Beckham also said he doesn't want to reinjure the ankle and have a setback.
"You can set yourself back for another five to six weeks," Beckham said.
"I don't have that luxury right now.
So it's a matter of getting to a point where you know you're confident, where you can go and you don't have to worry about it.
Until that moment comes, we're being smart with it and staying on top of it."
Starting cornerback Janoris Jenkins, who practiced Saturday after dealing with hand and ankle injuries, knows how important Beckham is to the Giants' fortunes.
"I think it gives them (the Lions) a sign of relief," Jenkins said.
"At the end of the day, it's about being healthy when you're on the field.
Until then, we're just going to play great defense.
Hopefully the offense will come along with or without Odell.
We're going to control what we can control."
Defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul agreed that the Giants are a different team with Beckham.
"Odell is a special person," Pierre-Paul said.
"He's the best wide receiver in the league.
At the same time, we have to do what we have to do if he can't go.
If Odell can't go, he can't go.
Only Odell knows if he can go.
I feel like anybody with a special talent like that lifts up the whole team.
You can't look towards one guy to lift up a team.
We can't depend on one guy, otherwise you'll never find yourself in the same place.
Odell is a special kind of player and hopefully he is able to go, but if he's not, the next guy has to step up.
That's basically what it is."
Meanwhile, starting middle linebacker B.J.
Goodson didn't practice.
The second-year pro, who made 18 tackles in the loss to Dallas, left Friday's practice with a lower leg injury.
Goodson is questionable along with Beckham and reserve offensive lineman D.J.
Fluker (shin).
The listing of the Goodson injury seemed to come out of nowhere Saturday morning.
"It's something that has been bothering him over the last couple of days," McAdoo said.
"The injury happened (Friday).
It got sore as practice went on, so we pulled him out."
Linebacker Keenan Robinson was ruled out of Monday's game as he goes through the concussion protocol.
Starting right tackle Bobby Hart's sprained ankle improved enough to have Hart taken off the official NFL injury report.
Hart practiced fully Saturday, as did defensive tackle Jay Bromley (knee), cornerback Jenkins (hand, ankle) and wide receiver Tavarres King (ankle).
McAdoo believes his team will be ready for its home opener Monday night.
"We had a great week of practice," the second-year head coach said.
"(Friday) was a tremendous day.
Our tempo was good and the energy was good.
We had some physicality and we had some things to clean up like we always do after practice."
A banner was quickly confiscated during Wednesday night's Red Sox game against the Oakland A's

A banner was quickly confiscated during Wednesday night's Red Sox game against the Oakland A's.
Four fans seated above the Green Monster dropped down a sign during the fourth inning.
The black sign with white letters read, "Racism is as American as baseball."
Security reeled the banner back within minutes and escorted the fans from their seats, according to CSNNE.
Red Sox officials confirmed the incident through a statement:

"During the fourth inning of tonights game, four fans unfurled a banner over the left field wall in violation of the clubs policy prohibiting signs of any kind to be hung or affixed to the ballpark.
The individuals involved were escorted out of Fenway Park," said Zineb Curran, Senior Director of Corporate Communications.
A short time later, a group called Boston Antifa claimed via Twitter to be responsible for the stunt.
Fans at Wednesday night's game were quick to react to the stunt.
"Baseball represents America and racism does not.
It's not OK," said one fan.
"I think it is going to end up being another one of those things that makes Boston look bad," said another man.
"I don't really know what they meant by it.
I guess it is up for interpretation."
This is the second time this year a controversial banner has been unfurled over the Green Monster, according to CSNNE.
In June, a banner with a political message regarding the Middle East was also removed.
The Red Sox have instituted a no-tolerance policy after Orioles outfielder Adam Jones, who is black, said he heard racist remarks during a game earlier this season.
More videos (1 of 9)

Link to this video

LA Officially Named as Host of 2028 Olympics

UP NEXT

The International Olympic Committee has officially named Los Angeles the host city for the 2028 Olympic Games.
Former Knicks star Charles Oakley was escorted from his seats at Madison Square Garden after an altercation near team owner James Dolan.
(Published Wednesday, Feb. 8, 2017)

What to Know Former Knicks great Charles Oakley sued the team's owner James Dolan for libel and slander

Oakley alleges he was defamed after a scuffle at Madison Square Garden in early February

Oakley accepted a deal with prosecutors in August on criminal charges related to the fight

Former Knicks star Charles Oakley has sued the team's owner James Dolan and Madison Square Garden for libel and slander over a much-publicized dispute at the New York City arena earlier this year.
The suit, filed Tuesday in federal court in Manhattan, accuses Dolan of defaming Oakley and also alleges assault, battery and violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
The lawsuit seeks compensatory damages for "emotional distress and/or mental anguish" and punitive damages.
The Madison Square Garden Co. called the lawsuit "frivolous" and "nothing more than another attempt by Mr. Oakley to garner attention.
We will deal with this accordingly."
The lawsuit details how Oakley was treated before and after he was forcefully removed from The Garden during a February game earlier this year.
Charles Oakley in Court Over Madison Square Garden Fracas

The former NBA enforcer and rebounding machine with the Knicks is accused of striking one security guard in the face with a closed fist in February.
(Published Tuesday, April 11, 2017)

Oakley's lawyers allege in the lawsuit that in the days after the incident, Dolan and MSG launched "a coordinated and defamatory public relations campaign against Mr. Oakley, baselessly accusing him of abusing fans and staff, acting inappropriately and struggling with alcoholism."
"By propagating these blatant lies about Mr. Oakley, Defendants Dolan and MSG have caused irreparable harm to his name and career and discriminated against him based on the false perception that he is an alcoholic, all in a transparent attempt to denigrate his standing among Knicks fans," the lawsuit claims.
On Feb. 8, Oakley sat a few rows from the Knicks owner at a game against the Los Angeles Clippers.
Security approached, and a fracas ensued.
Oakley was handcuffed and ejected.
Oakley was charged with three counts of misdemeanor assault and one count of criminal trespass.
He was accused of striking one security guard in the face with a closed fist, and when two other people tried to intervene, both were pushed and received cuts.
In August, Oakley reached a deal with prosecutors who agreed to drop the charges if he stays out of trouble for six months and complies with a condition barring him from MSG for one year, the Manhattan District Attorney's Office said at the time.
The 53-year-old said then that a trial would waste time and money that should be used to "keep the streets better for kids."
His lawyer said Oakley didn't need a trial to prove his innocence.
The former NBA enforcer and rebounding machine played for the Knicks from 1988 to 1998, helping the team reach the NBA Finals.
He has since had a splintered relationship with the organization because of his criticism of Dolan.
Detroit Lions head coach Jim Caldwell has signed a multiyear contract extension with the team.
The deal was struck months ago, the Lions said.?
Caldwell, 62, had been in the final year of his contract and consistently has had to answer questions about whether he will return in 2018.?Those questions included speculation about retirement and whether he felt he should be coaching on a lame-duck deal.
Turns out he never was leaving.
"I don't worry about those kinds of things," Caldwell said earlier in September, when he was asked about an extension.
"I don't think twice about them.
They don't concern me.
I have one mission: to take care of my men and to win football games.
... That's the truth.
"So it may be great to ask those questions, which is fine.
I'm going to answer them the exact same way if you ask them now or six weeks from now.
It's going to be exactly the same way.
It doesn't concern me.
My concern, like I said, is winning football games."
Players have routinely said how much they enjoy playing for Caldwell and how they appreciate his approach to keeping them fresh throughout the season.
He also has been credited for helping turn Matthew Stafford -- now the NFL's highest-paid player -- into one of the league's better quarterbacks.
Caldwell has taken the Lions to the playoffs in two of his three seasons.
With a winning percentage of .580 (29-21), he is the most successful Detroit coach in the Super Bowl era.
Caldwell faced questions about his job security in both 2015 and 2016.
When the Lions fired then-general manager Martin Mayhew and replaced him with Bob Quinn, Quinn took a week to decide whether he wanted to keep Caldwell before retaining him.
Then last season, the Lions announced during the week leading up to their playoff loss to the Seattle Seahawks that Caldwell would be returning.
Over seven seasons as a head coach with the Indianapolis Colts and Detroit, Caldwell has a 55-43 record.
He has made the playoffs four times and has had three seasons of 10 wins or more.
The Lions carry a 2-0 record into Sunday's early-season showdown with the Falcons.
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -- Ryan Finley threw for 230 yards and two touchdowns as North Carolina State got its first road win over a ranked team since 2008, defeating No.
12 Florida State 27-21 on Saturday.
Jaylen Samuels had two touchdowns as the Wolfpack broke a 10-game losing streak to ranked teams.
Their last win over a Top 25 team coincidentally was against Florida State in 2012.
Their last victory on the road over a ranked team was at North Carolina.
Finley, who completed 22 of 32 passes, had a 71-yard touchdown pass late in the second quarter to give the Wolfpack (3-1, 1-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) a 17-7 lead.
Nyheim Hines rushed for 94 yards on 24 carries.
The Seminoles, who had a 21-day layoff due to Hurricane Irma, have dropped their first two games to open a season for the first time in 28 years.
It also marks the first time since 2011 that FSU has dropped back-to-back games.
James Blackman was 22 of 38 for 278 yards in his first start.
Blackman, the first true freshman to start for FSU since 1985, moved into the starting spot after Deondre Francois suffered a season-ending knee injury in the Sept. 2 loss to Alabama.
Auden Tate had nine receptions for 138 yards, including a 4-yard touchdown early in the second quarter that drew the Seminoles within 10-7.
The Seminoles struggled to score touchdowns in the red zone, with just one in seven trips.
Ricky Aguayo had four field goals, but missed a 30-yarder.
Blackman also had a fumble deep in Wolfpack territory.
N.C. State took control early, scoring on its first two drives for a 10-0 lead.
Carson Wise kicked a 24-yard field goal and Samuels had a 2-yard touchdown on fourth-and-goal.
THE TAKEAWAY N.C. State: Samuels made his presence felt after being held in check by Florida State in three previous meetings.
The senior H-back had 12 receptions for 64 yards, five carries for 11 yards and had a 25-yard completion to Dylan Parham during the first quarter.
Florida State: Blackman struggled early, completing just one of his first four passes, but he started to get comfortable during the third drive and finished the first half by completing 14 of 16.
UP NEXT N.C. State: Hosts Syracuse next Saturday.
The Wolfpack have won nine of the 10 meetings, including three straight.
Florida State: Travels to Wake Forest next Saturday.
The Seminoles have a five-game winning streak over the Demon Deacons and have won by an average margin of 33.4 points.
--- More AP college football: www.collegefootball.ap.org and https://twitter.com/AP-Top25 --- Follow Joe Reedy on Twitter at www.twitter.com/joereedy
President Donald Trump tweeted Saturday morning that the Golden State Warriors are not welcome at the White House to celebrate their 2017 NBA championship.
There had been no previous indication of a White House invitation for the Warriors.
ESPN reported late Thursday night that the NBA had been in communication with the White House on the matter and believed an invitation would be extended, if the team decided as a group to attend.
Warriors coach Steve Kerr told ESPN that the team was planning to meet to discuss a potential visit.
Warriors owner Joe Lacob told ESPN that he planned to meet with the team Saturday morning before its first practice to discuss the issue, and that the White House was aware of the timeline.?
The Warriors released a statement Saturday afternoon confirming their intention to meet together as a team at the "first opportunity" to discuss a potential White House visit but said "we accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited."
"We believe there is nothing more American than our citizens having the right to express themselves freely on matters important to them.
We're disappointed that we did not have an opportunity during this process to share our views or have open dialogue on issues impacting our communities that we felt would be important to raise," the statement said.
"In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that we'll constructively use our trip to the nation's capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion -- the values that we embrace as an organization."
The Warriors travel to Washington, D.C., to play the Wizards on Feb. 28.
Kerr and several Warriors players have been openly critical of Trump and his administration on multiple occasions.
On Friday,?
Stephen Curry?said he would vote no if the team were invited to the White House.
Kevin Durant previously told ESPN that he would not go.?
Speaking later Saturday, Curry said his view was unchanged.?
"My stance is the same as it was (Friday) and even kind of cemented even further about how things in our country are going especially with (Trump) representing us in a very damaging way," he said.?
Asked his reaction to the president's tweet, the former league MVP called it "surreal."?
"I don't know why he feels the need to target certain individuals rather than others," Curry said.
"I have an idea of why, but it's kind of beneath a leader of a country to go that route.
That's not what leaders do."
The mechanism of inviting championship teams to the White House has varied with each administration, but it is generally offered by the president during a congratulatory call to a coach or owner soon after the NBA Finals.
From there, the league office acts as a liaison with the White House to help schedule the visit.
On Saturday, Cleveland Cavaliers star?
LeBron James took to Twitter in response to Trump's tweet.
James later expanded on his thoughts in a video posted on UNINTERRUPTED, saying in part: "He's now using sports as the platform to try to divide us.
We all know how much sports brings us together.
It's not something I can be quiet about.''
Information from ESPN's Ramona Shelburne and Chris Haynes and The Associated Press was used in this report.
NEW YORK -- Major League Baseball hopes to hold a special meeting before November to vote on approving the sale of the Miami Marlins to a group headed by venture capitalist Bruce Sherman that includes former New York Yankees captain Derek Jeter.
The next scheduled owners meeting is Nov. 15-16 at Orlando, Florida.
"I don't think it will go as long as November," baseball commissioner Rob Manfred said Thursday before a town hall meeting with fans at Yankee Stadium.
"I don't have a date yet.
I'm going to try to do it at some point between now and the November owners meeting."
Manfred said the special meeting likely would be held as a telephone conference call.
Marlins president David Samson said on Aug. 12 that a signed $1.2 billion agreement had been submitted to MLB.
A 14-time All-Star shortstop, Jeter would be a limited partner in the group and in charge of the business and baseball operations, according to Samson.
At least 75 percent of the major league clubs must approve any franchise sale.
Jeffrey Loria has owned the team since 2002.
---

More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
North Carolina's national championship men's basketball team will not visit the White House because of a scheduling conflict.
Team spokesman Steve Kirschner said Saturday that Hall of Fame coach Roy Williams and the players were willing to go, and the university and White House tried "eight or nine" dates but none worked.
The Tar Heels, who beat Gonzaga in April to win their latest national title, visited the White House after their 2009 championship.
The team was not invited when they won the 2005 NCAA Tournament.
On Saturday, President Donald Trump tweeted that Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is no longer invited to the White House because of what the president called hesitation by the two-time NBA MVP in deciding whether to make the traditional trip by the NBA champions to Washington.
More AP college basketball: collegebasketball.ap.org and twitter.com/APTop25
President Donald Trump doubled down on denouncing protests by NFL players and rescinded NBA star Stephen Curry's White House invitation on Saturday, a series of tweets that quickly inflamed football and basketball stars and even prompted LeBron James to call the president a "bum."
Trump started by announcing that Curry, the immensely popular two-time MVP for the Golden State Warriors, would not be welcome at the White House for the commemorative visit traditionally made by championship teams.
Later, Trump reiterated what he said at a rally in Alabama the previous night that NFL players who kneel for the national anthem should be fired.
The Warriors said it was made clear to them that they were not welcome at the White House.
They said that when they go to Washington this season they will instead "celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization."
Curry had said he did not want to go to the White House anyway, but the Warriors had not made a collective decision before Saturday.
"U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!"
James tweeted in a clear message to the president  a post that Twitter officials said was quickly shared many more times than any other he's sent.
"So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!"
Warriors general manager Bob Myers said Saturday he was surprised by the invitation being pulled.
"The White House visit should be something that is celebrated," Myers said.
"So we want to go to Washington, D.C. and do something to commemorate kind of who we are as an organization, what we feel, what we represent and at the same time spend our energy on that.
Instead of looking backward, we want to look forward."
Added Warriors coach Steve Kerr, after his team's first practice of the season: "These are not normal times."
Trump's latest entry into the intersection of sports and politics started in Alabama on Friday night, when he said NFL players who refused to stand for "The Star-Spangled Banner" are exhibiting a "total disrespect of our heritage."
Several NFL players, starting last season with then-San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick, have either knelt, sat or raised fists during the anthem to protest police treatment of blacks and social injustice.
Last week at NFL games, four players sat or knelt during the anthem, and two raised fists while others stood by the protesters in support.
Other players have protested in different ways over the past season since Kaepernick began sitting during the 2016 preseason.
"That's a total disrespect of everything that we stand for," Trump said, encouraging owners to act.
He added, "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired."
On Saturday, Trump echoed his stance.
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem," Trump wrote in an afternoon pair of tweets.
"If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
Plenty of other current and former stars from across sports weighed in Saturday.
Richard Sherman of Seattle Seahawks said the president's behavior is "unacceptable and needs to be addressed."
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell strongly backed his league's players, calling Trump's words "divisive"  as did New York Giants owners John Mara and Steve Tisch, who also said the president's comments were inappropriate and offensive.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," Goodell said in a statement.
Trump also bemoaned what he called a decline in violence in football, noting that it's "not the same game" because players are now either penalized or thrown out of games for aggressive tackles.
"No man or woman should ever have to choose a job that forces them to surrender their rights," DeMaurice Smith, the NFL Players Association executive director, said Saturday.
"No worker nor any athlete, professional or not, should be forced to become less than human when it comes to protecting their basic health and safety."
Trump has met with some teams already in his first year in office.
Clemson visited the White House this year after winning the College Football Playoff, some members of the New England Patriots went after the Super Bowl victory and the Chicago Cubs went to the Oval Office in June to commemorate their World Series title.
The Cubs also had the larger and more traditional visit with President Barack Obama in January, four days before the Trump inauguration.
North Carolina, the reigning NCAA men's basketball champion, said Saturday it will not visit the White House this season.
The Tar Heels cited scheduling conflicts.
Warriors forward Draymond Green said the good news was that Golden State won't have to talk about going to the White House again  unless they win another title during the Trump presidency.
"Michelle Obama said it best," Green said.
"She said it best.
They go low.
We go high.
He beat us to the punch.
Happy the game is over."
Reynolds reported from Miami.
AP Sports Writer Janie McCauley in Oakland, California contributed to this story.
The National Football League and its players' union on Saturday angrily denounced President Donald Trump for suggesting that owners fire players who kneel during the national anthem and that fans consider walking out in protest "when somebody disrespects our flag."
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players," the league commissioner, Roger Goodell, said in a statement.
DeMaurice Smith, executive director of the NFL Players Association, tweeted: "We will never back down.
We no longer can afford to stick to sports."
Trump, during a political rally in Alabama on Friday night, also blamed a drop in NFL ratings on the nation's interest in "yours truly" as well as what he contended was a decline in violence in the game.
Smith said the union won't shy away from "protecting the constitutional rights of our players as citizens as well as their safety as men who compete in a game that exposes them to great risks."
Trump kept up his foray into the sports world on Saturday, when he responded to comments by Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors, who has made it clear that he's not interested in a traditional White House trip for the NBA champions

"Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Stephen Curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Trump tweeted while spending the weekend at his golf club in New Jersey.
It was not immediately clear whether Trump was rescinding the invitation for Curry or the entire team.
Several athletes, including a handful of NFL players, have refused to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" to protest of the treatment of blacks by police.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who started the trend last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, hasn't been signed by an NFL team for this season.
Trump, who once owned the New Jersey Generals of the U.S. Football League, said those players are disrespecting the American flag and deserve to lose their jobs.
"That's a total disrespect of our heritage.
That's a total disrespect of everything that we stand for," Trump said, encouraging owners to act.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
He's fired," Trump said to loud applause.
Trump also predicted that any owner who followed the presidential encouragement would become "the most popular person in this country"  at least for a week.
The players' union said in a statement that "no man or woman should ever have to choose a job that forces them to surrender their rights.
No worker nor any athlete, professional or not, should be forced to become less than human when it comes to protecting their basic health and safety."
The NFLPA said "the line that marks the balance between the rights of every citizen in our great country gets crossed when someone is told to just 'shut up and play.'"
Buffalo Bills running back LeSean McCoy tweeted, "It's really sad man" and then used an obscenity to describe Trump.
On the issue of violence on the field, Trump said players are being thrown out for aggressive tackles, and it's "not the same game."
Over the past several seasons, the NFL and college football have increased penalties and enforcement for illegal hits to the head and for hitting defenseless players.
A July report on 202 former football players found evidence of a debilitating brain disease linked to repeated head blows in nearly all of them.
The league has agreed to pay $1 billion to retired players who claimed it misled them about the concussion dangers of playing football.
During his campaign, Trump often expressed nostalgia for the "old days"  claiming, for example, that protesters at his rallies would have been carried out on stretchers back then.
He recently suggested police officers should be rougher with criminals and shouldn't protect their heads when pushing them into squad cars.
It's also not the first time he's raised the kneeling issue.
Earlier this year he took credit for the fact that Kaepernick hadn't been signed.
Television ratings for the NFL have been slipping since the beginning of the 2016 season.
The league and observers have blamed a combination of factors, including competing coverage of last year's presidential election, more viewers dropping cable television, fans' discomfort with the reports of head trauma and the anthem protests.
Ratings have been down even more in the early 2017 season, though broadcasters and the league have blamed the hurricanes that hit Florida and Texas.
Still, the NFL remains by far the most popular televised sport in the United States.
Trump said the anthem protest was the top reason NFL viewership had waned.
"You know what's hurting the game?"
he asked.
"When people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when they're playing our great national anthem," he said.
Trump encouraged his supporters to pick up and leave the stadium next time they spot a player failing to stand.
"I guarantee things will stop," he said.
Associated Press writer Jill Colvin in Washington contributed to this report.
Carmelo Anthony won't be at Knicks training camp after all.
He'll be in Oklahoma City, joining Russell Westbrook and Paul George in a loaded lineup.
The Knicks agreed to trade Anthony to the Thunder on Saturday, saving themselves a potentially awkward reunion next week with the player they'd been trying to deal since last season.
New York will get Enes Kanter, Doug McDermott and a draft pick, a person with knowledge of the deal said.
The person spoke with The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the trade had not been announced.
The Knicks had said just a day earlier that they expected Anthony to be there when they reported for camp Monday.
But it was clear they didn't want him anymore and he no longer wanted to be in New York, where he arrived with so much hype that was never fulfilled in February 2011.
He rarely had a championship core around him in New York but jumps right into one in Oklahoma City along with Westbrook, the NBA MVP, and fellow All-Star George, who was acquired from Indiana this summer.
Anthony will see his old teammates soon: The Knicks open the regular season at Oklahoma City on Oct. 19.
Anthony agreed to waive his no-trade clause to complete the deal, which was first reported by The Vertical.
Phil Jackson spent the latter part of his time in New York making it clear he wanted to move Anthony.
But a deal was difficult because the 33-year-old forward has two years and about $54 million left on his contract, along with the ability to decline any trade.
He had long maintained that he wanted to stay in New York, but the constant losing and a chance to play with a talented lineup convinced him it was finally time to go.
After making the postseason each of his first 10 seasons, he has been on the sidelines the last four years and said at the end of last season his priority was a chance to win.
He wouldn't have that in New York, where the Knicks are emphasizing youth and have little proven talent with which to surround Anthony.
But he is close with Westbrook and George and should fit in nicely.
He can possibly settle into the spot-up shooter role he's played in the Olympics, where he's won a record three gold medals and is the career scoring leader for the U.S. men.
The trade ends an unfulfilling 6 1/2-year run in New York for Anthony, where he could never shake his reputation of an elite scorer who can't carry a team to a ring.
The Knicks made the playoffs his first three seasons and reached the second round in 2013, when Anthony led the league with 28.7 points per game.
But after that they never seriously proved they could do anything consistently beyond make headlines.
And Anthony was right in the middle of that, with constant trade speculation after Jackson's criticism of Anthony's game.
Jackson and the Knicks parted ways in June and though the Knicks kept looking, team president Steve Mills and general manager Scott Perry told Anthony they wouldn't accept a trade that would hinder their plans to rebuild through youth.
It didn't help that Anthony had told the Knicks he would accept trades only to Houston and Cleveland, but a deal was finally found when he agreed to add Oklahoma City to his list of destinations.
Anthony moved into the top 25 on the NBA's career scoring list last season, and maybe the Thunder can help him reach elusive team success.
Jackson noted that the Knicks hadn't been able to win with Anthony, though one division title and three playoff berths give Anthony the best resume of anyone who played for the team in the 21st century.
He had higher aspirations when he began pushing Denver to trade him to New York in 2010.
But the Knicks gave up much of their young talent and future assets to get him, hindering their ability to fortify the team around their leading scorer in recent years.
Anthony averaged 22.4 points last season and made his 10th All-Star Game, though that was the second straight season he finished well off his career average of 24.8 per game.
Kanter, a 6-foot-11 center from Turkey who was the third pick of the 2011 draft, has averaged 11.3 points for Utah and the Thunder.
He posted a video thanking the Oklahoma City community and imploring the Thunder to beat Golden State.
"It's a new adventure for me.
New York, so please pray for me," he said.
McDermott has averaged 8.0 points and will be playing for his third team since being selected with the No.
11 pick in 2014.
More AP NBA: http://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
Paul Casey shot a 5-under 65 to build a two-shot lead in the Tour Championship.
That leaves him one round away from ending eight years without winning on the PGA Tour in the biggest way possible.
Casey holed a 40-foot birdie putt on the 17th hole and escaped with par on the closing hole at East Lake.
He was at 12-under 198, two shots ahead of Kevin Kisner (64) and PGA Tour rookie Xander Schauffele (65).
Casey's only PGA Tour victory was in 2009 at the Houston Open.
A victory Sunday might be enough to also give him the FedEx Cup and the $10 million bonus.
Justin Thomas had to rally for a 70 and fell five shots behind.
He's still in the hunt for the FedEx Cup.
North Carolina State finally has a statement win in Dave Doeren's fifth year as coach.
The Wolfpack broke a 10-game losing streak to ranked teams Saturday, defeating No.
12 Florida State 27-21.
It is Doeren's first victory in nine attempts since he took over in 2013.
"We beat a lot of teams that people think we should beat, and knocked on the door with a ton of teams and didn't finish.
Now we finished," Doeren said after his team improved to 3-1 and 1-0 in the Atlantic Coast Conference.
"If you want to be in the conversation you have to win games like today."
The Wolfpack's last win over a Top 25 team coincidentally was against Florida State in 2012.
N.C. State led ranked teams twice late in games last year but fell short.
It had a 10-point, third quarter lead over FSU last year before the Seminoles rallied to win.
The Wolfpack also took Clemson to overtime but lost.
"Just being in this situation and to finally just pull it out meant a lot.
We've been working all year at finishing," said defensive end Bradley Chubb, who had seven tackles, two sacks and a forced fumble.
Ryan Finley completed 22 of 32 throws for 230 yards and two touchdowns as the Wolfpack got their first road win over a ranked team since 2008 at North Carolina.
His 71-yard touchdown pass to Jakobi Meyers late in the second quarter extended the lead to 17-7.
Meyers had his first 100-yard receiving game with 112 yards on five receptions.
Jaylen Samuels also accounted for two touchdowns.
His 2-yard run on fourth-and goal gave the Wolfpack a 10-0 lead in the first quarter.
In the fourth quarter he took a shovel pass from Finley and went 17 yards to put them up 27-16.
Nyheim Hines rushed for 94 yards on 24 carries, including a 15-yard run late in the fourth quarter that allowed N.C. State to run out the clock.
The Seminoles (0-2, 0-1), who had a 21-day layoff due to Hurricane Irma, have dropped their first two games to open a season for the first time in 28 years.
It also marks the first time since 2011 that FSU dropped back-to-back games.
Freshman James Blackman was 22 of 38 for 278 yards in his first start.
Auden Tate had nine receptions for 138 yards, including a 4-yard touchdown early in the second quarter that drew the Seminoles within 10-7.
The Seminoles struggled to score touchdowns in the red zone, with just one in seven trips.
Ricky Aguayo had four field goals, but missed a 30-yarder.
Blackman also had a fumble deep in Wolfpack territory.
"They were always one play ahead and we didn't make the plays that we needed to make," Florida State coach Jimbo Fisher said.
"We got to get that cleaned up to have a nice football team.
It's been done around here before with this kind of start."
THE TAKEAWAY

N.C. State: Samuels made his presence felt after being held in check by Florida State in three previous meetings.
The senior H-back had 12 receptions for 64 yards, five carries for 11 yards and had a 25-yard completion to Dylan Parham during the first quarter.
Florida State: Blackman struggled early, completing one of his first four passes, but he started to get comfortable during the third drive and finished the first half by completing 14 of 16.
"He was really prepared for this game.
... We gave him a great look in practice, the best look we could have gave him.
I feel like he was making all the calls," said safety Derwin James about Blackman.
"He was loud out there.
He was making the checks to receivers."
POLL IMPLICATIONS

Florida State nearly fell out of the Top 25 last year when it was 3-2.
At 0-2 and with a freshman quarterback, its 89-week run in the poll, second longest in the country behind Alabama (151), could end.
UP NEXT

N.C. State: Hosts Syracuse next Saturday.
The Wolfpack have won nine of the 10 meetings, including three straight.
Florida State: Travels to Wake Forest next Saturday.
The Seminoles have a five-game winning streak over the Demon Deacons.
More AP college football: www.collegefootball.ap.org and https://twitter.com/APTop25



Follow Joe Reedy on Twitter at www.twitter.com/joereedy
It's been three days since Hurricane Maria destroyed Puerto Rico and Carlos Beltran still hasn't been able to get in touch with his parents who live there.
While the Houston Astros designated hitter plays with a heavy heart and prays that his family is OK in the wake of the massive storm, Beltran and his wife, Jessica, pledged to donate $1 million to relief efforts.
Beltran is one of many Puerto Rican major leaguers  Cleveland shortstop Francisco Lindor, St. Louis catcher Yadier Molina and Hall of Famer Pudge Rodriguez, among them  who are searching for ways to help their torn island.
"It's something that needed to be done," Beltran said.
"I think the only way that I can motivate people to contribute and help my country is by me acting the way I act.
Right now our country is suffering from a devastating hurricane ...
I just want to help as much as I can."
Beltran's donation comes as he anxiously awaits word about his parents.
He's been in contact with some people in Puerto Rico and has asked them to try and check on his family, but downed power lines and trees have made navigating the island almost impossible.
"I don't know how they're doing," he said.
"I don't know what's going on with my family, there's no communication.
So I try to come to the ballpark with a positive mentality, but my heart and my mind is not here."
Puerto Rico is facing a daunting recovery from the most powerful storm to hit the U.S. territory in 80 years.
Many don't have running water and the entire island remains without power, and it could be months before it is restored.
Beltran's teammate on the AL West champion Astros, star shortstop Carlos Correa, has spent much of the week consoling his mother, who has been hysterical since losing contact with her mother and father early Wednesday when the storm made landfall.
Since the storm, Correa has been wearing two different pairs of custom cleats that feature the Puerto Rican flag to remind people of what his island is going through.
"It's really tough," Correa said.
"You're out here trying to show a happy face and play baseball every, single day and try to smile but inside I know that my family may be in trouble.
I don't know where they are, what they're doing or how they are.
So it's really tough to think about."
Correa is collecting supplies and working with people in Puerto Rico to determine how best to get his donation to the southern part of the island where he's from.
He's heard that supplies are slowly trickling into the northern part of the island but that transportation problems have made it more difficult to get aid to the area where he grew up.
"Right now our hands are tied.
No communication.
No nothing," he said.
"All we can do is try to gather as much as we can and when we can send, send it.
This is a major disaster.
It won't take months to recover.
It will take years."
Elsewhere in the majors, Lindor had been able to confirm that most of his family is OK, but still hasn't been able to reach his brother.
"I haven't been able to talk to them on the phone," the Indians star said.
"My girlfriend talked to her mom for like 15 seconds before the call went dead."
Like Correa, Lindor hopes to be able to help when things "calm down a little bit."
"You want to do things to help them," he said.
"You're helpless right now."
On Saturday, Major League Baseball donated $1 million to help relief efforts in Puerto Rico as well as from the earthquake in Mexico.
MLB also will pay for doctors and other medical professionals to travel to both places to provide assistance.
"These devastating natural disasters have deeply affected the baseball family," Commissioner Rob Manfred said.
"Players from Puerto Rico and Mexico are an important part of the past, present and future of our game.
We hope that our contribution will aid immediate and ongoing efforts during this critical time and the long-term recovery for the people of Puerto Rico and Mexico."
The Major League Baseball Players Trust also announced it would donate $1 million to nonprofits providing relief efforts across the Americas in the wake of several recent natural disasters.
The MLB players' union plans to donate $5 for each download of its Infield Chatter app through the end of the World Series to the cause.
Also helping out with collecting donations for the cause were Molina and his wife, Wanda, who set up an online fundraising page for relief efforts.
The page had already raised almost $74,000 by Saturday morning.
And it wasn't only current players who were working to help.
Rodriguez set up an event in suburban Dallas that runs through Friday to collect supplies such as generators, tents, lumber, bottled water and first aid kits to send to the island.
AP Sports Writer Tim Booth contributed to this report.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
A victim himself of the sport, Marc Buoniconti wants youth football banned.
He hasn't always felt that way.
Now, as his Buoniconti Fund and the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis also researches head trauma, the former college linebacker paralyzed from the shoulders down in a game nearly 32 years ago has a different view.
As he has learned more about concussions and has seen his father, Hall of Famer Nick Buoniconti, have significant cognitive issues in recent years, Marc Buoniconti is adamant that children should not play football.
"For me, my opinion has changed 180 degrees," Buoniconti told The Associated Press.
"Years ago I would always tell people that absolutely I will let my son get on the field, play football; I love football.
The things you learn at football  the teamwork, the camaraderie, learning how to win, how to lose, the practice, the discipline  everything is so important that you learn in football that you can apply to your life.
"It was amazing for me what I learned on the football field was so instrumental when I went to the Citadel because of all I had to go through there with all that training and discipline that it really prepared me.
"But the more I learned about concussion through the research, through the experience of my father, I honestly can no longer tell parents that their loved ones should play football.
I just can't do it in my heart."
Buoniconti is thinking about calling for a ban on "Little League football" and perhaps extending it through high school.
He fears that the hitting inherent in the game is too dangerous for kids, even if no concussions have been sustained.
Buoniconti is not speaking for the Miami Project, for which he has raised nearly a half-billion dollars for research into the treatment of spinal cord and brain injuries.
That organization, founded in 1985, has not taken a stand on including such a discussion in its efforts.
"This is my personal opinion, I don't even have any evidence to suggest that is what happens with children who play football," Buoniconti says.
"It's just my opinion that children playing football, continually hitting their head, whether it is concussion or repetitive hitting, is detrimental to their health."
While acknowledging that helmet manufacturers are trying to develop safer equipment, Buoniconti finds that a losing battle.
"No matter what you do, you are always going to hit the head," he says.
"The head leads the body and no matter how you try to protect the head, it's just the type of game where the velocity is just too fast and people are too strong, and there is nothing they can do to really protect the brain.
The equipment just doesn't exist."
Buoniconti has written a book titled "Undefeated: From Tragedy to Triumph."
He notes that it was both a painful and uplifting exercise to tell his life story.
The book discusses his family's fund and the advances the Miami Project has made through the decades in the search to find a cure for paralysis.
And now, perhaps, Buoniconti has another cause toward which he could devote his unflagging energy.
"Just think about it," he says, "the brain of a child is in the earliest developmental stages at this time in their life.
(It is) the most critical and important time of their brain development and they are repetitively hitting their head constantly day in and day out.
I believe over a longer run, they are going to find out that it is not just concussion that causes brain damage, just that repetitive hitting of the head over and over again is also causing damage.
"So I would like to start the conversation of thinking about that type of research to try to understand early childhood development of brain function, whether or not this impact is really going to cause damage.
Because I think someone is going to have to stand between the player and the field, especially with these children, and I would like to start that conversation about doing that type of research to protect our kids."
Buoniconti will host the 32nd annual Great Sports Legends Dinner to honor the Miami Project, part of the Miami Miller School of Medicine, in New York on Monday night.
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
Jeff Conine, who goes by the nickname Mr. Marlin, is part of the purge of Miami Marlins executives before the sale of the team to Derek Jeter's investment group.
Conine said Saturday he was told he won't be retained.
He helped the Marlins win two World Series and has been a special assistant to the president since 2008.
Also being fired are Hall of Famers Andre Dawson and Tony Perez, who had the same title as Conine, and former manager Jack McKeon, who has been special assistant to the owner since 2005.
"They want to clean house so they can get their own people in there," Conine said.
Major League Baseball hopes to hold a special owners' meeting before November to vote on approving the sale of the franchise to the group headed by venture capitalist Bruce Sherman that includes Jeter, the former New York Yankees captain.
Jeffrey Loria has owned the Marlins since 2002.
Conine, who went 4 for 4 in the Marlins' first game in 1993 and played on their World Series championship teams 1997 and 2003, said he was disappointed but not surprised to learn he won't be with the organization moving forward.
"It's going to be weird," he said.
"The Marlins were part of our family."
Conine said he, McKeon, Dawson and Perez are all expected to be at the final series of the season next weekend at Marlins Park.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
No one on the Los Angeles Sparks or Minnesota Lynx really likes to talk about it, but deep down inside most of them knew this is how it was going to end.
The two best teams in the WNBA meeting in the finals again.
Ready to go at each other like a year ago in a tense, entertaining and down-to-the-wire finish that ended on a last-second shot in Game 5 to give the Sparks the championship.
"We assumed it would be us two again, with the way they've been playing and the way we've been playing," Lynx guard Seimone Augustus said.
"It was almost inevitable, like it was going to happen.
We're happy that we do face the Sparks and try to get some redemption from last year."
Round 2 between the Sparks and Lynx begin Sunday in Minneapolis, and there is so much on the line.
For Los Angeles, it's a chance to be the first repeat champion in 15 years, a chance for Candace Parker and Nneka Ogwumike to draw a direct line from them to Lisa Leslie as the Sparks champions from 2001 and 2002.
"It would be historic, especially considering the last team to do it was this team," Ogwumike said on Saturday.
"We'll see what happens."
For Minnesota, it's the chance to soak up a sixth finals appearance in the last seven years.
That puts the Lynx in the same sentence as the Boston Celtics, Los Angeles Lakers, Montreal Canadiens and New York Yankees as pro teams to make a run like that.
And as the years go by for a Lynx core that has won three championships, each new trip to this stage could be the last.
"I guess we cherish these moments a little bit more," Augustus said.
"Now our window of time is starting to close and people are trying to figure out their next career path in life after basketball.
You really do buckle down and think about these moments and cherish the things we've done here and the history we've made."
For both franchises, the chance to capture championship No.
4, which would tie the Houston Comets for most in league history.
Here are some things to watch in the highly anticipated rematch:

STARS ALIGN: It's a dream matchup for the league, filled with stars on both sides.
Parker, Ogwumike and Defensive Player of the Year Alana Beard lead the way for the Sparks.
Augustus, Maya Moore, MVP Sylvia Fowles and Lindsay Whalen headline for the Lynx.
BEEN THERE, DONE THAT: Despite the Sparks' history of success, none of the major players on the roster had ever been to a finals before last season.
They come back this year fully aware of what to expect and better prepared to match up with the championship-experienced Lynx.
"Last year we were going in blind, except for (coach Brian Agler)," Ogwumike said.
"It's a lot less frantic, but sometimes the frantic is fun.
You still feel the frenzy, but now you know what you're walking into."
FOWLES' INVOLVEMENT: Lynx coach Cheryl Reeve said her biggest regret from last year's series is that they got away from getting the ball to Fowles in the paint down the stretch of Game 5.
They reconfigured their offense to feature Fowles more this season, and she delivered with her first MVP award.
Ogwumike is preparing for a big dose of Fowles all series long.
"She's the MVP, so they better pass it in there," Ogwumike said.
"It's going to be a challenge and I'm going to stay out of foul trouble."
BEARD VS. MAYA: Beard has enjoyed a career renaissance over the last few years as a lockdown defender, and she has had success against Minnesota's dynamic Moore in the past.
Beard compared defending Moore to defending Phoenix star Diana Taurasi, and said she's going to need plenty of help.
"You can't limit Maya," Beard said.
"She's been an MVP.
It's not an individual task.
It's a team task."
HOME SWEET HOME?
The Lynx are playing their home games in the playoffs at Williams Arena on the campus of the University of Minnesota.
Renovations at Target Center forced the Lynx to play at Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul in the regular season and then at Williams Arena in the playoffs.
So do they have a home-court advantage when they've only played two games here all season long?
"When our fans come in here and make the noise, they make it feel like home no matter where we are," Fowles said.
"It definitely feels like home."
The Washington Redskins placed safety?
Su'a Cravens?on the reserve/left squad list, ending his season nearly two weeks after he first told them he wanted to retire at age 22.?
The Redskins had initially placed him on the exempt/left squad list Sept. 4, giving him a month to reconsider his plans or
A look at what's happening all around the majors today:  SUPERHERO DAY Mets ace Noah Syndergaard is expected to make a one-inning start against Washington in his first major league game in nearly five months, and Matt Harvey will take the mound after that.
Syndergaard has been
A few weeks into the 2014-15 season, a handwritten message appeared on the whiteboard in the New York Knicks ' locker room.
"The pain that you have been feeling can't compare to the joy that's coming Romans 8:18."
The message was designed to give hope to a Knicks team in the opening stages of a
Brian Boyle hopes to play hockey again soon after being diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukemia, a type of bone-marrow cancer that the New Jersey Devils' team doctor said can largely be treated with medication.
The 32-year-old forward was diagnosed with CML after bloodwork at the start of training
Which we're we're getting excited to sports guys in here you know.
But Jones and write a very divisive topic indeed.
For years you know there's been reports.
Just actual players.
Just having this disease which is just hearing crop you know cross the spore and families in an ex players.
And hand
The NCAA is in the process of reforming its rules for athletes who transfer  and the mere suggestion of changes that could make it easier for football and basketball players to leave one school and play immediately for another was enough to stir things up.
"How can you plan a roster or a team when
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -- Ryan Finley threw for 230 yards and two touchdowns as North Carolina State got its first road win over a ranked team since 2008, defeating No.
12 Florida State 27-21 on Saturday.
Jaylen Samuels had two touchdowns as the Wolfpack broke a 10-game losing streak to ranked teams.
Their last win over a Top 25 team coincidentally was against Florida State in 2012.
Their last victory on the road over a ranked team was at North Carolina.
Finley, who completed 22 of 32 passes, had a 71-yard touchdown pass late in the second quarter to give the Wolfpack (3-1, 1-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) a 17-7 lead.
Nyheim Hines rushed for 94 yards on 24 carries.
The Seminoles, who had a 21-day layoff due to Hurricane Irma, have dropped their first two games to open a season for the first time in 28 years.
It also marks the first time since 2011 that FSU has dropped back-to-back games.
James Blackman was 22 of 38 for 278 yards in his first start.
Blackman, the first true freshman to start for FSU since 1985, moved into the starting spot after Deondre Francois suffered a season-ending knee injury in the Sept. 2 loss to Alabama.
Auden Tate had nine receptions for 138 yards, including a 4-yard touchdown early in the second quarter that drew the Seminoles within 10-7.
The Seminoles struggled to score touchdowns in the red zone, with just one in seven trips.
Ricky Aguayo had four field goals, but missed a 30-yarder.
Blackman also had a fumble deep in Wolfpack territory.
N.C. State took control early, scoring on its first two drives for a 10-0 lead.
Carson Wise kicked a 24-yard field goal and Samuels had a 2-yard touchdown on fourth-and-goal.
THE TAKEAWAY

N.C. State: Samuels made his presence felt after being held in check by Florida State in three previous meetings.
The senior H-back had 12 receptions for 64 yards, five carries for 11 yards and had a 25-yard completion to Dylan Parham during the first quarter.
Florida State: Blackman struggled early, completing just one of his first four passes, but he started to get comfortable during the third drive and finished the first half by completing 14 of 16.
UP NEXT

N.C. State: Hosts Syracuse next Saturday.
The Wolfpack have won nine of the 10 meetings, including three straight.
Florida State: Travels to Wake Forest next Saturday.
The Seminoles have a five-game winning streak over the Demon Deacons and have won by an average margin of 33.4 points.
Carmelo Anthony won't be at Knicks training camp after all.
He'll be in Oklahoma City, joining Russell Westbrook and Paul George in a loaded lineup.
The Knicks agreed to trade Anthony to the Thunder on Saturday, saving themselves a potentially awkward reunion next week with the player they'd been trying to deal since last season.
New York will get Enes Kanter, Doug McDermott and a draft pick, a person with knowledge of the deal said.
The person spoke with The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the trade had not been announced.
The Knicks had said just a day earlier that they expected Anthony to be there when they reported for camp Monday.
But it was clear they didn't want him anymore and he no longer wanted to be in New York, where he arrived with so much hype that was never fulfilled in February 2011.
He rarely had a championship core around him in New York but jumps right into one in Oklahoma City along with Westbrook, the NBA MVP, and fellow All-Star George, who was acquired from Indiana this summer.
Anthony will see his old teammates soon: The Knicks open the regular season at Oklahoma City on Oct. 19.
Anthony agreed to waive his no-trade clause to complete the deal, which was first reported by The Vertical.
Phil Jackson spent the latter part of his time in New York making it clear he wanted to move Anthony.
But a deal was difficult because the 33-year-old forward has two years and about $54 million left on his contract, along with the ability to decline any trade.
He had long maintained that he wanted to stay in New York, but the constant losing and a chance to play with a talented lineup convinced him it was finally time to go.
After making the postseason each of his first 10 seasons, he has been on the sidelines the last four years and said at the end of last season his priority was a chance to win.
He wouldn't have that in New York, where the Knicks are emphasizing youth and have little proven talent with which to surround Anthony.
But he is close with Westbrook and George and should fit in nicely.
He can possibly settle into the spot-up shooter role he's played in the Olympics, where he's won a record three gold medals and is the career scoring leader for the U.S. men.
The trade ends an unfulfilling 6 1/2-year run in New York for Anthony, where he could never shake his reputation of an elite scorer who can't carry a team to a ring.
The Knicks made the playoffs his first three seasons and reached the second round in 2013, when Anthony led the league with 28.7 points per game.
But after that they never seriously proved they could do anything consistently beyond make headlines.
And Anthony was right in the middle of that, with constant trade speculation after Jackson's criticism of Anthony's game.
Jackson and the Knicks parted ways in June and though the Knicks kept looking, team president Steve Mills and general manager Scott Perry told Anthony they wouldn't accept a trade that would hinder their plans to rebuild through youth.
It didn't help that Anthony had told the Knicks he would accept trades only to Houston and Cleveland, but a deal was finally found when he agreed to add Oklahoma City to his list of destinations.
Anthony moved into the top 25 on the NBA's career scoring list last season, and maybe the Thunder can help him reach elusive team success.
Jackson noted that the Knicks hadn't been able to win with Anthony, though one division title and three playoff berths give Anthony the best resume of anyone who played for the team in the 21st century.
He had higher aspirations when he pushed Denver to trade him to New York in 2010, a deal that finally went through in February 2011.
But the Knicks gave up much of their young talent and future assets to get him, hindering their ability to fortify the team around their leading scorer in recent years.
Anthony averaged 22.4 points last season and made his 10th All-Star Game, though that was the second straight season he finished well off his career average of 24.8 per game.
CALGARY, Alberta -- Johnny Gaudreau scored twice and Sam Bennett had three assists to help the Flames get their first win of the preseason, beating the Arizona Coyotes 4-2 on Friday.
Micheal Ferland also scored and Mark Jankowski got his third goal in three games for Calgary, which had lost its first three games.
Mike Smith had 15 saves for the Flames, who outshot the Coyotes 35-17.
Mario Kempe and Dysin Mayo scored for Arizona.
Louis Domingue gave up three goals on 19 shots over the first two periods, and Adin Hill stopped 15 of the 16 shots he faced in the third.
Flames left wing Matthew Tkachuk, recovering from an injured hip, skated with the club today and is expected to make his preseason debut Monday at Winnipeg.
Streaming live on FOX Sports GO

PHOENIX -- File this under it takes one to know one.
With two of the top National League MVP candidates in Arizona for a weekend series, Miami Marlins manager Don Mattingly weighed in Friday on what he considers the most relevant criteria for choosing the winner.
He made it sound pretty basic.
"Just the guy who is putting up the numbers," said Mattingly, the 1985 American League MVP with 35 homers and 145 RBIs for the Yankees.
"At the end of the day, that is what we really look at.
The guy that is driving in runs, getting on base, doing kind of everything offensively.
It is more of an offensive award.
It is nice when you have balance with it."
Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt and Miami right fielder Giancarlo Stanton are perhaps the top candidates in a crowded NL MVP field that includes Colorado third baseman Nolan Arenado, Colorado center fielder Charlie Blackmon, Cincinnati first baseman Joey Votto and Marlins darkhorse candidate Marcell Ozuna.
Goldschmidt looked more the part Friday, with two hits, two walks and three runs scored as the Diamondbacks (89-65) dropped their magic number to clinch a playoff spot to two.
Stanton was 0-for-4 with a sacrifice fly that gave him 121 RBIs, second in the NL and tied with Preston Wilson for the most in franchise history.
Arizona right-hander Taijuan Walker (9-8) is to face Miami rookie left-hander Dillon Peters (0-2) in the second game of the season Saturday.
Mattingly parsed the MVP field.
"'G' (Stanton) has played great defense this year," Mattingly said.
"When you look at an Arenado or a Goldschmidt, you look at the whole package.
Arenado has been so good at third, and Goldschmidt is so good at first and he also steals bags.
"Blackmon has played center, stealing bags, hitting homers, hitting for average.
I haven't really looked at everybody's numbers, but there are a ton of guys you could talk about.
"I think you look at that complete package of a player, but in general I think it is the whole offensive package that you really see when you talk about that award."
In general, Mattingly added, "it almost makes more sense that a guy who has a better year on a bad team."
Goldschmidt has finished second in the MVP balloting twice, in 2013 and 2015, and has 35 homers and 117 RBIs, nearing career highs in each category (36, 125) set in 2013, when he finished second to Andrew McCutchen.
He has 18 stolen bases.
Stanton leads the majors with 56 homers and is second with 121 RBIs.
Arenado leads the majors with 126 RBIs and leads the NL with 42 doubles while hitting 34 homers.
Blackmon has 14 triples, 35 homers and 95 RBIs from the Rockies' leadoff spot.
Stanton has a 7.3 WAR, according to baseball-reference.com, and Votto (6.9), Arenado (6.6), Goldschmidt (6.0) and Washington third baseman Anthony Rendon (6.0) round out the top five.
Arizona manager Torey Lovullo has noticed Stanton's development.
"Some of the balls that he hits that I've seen on a highlight reel, I kind of shake my head at how far they are going," Lovullo said.
"Or how they are coming off the bat and you think it is a line drive to the third baseman and it carries over the left field wall.
It's amazing.
He's mastered that art."
"Nothing against Giancarlo, but I'm biased to one guy.
I think Giancarlo is a fantastic player, and he is a very worthy MVP candidate.
But I am a firm believe in Paul Goldschmidt."
The fan in Lovullo appreciated the chance to see them both.
"I love competition," Lovullo said.
"I love seeing what guys look like when they are performing.
I'll sit there and watch this like a fan."
Walker, who is 3-1 with a 2.14 ERA in his last six starts, has never faced the Marlins.
He is 3-3 with a 4.01 ERA in 11 home starts.
Peters will make his fifth major league start after being recalled when rosters expanded Sept. 1.
He made quality starts in two of his first three appearances before

giving up nine hits and eight runs in 3 2/3 innings of a 10-3 loss to Milwaukee last Sunday.
Peters had a no-decision in his lone road start at Philadelphia.
He has never faced the Diamondbacks.
LeBron James defended fellow basketball pro Stephen Curry on Saturday after President Trump rescinded his White House invitation for the Golden State Warriors player.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
James tweeted.
The Cleveland Cavaliers message came just hours after Trump said Curry was no longer invited to visit the White House to celebrate the teams NBA Finals win.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team, the president wrote early Saturday morning.
Stephen Curry is hesitating.
Therefore invitation is withdrawn!
It's unclear if Trump meant just Curry or the entire team.
The Golden State Warrior star, who visited the White House during the Obama presidency, said on Friday that doesnt want to go to Washington but that the team would decide collectively.
He also suggested that not attending would be part of the resist-Trump movement brewing among athletes, saying it would be an opportunity to send a statement that hopefully encourages unity, encourages us to appreciate what it means to be American, and stand for something.
Curry himself has not commented on Trumps tweet, but other athletes and celebrities have called out the president.
Retired Los Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant slammed the president saying: "A #POTUS who's name alone creates division and anger.
Who's words inspire dissension and hatred can't possibly "Make America Great Again""

Lesean McCoy, a running back for the Buffalo Bills, tweeted: "It's really sad man ... our president is a asshole."
Perhaps it's not a great honor while your stench is there, singer John Legend wrote.
It's like that little rich spoiled kid saying you can't play with his toys because you beat him at kick ball on the playground!
#Dotard, unsigned NFL star Reggie Bush wrote.
Currys wife, Ayesha responded to Trump saying: Okay Donate to earthquake relief here!!!
with a link to the UNISEF website.
Actor Jesse Tyler Ferguson wrote: Its an honor when the president is honorable.
ESPN host Jemele Hill, who recently targeted the president when she called him a white supremacist welcomed Curry to the club then addressed Trump by saying: You cant be uninvited to something you werent going to anyway.
PHOENIX -- The Phoenix Suns on Friday acquired guard Troy Daniels and a 2018 second-round pick from the Memphis Grizzlies in exchange for a conditional Suns' 2018 second-round pick.
The Suns also confirmed, according to azcentral.com, that center Alan Williams suffered a knee injury this week in a pickup game and will be lost for an undisclosed amound of time.
"We are still evaluating the extent of the injury and will have more info about it at media day on Monday," general manager Ryan McDonough told azcentral's Scott Bordow.
Daniels, 6-feet-4 and 205 pounds, is a four year veteran who has played for Memphis, Charlotte Minnesota and Houston.
He averaged 8.2 points in 67 games last season with the Grizzlies, shooting 38.9 percent from 3-point range.
He figures to serve as a backup to Devin Booker at the shooting guard position -- a need that developed due to off-season injuries to Brandon Knight and rookie Davon Reed.
Ironically, Daniels and Booker were involved in a memorable trash-talking skirmish in Memphis last season.
"I don't know why hewould be talking to me," Booker said after the incident.
"He's been on five teams in three years and he has the nerve to talk trash to me.He's on a winning team, so you have those muscles when you're on a winning team.
It is what it is.
We will see him again."
Daniels was undrafted out of Virginia Commonwealth but has made a place for himself as a long-range shooter.
He averaged 6.2 points for his career, with 40.6 percent accuracy on 3-point shooting.
The Suns made two other roster moves in advance of next week's opening of training camp, signing forward Anthony Bennet and forward/guard Peter Jok and inviting them to camp

Bennett, a 6-8, 235-pound forward, was the first player selected in the 2013 draft by Cleveland but has been unable to establish himself -- bouncing from the Cavaliers to Minnesota, Toronto and Brooklyn over the past four seasons and also playing in Europe.
He averaged 5.0 points and 3.4 rebounds per game in 23 games for Brooklyn last season before signing with the Turkish Basketball Super League.
Jok, a 6-foot-6, 205-pound native of Sudan, was an All-Big-Ten performer for Iowa last season and led the conference in scoring with an average of 19.9 points per game.
DETROIT -- It looks like the Minnesota Twins will have Joe Mauer's hot bat in the lineup for the final eight games of the regular season.
Mauer has gotten periodic rest this season but hitting .391 over his last 41 games following Friday night's 0-for-5 has made the first baseman and the coaching staff rethink their plan.
Mauer will be in the lineup Saturday when the Twins continue their four-game series with the Detroit Tigers.
The Twins have rested Mauer often on day games following night games but it probably won't occur the final two weekends of the regular season.
More Twins coverage

"We talked about it," Minnesota manager Paul Molitor said.
"I asked him about playing the rest of the games and what could we do to ensure he felt good enough to do that and maybe he could DH a couple days.
He said he's doing fine, doing what he has to do to get ready every day."
Using the designated hitter spot in lineups is popular among American League managers as a way to keep a player's bat in the lineup while avoiding the stress of being on the field for nine innings.
"I think it's been good," Mauer said Thursday night of how he's been rested this season.
Even though maybe at some points earlier in the year I might have wanted to get out there, I understand it and I think it's paying off.
"I'm playing pretty well lately.
Looking at the bigger picture, I think it's helped."
Mauer, who has started at designated hitter 12 times, will be facing a southpaw Saturday night.
Left-hander Matthew Boyd will start for Detroit, his first outing since tossing a one-hitter last Sunday against the Chicago White Sox.
Boyd (6-10, 5.33 ERA) had a no-hitter until two outs in the ninth.
He is getting an extra day of rest.
The southpaw is 5-1 against Minnesota in his career with a 3.83 ERA in nine starts.
Mauer is 0-for-5 lifetime off Boyd.
The Twins counter with right-hander Ervin Santana (15-8, 3.34 ERA), the likely choice to pitch a wild card playoff game should Minnesota be involved and if his team can clinch in time to set it up.
Santana lost his most recent start, against the New York Yankees on Monday.
He holds a 9-5 edge against Detroit in his career -- 21 starts -- with a 3.37 ERA but hasn't beaten the Tigers since 2015.
The Tigers will be working with a short-timer as manager, Brad Ausmus.
"I found out a couple days ago I wouldn't be coming back," Ausmus said.
"I knew before the Twins series started that I wasn't coming back.
But I prepared for the Twins series like I prepared for any other series.
Try and help this team win."
Ausmus will finish out the season as manager, which he said he would willingly do because he is contracted to do so, then go back to San Diego and spend a little time with his wife and youngest daughter, a senior in high school.
TV: SEC Network

Time: 7:30 p.m.

LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) -- Kentucky's futility against Florida that began long before its players were born hasn't stopped the annual question about ending the slide.
Surprisingly, the Wildcats have embraced the issue more this year because a bigger reward looms if they break their 30-game losing streak to the No.
20 Gators .
Kentucky (3-0, 1-0 Southeastern Conference) can grab early control of the Eastern Division by beating the Gators (1-1, 1-0) on Saturday night.
"You have to know about the streak, you have to know what has happened these last 30 years," said quarterback Stephen Johnson, a late substitute in last year's 45-7 shellacking at Florida who's now the Wildcats' starter.
"You try not to focus on it, but we're excited to come out here on Saturday.
"We're a much better team than we were last year, and we think we can get it done."
Kentucky has came close a couple of times to ending the Football Bowl Subdivision's longest active losing streak before last year's beatdown in The Swamp.
The Wildcats have made big strides since then, reaching their first bowl since 2010 and building confidence that they can break into the East's upper tier with Florida, Georgia and Tennessee.
They're coming off a 23-13 victory at South Carolina.
Florida has some issues of its own that the Gators will be looking to address.
The Gators want to establish some offensive consistency after coming off a last-second victory against Tennessee.
Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks hit Tyrie Cleveland with a 63-yard Hail Mary touchdown pass for a wild 26-20 victory .
The Gators again will be without nine players, including starting receiver Antonio Callaway and 2016 leading rusher Jordan Scarlett.
The nine players are being investigated for alleged credit card fraud and could face felony charges.
So Florida isn't focused on maintaining its dominance over Kentucky, the Gators are just looking for a win.
"We treat every game as the most important game of the season," safety Nick Washington said.
"We've gone on a streak for a very long time, but it's not the focus this week.
The focus is we play Kentucky this week and it's the biggest game of the week."
More Florida Gators news

Other things to look for as Kentucky looks to end a 30-game losing streak against Florida:

RUN STOPPERS

A year after allowing Florida to rush for 244 yards, Kentucky enters as the SEC leader in fewest rushing yards allowed at just 57 a game to rank third nationally.
The Wildcats have yielded just 171 yards and one touchdown on the ground so far.
"The key has been just being more physical, ripping off blocks and getting downhill," middle linebacker Courtney Love said.
"(Defensive coordinator Matt) House has stressed stopping the run and that's something we all stressed ourselves."
FRESHMAN WATCH

The Gators are expected to get freshmen Malik Davis and Kadarius Toney more touches after they flashed against Tennessee.
Davis ran four times for 94 yards, including a 72-yarder in which he fumbled near the goal line.
"He brings a little juice, there's no doubt," coach Jim McElwain said.
Toney caught four passes for 40 yards, making the first defender miss several times and wowing teammates.
"I don't think he has any ACLs, to be honest with you," fellow receiver Freddie Swain said.
BENNY'S BACK

Since his rough start at Southern Miss, Kentucky sophomore back Benny Snell has posted consecutive 100-yard rushing games and scored three TDs, including two at South Carolina.
That's encouraging for an offense seeking to control the line of scrimmage against Florida.
ROAD TEST

Thirteen of Florida's 22 starters are freshmen or sophomores, and the number could rise to 14 if senior cornerback Duke Dawson (concussion) doesn't play.
It could pose problems in the team's first road game of the season.
"The biggest challenge as we kind of looked at it is to see where the leadership is on our team, to see how they handle the hostile environment, to see how our young guys -- who haven't really played in a conference game on the road -- handle it," McElwain said.
"It'll be interesting to see where our team is."
TV: FOX Sports Sun

Time: Pregame coverage begins at 6:30 p.m.

CAN'T GET TO A TV?
WATCH IT LIVE ON FOX SPORTS GO

BALTIMORE -- Tampa Bay right-hander Jake Odorizzi has pitched better recently, and he will try to keep the Rays' faint playoff hopes alive on Saturday when his team takes on the Baltimore Orioles in the third game of a weekend series.
Odorizzi (9-8, 4.46 ERA) struggled throughout most of the season until seeming to find his way more in the last four starts.
He has gone 3-1 in them and took a no-hitter into the sixth inning against Boston.
He gave up two runs and one hit in six innings, the second time in three starts the right-hander had a no-hitter through at least five innings.
Watch the Tampa Bay Rays on FOX Sports Sun

Odorizzi has a 4-4 career record with a 5.27 ERA against the Orioles.
Tampa Bay manager Kevin Cash said the recent turnaround for Odorizzi has impressed him.
"The first half was a struggle for him, the grind with some injuries coming back, not finding his rhythm," Cash said.
"I do think his last couple starts we've seen the more typical Jake Odorizzi where he goes out and pitches with a little bit more conviction."
He will go against former Tampa Bay pitcher Jeremy Hellickson (8-10, 5.47 ERA).
The right-hander started off well when the Orioles got him win a trade with the Philadelphia Phillies in July but has stumbled since.
Hellickson is 2-5 with a 7.29 ERA in nine Baltimore starts.
That includes 12 homers in just 45 2/3 innings, and this will be his first start or appearance against his former team.
The teams have split the first two games of the series, with Tampa Bay (75-79) posting an 8-3 victory over Baltimore (74-81) on Friday.
For the Orioles, it's looking like closer Zach Britton won't be back on the mound season.
He received a stem cell injection in his ailing left knee on Friday, something manager Buck Showalter described as a painful procedure.
Showalter said the team's going to wait a few days before deciding where to go from here.
"We're going to proceed like (where we are) in three to five days just like we said," Showalter said.
"When he gets to the point where he says 'OK, I think I can do it,' then we're going to weigh in the risks/rewards."
Showalter also said it looks like Dylan Bundy will start Sunday.
The Orioles hadn't officially named a starter as of Friday, but the skipper said before the game that if everything stayed right, Bundy would get the call.
Jonathan Schoop was voted by the local media as the Most Valuable Oriole.
Schoop is having a breakout season, made the All-Star team and has turned into one of baseball's top defensive second basemen.
"He deserved it," Showalter said.
"He's always had durability, but the consistency, he's really (taken) his game to another level.
I think he's grown into a real consistent guy you can count on."
TV: FOX Sports Florida

TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 7:30 p.m.

PHOENIX -- File this under it takes one to know one.
With two of the top National League MVP candidates in Arizona for a weekend series, Miami Marlins manager Don Mattingly weighed in Friday on what he considers the most relevant criteria for choosing the winner.
He made it sound pretty basic.
"Just the guy who is putting up the numbers," said Mattingly, the 1985 American League MVP with 35 homers and 145 RBIs for the Yankees.
Watch the Miami Marlins on FOX Sports Florida

"At the end of the day, that is what we really look at.
The guy that is driving in runs, getting on base, doing kind of everything offensively.
It is more of an offensive award.
It is nice when you have balance with it."
Diamondbacks first baseman Paul Goldschmidt and Miami right fielder Giancarlo Stanton are perhaps the top candidates in a crowded NL MVP field that includes Colorado third baseman Nolan Arenado, Colorado center fielder Charlie Blackmon, Cincinnati first baseman Joey Votto and Marlins darkhorse candidate Marcell Ozuna.
Goldschmidt looked more the part Friday, with two hits, two walks and three runs scored as the Diamondbacks (89-65) dropped their magic number to clinch a playoff spot to two.
Stanton was 0-for-4 with a sacrifice fly that gave him 121 RBIs, second in the NL and tied with Preston Wilson for the most in franchise history.
Arizona right-hander Taijuan Walker (9-8) is to face Miami rookie left-hander Dillon Peters (0-2) in the second game of the season Saturday.
Mattingly parsed the MVP field.
"'G' (Stanton) has played great defense this year," Mattingly said.
"When you look at an Arenado or a Goldschmidt, you look at the whole package.
Arenado has been so good at third, and Goldschmidt is so good at first and he also steals bags.
"Blackmon has played center, stealing bags, hitting homers, hitting for average.
I haven't really looked at everybody's numbers, but there are a ton of guys you could talk about.
"I think you look at that complete package of a player, but in general I think it is the whole offensive package that you really see when you talk about that award."
In general, Mattingly added, "it almost makes more sense that a guy who has a better year on a bad team."
Goldschmidt has finished second in the MVP balloting twice, in 2013 and 2015, and has 35 homers and 117 RBIs, nearing career highs in each category (36, 125) set in 2013, when he finished second to Andrew McCutchen.
He has 18 stolen bases.
Stanton leads the majors with 56 homers and is second with 121 RBIs.
Arenado leads the majors with 126 RBIs and leads the NL with 42 doubles while hitting 34 homers.
Blackmon has 14 triples, 35 homers and 95 RBIs from the Rockies' leadoff spot.
Stanton has a 7.3 WAR, according to baseball-reference.com, and Votto (6.9), Arenado (6.6), Goldschmidt (6.0) and Washington third baseman Anthony Rendon (6.0) round out the top five.
Arizona manager Torey Lovullo has noticed Stanton's development.
"Some of the balls that he hits that I've seen on a highlight reel, I kind of shake my head at how far they are going," Lovullo said.
"Or how they are coming off the bat and you think it is a line drive to the third baseman and it carries over the left field wall.
It's amazing.
He's mastered that art."
"Nothing against Giancarlo, but I'm biased to one guy.
I think Giancarlo is a fantastic player, and he is a very worthy MVP candidate.
But I am a firm believe in Paul Goldschmidt."
The fan in Lovullo appreciated the chance to see them both.
"I love competition," Lovullo said.
"I love seeing what guys look like when they are performing.
I'll sit there and watch this like a fan."
Walker, who is 3-1 with a 2.14 ERA in his last six starts, has never faced the Marlins.
He is 3-3 with a 4.01 ERA in 11 home starts.
Peters will make his fifth major league start after being recalled when rosters expanded Sept. 1.
He made quality starts in two of his first three appearances before

giving up nine hits and eight runs in 3 2/3 innings of a 10-3 loss to Milwaukee last Sunday.
Peters had a no-decision in his lone road start at Philadelphia.
He has never faced the Diamondbacks.
TV: FOX Sports 1

Time: 3 p.m.

COLLEGE PARK, Md.
(AP) -- Twenty-three days after winning its season opener, Central Florida finally gets to play another football game.
The Knights defeated Florida International 61-17 on Aug. 31 before Hurricane Irma washed out matchups with Memphis and Georgia Tech.
Cramming practice sessions around providing community service in Orlando, the players did their best to stay sharp for Saturday's game against Maryland (2-0).
"Their desire to play football and their desire to go out and compete is going to drive them to work," second-year coach Scott Frost said.
"That speaks a lot about how mature our team is compared to last year, how they handled this whole thing."
The Knights went 6-7 in 2016 after going winless the year before Frost's arrival.
One of the defeats last season was a 30-24 double-overtime loss to the Terrapins.
Eager to sustain the momentum of Frost's rookie year, Central Florida rolled up 587 yards in the opener against FIU .
Now the focus is on shaking off the effects of a lengthy layoff against Maryland, which upset Texas on the road 51-41 before ringing up a 63-17 rout of Towson.
"We're all itching to get out there," offensive lineman Jordan Johnson said.
"It's been a while since we played a game.
We want to go out there and show the world what we're made of."
So is Maryland.
This should be a good indication of whether the Terrapins have made substantial improvement from a year ago, when they needed a late touchdown run by then-freshman quarterback Tyrrell Pigrome to pull out the victory.
Pigrome was lost for the season with a knee injury against Texas, but Maryland's prolific offense has thrived behind true freshman Kasim Hill.
Some things to watch in Saturday's UCF-Maryland matchup:

PLANNED VACATION

Unlike UCF, the Terrapins are coming off a scheduled hiatus after getting an early bye last week.
"It's kind of odd to have it that early," coach DJ Durkin said.
"We worked on a lot of things, had a lot of things we had to improve on coming out of the first two games.
They took the right approach last week.
We had some really good practices, got better.
A couple guys that may be dinged up here or there, took advantage of the treatment and rest time."
MIRROR IMAGE

Both teams have second-year head coaches, both went 6-7 last year and both expect to be better in 2017.
"I think Maryland is very similar to us.
They made a bunch of improvements, and we have too," Frost said.
"The two teams were evenly matched last year and both programs have taken some more steps forward."
QUARTERBACK THREAT

Knights sophomore McKenzie Milton had a tremendous outing against Florida International, going 16 for 21 for 360 yards and four touchdowns.
There is no statistic, however, that measures how quickly he makes decisions on the run.
"He's elusive, he scrambles, he's hard to get down on the ground," Durkin said, "and when he scrambles, he keeps his eyes down the field as well.
A lot of his big plays come from scrambling out of the pocket, kind of broken plays or buying time, and launching the ball down the field."
SWEET SEPTEMBER

The Terrapins are 5-0 in September under Durkin and are averaging 47.4 points in those games.
He is the first Terps coach to open with five straight non-conference wins since Jim Tatum in 1947-48.
MAKING A STATEMENT

UCF is looking to make a name for itself by beating a Big Ten team on the road.
"I think our players are always going to have a little bit of a chip on their shoulder when we go play games like this," Frost said.
"We want to come away with a win."
The Knights are 1-9 against the Big Ten, the only win coming at Penn State in September 2013.
TV: FOX Sports Florida

Time: 3:30 p.m.

MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. (AP) -- No.
14 Miami's official stance is that the team wasn't able to practice for more than a week because of Hurricane Irma.
That's technically true.
The full team wasn't together.
But in actuality, quarterback Malik Rosier and some teammates practiced plenty.
Rosier was planning to ride out Irma at his Alabama home before being talked into joining some coaches and players on their weeklong evacuation trip to Orlando instead.
Rosier said he spent much of that time throwing routes with Miami QB coach Jon Richt, the son of Hurricanes coach Mark Richt, and a few receivers.
"For me, this week off has been a great fundamental week," Rosier said in a statement distributed by the university.
Unbeaten Toledo (3-0) plans to test those fundamentals Saturday, when the Rockets visit the Hurricanes (1-0).
It's Miami's first game since Week 1, with Irma forcing the cancellation of Miami's Sept. 9 game at Arkansas State and the postponement of last week's showdown at No.
12 Florida State until Oct. 7.
"Well, it'll be a stiff task, I can tell you that," Toledo coach Jason Candle said.
"This is the Miami Hurricanes.
They're ranked 14th in the country right now and rightfully so.
Playmakers all over the field on offense, really fast team on defense, fly to the football.
We've got a stiff challenge ahead of us, that's for sure."
Rosier will be making his third career start.
Toledo's hopes rest on the arm of experienced senior quarterback Logan Woodside, who threw for 458 yards and six touchdowns in the Rockets' 54-51 win over Tulsa last week -- a game where he rallied his team from a 28-7 deficit.
Woodside raved about Miami's defense, saying he can't recall facing another team that "is as fast and physical" as the Hurricanes.
But he also conceded that Toledo knows this game is a big opportunity for its program.
"When you come to Toledo, everybody kind of feels they have a little chip on their shoulder," Woodside said.
"It'll be good to go down there and play a really good team."
Here's some other things to know going into this game:

20-HOUR RULE

Miami senior associate athletic director for compliance Craig Anderson said the school investigated to make sure it was compliant with NCAA time-limit rules during the evacuation to Orlando.
The NCAA says student-athletes cannot participate in "countable athletically related activities" for more than 20 hours per week, and Rosier said he and coaches "talked ball basically the entire time" in Orlando.
Miami insists no rules were broken.
BIG HURDLE

Toledo was the overwhelming preseason favorite to win the Mid-American Conference title, and the Rockets only have conference games remaining on their regular-season schedule after this.
If they can pull the upset Saturday, how long before pundits start talking about Toledo as a candidate to go 13-0 headed into bowl season?
STREAKING

Miami has won six straight games.
That's the Hurricanes' longest streak since a nine-game streak spanning the 2012 and 2013 seasons.
OFFENSIVE MACHINE

Toledo leads the MAC in scoring offense (46 points per game), total offense (552.7), rushing offense (218), passing offense (334.7), passing efficiency (177.4) and first downs (82).
RICHARDS WATCH

The status of Miami WR Ahmmon Richards remains unknown.
Richards missed the opener with what the school said was a hamstring issue and Mark Richt said on Sept. 5 that Miami's top returning receiver was "much closer" to making his 2017 debut.
But more than two weeks later, there is a chance Richards will sit again.
Miami did not release an injury report this week.
TV: ABC

Time: Pregame coverage begins at 6:30 p.m.

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -- The matchup between North Carolina State and 12th-ranked Florida State features a stark contrast between quarterbacks.
The Wolfpack (2-1) have one of the more experienced signal-callers in Atlantic Coast Conference in Ryan Finley.
The Seminoles (0-1) will have true freshman James Blackman making his first start after Deondre Francois suffered a season-ending knee injury in the opener.
Blackman played the final series against Alabama but did not attempt any passes.
He has had a couple extra weeks to prepare after Hurricane Irma cancelled the Sept. 9 game against Louisiana-Monroe and moved the Miami game to Oct. 7.
There are some concerns if the 6-foot-5, 169-pound Blackman will be able to stand up physically to the competition, but coach Jimbo Fisher said he doesn't have any doubts.
"This kid can run, play and be competitive," Fisher said.
"You play at Belle Glade, come out of that high school system, you're a competitor.
You've got some toughness to you."
N.C. State coach Dave Doeren said that his staff went back to Blackman's film at Glades Central High School in South Florida.
Doeren noted that Blackman has a good release and great arm strength.
"There's not a ton of plays of him as a runner.
You don't know how much of that will be a factor in the game," he said.
"He was more of a passer.
We'll have to see and adjust as we go."
Finley has not thrown an interception in 192 attempts, which is the longest current streak in the Football Bowl Subdivision.
The junior -- who is making his 20th collegiate start -- leads the ACC in completion percentage (75.6) and is second in passing yards per game (329).
"He really gets it out quickly and finds matchups and really understands what he's doing," said Fisher of Finley.
"You've got to affect him coverage-wise, blitz-wise, but then sometimes be able to rush without that."
Some other things to know about Saturday's North Carolina State-Florida State matchup:

BIG STAKES EARLY

Florida State has gone 77 games since dropping two straight, which leads the nation.
It also has not started a season 0-2 since 1988.
N.C. State has a 10-game losing streak against ranked teams and has not won a conference road game against a ranked team since 2008 at North Carolina (six games).
RESTED, BUT RUSTED?
This is Florida State's longest break between games in the regular season since 1982 (also 21 days).
Fisher, who dealt with three schedule changes due to hurricanes when he was the offensive coordinator at LSU in 2005, said his players are a little anxious to play but has handled the break well.
KEEP AN EYE ON

Special teams.
Florida State had a blocked field goal, blocked punt and fumbled kick return that led to 14 Alabama points.
N.C. State's kicking game has struggled.
Division II graduate transfer Carson Wise won the starting job over Kyle Bambard -- who made only half his field goals over the past two seasons -- but has made just 1 of 3 attempts.
PRESSURE UP FRONT

North Carolina State's defensive line has gotten plenty of attention with four senior starters that include Associated Press preseason All-America first-team pick Bradley Chubb.
That group needs to have a big game Saturday to take FSU's rookie quarterback out of sync.
"It's an advantage for us but we've got to go out there and execute that," Chubb said.
"We can't just say we've got the advantage because we're veterans and he's a freshman."
SECONDARY HELP

N.C. State is expected to have starting cornerback Mike Stevens for the first time this season.
The senior played more snaps last year than any other returnee to the defense, but missed the first three games with a preseason knee injury.
CHICAGO -- As the Kansas City Royals keep their attention on the present, the Chicago White Sox have already started to turn their attention to next season.
The Royals' postseason hopes were already slim heading into this weekend's three-games series as Kansas City trailed Minnesota by 3 1/2 games for the American League's second wild card spot.
Theirclimb got even more difficult after they blewa four-run lead in a 7-6 loss to the White Sox that extended their deficit in the wild card chase to 4 1/2 games.
Still, manager Ned Yost said the Royals' chance to extend their season beyond next week has kept the team motivated.
"If they didn't have that hope, you wouldn't see them fighting as they're fighting on that field every day," Yost said Friday.
The Royals will look to Danny Duffy to get them back on track.
Duffy has experienced his share of frustrations this season with a forearm strain and elbow stiffness.
Duffy made his first start in nearly a month last Sunday -- a 3-2 loss to the Cleveland Indians -- allowing two runs over five innings while beinglimited to 65 pitches.
But after being sidelined with the forearm strain, Duffy is happy to again be part of a Royals rotation that has had its share of injury issues this season.
"I've been looking forward to pitching for a long time," Duffy said following the start, according to the Kansas City Star.
"It was nice to get back out there.
I felt at home."
Duffy, who is 6-5 with a 4.28 ERA in 17 career starts against the White Sox, has struggled this season against Chicago, dropping all three of his starts.
As the Royals continue to chase a postseason berth, Chicago'sfocus remains on trying to find positives that itcan carry into manager Rick Renteria's second season.
Despite his team's struggles in a season when the majority of its star power was traded away, Renteria continues to see a team that hasn't quit.
"I think they've been really consistent in their effort, their preparation, their willingness and desire -- especially with all the changes that have occurred -- to try and compete," Renteria said before his team won its second straight game.
"We've been in a lot of ballgames and holding our own.
Obviously, the victories haven't been coming as (frequently) as we'd like, but it's not for a lack of effort."
After young right-hander Reynaldo Lopez won Friday, the White Sox will turn to another youngster Saturday.
Dylan Covey (0-6) will make his fourth start against the Royals this season.
Covey is 0-2 with a 6.61 ERA against the Royals and is part of a youthful rotation that Renteria said needs to find better strike zone command moving forward.
Covey has an 8.18 ERA in 16 starts this season and has allowed 18 home runs and has walked 31 in 58 1/3 innings.
Like many of his fellow pitchers, Covey will attempt to use his final two starts to try to build momentum heading into the offseason.
"I'm sure (at) the end of the season, every single one of them is going to run in their head what went on this year, what they could have done better," Renteria said.
"They will all be, I hope, good self-evaluators.
Sometimes, we have to help them in understanding what they're looking at, but I think that all in all they're taking in a lot of information and lot of experience."
PITTSBURGH -- Tension?
What tension?
The St. Louis Cardinals are having a blast as they make a push for a playoff spot.
The Cardinals look to continue enjoying their pursuit of a playoff spot Saturday night when they face the Pittsburgh Pirates in the second game of a three-game series.
"It's been a lot of fun.
It's a fun stretch right now," starter Michael Wacha said Friday after he watched his teammates score twice in the ninth to get a 4-3 victory Friday.
Jedd Gyorko delivered the tying single as a pinch hitter and Randal Grichuk scored the go-ahead run on a fielding error by Pittsburgh shortstop Jordy Mercer.
"It just seems this team never gives up and we're always in it," Wacha said.
"We've been playing some hard games on this road trip."
But not all against great opponents.
The Cardinals (81-72) got swept in three games by the National League Central-leading Chicago Cubs to start the trip, then swept last-place Cincinnati before opening the series against a Pirates team (69-85) that's nearly as bad as the Reds.
St. Louis moved into second place in the division, a half-game ahead of Milwaukee, and remains five games behind the Cubs.
The Cardinals are 1 1/2 games behindColorado for the second NL wild card spot.
"We're starting to play really well right now at crunch time," Cardinals shortstop Paul DeJong said.
A pair of 11-win right-handed starters will face off Saturday, St. Louis' Lance Lynn (11-7, 3.09 ERA) and Pittsburgh's Gerrit Cole (11-11, 4.13 ERA).
Lynn was cruising with 11 quality starts in 12 outings until his past two.
He did not get past the fifth in either.
His last time out, Lynn got a no-decision Sunday against the Cubs when he went four innings and allowed three runs, four hits and four walks in a game the Cardinals came back to win.
Lynn is 7-6 with a 4.50 ERA in 22 appearances (20 starts) against the Pirates in his career, including 2-1 with a 3.32 ERA in three starts this season.
In Cole's most recent start, a 5-2 loss Sunday against Cincinnati, he allowed just three hits, but four runs, in five-plus innings, with four walks and six strikeouts.
He was throwing a one-hitter going into the sixth, then got pulled after he gave up a walk, a homer, another walk and another homer.
Even with the season winding down, Cole is still evaluating and looking for answers.
"Try to take the good, I guess," Cole said.
"There's more work to be done."
Cole has gotten just five runs of offensive support over his past five starts, totaling 32 innings.
At PNC Park, he is 0-3 over his past seven starts, with his last win at home coming June 13 against Colorado.
Against the Cardinals, he is 6-4 with a 2.75 ERA in 13 career starts, including 1-1 in three starts this season.
PHOENIX -- Chris Iannetta homered twice and drove in a career-high eight runs and the Arizona Diamondbacks outslugged the Miami Marlins 13-11 on Friday night.
Martinez and Christian Walker also homered for the Diamondbacks, who can clinch their first postseason berth in six years with a win Saturday and a loss by St. Louis.
Arizona erased a 9-7 deficit with five runs in the sixth.
Walker hit his first career pinch-hit homer to center off Jarlin Garcia to make it 9-8.
David Peralta reached on an error before Dustin McGowan struck out A.J.
Pollock.
But Paul Goldschmidt walked and Martinez reached on an infield single ahead of Iannetta, who homered onto the walkway above the center-field fence to put the Diamondbacks ahead 12-9.
Iannetta's grand slam was his fifth and first since May 28, 2015.
He hit multiple homers in the same game for the third time.
J.J. Hoover (2-1) pitched a perfect sixth for the win, his 11th scoreless appearance in his past 12 outings.
Fernando Rodney pitched the ninth for his 39th save and 300th of his career.
McGowan (8-2) took the loss, giving up three runs, two hits and a walk with two strikeouts.
Giancarlo Stanton had a sacrifice fly and Christian Yelich added an RBI single in the eighth as the Marlins pulled within 12-11.
But Martinez homered in the bottom of the inning, his 42nd of the season, 26th with the Diamondbacks and 13th in the month of September.
Marcell Ozuna recorded his fifth career multi-homer game for the Marlins, who had won three straight.
Ozuna gave the Marlins a 2-0 lead in the first with a two-out homer against starter Zach Greinke.
The Diamondbacks answered in the bottom of the inning, taking a 3-2 lead on Iannetta's first home run.
Miami turned a single and two doubles into two runs in top of the second to go back on top 4-2 but the Diamondbacks used six hits, including a double by Greinke, to score four and move ahead 7-4.
The Marlins rallied again, tying the game 7-7 on a line-drive, three-run homer into Miami's left-field bullpen by Justin Bour.
Ozuna's second home run, a two-out shot in the fourth, made it 8-7 and J.T.
Realmuto singled and scored in the fifth to give the Marlins a 9-7 lead.
Greinke allowed a season-high eight runs and nine hits over four innings, only his second outing of fewer than five innings this year.
Greinke struck out three and walked two.
Adam Conley lasted only 1 2/3 innings, allowing seven runs, six hits and a walk.
Conley had given up seven runs total in his past two starts combined.
The Diamondbacks have hit four-plus homers in consecutive games for the fourth time in club history and first time since 2006.
REPLAY REVERSAL

Realmuto was called out in the top of the seventh trying to stretch a single into a double.
Marlins manager Don Mattingly asked for a replay review and the call was reversed.
Mattingly has been successful on 15 of 32 challenges this season.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Diamondbacks INF Chris Owings (fracture right middle finger) will not return during the regular season.
Arizona had hoped to have Owings back for the season's final series against Kansas City but it hasn't healed properly.
Chris Owings' injury is still not fully healed and the earliest he could return looks like the NLDS, should the @Dbacks advance.
pic.twitter.com/fha2YAsI5V  FOX Sports Arizona (@FOXSPORTSAZ) September 22, 2017

UP NEXT

Marlins: LHP Dillon Peters (0-2, 5.40) will try again for his first career win as he makes his fifth start.
Peters has struggled with his control, walking 12 in 21 2/3 innings and allowing 36 baserunners overall.
Diamondbacks: RHP Taijuan Walker (9-8, 3.45) has posted a 3-1 record and 2.14 ERA in his past six starts with 31 strikeouts in 33 2/3 innings.
Walker will be facing the Marlins for the first time.
FRISCO, Texas (AP) -- Orlando Scandrick will play with some sort of protection on his broken left hand after missing just one game.
The Dallas cornerback already had that plan before the Cowboys ended up with just two healthy players at his position for most of a 42-17 loss to Denver last weekend.
And it's a good thing for Dallas that he did anticipate a quick return, because two cornerbacks are likely to be sidelined Monday night at Arizona.
"Eager to get back and get things on the right track," said Scandrick, the veteran leader of the secondary who was injured in a season-opening win over the New York Giants.
"Good defense we're playing.
And it's our job to outplay their defense."
The Cowboys are trying to bounce back from allowing Trevor Siemian's career high-tying four touchdown passes in the blowout, and figure to have someone making his Dallas debut for the second straight week against the Cardinals.
Bene Benwikere, acquired in a trade with Cincinnati just before the season, is likely to be active for the first time if Nolan Carroll (concussion) and rookie Chidobe Awuzie (hamstring) can't play against the Cardinals.
19

View Gallery





Matthew Emmons-USA TODAY Sports | Matthew Emmons

Carroll and Awuzie were gone before halftime against the Broncos and missed the first two practices this week.
Rookie Jourdan Lewis, drafted in the third round after Dallas took Awuzie in the second, debuted against the Broncos after missing almost all of the preseason with a hamstring injury.
Second-year player Anthony Brown is the only cornerback to get through the first two games unscathed.
"It's hard, especially when you're in the altitude and there was a young player out there and he hadn't played," defensive coordinator Rod Marinelli said.
"He'd never even played in the NFL and he went out there and did a solid job."
While he was fooled by Emmanuel Sanders on a touchdown in the second quarter, Lewis had his first career interception in the third.
"From a mental standpoint, definitely got to get better," said Lewis, a former Michigan player.
"From a physical standpoint, I feel like I could go out there and do everything.
It's just the attention to detail that definitely needs to be cleaned up."
The return of Scandrick goes beyond him having at least twice the amount of experience of the rest of the defensive backs outside of Carroll.
The 10th-year player brings a unique emotional component.
"We didn't play with the edge that we should've, we didn't feel," Marinelli said of the loss to the Broncos.
"Coaches, players are all in it.
And of course he's a guy that does bring some edge, no question about it."
Rookie safety Xavier Woods played in the slot against Denver because of the emergency need at cornerback.
Byron Jones, a starting safety, was drafted as a cornerback and could be another option.
Benwikere hopes to make the move of any safety unnecessary.
"I've played in games before," the fourth-year player said.
"So for me to have to go everything and for the last two games and just kind of watch, definitely I've been itching and eager to finally get in some action."
Scandrick feels the same after watching just one game.
SEATTLE (AP) -- Nelson Cruz breathed a little extra life to the Seattle Mariners' dwindling playoff hopes -- and slowed baseball's hottest team in the process.
Cruz hit a game-ending two-run home run in the ninth inning off closer Cody Allen, lifting the Mariners to a 3-1 win over the Cleveland Indians on Friday night.
Seattle snapped a six-game skid that all but crushed its hopes for the second wild card in the American League.
The Mariners are five games behind Minnesota for the last AL playoff spot with eight games remaining.
Cruz has homered in three straight games and has 36 this season.
"He's special.
He's a special player," Seattle manager Scott Servais said.
It took a major punch from Cruz to finally knock down the Indians.
Cleveland lost for the second time since Aug. 23, a span of 29 games that included an historic 22-game winning streak.
It ended a franchise-record 14-game road winning streak -- the Indians hadn't lost away from home since Aug. 20 at Kansas City.
"He's been one of the best, productive bats in the league for a while now and it doesn't seem to be going with age," Cleveland manager Terry Francona said of Cruz.
"He seems to be every bit as good as he ever was."
Cruz lined a 2-1 pitch from closer Allen (3-7) out to deep right-center field after Robinson Cano had opened the inning with a single.
Each of Cruz's last three home runs have gone to the opposite field, and he upped his AL-leading RBI total to 114.
"I threw a couple bad breaking balls to Cano.
You throw some bad pitches like that to some really good hitters, more often than not they're going to beat you," Allen said.
It was a pitchers' duel most of the way between Seattle's Erasmo Ramirez and Cleveland's Trevor Bauer.
Giovanny Urshela homered for the Indians' only run, and Seattle pulled even in the seventh.
Kyle Seager led off with a double, and Yonder Alonso followed with a single to right.
Seager was initially held at third, but Jay Bruce mishandled the ball, and the error allowed Seager to score and tie the game.
Urshela's homer was his first of the season and seventh of his career.
His last home run came on Sept. 14, 2015.
Ramirez tied a career high with eight innings, getting there for the first time since Sept. 18, 2012 -- during his first stint with the Mariners.
Ramirez kept the Indians guessing throughout, also matching a career-high with 10 strikeouts.
He retired his final 18 batters after Urshela's homer in the third inning.
Ramirez was the first Seattle pitcher to go eight innings since Andrew Moore on July 3.
Edwin Diaz (4-6) pitched the ninth to cap a three-hitter.
"To be able to get back on track after that homer was something huge, for me and for the team, too," Ramirez said.
The outstanding performance from Ramirez kept Bauer from being able to match teammate Corey Kluber with his 17th victory.
Bauer scattered five hits over seven innings but was lifted before the eighth with his pitch count at 116 pitches.
It was his eighth start of the season allowing one earned run or fewer.
LONG TIME COMING

While Cruz has three game-ending hits this season, it was the first time he homered to end a game since Sept. 10, 2010, when he was playing for Texas.
It was the fifth time in his career he ended a game with a long ball.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Cleveland: OF Lonnie Chisenhall is scheduled to begin running Saturday as he continues to recover from a calf strain that has kept him out since July.
Chisenhall will begin his running rehab back in Cleveland.
OF Brandon Guyer (wrist) will be re-examined when the team returns to Cleveland next week but could be soon cleared to resume hitting.
AWARD SEASON

Cruz and teammates James Paxton and Nick Vincent were honored by the local chapter of the Baseball Writers Association of America on Friday.
Cruz was named the team's MVP, Paxton was voted the pitcher of the year and Vincent was honored with the "Unsung Hero" award.
"For a long time, he was probably the MVP of our team," Seattle manager Scott Servais said of Vincent.
UP NEXT

Indians: Carlos Carrasco (16-6) tries to match Kluber with 17 wins.
Carrasco will be making his 31st start and has won his past four decisions.
Mariners: RHP Andrew Moore (1-4) makes what could be his last start of the season.
It will be Moore's ninth career start and his first against Cleveland.
PHOENIX (AP) -- Chris Iannetta homered twice and drove in a career-high eight runs and the Arizona Diamondbacks outslugged the Miami Marlins 13-11 on Friday night.
Martinez and Christian Walker also homered for the Diamondbacks, who can clinch their first postseason berth in six years with a win Saturday and a loss by St. Louis.
Arizona erased a 9-7 deficit with five runs in the sixth.
Walker hit his first career pinch-hit homer to center off Jarlin Garcia to make it 9-8.
David Peralta reached on an error before Dustin McGowan struck out A.J.
Pollock.
But Paul Goldschmidt walked and Martinez reached on an infield single ahead of Iannetta, who homered onto the walkway above the center-field fence to put the Diamondbacks ahead 12-9.
Iannetta's grand slam was his fifth and first since May 28, 2015.
He hit multiple homers in the same game for the third time.
J.J. Hoover (2-1) pitched a perfect sixth for the win, his 11th scoreless appearance in his past 12 outings.
Fernando Rodney pitched the ninth for his 39th save and 300th of his career.
McGowan (8-2) took the loss, giving up three runs, two hits and a walk with two strikeouts.
Giancarlo Stanton had a sacrifice fly and Christian Yelich added an RBI single in the eighth as the Marlins pulled within 12-11.
But Martinez homered in the bottom of the inning, his 42nd of the season, 26th with the Diamondbacks and 13th in the month of September.
Marcell Ozuna recorded his fifth career multi-homer game for the Marlins, who had won three straight.
Ozuna gave the Marlins a 2-0 lead in the first with a two-out homer against starter Zach Greinke.
The Diamondbacks answered in the bottom of the inning, taking a 3-2 lead on Iannetta's first home run.
Miami turned a single and two doubles into two runs in top of the second to go back on top 4-2 but the Diamondbacks used six hits, including a double by Greinke, to score four and move ahead 7-4.
The Marlins rallied again, tying the game 7-7 on a line-drive, three-run homer into Miami's left-field bullpen by Justin Bour.
Ozuna's second home run, a two-out shot in the fourth, made it 8-7 and J.T.
Realmuto singled and scored in the fifth to give the Marlins a 9-7 lead.
Greinke allowed a season-high eight runs and nine hits over four innings, only his second outing of fewer than five innings this year.
Greinke struck out three and walked two.
Adam Conley lasted only 1 2/3 innings, allowing seven runs, six hits and a walk.
Conley had given up seven runs total in his past two starts combined.
The Diamondbacks have hit four-plus homers in consecutive games for the fourth time in club history and first time since 2006.
TRAINER'S ROOM

Diamondbacks: IF Chris Owings (fracture right middle finger) will not return during the regular season.
Arizona had hoped to have Owings back for the season's final series against Kansas City but it hasn't healed properly.
STANTON WATCH

Stanton went 0 for 4 with two strikeouts, but drove in a run with an eighth-inning sacrifice fly for his 121st RBI to match the club record.
Preston Wilson had 121 RBIs in 2000.
REPLAY REVERSAL

Realmuto was called out in the top of the seventh trying to stretch a single into a double.
Marlins manager Don Mattingly asked for a replay review and the call was reversed.
Mattingly has been successful on 15 of 32 challenges this season.
UP NEXT

Marlins: LHP Dillon Peters (0-2, 5.40) will try again for his first career win as he makes his fifth start.
Peters has struggled with his control, walking 12 in 21 2/3 innings and allowing 36 baserunners overall.
Diamondbacks: RHP Taijuan Walker (9-8, 3.45) has posted a 3-1 record and 2.14 ERA in his past six starts with 31 strikeouts in 33 2/3 innings.
Walker will be facing the Marlins for the first time.
MILWAUKEE -- Pinch-hitter Tommy La Stella drew a bases-loaded walk off All-Star closer Corey Knebel with one out in the 10th inning, helping the Chicago Cubs beat the Milwaukee Brewers 5-4 on Friday night to tighten their grip on the NL Central.
The Cubs hold a five-game lead with nine days left in the regular season after winning their second straight tense game over the Brewers.
Milwaukee dropped into third in the division, 5 1/2 games behind Chicago, after St. Louis beat Pittsburgh earlier Friday.
The Brewers had the tying run at first with one out in the bottom of the 10th, but Eric Sogard was called out at second trying to advance on a ball in the dirt.
Shortstop Addison Russell appeared to hold the tag as Sogard's foot lifted off second for a split-second, and the call was confirmed on review.
What started as a rebuilding season in Milwaukee is ending with a postseason push that has defied expectations.
But the Brewers' hopes for a division title took another hit after another loss in 10 innings to the reigning World Series champions.
Knebel (1-4) took the loss after allowing three walks and two hits over two innings.
Carl Edwards Jr. (5-4) got the win with 1 2/3 innings of scoreless relief.
Stephen Vogt and Brett Phillips hit back-to-back homers in the second for Milwaukee.
Leadoff hitter Jon Jay went 2 for 5 with two runs and a RBI for the Cubs.
More Brewers coverage

TRAINER'S ROOM

Cubs: Manager Joe Maddon said that Willson Contreras did not start after taking a foul tip off his knee in Thursday's game, though the catcher entered the game in a double switch in the fifth.
Brewers: RHP Jimmy Nelson said he wasn't sure how long it would take him to get back to the mound after having surgery recently to repair a partially torn labrum.
Nelson suffered the injury after dislocating the shoulder while sliding back into first base during a game earlier this month.
Nelson said he thought his arm would be in a sling for a few weeks, followed by five or six months of rehab before he could start a throwing program.
UP NEXT

Cubs: RHP Kyle Hendricks (7-5) takes the mound after coming off his longest start of season, allowing just a solo homer in 7 2/3 innings in a 4-1 win over St. Louis on Sept. 16.
Brewers: The quick-pitching style of LHP Brent Suter (3-2) could be effective against a Cubs lineup coming off a short turnaround between the games on Friday night and Saturday.
Since the 2011 trade to the Knicks, Carmelo Anthony's career has seen many ups and downs ... including a feud with Phil Jackson before Anthony's trade to Oklahoma City.
(4:14)

A few weeks into the 2014-15 season, a handwritten message appeared on the whiteboard in the New York Knicks' locker room.
"The pain that you have been feeling can't compare to the joy that's coming ... Romans 8:18."
The message was designed to give hope to a Knicks team in the opening stages of a free fall, but the words take on a new meaning now for Carmelo Anthony as he heads to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter, Doug McDermott and a 2018 second-rounder.
It's a transaction that shakes up the NBA and makes a Western Conference power even more dangerous.
It was eerily similar in scope to the three-team, 12-player trade that sent Anthony to New York seven years ago.
In many ways, Anthony's legacy as a Knick can be summed up in the same way you'd describe these two trades: extremely complicated.
Early in the 2014-15 season -- a few months after Anthony signed a $124 million deal to remain with the New York Knicks -- he was already having second thoughts about his decision.
After one vexing home loss, Anthony shared his frustration with a few friends at the arena.
One friend summed up Anthony's mindset at the time: "He said he should've signed with Chicago."
It wasn't the last time Anthony questioned his decision to re-sign with the Knicks.
Over the next three seasons, it became clear that Anthony and New York, under team president Phil Jackson, were stuck in one of the NBA's most dysfunctional relationships.
So now that it's over, how do you unpack Anthony's time with the Knicks?
Editor's Picks Lowe: Most intriguing NBA players this season Zach Lowe highlights key faces in key places in his annual rundown of the NBA's most fascinating players and teams.
NBA mock draft: New lottery picks for Cavs, Bulls, Knicks There's a new leader in the crowded race for the No.
1 pick, as well as more movement in the top seven.
NBA draft assets for all 30 teams What upcoming draft picks does every NBA team owe and own?
Here's our team-by-team breakdown.
2 Related

Some will remember him as a ball-stopper whose preferred style of play ultimately impeded the Knicks' ability to win.
There's merit to that theory.
Others will hang on to the idea that Anthony never had a chance to truly succeed in New York because of the Knicks' perpetual roster and coaching instability.
There's plenty to support that point as well.
As is usually the case, the truth probably lies somewhere in between.
The raw results during Anthony's Knicks tenure aren't pretty.
New York never advanced past the second round of the playoffs, and the club missed the postseason entirely in each of the past four years.
The Knicks finished 207-269 during Anthony's six full seasons and went 1-3 in playoff series.
But how much of that was Anthony's fault?
His six-plus seasons in New York were filled with constant turnover.
A half-dozen executives and coaches were hired and fired during Anthony's tenure.
He had 72 different teammates in his past six seasons.
That's the sixth-highest total in the NBA in that span and 10 more players than the NBA average.
"I've had nightmares about that," Anthony said late last season.
If you want to start a fun argument among Knicks fans, ask them who Anthony's most talented Knicks teammate was.
Was it Amar'e Stoudemire?
Kristaps Porzingis?
Tyson Chandler?
A 40-year-old Jason Kidd?
Of course, Anthony's detractors will point to his isolation-heavy style of play as a reason for the revolving door of executives, coaches and players.
People around the Knicks will always question whether Anthony did enough with the hand he was dealt.
Carmelo Anthony has a chance to restart his career in Oklahoma City with Paul George and Russell Westbrook.
Adam Hunger-USA TODAY Sports

Multiple teammates over the years complained privately about the ball stopping in Anthony's hands.
They lamented his poor habits on defense.
(Last season, Anthony finished 66 out of 70 qualified small forwards in ESPN's defensive real plus-minus).
One veteran Knick went as far as telling friends that he "hated" sharing the floor with Anthony because of those traits.
But this wasn't a uniform opinion.
Anthony engendered loyalty among many of his teammates, particularly the younger Knicks.
One Knick last season told his agent that if Phil Jackson traded Anthony, he'd want to be dealt to the same team.
That loyalty, at times, went both ways.
Case in point: Shortly after Cleanthony Early was shot in the leg during a robbery attempt in his second season, Anthony told Early that if he were cut, he'd help ease any financial burden he incurred, according to people familiar with the matter.
"That was real," one teammate said.
Whatever goodwill Anthony built with teammates didn't always transfer to management.
Some in the Knicks' front office started to sour on Anthony when Porzingis emerged as a potential franchise player after his rookie season.
Several top members of Knicks management told associates that they felt they couldn't win with Anthony and that his habits would negatively affect Porzingis and the other young Knicks, according to sources.
That whisper campaign turned public, of course, late in the season when Jackson leveled public critiques -- some direct, and some indirect -- at Anthony.
Jackson openly stated his desire for Anthony to waive his no-trade clause, which complicated any potential deals.
Anthony was bewildered by the Knicks then-president's tactics.
He told friends that despite the embarrassing episodes on and off the court and the critiques from Jackson, he remained loyal to the organization.
He understood the responsibility that came with being the face of the franchise -- "You have to make every shot in this m-----f-----," he said once early on in his Knicks career -- and felt that he'd handled it well.
Anthony couldn't understand why Jackson didn't have the same type of loyalty toward him.
To most close observers, the beginning of the end for Anthony was March 12.
Knicks coach Jeff Hornacek lit into the team at halftime of a game that day against the Brooklyn Nets.
While Hornacek unloaded in an expletive-filled critique, Anthony sat in the corner.
Coaches giving R-rated critiques of their teams' play at halftime isn't unusual.
But something extraordinary happened that afternoon.
Thunderous Move: Melo To OKC Carmelo Anthony is headed west.
The 10-time All-Star is leaving NYC and will team up with Russell Westbrook and Paul George.
Woj: NYK gets Kanter, McDermott, pick

 Melo escapes NY, leaving mixed legacy

 Young: Post-KD, Thunder move quickly

 How NBA players reacted on Twitter

 Fantasy fallout: Trio value dinged

 Pelton: Trade grades in Melo deal

The normally laid-back Anthony -- his preferred social media hashtag is #StayMe7o -- was moved to respond.
And it wasn't pretty.
According to people familiar with the matter, Anthony said to no one in particular that "this whole thing" is a "joke" and added "f--- this place" loud enough for most in the room to hear.
Associate head coach Kurt Rambis responded to Anthony directly, asking him if he had anything to say to the group.
"Yeah I have something to say: This place is a f---ing joke," Anthony responded.
Rambis, using the same expletive-laden phrase, then questioned Anthony's effort.
Things didn't escalate from there, but it was clear to most around the team that Anthony was done with the Knicks.
In the ensuing weeks, Anthony was still thinking about staying in New York to remain close to his son amid a family situation and stay in the city that he comfortably called home.
He thought about leaving as well but was concerned about being seen as a player who "bounced around" during his career, according to people in touch with him at the time.
Still, Anthony kept coming back to the idea of starting over in a new city and with a new team -- a feeling that ultimately won out.
Anthony will start his new NBA life on the Thunder.
In OKC, he'll be paired with the kind of elite talent in Russell Westbrook and Paul George that he never shared the floor with in New York.
There's reason to believe that those two -- along with center Steven Adams -- can help bring out the deadly Team USA Melo whom observers have seen over the years.
Will it be enough to contend with the defending champion Golden State Warriors?
We'll begin to find out in a few months.
In the meantime, Anthony leaves behind more questions than answers in New York.
The club is looking to go young now and views its core of Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Frank Ntilikina and Willy Hernangomez as a strong foundation to build upon.
New additions Kanter and McDermott (both 25) fit that timeline as well.
But New York has a big void to fill with Anthony -- and his 22 points per game -- headed to the Thunder.
For Melo, it's a new start with a new team, but that old whiteboard message in the Knicks locker room still rings true.
Anthony felt plenty of pain amid all of the losing over the past three seasons in New York.
He won't be around to feel any of the joy that's coming -- if it ever does.
Maybe he'll finally find it in Oklahoma City.
The Knicks and Thunder have agreed to a deal that will send Carmelo Anthony to Oklahoma City, forming a formidable trio alongside Russell Westbrook and Paul George.
(0:30)

The New York Knicks have agreed to trade 10-time All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony to the Oklahoma City Thunder, league sources told ESPN on Saturday.
The Thunder will send center Enes Kanter, forward Doug McDermott and a 2018 second-round pick (via the Chicago Bulls) to New York, league sources said.
Anthony, 33, will waive his no-trade clause and his $8.1 million trade kicker to accommodate the deal, league sources told ESPN.
A trade call is scheduled for Monday to finalize the deal with the league office, sources said.
Anthony is planning to arrive on Monday afternoon in Oklahoma City to take a physical and be available to practice Tuesday at the opening of the Thunder's training camp, according to league sources.
Anthony would only waive his no-trade clause for the Thunder, Houston Rockets and Cleveland Cavaliers, league sources said.
His no-trade clause will go with him to Oklahoma City.
Editor's Picks Melo escapes New York, leaving behind a complicated legacy Now that it's over, how do you unpack Carmelo Anthony's time with the Knicks?
Moving on from KD, Thunder storm ahead with Melo Losing Kevin Durant wasn't the end of the world for OKC, which has revamped the team with Paul George and now Carmelo Anthony.
Trade grades: Did Knicks or Thunder win Melo deal?
The Thunder load up to challenge the Warriors, and the Knicks fully start their rebuild.
Kevin Pelton grades the trade.
2 Related

Anthony joins the league's reigning MVP, Russell Westbrook, and All-Star forward Paul George on a reshaped and formidable Western Conference contender.
Westbrook and George -- who could become free agents in the summer of 2018 -- played a significant role in recruiting Anthony to waive his no-trade clause for Oklahoma City, league sources said.
The Thunder made a huge commitment with the Anthony deal, incurring $27.8 million in luxury tax for the 2017-18 season.
The Thunder payroll will rise to $134 million this season.
Anthony has two years, $54 million left on his contract, including a player option for $27.9 million in 2018-19.
Thunder general manager Sam Presti and Knicks GM Scott Perry had been talking on and off about a possible deal for weeks.
Talks intensified in the 24 hours before Saturday's agreement, league sources said.
As training camp loomed next week, Perry increasingly wanted no part of the circus that awaited his franchise with media day and Anthony's arrival both on Monday.
Around the organization and Anthony, there was a belief that the unresolved saga would become a suffocating daily issue.
Perry started to feel the urgency of making a deal on Friday, and engaged Oklahoma City in more serious dialogue, league sources said.
The Thunder's assistant GM, Troy Weaver, who recruited Anthony to Syracuse, replaced Perry as the Thunder's assistant GM a decade ago.
There are strong relationships between Presti, Weaver and Perry.
Once Anthony expanded his list of teams to include Cleveland and Oklahoma City within the past 10 days, Perry had more flexibility to move Anthony.
Perry remained in contact with Portland Trail Blazers president of basketball operations Neil Olshey, who had the most versatile array of assets for New York and motivation to make the deal -- but, ultimately, Anthony would not accept a trade to the Pacific Northwest.
Anthony was intrigued with a potential partnership with Damian Lillard, CJ McCollum and Jusuf Nurkic, and the stability and track record of the front office and coaching staff in Portland, but did not want to make such a dramatic geographic shift, league sources said.
New York had been willing to do an Anthony deal with his preferred choice, Houston, that included Eric Gordon and Trevor Ariza, but the Rockets consistently rejected that idea, league sources said.
Houston had become the focus of Anthony's trade request after the Rockets acquired All-Star guard Chris Paul, a close friend, in late June.
But Houston needed a deal to include forward Ryan Anderson, who has three years and $60 million left on his contract.
Cleveland's package included Iman Shumpert and Channing Frye, and would've needed to be supplemented with minimum veterans, league sources said.
Cleveland would never have considered including its 2018 first-round pick via Brooklyn, league sources said.
New York had been pursuing a future first-round pick from Oklahoma City, but the Thunder were unable to acquire one as part of a larger deal for New York, according to league sources.
The 2018 second-round pick on its way to New York was part of Oklahoma City's deal with Chicago in February that brought McDermott and Taj Gibson to the Thunder.
Gibson signed a free-agent contract with the Minnesota Timberwolves in July.
New York inquired about the Thunder's first-round pick at No.
21 in the 2017 draft, shooting guard Terrance Ferguson, but ultimately accepted the 2018 second-round pick that Chicago owed Oklahoma City.
With the Bulls projected to be one of the worst teams in the league, that pick could be in early 30s of next June's draft.
The Thunder's odds to win the NBA title went from 20-1 to 16-1 at the Westgate after news of the trade.
Their projected win total went from 51.5 to 52.5.
This is the second major deal Presti engineered this summer.
Oklahoma City acquired George in July, sending Victor Oladipo and Domantas Sabonis to the Indiana Pacers.
Westbrook has a five-year, $207 million extension offer on the table from the Thunder, with a deadline of Oct. 16 to sign.
The Thunder will have a difficult time bringing back Westbrook, George and Anthony for the 2018-19 season; the repeater tax penalty would push the payroll ($157 million) and luxury tax ($143 million) skyward to make Oklahoma City the NBA's first $300 million payroll.
Kanter, 25, was a first-round pick of the Utah Jazz in 2011.
He averaged 14.3 points and 6.7 rebounds for Oklahoma City last season, despite only playing 21.3 minutes per game.
Kanter posted a goodbye message to Oklahoma City fans on social media Saturday afternoon.
He thanked the organization and the state of Oklahoma and added, "I want to say, please beat the Warriors for me.
Please.
I'm gonna be watching that game, so please beat the Warriors for me."
McDermott, 25, was the No.
11 overall draft pick in 2014.
He was the NCAA's leading scorer that year, averaging 26.7 points per game as a senior at Creighton.
He averaged 6.6 points and 19.5 minutes in 22 games for the Thunder after the February trade.
ESPN front-office insider Bobby Marks and NBA reporters Ramona Shelburne and Ian Begley contributed to this report.
At a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, President Donald Trump told the crowd he would "love" for NFL owners to punish players for protesting during the national anthem.
(0:47)

President Donald Trump criticized NFL players who lodge protests during the pregame national anthem, saying Friday night that he wished those players would be released.
He also encouraged fans who are offended to walk out of stadiums.
Speaking at a political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!'"
Editor's Picks NFL players respond to President on social media NFL players register their feelings on social media regarding the comments of President Trump on players who kneel during the national anthem.
Eagles' Jenkins: 'No bigger platform' than NFL Striking an amicable but businesslike tone while saying there was no bigger platform from which to achieve their ends than the NFL, the players on an August memo seeking a push from the league into social activism expounded on their intentions Thursday.
1 Related

Trump said the protests are "hurting the game."
Trump also said referees are "ruining the game" by calling 15-yard penalties for "beautiful" tackles.
The NFL responded Saturday with a statement from commissioner Roger Goodell.
"The NFL and our players are at our best when we help create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.
There is no better example than the amazing response from our clubs and players to the terrible natural disasters we've experienced over the last month.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," the statement said.
Throughout the day Saturday, several NFL owners weighed in with statements condemning Trump's remarks.
Giants owners John Mara and Steve Tisch called the comments "inappropriate, offensive and divisive" and 49ers CEO Jed York called them "callous" and "contradictory to what this great country stands for."
Dolphins owner Stephen Ross said: "Our country needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness.
We need to seek to understand each other and have civil discourse instead of condemnation and sound bites.
I know our players who kneeled for the anthem and these are smart young men of character who want to make our world a better place for everyone.
They wanted to start a conversation and are making a difference in our community, including working with law enforcement to bring people together.
We all can benefit from learning, listening and respecting each other."
NFL Players Association executive director DeMaurice Smith also issued a statement Saturday morning in response to Trump's comments.
"Whether or not Roger and the owners will speak for themselves about their views on player rights and their commitment to player safety remains to be seen," Smith said.
"This union, however, will never back down when it comes to protecting the constitutional rights of our players as citizens as well as their safety as men who compete in a game that exposes them to great risks."
The NFLPA released an expanded statement later Saturday morning, saying that it makes "no apologies" for protecting the rights of its members, which includes freedom of speech.
"Their decision is no different from the one made by countless others who refused to let 'what they do' define or restrict 'who they are' as Americans," it said.
"No man or woman should ever have to choose a job that forces them to surrender their rights."
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, then with the San Francisco 49ers, began the wave of protests in the NFL when he sat during the national anthem before a preseason game in August 2016.
During the regular season, Kaepernick modified his protest of social injustice and knelt during the anthem.
Trump didn't mention Kaepernick or any other NFL player specifically during his Friday speech.
Earlier this year, Trump took credit for the fact that Kaepernick hadn't been signed.
Kaepernick opted out of his contract with the 49ers during the offseason.
He has not been signed by a new team since then.
Several players have continued to protest during the anthem this season.
"The only thing you could do better," Trump said Friday, "is if you see it, even if it's just one player, leave the stadium.
I guarantee things will stop.
Things will stop.
Just pick up and leave.
Pick up and leave.
Not the same game anymore, anyway."
Trump went on to say that NFL ratings are down "massively, massively," because people prefer watching him.
NFL ratings dropped 8 percent in 2016 compared with 2015.
Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.
Detroit Lions head coach Jim Caldwell has signed a multiyear contract extension with the team.
The deal was struck months ago, the Lions said.
Caldwell, 62, had been in the final year of his contract and consistently has had to answer questions about whether he will return in 2018.
Those questions included speculation about retirement and whether he felt he should be coaching on a lame-duck deal.
Turns out he never was leaving.
"I don't worry about those kinds of things," Caldwell said earlier in September, when he was asked about an extension.
"I don't think twice about them.
They don't concern me.
I have one mission: to take care of my men and to win football games.
... That's the truth.
"So it may be great to ask those questions, which is fine.
I'm going to answer them the exact same way if you ask them now or six weeks from now.
It's going to be exactly the same way.
It doesn't concern me.
My concern, like I said, is winning football games."
Players have routinely said how much they enjoy playing for Caldwell and how they appreciate his approach to keeping them fresh throughout the season.
He also has been credited for helping turn Matthew Stafford -- now the NFL's highest-paid player -- into one of the league's better quarterbacks.
Caldwell has taken the Lions to the playoffs in two of his three seasons.
With a winning percentage of .580 (29-21), he is the most successful Detroit coach in the Super Bowl era.
Caldwell faced questions about his job security in both 2015 and 2016.
When the Lions fired then-general manager Martin Mayhew and replaced him with Bob Quinn, Quinn took a week to decide whether he wanted to keep Caldwell before retaining him.
Then last season, the Lions announced during the week leading up to their playoff loss to the Seattle Seahawks that Caldwell would be returning.
Over seven seasons as a head coach with the Indianapolis Colts and Detroit, Caldwell has a 55-43 record.
He has made the playoffs four times and has had three seasons of 10 wins or more.
The Lions carry a 2-0 record into Sunday's early-season showdown with the Falcons.
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -- North Carolina State defensive end Bradley Chubb went out to the team buses to visit with family after his impressive performance against Florida State, but all anyone could talk about was what he did to the Seminoles' midfield logo.
Postgame video showed Chubb appearing to spit at midfield after the Wolfpack's 27-21 win.
When asked whether he intentionally spit on the logo, Chubb told ESPN, "No, I didn't!"
before adding, "But I did have fun out there."
North Carolina State also tweeted an apology on behalf of Chubb after the game.
Since he's off social media this season, Bradley Chubb asked us to post this: 'I want to apologize for my actions after the game today...'  NC State Football (@PackFootball) September 23, 2017

'...
I let my emotions get the best of me.
I have the utmost respect for Coach Fisher and Florida State.'
NC State Football (@PackFootball) September 23, 2017

The spit added another level of insult after NC State sent No.
12 Florida State, which had true freshman James Blackman making his first start at quarterback in place of injured Deondre Francois, to its first 0-2 start since 1989.
Chubb dominated the Florida State offensive line and the vaunted Seminoles defense could not make critical stops down the stretch.
A preseason favorite to make the College Football Playoff, FSU saw its postseason hopes all but dashed.
"I always spit when I'm playing football," Chubb told reporters after the game.
"I don't remember doing that.
It wasn't intentional at all.
It wasn't a celebration.
I celebrated with my teammates and then talked to Coach [Dave] Doeren.
I guess I just spit.
I really didn't mean to."
Chubb forced one fumble and had two sacks inside the 20-yard line to help keep FSU out of the end zone.
Editor's Picks Finley leads NC State to 27-21 upset of No.
12 Florida State Ryan Finley threw for 230 yards and two touchdowns as North Carolina State got its first road win over a ranked team since 2008, defeating No.
12 Florida State 27-21 on Saturday.
FSU coach Jimbo Fisher said afterward that the team's preseason goals didn't have to be revisited, but given the way they played and the schedule ahead, it's hard to envision a scenario in which the Seminoles make the playoff with two losses.
"There is no panic," Fisher said.
"But there's an urgency.
You've got to correct some things and get better.
We're going to line up and play next week.
Whether 1-1 or 0-2, we have to play one week at a time, one game at a time.
That's all we can control, and that's what the conversation's about."
Fisher praised the performance of Blackman, who stood his ground in his first career start, going 22-of-38 for 278 yards and one touchdown.
But there were crucial missed opportunities, particularly in the red zone as FSU came away with just one touchdown in seven trips.
Meanwhile, the Florida State defense gave up crucial third-down conversions and some big plays -- including one on All-American safety Derwin James, who allowed a 71-yard touchdown pass late in the first half from Ryan Finley to Jakobi Meyers in the second quarter.
"I feel like I've got to be better personally," James said.
"The big touchdown pass, I felt like I could have made that tackle.
That was a big play in the game, and [a play] I know I can make.
I waited for him to press up on me.
It's a play I make 10 out of 10 times, but I've got to be better.
That was a big turning point in the game."
It didn't help that Florida State was without starting linebacker Matthew Thomas (back) and receiver Auden Tate (shoulder), as well as starting linebacker Jacob Pugh (ejected for targeting).
Fisher expects Tate to be back relatively quickly and didn't have a status update on Thomas.
Florida State players had already cleared the field when Chubb was shown spitting toward the logo.
"Honestly, if he did that, God bless him," FSU defensive end Brian Burns said.
"That's disrespectful and dirty, but that's up to him.
That's the way he has to do it."
Florida State has more to worry moving forward about than whether an opponent disrespected its logo.
Last season, the Seminoles overcame a slow start to the season to finish as Capital One Orange Bowl champions.
"This doesn't define who we are," Florida State running back Jacques Patrick said.
"Things are going to get better, and that's how we see it.
We're going to try to win out.
That's our goal."
Stephen Curry explains why he would not attend a White House ceremony for the Warriors if the team was invited.
(1:19)

President Donald Trump tweeted Saturday morning that the Golden State Warriors are not welcome at the White House to celebrate their 2017 NBA championship.
Going to the White House is considered a great honor for a championship team.Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

There had been no previous indication of a White House invitation for the Warriors.
ESPN reported late Thursday night that the NBA had been in communication with the White House on the matter and believed an invitation would be extended, if the team decided as a group to attend.
Warriors coach Steve Kerr told ESPN that the team was planning to meet to discuss a potential visit.
Warriors owner Joe Lacob told ESPN that he planned to meet with the team Saturday morning before its first practice to discuss the issue, and that the White House was aware of the timeline.
The Warriors released a statement Saturday afternoon confirming their intention to meet together as a team at the "first opportunity" to discuss a potential White House visit but said "we accept that President Trump has made it clear that we are not invited."
"We believe there is nothing more American than our citizens having the right to express themselves freely on matters important to them.
We're disappointed that we did not have an opportunity during this process to share our views or have open dialogue on issues impacting our communities that we felt would be important to raise," the statement said.
"In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that we'll constructively use our trip to the nation's capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion -- the values that we embrace as an organization."
The Warriors travel to Washington, D.C., to play the Wizards on Feb. 28.
Kerr and several Warriors players have been openly critical of Trump and his administration on multiple occasions.
On Friday, Stephen Curry said he would vote no if the team were invited to the White House.
Kevin Durant previously told ESPN that he would not go.
Speaking later Saturday, Curry said his view was unchanged.
"My stance is the same as it was (Friday) and even kind of cemented even further about how things in our country are going especially with (Trump) representing us in a very damaging way," he said.
Asked his reaction to the president's tweet, the former league MVP called it "surreal."
"I don't know why he feels the need to target certain individuals rather than others," Curry said.
"I have an idea of why, but it's kind of beneath a leader of a country to go that route.
That's not what leaders do."
The mechanism of inviting championship teams to the White House has varied with each administration, but it is generally offered by the president during a congratulatory call to a coach or owner soon after the NBA Finals.
From there, the league office acts as a liaison with the White House to help schedule the visit.
On Saturday, Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James took to Twitter in response to Trump's tweet.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

James later expanded on his thoughts in a video posted on UNINTERRUPTED, saying in part: "He's now using sports as the platform to try to divide us.
We all know how much sports brings us together.
It's not something I can be quiet about.''
Information from ESPN's Ramona Shelburne and Chris Haynes and The Associated Press was used in this report.
Los Angeles Chargers cornerback Jason Verrett was placed on season-ending injured reserve Saturday due to a left knee injury.
Verrett had an MRI on the knee last week and has decided to have surgery.
Editor's Picks Is it time for Chargers to move on from Jason Verrett?
With Jason Verrett out for the season with a knee injury, the CB will have missed 39 of a possible 64 games in his four seasons with the Chargers.
"It was never right in my opinion, just watching him in practice," Chargers coach Anthony Lynn said.
"But he's such a competitor [that] he kept wanting to go out, save himself and play the first week.
But he wasn't able to play to his standard.
So we just want him to get healthy."
Verrett, 26, shut it down last season after a Week 4 game against the New Orleans Saints, when an MRI revealed he had a partially torn ACL in his left knee.
After having surgery to repair the issue, the TCU product endured a rigorous rehab to work his way back onto the field.
The Chargers took a cautious approach with Verrett this year, holding him out of offseason work on the field and slowly working him back into training camp.
Verrett played in just one preseason game, against the Los Angeles Rams.
He played 63 snaps in the team's opener against the Denver Broncos, but experienced soreness in his knee and missed the last two days of practice last week, with Lynn ruling him out for last Sunday's game against the Miami Dolphins.
With Verrett out for the season, he will have missed 39 of a possible 64 games in four seasons with the Chargers.
He was a first-round pick in 2014 and played in the Pro Bowl after the 2015 season.
Trevor Williams will start again in place of Verrett when the Chargers (0-2) host the AFC West rival Kansas City Chiefs on Sunday afternoon.
In a corresponding roster move, the Chargers promoted linebacker Nick Dzubnar from the practice squad.
ESPN's Eric D. Williams contributed to this report.
Prospective Miami Marlins boss Derek Jeter has asked the outgoing president of the team to fire four baseball luminaries who serve as special assistants, the Miami Herald has reported, citing two Major League Baseball sources.
According to the Friday report, Jeter, who stands to be in charge of the business and baseball operations of the Marlins when the sale of the team is finalized, asked David Samson to dismiss Baseball Hall of Famers Andre Dawson and Tony Perez, as well as Jeff Conine, the former outfielder known as "Mr. Marlin," and 2003 World Series-winning manager Jack McKeon.
Jeter, after first telling Samson he wouldn't be retained -- which was already presumed -- then asked him to inform the four of the moves, because Jeter didn't want to do it, the Herald reported.
Editor's Picks MLB hopes to approve Marlins sale before Nov. MLB commissioner Rob Manfred said no date has been set but hopes to have the pending sale of the Marlins finalized before the next scheduled owners meeting on Nov. 15-16 at Orlando, Florida.
Jeter's longtime agent, Casey Close, did not immediately respond to a text sent by ESPN seeking comment Friday night.
Conine, who has served as a special assistant since 2008, confirmed Saturday that he was told he won't be retained.
"They want to clean house so they can get their own people in there," said Conine, who played on World Series championship teams in 1997 and 2003.
"It's going to be weird.
The Marlins were part of our family."
Dawson and Perez have long held positions as special assistants -- Dawson since 2000 and Perez since 1993, the team's first season.
McKeon's recent duties have included scouting the Marlins' minor league teams.
He has been a special assistant since 2005.
"Sure, I'm sad," McKeon told the newspaper, after discussing Jeter's wishes with Samson.
"No question, you're sad.
I'm disappointed, but you understand.
A new regime is coming in, and they want their new people in there.
You can't fault them with that."
Conine said he, McKeon, Dawson and Perez are all expected to be at the final series of the season at Marlins Park next weekend.
MLB is expected to hold a special meeting before November to vote on approving the sale of the Marlins to a group that includes Jeter and is headed by venture capitalist Bruce Sherman.
The next scheduled owners meeting is Nov. 15-16 in Orlando, Florida.
Commissioner Rob Manfred has said the special meeting likely would be held as a telephone conference call.
Samson said on Aug. 12 that a signed $1.2 billion agreement had been submitted to MLB.
A 14-time All-Star shortstop, Jeter would be a limited partner in the group and in charge of the business and baseball operations, according to Samson.
At least 75 percent of major league clubs must approve any franchise sale.
Jeffrey Loria has owned the team since 2002.
Information from ESPN's Jerry Crasnick and The Associated Press was used in this report.
At a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, President Donald Trump told the crowd he would "love" for NFL owners to punish players for protesting during the national anthem.
(0:47)

Trump wants to see NFL players fired for kneeling during anthem (0:47)

President Donald Trump on Friday night criticized NFL players who lodge protests during the national anthem.
Speaking at a political rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Trump said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Here's how former and present NFL players reacted on social media:

Packers president Mark Murphy:

"It's unfortunate that the President decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL.
We strongly believe that players are leaders in our communities and positive influences.
They have achieved their positions through tremendous work and dedication and should be celebrated for their success and positive impact.
We believe it is important to support any of our players who choose to peacefully express themselves with the hope of change for good.
As Americans, we are fortunate to be able to speak openly and freely."
Rob Demovsky, ESPN Staff Writer

pic.twitter.com/Xumc820Yj3  Connor Barwin (@ConnorBarwin98) September 23, 2017

My statement: pic.twitter.com/xxX6LRI92f  Eric Winston (@ericwinston) September 23, 2017

We'll "stick to football" when we see progress.
Our Nations leader can't even set a good example of how it looks to be a great American  Davante Adams (@tae15adams) September 23, 2017

Only validates @Kaepernick7 bringing social injustice to light, he kneeled hoping it'd bring attention to what he believed in... Has it not?
cameron jordan (@camjordan94) September 23, 2017

The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!
Richard Sherman (@RSherman_25) September 23, 2017

Continue to use your voices and your platforms for racial equality and to stop injustices in our communities.
This is bigger than us!!!
Michael Thomas (@Michael31Thomas) September 23, 2017

Ppl said it was disrespectful not going to the White House..I'm sure they are quiet about us being called "sons of bitches" (D-Mac)  Devin&Jason McCourty (@McCourtyTwins) September 23, 2017

I'm a full supporter of the Flag & This country!
Trust Me!
But this can't be real!
https://t.co/GAPkZPB8hz  Rishard Matthews (@_RMatthews) September 23, 2017

I Fully believe and have trust in this country, whoever is leading it, & for damn sure the Flag!...
https://t.co/S1rHq8E2aZ  Rishard Matthews (@_RMatthews) September 23, 2017

It is a sad day when the #POTUS seeks to disregard and punish American citizens for peacefully exercising their constitutional rights.
https://t.co/QPvrKDS29D  Benjamin Watson (@BenjaminSWatson) September 23, 2017

Does anyone tell trump to stick to politics, like they tell us to stick to sports?
Eric Ebron (@Ebron85) September 23, 2017

What an emphatic response, where was this passion in response to Charlottesville... https://t.co/OkVZTdloXx  Max Garcia (@MGarcia_76) September 23, 2017

Praying for Mr. Trump and all the people of this country.
1 Timothy 2:1-8  Cecil Shorts III (@CecilShortsIII) September 23, 2017

It's a shame and disgrace when you have the President of the US calling citizens of the country sons of a bitches.
Bishop Sankey (@BishopSankey) September 23, 2017

Smh & all because @Kaepernick7 is exercising his right as an American citizen to protest.
Bishop Sankey (@BishopSankey) September 23, 2017

Trump stay in ur place... football have nothing to do wit u smh  Zach Brown (@ZachBrown_55) September 23, 2017

Trump!!
Thomas Davis (@ThomasDavisSDTM) September 23, 2017

I'm ok with being fired for what I believe in.
Martellus Bennett (@MartysaurusRex) September 23, 2017

"Stick to sports boy...
Sit down and do what your told.
Say or do something we don't like and your fired" Well I hate to break it to ya...  Chris Conley (@_flight17_) September 23, 2017

When will people learn that fear won't make someone sit down.
It quite possibly will make more stand up for what they believe in.
Chris Conley (@_flight17_) September 23, 2017

So the BLACK NFL PLAYERS are SON OF A BITCH now WOW  Chris Baker (@cbakerswaggy) September 23, 2017

Can't wait to hear the response from @nflcommish @NFLPA @NFL #BLACKLIVESMATTER  Chris Baker (@cbakerswaggy) September 23, 2017

#Kaepernick we riding with you bro   Reggie Bush (@ReggieBush) September 23, 2017

Str8 Joke !
We will overcome !
Jay z right on point  https://t.co/i0XS52VTLX  Desean Jackson (@DeSeanJackson11) September 23, 2017

So Trumpster is more mad at "son of a bi!
@&" athletes than he was the neo-nazi's in Charlottesville.
How am I not surprised?
Lance Moore (@LanceMoore16) September 23, 2017

Why people think pro atheletes are put on this earth just to play sports???
Baffles me!
Jalen Reeves-Maybin (@ReevesMaybin) September 23, 2017

Something is really wrong with him.
It's 2017 and this guy is really the president of the United States!
He's not my president!
#Unity https://t.co/K94eSLyEid  Earl Wolff (@Ewolff28) September 23, 2017

You have the privilege and honor to lead a Nation.
You sir should not disrespect people period.
https://t.co/giQPWLWpAC  Josh Robinson (@JROB_2one) September 23, 2017

Strong words from the Giants in response to President Donald Trump's comments: Jordan Raanan, ESPN Staff Writer

Cardinals defensive tackle Frostee Rucker, one of the teams defensive captains, said a day after President Trump encouraged NFL owners to fire players who protested during the national anthem that the team cant let a single person dictate how they feel.
You know, its a shame that were still dealing with these issues over and over and over and he somehow gets a pass to say these things.
These guys, we got to stay together and show them in a different way instead of lashing out and being pissed off about it.
We got to stick together and show them what compassion love and everything else we do.
Its a brotherhood in this locker room.
Were out in the community, we know ourselves.
We know everything were about so we cant let one single person, even though its the president, dictate how we feel.
We stick together, were in a union and if someone takes a knee, its almost like we all take a knee.
He said what he said.
Were going to stick together rand be a team and thats about it.
Josh Weinfuss, ESPN Staff Writer
Herm Edwards and Dan Graziano break down the Giants's chance against the Eagles this Sunday after two week of offensive struggles.
(2:32)

Taking a spin around the NFL to get you ready for Week 3, starting with a look at high-powered offenses that are underperforming:

The big questions

Can the Giants get their season on track?
The boos reverberated through MetLife Stadium on Monday night, following the New York Giants into their locker room midway through what became a deflating 24-10 loss to the Detroit Lions on national television.
The Giants, seen by some as a playoff contender heading into the season, are 0-2, with an offense that can't seem to do anything right.
And now they'll travel to face a Philadelphia Eagles team that has nearly a 70 percent chance of winning in Week 3, according to ESPN's Football Power Index.
Giants defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul called this "a must-win game," and it's the offense that will have to step up.
New York's offensive funk stretches further than this season.
The Giants have gone seven consecutive games -- eight, if you include the playoffs -- without scoring 20 points, a streak they have not topped since the late 1970s, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
In those seven games, they have managed eight touchdowns and 13.1 points per game, all last in the NFL.
A healthy Odell Beckham Jr. can fix a lot but not everything.
He can't fix the Giants' leaky pass protection, and he probably can't fix a running game that has totaled 97 yards in the first two games.
Still: There's a lot of talent on this offense, and it doesn't seem as though any team is running away from the NFC East.
Giants offensive lineman Justin Pugh has a message for the fans: "Stick with us.
Don't turn your backs on us just yet.
Just give us a chance here."
Can coach Ben McAdoo, left, and star wideout Odell Beckham Jr. do anything to get the Giants out of their offensive doldrums?
Al Bello/Getty Images

The Seahawks' offense is better than this ... right?
Let's go out on a limb here and say that it is.
The Seahawks, with 21 points through their first two games, have scored a touchdown in only one of their five trips to the red zone.
Their receivers have dropped 6.3 percent of their passes, the fifth-highest mark in the NFL.
These don't figure to be recurring issues.
And there's one notable positive here: that seventh-round pick Chris Carson seemingly has emerged as a productive runner, adding an unexpected layer of depth to the Seahawks' backfield.
But, yeah, that offensive line.
Russell Wilson has been sacked or put under duress on 39 percent of his dropbacks, the third-highest mark in the league.
Some of that is caused by holding onto the ball a little longer than most, but more of it stems from an offensive line that didn't improve enough over the offseason.
Wilson himself hasn't been good, either.
He has a 40.9 Total QBR (23rd among 32 qualified quarterbacks) and a 56.1 percent completion rate (29th).
He has completed only 31.8 percent of his passes when throwing more than 10 yards downfield, after completing 53.5 percent of such attempts from 2012 to '16.
Not good, but obviously there's a track record that suggests Wilson will be better.
The Seahawks face a tough road test against the Tennessee Titans, but Wilson says he thinks the Seahawks' offense is only "a few plays away."
How does Ezekiel Elliott bounce back?
Elliott rushed for 104 yards in Week 1, then gained a career-low 8 yards on nine carries for the Dallas Cowboys in Week 2.
Research from the Elias Sports Bureau says Elliott is only the fourth defending rushing champion in the past 40 years to have a game in which he averaged less than 1 yard per carry.
But it isn't just his production on the ground.
It's the pending legal issues that could keep Elliott out of six games, either this season or the next.
And now there are all those questions about his effort after he failed to hustle on a couple of interceptions.
Cowboys Nation is freaking out, people.
But let's put this in perspective a little bit: Elliott ran for only 51 yards in his first game of 2016, then fumbled twice in his second.
Then, well, he went nuts, and it helped quarterback Dak Prescott turn in an equally impressive rookie season.
Prescott needs more of the same now.
Defenses are continuing to load up the box and force Prescott to throw more often than ever.
He has thrown at least 39 times in each of his two games this season, after doing that in only two of 16 games last season.
His Total QBR has gone from 78.8 to 54.5 as a second-year player.
The Cowboys are coming off managing only 268 net yards in a 42-17 blowout loss to the Denver Broncos, and now they'll visit an Arizona Cardinals outfit that allowed a mere 4.79 yards per play last season.
"We're a very strong team," Elliott said earlier this week.
"I think we respond well with adversity."
Numbers that matter

20.15: The points per game, per team, through the first two weeks of this season (not including the combined 80 the Los Angeles Rams and San Francisco 49ers scored Thursday).
It's the lowest rate through the first two weeks since 2010.
In those two weeks, the average Total QBR was 48.8 and the passing-touchdown rate was 3.7 percent.
Both were the lowest through the first two weeks since 2006.
2.8: The Steelers' rushing yards per attempt so far.
It's the worst mark in the league and the fourth-lowest rate in franchise history through the first two games of a season in the wild-card era (since 1990).
Le'Veon Bell, who held out until the day after the preseason finale, has rushed for 119 yards on 37 attempts.
Thirty-two running backs averaged more yards per carry than Bell through the first two weeks.
2: The number of times the reigning Super Bowl-champion quarterback has ever matched up against the reigning college football national-champion quarterback.
The first meeting?
Aaron Rodgers against a rookie named Cam Newton, in Week 2 of the 2011 season.
The second?
Set for Sunday, in the Patriots-Texans game, when decorated champion Tom Brady squares off against touted rookie Deshaun Watson.
0: The number of touchdowns allowed by the Panthers in their first two games.
If they somehow do it again, against a high-powered Saints offense, they'll join some very rare company.
Since the forward pass was allowed in 1933, only two teams have not allowed a touchdown in each of their first three games, according to Elias.
They are the 1934 Lions (seven straight games) and the 1937 Bears (three straight).
15,674: The Dolphins' airline mileage through their first three games.
Miami won't play its first home game until Week 5 because of Hurricane Irma.
Before then, they will have traveled for road games against the Chargers (4,664 round-trip miles) and Jets (2,168 miles).
Then they're at "home" in London to host the Saints, which constitutes an 8,842-mile trip.
Don't forget: They already had their bye in Week 1.
What we'll be talking about after Week 3

The AFC West is as good as it gets

The Broncos, Oakland Raiders and Kansas City Chiefs are all 2-0, and a mere five points -- more specifically, a more accurate kicker -- is the difference between the Los Angeles Chargers being 0-2 instead of 2-0.
In short, all the AFC West teams are good.
We all knew the Broncos' defense would be good, but Trevor Siemian already has thrown for six touchdowns and C.J.
Anderson already has run for 199 yards.
The Chiefs, who face the Chargers this week, are the only team in the NFL with both an offense and a defense ranked in the top 10, according to FPI.
The Raiders are averaging an NFL-best 30.5 points per game and have yet to turn the ball over.
This might be it in New Orleans, Arizona

By the end of Week 3, it could be clearer than ever that this year signifies the end of the road for two of the NFL's most prolific coach-quarterback combinations -- Drew Brees and Sean Payton of the Saints and Carson Palmer and Bruce Arians of the Cardinals.
The Saints, looking to avoid their third consecutive 0-3 start, are hindered largely by a defense that ranks last in the NFL in efficiency by a wide margin.
They are only the sixth unit of the Super Bowl era to allow 1,000 yards over the first two games of a season.
The Cardinals should continue to have a hard time recovering from the long-term loss of star running back David Johnson, who led the NFL in yards from scrimmage last year.
Johnson's absence puts way too much pressure on Palmer (37 years old) and Larry Fitzgerald (34).
It could get ugly there too.
Aaron Rodgers can't do this alone

What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

Rodgers can do amazing things, but even he has his limits.
This week might offer a good example.
On Friday, the Packers listed seven players -- seven -- as doubtful for their Sunday game against the Cincinnati Bengals.
Six of them are starters: wide receiver Randall Cobb, left tackle David Bakhtiari, defensive tackle Mike Daniels, cornerback Davon House, outside linebacker Nick Perry and inside linebacker Jake Ryan.
Two others, wide receiver Jordy Nelson and right tackle Bryan Bulaga, were questionable.
With both of his starting tackles out in Week 2, Rodgers' average pass traveled 4.8 yards past the line of scrimmage, his shortest average since October 2014.
He has thrown only 23 passes with both Nelson and Cobb off the field the past two seasons, and that is a very real possibility in Week 3.
There's also this: The Bengals are the only team Rodgers has never beaten.
NFL Nation reporters predict the outcomes and scores for Sunday's and Monday's Week 3 games.
PickCenter

The Ravens are the third team since 1970 -- and first since the 1992 Pittsburgh Steelers -- to record four or more interceptions in each of the first two games of a season.
Jaguars quarterback Blake Bortles has thrown an NFL-worst 53 interceptions since entering the league in 2014.
Big advantage, Baltimore.
Ravens 28, Jaguars 17 -- Jamison Hensley

This is not exactly an advantageous matchup for the Jaguars.
The Ravens have forced a league-high 10 turnovers (eight interceptions), and Bortles has turned over the ball an NFL-high 66 times since the beginning of the 2014 season (with 53 of those interceptions).
Expect Baltimore to do what Tennessee did last week: stack the box, minimize Leonard Fournette's success and make the Jaguars put the game in Bortles' hands.
It worked for the Titans and it'll work again in Week 3.
Ravens 21, Jaguars 7 -- Mike DiRocco

PickCenter

Coach Vance Joseph said he doesnt believe in trap games," but this one fits the profile: an 11 a.m. kickoff on Denver time following an attention-grabbing victory over the Dallas Cowboys and falling the week before an AFC West showdown with the Oakland Raiders.
The Broncos do have the look of a balanced team in the early going; they led the league in rushing after two games, quarterback Trevor Siemian was tied for the touchdown-pass lead and the defense was No.
4 overall.
Broncos 23, Bills 9 -- Jeff Legwold

There are two factors that could keep the Bills in this game: Their defense is allowing 0.95 points per opponent drive, fourth in the NFL, and they have a positive turnover margin (plus-1).
The problem for Buffalo will be trying to play from behind, which is likely against a Broncos offense that has averaged 3.18 points per drive in the first half, fourth in the NFL and significantly higher than the Bills' 0.70 rate.
One of the items on coach Sean McDermott's needs analysis this week is his receivers winning more one-on-one matchups, and that will be extremely difficult for Jordan Matthews and Zay Jones to do against Aqib Talib and Chris Harris.
Broncos 21, Bills 13 -- Mike Rodak

PickCenter

The Saints have a lot of issues on defense, but the biggest one has been allowing explosive plays down the field.
According to ESPN Stats & Information, opponents are 14-of-16 on throws of 15-plus yards, with more touchdowns (three) than incompletions.
The good news is Carolina isnt built to exploit that, particularly without tight end Greg Olsen.
But the Saints secondary could be even more depleted with cornerbacks Marshon Lattimore and Sterling Moore both questionable with injuries.
And Carolina will almost certainly try to confuse New Orleans inexperienced young defense with misdirection and versatile weapons such as Cam Newton and Christian McCaffrey.
Panthers 26, Saints 22 -- Mike Triplett

Despite being 2-0, the Panthers have struggled to finish drives.
What better team to finish them against than the Saints, who rank last in the NFL in total defense (512.5 yards per game) and next to last in scoring defense (32.5 points per game).
The Panthers have averaged 34 points in their past five games against New Orleans.
They also have the league's stingiest defense after two games.
Panthers 34, Saints 17 -- David Newton

PickCenter

The Steelers have five losses to teams with losing records since 2014 and have grown tired of the narrative that they play down to competition.
Pittsburgh's run-stopping defense should match up well with the Bears, who rank 24th in rushing and don't have a completion longer than 22 yards.
The Steelers are still waiting to break out on offense, while Chicago is playing without its top three receivers.
Steelers 24, Bears 17 -- Jeremy Fowler

The Bears lack of firepower on offense -- tied for 25th in points per game (12.0) -- hurts them on Sunday.
Pittsburghs defense has been its strength -- third overall and third in yards per play (3.89) through two games.
Bears receiver Markus Wheaton and guard Kyle Long likely make their season debuts, but there's not much optimism Chicago can outscore Ben Roethlisberger & Co. Steelers 24, Bears 13 -- Jeff Dickerson

PickCenter

In the battle of coed church-league basketball teammates, Matt Ryan and Matthew Stafford both could end up making the difference for their respective teams.
While Stafford is tied for the league lead with six touchdown passes, Ryan has thrown for 22 touchdowns with no interceptions over his past nine games, including the playoffs.
He might feel a little pressure, particularly if starting right tackle Ryan Schraeder (concussion) is unable to go.
But Ryan has enough weapons, led by Julio Jones, to give a solid Lions defense fits.
Falcons 31, Lions 24 -- Vaughn McClure

The Lions have been better than expected this season: 2-0 for the first time since 2011 and with a team that has offensive and defensive talent.
And, yes, the Lions are at home this week.
But there are three things that are concerning against the Falcons: The Lions are on a short week; Jarrad Davis and Tavon Wilson, two key defensive starters, are not locks to play; and the Atlanta offense is better than anything Detroit has seen so far this season.
Detroit should keep it close -- it is, after all, what the Lions do in the Jim Caldwell era.
But the Falcons just have a bit too much talent in the end, with Austin Hooper being the surprise key player while Davis and Wilson are banged up.
Falcons 31, Lions 27 -- Mike Rothstein

PickCenter

Something has to give in this game between two winless teams, and the Browns actually enter it with an edge at quarterback.
DeShone Kizer has at least had a training camp and preseason to learn the system, and the Browns' defense should be enough to deal with Jacoby Brissett in his second Colts start.
Coach Hue Jackson needs this win desperately, and he gets it.
Browns 17, Colts 10 -- Pat McManamon

The positive is that one of these teams has to win ... unless, of course, they tie.
Owner Jim Irsay suddenly has been pushing patience when it comes to a rebuild with the Colts.
But a loss to the Browns, who have won only once in their past 21 games, likely will test Irsay's patience.
The Colts played with more confidence offensively against Arizona in Week 2.
Brissett has another week under his belt as starting quarterback, and receivers T.Y.
Hilton and Donte Moncrief are in position for bounce-back games after disappointing performances against the Cardinals.
Coach Chuck Pagano avoids starting 0-3 for the first time.
Colts 24, Browns 16 -- Mike Wells

PickCenter

It might seem like a gift for the Bucs not having to go against Teddy Bridgewater and possibly missing Sam Bradford too.
But Vikings backup quarterback Case Keenum is 2-0 against the Bucs over the past two seasons.
That's a topic that has been brought up a lot in the defensive meeting rooms this week.
Another concern?
The possibility of not having middle linebacker Kwon Alexander when facing Minnesota rookie running back Dalvin Cook.
This will be a big test to see just how much the Bucs' defense has improved against the deep ball and against the run, two areas of focus this offseason.
Bucs 24, Vikings 19 -- Jenna Laine

The way Bradfords knee reacts to practice will determine whether he can power through and play Sunday, and theres a chance he wont know if hes ready to go until the day of the game.
The Vikings look like a different team without him, but even so, have some faith that Minnesota isnt going to commit 11 penalties for 131 yards in back-to-back games, after seeing many of the infractions pave the way for Pittsburgh's scoring drives in Week 2.
Keenum has had success against Tampa Bay the past two seasons (with the Rams) and knows the Bucs' defense, but his pocket presence and timing will determine whether he can orchestrate the offensive attack needed to win.
Bucs 21, Vikings 14 -- Courtney Cronin

PickCenter

The Bill OBrien-led Texans have never won at Gillette Stadium, and thats not going to change on Sunday.
Houston's defense gave Tom Brady and the Patriots trouble in the playoffs (Brady was 18-of-38 for 287 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions), but its offense still isnt good enough to outscore Brady at home.
Patriots 28, Texans 13 -- Sarah Barshop

The Texans have the defensive personnel to slow down the Patriots, specifically with a good pass rush up the middle when they bring ends Jadeveon Clowney and Whitney Mercilus over center David Andrews.
But in the end, the Patriots will have too much firepower, as they never have lost to a rookie quarterback at home under coach Bill Belichick (8-0).
Patriots 30, Texans 24 -- Mike Reiss

PickCenter

Miami has won four of its past five meetings against the Jets at MetLife Stadium.
Miami's offense and quarterback Jay Cutler showed flashes in Week 2 but could have a breakout game.
The Jets allowed more points (66) than anyone in the NFL through two games.
Dolphins 28, Jets 17 -- James Walker

The Jets' best chance to win is to stop running back Jay Ajayi, shifting the onus to the turnover-prone Cutler.
Problem is, it's hard to trust the Jets' run defense, which has yielded a combined 370 yards in two games.
On the other side, the Jets will have problems with Miami's front four, especially if guard Brian Winters (abdomen) doesn't play.
Defensive end Cameron Wake is a Jet killer: seven sacks and four forced fumbles in 15 games.
The Jets will be 0-3 for the first time since 2003.
Dolphins 24, Jets 20 -- Rich Cimini

PickCenter

You need to look really hard with the blue-tinted glasses to find a victory for the Giants in this one after what they've showed the first two games.
And this is the Eagles' home opener.
The matchup isn't good, either.
If Justin Pugh had to describe the Eagles' front seven in one word, "relentless" would be his choice.
That's not promising for a Giants offensive line that has struggled badly once again this season.
It's no accident the Eagles and their multi-layered pass rush have dominated this series lately, winning five of the past six meetings.
The Giants' offensive line can't handle their relentless pressure.
It's the same Sunday.
Eagles 19, Giants 12 -- Jordan Raanan

Desperate teams are dangerous teams, and the 0-2 Giants fit the description.
But the Eagles' strength -- their defensive line -- will go head-to-head against the Giants' weakness, their offensive front.
That's a matchup that will be difficult for New York to overcome, no matter how bad it needs this one.
Eagles 24, Giants 17 -- Tim McManus

PickCenter

The Seahawks believe some of the issues that held their offense back in Week 2 -- dropped passes and some uncharacteristic inaccuracy from Russell Wilson -- are easily correctable.
But their offensive line very much remains a question mark, and it has a tough matchup against a Dick LeBeau-led defense that is sure to bring all sorts of pressure.
The Seahawks might need to rely again on their star-studded defense, which has been as good as advertised while allowing only 26 points through the first two games.
That group has allowed only four completions on throws more than 10 yards downfield, tied for second in the NFL, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
If the Seahawks can continue to limit explosive plays in the passing game and find even a few of them on offense, it should be enough to grind out another win.
Seahawks 17, Titans 14 -- Brady Henderson

The Titans' defense knows the chaos surrounding the Seahawks' offense and struggling offensive line -- just 21 points and allowing 16 quarterback hits through two games -- but they've talked all week about Russell Wilson's legs and ability to extend plays as if he were like Michael Vick.
Tennessee will try to use its running attack to control the flow of the game, and it helps that Seattle has to deal with a cross-country trip to much warmer weather.
Unfamiliarity might be a deciding factor, as Wilson (124.5) and Marcus Mariota (121.1) lead the NFL in passer rating during interconference games since Mariota entered the NFL.
This is the type of game -- being a narrow home favorite against a consistent contender -- Tennessee needs to win to reach its next plateau.
Titans 20, Seahawks 16 -- Cameron Wolfe

PickCenter

The Bengals' defense is playing as well as anyone's, but if the offense can't score, Cincinnati is not going to get very far, especially at Lambeau Field.
The Bengals are in a state of disarray after firing offensive coordinator Ken Zampese.
The schedule gets easier after this, but this is a tough spot for them.
Packers 21, Bengals 9 -- Katherine Terrell

The Bengals have yet to score a touchdown this season.
The Packers didn't allow one in their home opener against the Seahawks.
Yes, the Packers are banged up on defense and couldn't slow down the Falcons in Atlanta last Sunday night, but the punchless Bengals shouldn't overly tax them even if they don't have perhaps their best pass-rusher in Nick Perry (hand).
Aaron Rodgers should complete the NFL sweep by beating the last team he has never won against.
Packers 27, Bengals 13 -- Rob Demovsky

PickCenter

The Chiefs know how to beat divisional rivals.
They spent practice time as far back as the offseason reviewing video and practicing for their three AFC West opponents.
The results are there.
The Chiefs have won 11 straight in the division and six in a row against Sundays opponent, the Los Angeles Chargers.
In those games, the Chiefs usually have defended Philip Rivers well; he has five TD passes, seven interceptions and a passer rating of 74.6.
Even without two injured starters in the secondary, one being safety Eric Berry, the Chiefs will again find a way to win.
Chiefs 27, Chargers 24 -- Adam Teicher

This one should be a back-and-forth affair with two of the more explosive offenses in the league matching up.
However, the Chargers havent defeated the Chiefs since 2013, and quarterback Alex Smith is playing at a high level.
The Chargers have struggled to run the ball, averaging just 54 yards per game.
If they can get Melvin Gordon going and keep Kansas Citys offense off the field, the Chargers have a punchers chance.
Chiefs 30, Chargers 27 -- Eric Williams

PickCenter

Marshawn Lynch's dance party was a regional thing, the Oakland-born and -bred running back getting "hyphy" with and for the East Bay crowd.
Now, it's time to take things to a national, prime-time level.
Confidence is high in Oakland with the Raiders' first 2-0 start since 2002, when they opened up 4-0, and simply put, they match up well against Washington.
Khalil Mack has eight sacks in his past nine games against NFC foes, and tight end Jared Cook lit up Washington last season while with Green Bay to the tune of 105 receiving yards and a touchdown.
Expect more of the same under the bright lights.
Raiders 27, Redskins 16 -- Paul Gutierrez

The Redskins will move the ball on Oakland's defense, which yields 4.8 yards per carry and is 21st in the NFL in allowing 5.3 yards per play.
The Redskins are coming off a strong run performance with 229 yards versus the Rams, and they feel their passing attack is this close to making big plays.
The problem: Oakland's diversified offense will be too much for a young but improving defense.
The stat to know: The Raiders lead the NFL with 263 yards after contact; the Redskins' defense ranks 26th in yards after contact allowed (172).
Raiders 28, Redskins 24 -- John Keim

PickCenter

Dak Prescott has not lost back-to-back regular-season games in his young career, but the Cowboys quarterback's work on the road in his past three full contests has not gone well for him.
Four of his six career interceptions have come in losses at the Giants and in Week 2 at Denver.
Last season, Prescott followed up his worst showing at New York with one of his best, completing 88.9 percent of his passes in a victory against Tampa Bay.
What helped that night was Ezekiel Elliott running for a career-high 159 yards.
Elliott has to have a similar game Monday.
Cowboys 30, Cardinals 27 -- Todd Archer

The Cardinals have won the past four games against the Cowboys, including their past three at home.
But Arizona's offense has struggled to get off to fast starts this season, gaining just 95 yards and scoring 10 points in two first quarters thus far.
The Cards will have to face an eager Cowboys team coming off a dismal loss to the Broncos.
Neither team has been impressive in the early part of this season, but the Cardinals are still learning how to play without injured David Johnson, and his absence will be quite obvious on Monday night.
Cowboys 31, Cardinals 17 -- Josh Weinfuss
Everyone's wrong, OK?
Let's just start there.
There are no winners here; everyone is wrong -- including me -- and I hope we can fix that.
It started in the preseason, when Green Bay Packers tight end Martellus Bennett tweeted this:

I don't care about your fantasy football team.
Thanks!
Sincerely real life football guy.
- Martellus Bennett (@MartysaurusRex) September 1, 2017

And what has followed in recent weeks is a slew of tweets from NFL players on the same subject, including Tyler Eifert, Odell Beckham Jr., LeGarrette Blount and Golden Tate among others.
Some are nicer than others, some are more aware than others, some use -- ahem -- saltier language than others.
But the message is the same.
"I don't care about your fantasy team.
Stop tweeting at me about it.
I don't care."
This is not a new phenomenon.
I remember getting into a 2015 preseason Twitter back-and-forth with Jeremy Maclin over the same subject.
Over the years, Arian Foster and Ray Rice have been very vocal about fantasy football and their disdain for having it pushed on them.
Editor's Picks Week 3 fantasy football rankings Fantasy football rankings from Matthew Berry, Field Yates, Mike Clay, Eric Karabell and Tristan Cockcroft for Week 3 of the NFL season.
Best, worst matchups at all fantasy positions Matchups are a driving force behind weekly lineup decisions in fantasy football.
Here are the most- and least-favorable matchups at QB, RB, WR and TE for Week 3 in the NFL.
Last-minute pickups for fantasy football Week 3 Which widely available players should you pick up and start for Week 3?
Our experts compile the best options at every position, including a Browns quarterback and Redskins running back.
2 Related And here's the thing: They are right.
No NFL player should care about someone's fantasy football team.
Professionally, all that should be expected of them is that they concentrate on helping their NFL teams win games.
Let me take a moment here to get on my soapbox.
Just stop.
Don't tweet at NFL players.
Don't do it.
In the words of coach Herm Edwards: Don't press send.
I have a solution for you at the end of this column, but in the meantime, tweeting to players is a waste of time -- for you, for the player, for the universe.
I understand that there is a statistical and transactional nature to fantasy football.
It contributes to people thinking of NFL players as statistical pieces of meat rather than as real people with emotions and personal challenges.
That doesn't make it right.
And if you don't get that, I strongly recommend reading Kevin Van Valkenburg's great piece on Seahawks running back Eddie Lacy and his public battle with weight management.
But either way, I assure you: Whatever NFL player you are tweeting at gave it his all on the field.
He is working hard at getting healthy and trying to come back.
If he had a bad game, I promise you, he is already well aware of it.
No need to let him know.
There's plenty of things in this world that deserve your attention, your passion and your thoughts online.
This ain't one of them.
So I'd like to take this opportunity to apologize to every NFL player who has ever received online grief from fantasy owners.
It's not right, I'm embarrassed by it and I hope I can help contribute to improving the situation.
I also want to personally and specifically apologize to Martellus Bennett.
After he tweeted his "real football guy" line, well, I took exception to it.
If we are all just an amalgam of our experiences, I'm one who has waved the flag for fantasy football for over three decades.
I've heard enough nerd/Dungeons & Dragons/mom's basement jokes to last five lifetimes -- and working on the sixth.
You should see the mentions on Martellus' timeline after this tweet.
I've written before about the not-always-smooth path that fantasy football has taken in major media companies, including ESPN.
So I am sensitive (overly, if I am being honest) and protective of this little game we play, and it just seemed so weird for Bennett to just tweet that, out of the blue.
The "real life football guy" part struck me as condescending and passive-aggressive toward the game we play.
Anyway, I responded to his assertion that he doesn't care about our fantasy teams.
Nor should you.
But considering FF is a big driver of the huge interest that allows you to be paid $$$$ maybe not be a jerk about it either?
https://t.co/VRVLrktdzD - Matthew Berry (@MatthewBerryTMR) September 1, 2017

So I want to apologize to Martellus here because I shouldn't have used jerk.
That was too aggressive, and that's on me.
I'll own my role in this and cop to the fact that I'm not perfect either, especially on social media.
So that's on me and me alone.
And so when I am sitting here lecturing people about how they treat NFL players online, realize I am including myself there as well.
After that tweet, Martellus and I went back and forth in a more civil discussion about it, which I was glad about.
My disappointment, however, is that while I see his point, he didn't see mine.
He retweeted an easy Dungeons & Dragons barb; he joked back and forth with Eifert (who also doesn't care about your fantasy team, by the way) and most specifically, disagreed with my point that fantasy football helps him in any way.
And that's what I mean when I say everyone's wrong.
Fantasy players should not be tweeting anger at NFL athletes.
And those same athletes should not care about fantasy football at all.
But they also shouldn't be dismissive of it.
The truth is, fantasy football is great for the NFL and, ultimately, great for players.
For the most part, fans care about teams.
They like the Packers or the Patriots or the Redskins or whomever.
They care about the league.
But the one place where fan interest in more about individual players than teams?
Fantasy football.
Later in the conversation, Martellus tweeted

"Football was the most popular sport in the world before [fantasy football] and will be after fantasy football.
All [fantasy] did was cross-pollinate fans."
He then added "Y'all act like FF is responsible for all football fans that are watching the game these days.
[Fantasy] is not the powerful bruh"

My response to Martellus was this:

"For all?
Of course not.
But it's certainly helped fuel interest & ratings.
And that helps you guys get paid more-as you should be.
"FF is a reason that there will be millions of additional Martellus fans that are NOT GB fans.
How is that a bad thing for you?
"You don't need to embrace it.
You shouldn't care about anything other than GB winning.
But no reason to dismiss those that play.
That's all."
Watch The Fantasy Show every weekday The Fantasy Show with Matthew Berry airs at 5 p.m.
ET on ESPN2 every weekday.
We will, however, be on ESPN on Mondays during the season.
There are also late night re-airs (check your listings and set those DVRs) and replays are always available on WatchESPN by clicking on the NFL tab.
It's those last two points I wish I could get through to players like Martellus, Odell, LeGarrette and others.
Odell Beckham doesn't need fantasy football to be famous, well paid or any of that.
But players like him are few and far between.
There's a lot more players like Tarik Cohen, Jack Doyle, Rashard Higgins, Cooper Kupp and Austin Hooper, to name a few.
You think anyone, anywhere, is talking about Rashard Higgins outside of Cleveland other than fantasy owners?
Football has always been popular, and it would still be a huge business without fantasy football.
But it wouldn't be as big.
On Thursday the 49ers and the Rams are going to play, and you know who outside of California is going to watch that game?
Fantasy players, that's who.
Because, let's be honest, that ain't a sexy game, Mr. Bennett.
I'm not delusional.
I'd be shocked if any NFL players read this column, but I know that agents, as well as NFL public relations and NFL Players Association people, do read this, so I'm hopeful they will help spread the message.
No one is asking you to care.
Just don't be dismissive.
Or just keep it to yourself.
Because that's not helping the conversation either.
I interviewed Cardinals running back David Johnson this summer, and when I asked him about fantasy football, he said, "Fantasy has blown up.
I never knew much about it; I've been forced into it, but it's a great opportunity.
A great opportunity to see more fans of different teams, but they are fans of me and it's just cool to see."
Just this week, when Johnson was asked if he'd thought about fantasy football players as he recovers from his wrist injury, he said, "Fantasy is the last thing on my mind right now."
As it should be, and we should respect him enough to keep it that way.
He has exactly the right attitude.
Every agent should copy and paste that first quote and give it to their players.
Tell them, when asked about fantasy, they should just say that and move on.
And not check their Twitter accounts.
Because while I don't agree with the attitude of some players, I certainly understand where it comes from.
My Twitter gets blown up with awful, hateful things every Sunday, and that's just me.
I'm just some dumb guy on basic cable.
I can only imagine how much worse it is for players.
So here's my solution.
I have created a Twitter account: @StanleyStink.
Stanley is a player.
He is a player on your fantasy team.
And he just killed your hopes this weekend.
Crushed your team.
It is all his fault.
He sucks.
He is brutal.
And you should let him have it.
Instead of channeling your anger at a specific person, send it to Stanley.
He'll listen.
He has all the filters off, and he will never block anyone -- he promises.
So go to town on Stanley.
Get it off your chest, blow off some steam and save your tweets to real athletes for gratitude, when they carry your fantasy team to victory.
Because that's gonna be the case more often than not.
Quarterbacks I love in Week 3

Cam Newton may be off to a sluggish start in fantasy, but the matchups don't get much better for a QB than the Saints.
Jeremy Brevard-USA TODAY Sports

Cam Newton, Panthers: A year after being drafted as QB1 and finishing as QB17, Newton's comeback tour has hit a bit of a snag, as he has scored fewer fantasy points than Josh McCown and Sam "one game" Bradford.
Which is why it's a perfect time to take a dip in the healing powers of Lake Minnetonka, otherwise known as the Saints' secondary.
New Orleans is last in the NFL in completion percentage allowed, yards per attempt allowed, fantasy points allowed and tied for the most touchdowns allowed.
The Saints have even allowed more deep touchdown passes (three) than deep incompletions (two) this season.
The past three times Newton has gotten a full week of prep time prior to facing the Saints, he has thrown for at least 315 yards against them.
I like his chances at making it four in a row.
Matthew Stafford, Lions: So after two weeks on the "hate" list, Stafford and I are tied.
He was a rock star in Week 1 (bad call by me) and not much in Week 2 (yay me).
So let's see if we can work together, Mr. Stafford, and bring it home for the both us.
Although he looked locked in, I was down on Stafford in the preseason not because of his talent (he's a terrific real-life QB) but because of the ball-control offense the Lions wanted to run, something you saw on full display on Monday night.
And I fear that will be the case more often than not.
But back at home in the dome in a game where the Lions will have to throw to keep up?
I'm all-in.
Since the beginning of last season, only two teams have allowed more fantasy points to quarterbacks than the Falcons, and that doesn't figure to improve with Vic Beasley Jr. out.
Stafford is locked in as a high-end QB1 this week in what should be a shootout.
Carson Wentz, Eagles: So, the Eagles can't run and it doesn't seem like the Giants can tackle.
Even if the Giants get Janoris Jenkins back (expected as of Wednesday night), this is still a recipe for fantasy success for Wentz, the only quarterback in the NFL with at least 300 yards passing and multiple passing touchdowns in each of the first two games this season.
It's a pass-first, pass-second and pass-third offense -- since Week 8 of last season, no QB has thrown more passes -- and much like Stafford on Monday night, Wentz's mobility will allow him to avoid the Giants' pass rush.
I have no idea why I am the only ranker to have Wentz in the top 10 this week.
Others receiving votes: Carson Palmer drives me crazy, but at home on Monday night -- and as another QB in an offense that can't run -- he should be able to put up points against a struggling Cowboys secondary that just gave up four scores to Trevor Siemian.
I like Palmer's chances of another solid game.
The rushing keeps DeShone Kizer's floor high and the Colts' defense keeps his upside pretty high.
While I don't expect Alex Smith to remain the No.
1 QB in fantasy by the end of the season, he should usable once again this week against a Chargers team that he has had at least 13.4 fantasy points against in every game since joining K.C.
in 2013.
He scored 52.68 total points last season in two games against the Bolts.
Quarterbacks I hate in Week 3

Russell Wilson, Seahawks: Remember the last season in which the Seahawks didn't allow Wilson to be pressured at a top-three rate?
Don't feel bad, it has never happened.
With limited protection, it shouldn't be surprising that Wilson has completed just 57.9 percent of his passes against the blitz (19th) since 2015.
It's not just the offensive line struggles, but potentially being without Jimmy Graham doesn't help and you can't ignore his road struggles (19.1 percent fewer fantasy PPG on the road since 2015).
A slow starter, Wilson has averaged 14.32 points per game in September the past three seasons (QB25 last year), but has averaged 19.82 points per game from October on (QB6 last year).
Which means patience with Wilson, but maybe look elsewhere for Sunday.
Ben Roethlisberger, Steelers: This is another surprising one to me as well, as many of my colleagues have Ben inside their top 10 this week.
We know how much Roethlisberger struggles on the road (just 15 points at Cleveland in Week 1, he averages just 13.59 away from Pittsburgh since 2015) and very quietly, the Bears are actually pretty tough against QBs at home, where they rank as a top-10 unit since the start of 2016.
In that span, the Bears have given up just seven passing touchdowns in nine home games.
Ben is outside my top 10 this week.
Running backs I love in Week 3

Carlos Hyde, 49ers: The talent was never in question, it has always been the health.
He's healthy now and in a run-first offense that plays to his strength.
After an impressive performance on the road in Seattle last week, everyone is starting him, but I wanted to highlight him as I am the only ranker to have him in the top six and feel he is worth the price for those playing DFS.
The volume is there and in a short week, I'd expect even more of an emphasis on the running game.
And I also expect that to be successful, as the Rams are allowing the seventh-most yards per carry and fifth-most running back points this season.
Frank Gore should get plenty of touches Sunday at home and faces a fantasy-friendly foe.
Trevor Ruszkowski-USA TODAY Sports

Frank Gore, Colts: What are the Colts gonna do, let Jacoby Brissett throw it?
They won't have to against the Browns, so while a vulture TD from Marlon Mack is always a possibility, Gore looked spry last week and the Browns have allowed 4.49 yards per carry since the start of last season.
Expect another heavy workload and a top-20 finish from Gore in Week 3.
Theo Riddick, Lions: Death, taxes and you start pass-catching running backs against Atlanta.
Since the start of last season, the Falcons have allowed the most receptions, the second-most receiving yards and most receiving touchdowns to opposing running backs.
With two high-powered offenses on the turf in what should be a high-scoring game, expect Riddick to be used enough to be worthy of a top-20 play in PPR leagues.
Others receiving votes: Javorius Allen has out-touched Terrance West in two straight weeks and I expect that to continue, especially in the passing game, as Baltimore struggles with its vertical passing game.
Also, West didn't practice on Wednesday.
... With Corey Coleman going down to injury, Duke Johnson Jr. is now leading the Browns in overall targets and on targets 15 yards downfield.
Indy is tied for the most pass attempts of 15-plus yards allowed downfield.
I like the Browns' chances of moving the ball through the air here and Johnson will be a part of that.
... OK, it would be a gutty call, no doubt, but with a change in offensive coordinator the Bengals need to do something, so how about increasing Joe Mixon's touches against a Packers team giving up the second-most yards per carry before first contact this season.
The Bengals have to do something different and I believe that includes more Mixon.
Running backs I hate in Week 3

Jordan Howard, Bears: Howard was out-snapped 40-29 by Tarik Cohen last week and he really hasn't looked great when he has had the ball in his hands (73 yards on 25 touches).
Digging further, Howard has been outgained by Cohen (6.6 yards per carry to 2.7) and only three of Howard's carries have come with eight men or more in the box.
The Steelers have been a top-10 run defense (in terms of yards per carry) since Week 9 last season.
Whether it's injury, sophomore slump or some combination, Howard is hard to trust as anything more than a flex this week.
Bilal Powell, Jets: Powell has fewer carries and targets than Matt Forte this season and has been out-snapped by Forte in both games, too.
Hey, anytime you can get the backup RB on a terrible offense you gotta do it, amirite?
Small-sample-size alert, of course, but the fact that the Dolphins held Melvin Gordon to 13 yards on nine carries last week can't make you feel great about Powell's chances, either.
Eventually, I believe Forte gives way to Powell, but not this week, and not against Miami.
Adrian Peterson, Saints: If Sean Payton isn't gonna use him, why should you?
So far it would appear this is one helluva a bad call by me.
I still have hope, but it's fading and I certainly don't see a lot of daylight for him against a Panthers team that has given up just 2.4 yards per carry to opposing running backs this season, third fewest in the NFL (and they've faced Carlos Hyde and LeSean McCoy).
They are, however, tied for the fourth-most receptions allowed to opposing running backs this season, which means Alvin Kamara could be interesting for those in deeper leagues.
Wide receivers I love in Week 3

A.J.
Green, Bengals: Just in case you were thinking of getting cute ... don't.
I like him in DFS this week as well, as the Packers have surrendered the third-most deep completions and the most deep touchdowns since the beginning of last season.
Kelvin Benjamin, Panthers: Well, you know I am in on Cam this week, so it stands to reason I'm also a fan of the guy who leads the Panthers in targets on passes of 15-plus yards downfield this season.
This may come as a shock, but the Saints have allowed opposing QBs to complete 87.5 percent of those throws, including more TDs (three) than incompletions (two) on those throws.
Especially with Greg Olsen out, Benjamin is a top-20 play for me.
Golden Tate, Lions: Since the beginning of last season, the Falcons are allowing more than 110 yards per game to slot receivers.
No other team is allowing even 90 yards per game.
I'll take volume against Atlanta every day of the week and considering that Tate leads the league in routes run since joining the Lions in 2014, he has top-10 potential this week in a shootout in Detroit.
And if for some reason he doesn't, you know, don't tweet him.
Others receiving votes: One knock against Jarvis Landry is that he never scores, but that may change this weekend, as the Jets have allowed the fourth-most yards per catch to slot receivers (12.6) and the fifth-most slot TDs (12) since the start of last season.
You were already using Landry in PPR, but I'm good with him in non-PPR this week as well.
... Cooper Kupp makes his third appearance in as many weeks on this list, as he has accounted for 91.3 percent of the Rams' slot yardage and his scoring upside is higher than usual.
Opponents have completed a league-high 75 percent of their red zone passes when targeting the slot against the Niners since the beginning of last season, thus landing Kupp on the PPR WR3 radar Thursday night.
... Rashard Higgins impressed with seven grabs in Week 2 and the Browns' offense could be as potent as ever -- a low bar to set, but still -- against a vulnerable Colts secondary that has allowed a league-high 14 deep completions.
Gimme some Rashard Higgins.
Wide receivers I hate in Week 3

Dez Bryant hasn't put up big numbers the first two weeks and now has to face an elite corner in Patrick Peterson on Monday night.
Isaiah J. Downing-USA TODAY Sports

Dez Bryant, Cowboys: Mike Clay's WR/CB matchups column is among the articles I make sure to check weekly before setting my lineup, and he has Patrick Peterson extending Bryant's struggles.
How can you not agree?
Peterson (6-foot-1 and 203 pounds) is one of the few corners who can match up physically with him.
This is still a good offensive line despite what we saw last weekend and I think the Boys look to get their identity back.
This passing game isn't as inept as we've seen thus far, but this isn't the week to right the ship.
Dez is merely a touchdown-dependent, low-end WR2/3 this week.
Alshon Jeffery, Eagles: This is with the assumption that Janoris Jenkins plays, since that's the expectation as of this writing.
Since the start of last season, the Giants have allowed the second-lowest completion rate to WRs both overall (56.3 percent) and on passes of 15-plus yards downfield (31.9 percent).
Carson Wentz has 640 yards passing this season and yet, just 130 of them have gone to Jeffery.
Wentz has been spreading it around and I'm not sure that changes Sunday given the coverage I expect Jeffery to get.
I can't imagine you have better options, but he's not a DFS play for me and is merely a high-end WR3 this week.
Tight ends I love in Week 3

Matthew Berry's Fantasy Life By fantasy players, for fantasy players.
As a gift or just for yourself, gear up and show your pride about the game we all love.
-- TMR

Jack Doyle, Colts: No Andrew Luck, and yet I'm in on a pass-catcher for Indy?
You betcha, he said, because apparently when talking about Indy players it helps if you talk like you live there.
Doyle seemed to have a bit of a connection with Jacoby Brissett last week (eight catches for 79 yards) and if you're a tight end, it doesn't get any better than a date with the Browns.
They've allowed the most fantasy points, most receptions, third-most receiving yards and are tied for the most receiving scores to opposing TEs this season.
That's while facing the likes of Jesse James and Benjamin Watson.
Charles Clay, Bills: From 2002 to '16, there were exactly two instances in which a defense generated pressure on at least 34 percent of dropbacks for a season: the 2015 Broncos and the 2016 Broncos.
Why am I putting that stat beneath a Love tight end?
Well, since the beginning of last season, Clay's reception share jumps from 19.1 percent when Tyrod Taylor is not under pressure to 24.6 percent when he is feeling the heat.
The Broncos just got lit up by Jason Witten, so yeah, in a desperate tight end week, you could do worse than Clay.
Austin Hooper, Falcons: He has yet to see much in the way of targets, but he should be able to make the most of what opportunities he does get against the Lions.
Since the beginning of last season, Detroit ranks as a bottom-five defense in terms of completion percentage and touchdowns allowed to tight ends.
There should be no shortage of points in this one, so look for Hooper to bounce back after a disappointing Week 2.
Others receiving votes: Zach Miller has run a route on 82.1 percent of his snaps this season (the highest rate among the 81 tight ends who have played at least 15 snaps), a trend that is worth a roll of the dice against a Steelers defense that has allowed the ninth-most TE receptions since the beginning of last season.
... Benjamin Watson caught all eight of his targets last week and I think the Jags' ability to pressure the quarterback is real (league-high 44.9 percent pressure rate this season).
Since the beginning of last season, the majority of Joe Flacco's targets when under pressure have gone to non-WRs ... and Watson is basically the lone non-WR standing at this point.
Tight ends I hate in Week 3

Jason Witten, Cowboys: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know that Witten has nearly as many catches as any other tight end has targets this season and that he has scored in back-to-back weeks to open the season.
But what is most likely to occur?
This stretch in which he has scored once every 11 targets, or his career average of one score every 24 targets?
Witten has never been a consistent source of touchdowns, and with the Cardinals having held tight ends to the second-fewest receptions (and the fewest PPR points) since the beginning of last season, I just don't see TE1 upside on Monday night.
Martellus Bennett, Packers: Aaron Rodgers leads the league in pass attempts and is second in passing yardage ... and Marty B has 90 yards.
Even in a shootout last week with Atlanta and every pass-catcher banged up, Rodgers and Bennett just couldn't connect.
The Bengals have given up just 19 yards to opposing tight ends this season.
Now, that's skewed because Houston literally had no one at tight end and Baltimore didn't need to throw much in Week 1, but still.
Based on what we have seen so far and an expectation that Cincy comes to play in this one, I have Bennett outside my top 10 this week.
Defenses to stream in Week 3

For updated order of preference, check out my rankings.
Miami Dolphins (at Jets, 89 percent available); Baltimore Ravens (vs. Jaguars, 43 percent available); Tampa Bay Buccaneers, especially if Bradford doesn't play (at Vikings, 89 percent available); Philadelphia Eagles (vs. Giants, 88 percent available).
Matthew Berry, The Talented Mr. Roto, also thinks you should tweet mean things to celebrities.
He is the creator of RotoPass.com, the founder of the Fantasy Life app and a paid spokesperson for DRAFT.
Field Yates and Mike Clay discuss the possibility of Derrick Henry taking over if DeMarco Murray doesn't play in Week 3, and predict Henry could become the new starter for the Titans.
(0:36)

I get it.
Maybe you havent rushed to pick up running backs Derrick Henry or Chris Carson yet because theyre stuck in timeshares and your running back depth is still OK.
But dont wait any longer.
Even if you dont start them in Week 3, theyre the kind of high-upside players worth stashing on your bench.
And they might just wind up starting for you in the fantasy playoffs.
As ESPN Tennessee Titans reporter Cameron Wolfe wrote, Henry isnt the Titans starter yet, but he might soon force their hand.
The second-year power runner, who ran for a career-high 92 yards on 14 carries in Week 2, saw his ownership increase from 60.3 percent to 84.7 percent in ESPN leagues.
There's a chance he might wind up starting Sunday if veteran DeMarco Murray cant play because of a hamstring injury.
If that happens, Henrys ownership should creep closer to 100 percent.
Titans coach Mike Mularkey reaffirmed this week that Murray remains the starter when healthy.
And as Wolfe pointed out, Murray still is the better pass-blocker and offers proven big-play potential.
So hes not going away anytime soon.
But Murray has gotten off to a slow start (21 carries for 69 yards) while battling hamstring issues since the preseason.
And Henry is catching up fast.
Derrick Henry averaged 6.6 yards per carry with a touchdown in the Titans' Week 2 victory at Jacksonville.
David Rosenblum/Icon Sportswire

As for Carson, the rookie seventh-round draft pick already has emerged as the leading man in the Seattle Seahawks' backfield.
He had 20 carries for 93 yards in Week 2, which makes it pretty surprising that he is still owned in only 37.7 percent of ESPN leagues.
Carsons playing time is a little cloudier because Seattle also has veterans Thomas Rawls and Eddie Lacy, plus pass-catching back C.J.
Prosise.
But ESPN Seahawks reporter Brady Henderson said Carson looks like the real deal, as much as a running back can look like that through two games.
Hes going to have a role each week, but I don't know if it'll be 20 carries each week, said Henderson, who said Seahawks coach Pete Carroll explained that Rawls only played a handful of snaps in Week 2 because he was being eased back in following an ankle injury.
Henderson also wrote a fantastic breakdown this week of whether Lacy could still have a role in the Seahawks backfield.
On to the rest of our weekly tour of the best fantasy insight from NFL Nation:

Allen, Perine in next tier: The Baltimore Ravens' Buck Allen and the Washington Redskins' Samaje Perine are two more running backs with some breakout upside.
Allen has made the most of his opportunity with injuries to Danny Woodhead and Terrance West over the past two games.
The third-year pro had 66 rushing yards, 35 receiving yards and 1 touchdown in Week 2.
And he could be the leading man Sunday in London against the Jacksonville Jaguars if West (calf) cant play.
The bad news is that West likely will remain the featured goal-line back when healthy, and Woodhead will be the leading backfield pass-catcher when he returns from injured reserve in the second half of the season.
But the good news is that Allen always will have some sort of a role because of his versatility.
As for Perine, the rookie ran 21 times for 67 yards in Week 2 after replacing injured starter Rob Kelley (who is questionable Sunday with a rib injury).
Perine is the obvious replacement if Kelley is out, and ESPN Redskins reporter John Keim said he thinks Perine ultimately will become the main guy.
But Keim stressed it probably wont happen right away and that Redskins coach Jay Gruden still likes Kelley a lot.
Plus, both of them will lose touches to third-down back Chris Thompson, who is off to a terrific start, highlighted by his 61-yard touchdown run in Week 2.
Keim wrote that Thompsons role wont increase substantially -- even if Kelley is sidelined -- because of Thompsons smaller frame and his own injury history.
But Keim wrote about how Thompson has continued to improve every season.
Concerns about Howard: Meanwhile, one of the most highly ranked fantasy running backs heading into this season is trending in the opposite direction.
The Chicago Bears' Jordan Howard ran for just 7 yards on nine carries in Week 2, has been dropping some passes, is battling a shoulder injury and is losing touches to rookie breakout Tarik Cohen.
ESPN Bears reporter Jeff Dickerson wrote that Chicago claims Howard has been running the same way as last season while blaming overall run-game problems.
But Dickerson is highly skeptical of the Bears assessment and doesnt have much confidence in a major turnaround.
What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

Big day for Beckham?
ESPN New York Giants reporter Jordan Raanan said Odell Beckham Jr. is healthier this week, and points out that the receiver has a history of coming up big when the team needs a victory in a big way.
Last season, Beckham went for more than 200 yards and two touchdowns in the second half against the Baltimore Ravens when the Giants were 2-3.
ESPN Philadelphia Eagles reporter Tim McManus wrote that the Eagles could have an Odell problem without cornerback Ronald Darby available to defend him.
Montgomery a workhorse: For anyone who thought Ty Montgomery's workload might be a concern, ESPN Green Bay Packers reporter Rob Demovsky pointed out that the Packers receiver turned running back actually is leading all NFL running backs in snaps.
Packers coach Mike McCarthy said he wants to eventually try to cut back on that heavy load.
But Demovsky said fantasy owners obviously should play Montgomery with confidence as a bona fide No.
1 back, knowing hell be heavily involved in both the run game and passing game.
Quick hitters
During the second quarter of Louisville's win over Kent State, a squirrel ran onto the field and into the end zone for a "touchdown," which elicited responses from Bobby Petrino and Lamar Jackson after the game.
(0:47)

Week 4 is here.
It's been so long since last Saturday.
Here's the best stuff from Week 4 in college football:

A man can dream

Can this New York Jets fan predict the future?
He sure hopes so as he's already invested... https://t.co/dze0eXTCXq pic.twitter.com/q35hdQ4KlV  Nick Wagoner (@nwagoner) September 23, 2017

INT of the day

Snagged.
pic.twitter.com/5t1FGjIYQU  ESPN CollegeFootball (@ESPNCFB) September 23, 2017

Happy birthday to you!
Alae Risse Leitch is celebrating her 104th birthday today.
She's been coming to Georgia Tech football games since 1920.
#TogetherWeSwarm pic.twitter.com/jSdvNBPwJQ  Georgia Tech (@GeorgiaTech) September 23, 2017

Pokes fans loving Melo move

The OKC Thunder trade for Carmelo Anthony caused a buzz among the Oklahoma State tailgates leading into Saturday's TCU game.
"Im a little bummed about (Enes) Kanter getting traded.
... but I think were going to the Western Finals now," said Edmond native Bryson Holden, a freshman at OSU.
Cowboy/Thunder fans Chad Schmidt and Lance Hoose found out about the trade watching the ESPN crawl at Eskimo Joe's.
"I love it," said Schmidt, whose son was actually going to Kanter's basketball camp this weekend.
"It moves us up there (with Golden State)," Hoose said.
"Going to come down to who wants it on the court more now."
Jake Trotter, ESPN Staff Writer

A Texas-sized burger

Everything's bigger in Texas, right?
Especially the burgers.
This Texas A&M fan purchased the "mega burger" at AT&T Stadium on Saturday.
Sam Khan Jr., ESPN Staff Writer

This is actually the "Super 16" Burger at AT&T Stadium.
The burger has 16 ounces of meat, including chopped brisket, the official barbecue delicacy of Texas.
It has four slices of cheese.
Baker's starting early

Every time we play in somebody else's house, I try to get them to be as loud as possible...
Solely so I can hear the difference when the clock hits zero.
Conference play starts tomorrow.
#TheKidIsInTown #BeatBaylor A post shared by Baker Mayfield (@baker_mayfield) on Sep 22, 2017 at 8:51pm PDT

OU's Heisman-frontrunning QB took to Instagram last night.
He's ready for things to get loud at Baylor.
Lee Corso and the College GameDay gang gets the honor of ringing the opening bell at the NY Stock Exchange.
(0:21)

Live from New York ... it's College GameDay.
For the first time, GameDay broadcast from Times Square in the heart of New York City.
Use #GameDaySigns on Twitter to let us know your favorite.
We asked you to pick your favorite sign from the @pizzahut #GameDaySigns.
The fans have spoken!
pic.twitter.com/reIAELVFOj  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

So that's where the nickname came from pic.twitter.com/I55iXw36fE  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

Concrete jungle where dreams are made of pic.twitter.com/kL5r8Oz9Ct  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

Some people are still living in 2008 pic.twitter.com/gy0fA18Ug5  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

Xoxo pic.twitter.com/8PSn0yDilk  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

You can't lose if you don't have a team, Gumby.
pic.twitter.com/P9X40odrEZ  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

Holler at us in 4 months pic.twitter.com/EReS72AHyd  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

He's not wrong pic.twitter.com/oBHv3yVf21  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

Didn't get the memo pic.twitter.com/sfK50uFieE  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017

Those are really hard to get pic.twitter.com/I2FSvtXQro  College GameDay (@CollegeGameDay) September 23, 2017
Aaron Dodson of The Undefeated breaks down the 10 best college football uniforms going into Week 4.
(4:36)

The uniform honors and tributes continue this week.
California honors former QB Joe Roth with throwbacks to its 1976 season when it hosts USC (ABC and ESPN App, 3:30 p.m.
Roth played QB for the Bears in the 1975-76 season but died of melanoma, at 21, three months after his final game at Cal.
@CalFootball/Twitter

Roth's No.
12 is the only uniform number retired by the Bears' football program.
For Arkansas' game against Texas A&M this weekend (ESPN and ESPN App, noon ET), the Razorbacks will honor former Hog Jerry Jones in his home stadium.
Jones, who was a captain on Arkansas' 1964 national championship team, went into the Pro Football Hall of Fame this year, and the Razorbacks are wearing Dallas Cowboys-themed uniforms.
Arkansas Razorbacks

In Florida, Florida State and Miami return to action for the first time since Week 1.
Hurricane Irma made landfall the following weekend, cancelling Week 2 games across Florida and causing the Miami-Florida State game to be moved from Sept. 16 to Oct. 7.
FSU and Miami will join other Sunshine State schools wearing decals on its helmets to remember those affected by the storm.
Remembering our friends and loved ones affected by Hurricane Irma with this decal.
pic.twitter.com/tBUwhVzQoi  FSU Football EQ (@FSUFootballEQ) September 22, 2017

And when Virginia Tech hosts Old Dominion this week, it will be celebrating the military with American-flag helmet decals.
Closer look.
#MilitaryAppreciation helmet for Saturday.
#GoHokies pic.twitter.com/eliLeErz9N  VT Equipment (@VTEquipment) September 19, 2017

Not to be outdone in fashion, ODU will be wearing this all-blue number.
Tough look for @ODUFootball this week.
@ODUFBEquipment x #uniswag pic.twitter.com/kT60wpDL7K  UNISWAG (@UNISWAG) September 22, 2017

All the colors

The NFL has its Color Rush designs but the colors are almost limitless in college football.
This week, Missouri has a gold rush, SMU goes gray, Arizona bears down in blue and Arizona State hosts a Maroon Monsoon.
Under the radar look of the week

Week 4 look for @NWBearcatsFB #FamilyWeekend pic.twitter.com/Ze2jKveuY9  Northwest Equipment (@BearcatEQ) September 22, 2017

The reigning NCAA Division II national champion Northwest Missouri State host Missouri Southern featuring helmets with the subtly cool red paw.
The Bearcats, 3-0 this season, wear the red paw in honor of former head coach Scott Bostwick, who passed away in 2011.
STARKVILLE, Miss.
-- Dan Mullen knows Mississippi State's place in the SEC.
He has a 64-42 record in nine seasons and has taken the Bulldogs to a school-record seven straight bowl games, but he's not going to confuse himself with the blue bloods of the conference anytime soon.
That's not a knock on him or the program.
If anything, he relishes the role of the underdog, squeezing every ounce out of available resources, not to mention talent.
"How we view things, we have to be a little smarter than other people," he told ESPN in 2015.
"We have to come up with other solutions other than to throw money at the problem."
On Monday, less than 48 hours after dominating one of those premiere programs, LSU, in a 37-7 win, Mullen was asked what challenges Saturday's opponent, No.
11 Georgia, present.
"Besides all their five-star players?"
he said incredulously.
Mississippi State QB Nick Fitzgerald has the Bulldogs off to a 3-0 start after beating LSU on Saturday.
Matt Bush-USA TODAY Sports

Mississippi State and Georgia share the nickname of Bulldogs, but they're not of the same pedigree.
Georgia hasn't been ranked outside the top 10 of ESPN Recruiting's Class Rankings the past five years, while Mississippi State's average finish during that time is 27th.
"Quarterback," Mullen said, sizing up Georgia's roster, "one five-star went out and another five-star quarterback went in."
Indeed, Jacob Eason, the No.
1-ranked pocket passer in the Class of 2016, was sidelined by an injury during the season opener and was replaced by Jake Fromm, the No.
7 pocket passer from the Class of 2017.
Mississippi State simply can't do that.
Not at any position really, but especially not at quarterback.
Ask Mullen and he'll tell you that his is a developmental program.
Once, when he was offensive coordinator at Florida, his starting quarterback was Tim Tebow and his third-stringer was a kid by the name of Cam Newton.
But those days ended when he set up shop in Starkville in December of 2008.
Instead of cherry-picking from the best of the best, he had to find the kind of quarterback everyone else had overlooked, the one who wasn't anywhere near ready-made for the SEC, but might get there with time.
In 2011, he found a hard-nosed, dual-threat quarterback in Haughton, Louisiana, named Dak Prescott that LSU and other programs saw as a tight end, signed him without a thought of changing his position, and during the course of five years transformed him into the best player in program history.
It would be the same formula he'd follow in the summer of 2013 when another middling prospect without a Power 5 scholarship offer came to camp hoping to convince someone to let him throw the football.
Even now, when Nick Fitzgerald watches his high school highlight tape on Hudl, he winces.
The very first clip, where what should be a picturesque SEC quarterback standing tall in the shotgun, is some skinny kid crouched under center running a triple-option offense.
The ball comes out of his hands, and while it's not exactly a sputtering duck, it isn't exactly beautiful either.
"Oh, man," Fitzgerald said, soaking in the humiliation.
That quarterback from Richmond Hill, Georgia, wasn't ready for big-time college football, not by a long shot.
In peewee football, he'd run the Wildcat offense.
And for his first three years of high school, he was backup to future Citadel QB Dominique Allen.
He begged coaches to let him play anywhere, so he wound up spending time at receiver, defensive back, linebacker and kick and punt returner.
He was even the backup punter.
Editor's Picks Can Mississippi State, Oklahoma State clear their paths to contention?
Watch out for weird things in Week 4.
It's possible we'll have very interesting -- and unlikely -- 4-0 teams after Saturday's games.
The SEC is a shell of its former self, and Alabama will reap the benefits What happened to Alabama's competition?
The inevitability of another Crimson Tide SEC coronation is already creeping in.
1 Related

When he did wind up inheriting the starting quarterback role as a senior, he was stuck in an offense that wanted to utilize his legs more than his arm.
All told, he attempted fewer than 80 passes that season.
It's a wonder that Middle Tennessee found something in his paper-thin film worthy of offering him a scholarship to play quarterback.
Let alone that an SEC school like Mississippi State did, too, even though Mullen apparently couldn't tell the difference between Middle Tennessee and UT Chattanooga.
"I know the reasons why people weren't looking at me," Fitzgerald said without hesitation.
In fact, if you ask, he'll be happy to explain all the reasons why.
But be warned, he's not exactly sparing in his criticism of the quarterback he saw on those so-called "Senior Highlights."
"He had terrible footwork," Fitzgerald said.
"He had an awful front arm.
Pretty much his whole throwing motion was off."
He was just getting started.
"He pushed a lot of balls, almost like a shot put.
He didn't really have a good follow-through.
He wasn't accurate or anything about it.
His front foot was off."
A deep breath and then more.
"His drops were terrible.
His timing was bad.
His reads were bad."
But dammit he was trying, bless his heart.
Self-taught, he didn't know what he didn't know.
"How did I even make it happen?"
Fitzgerald asked.
What Fitzgerald couldn't have known at the time was that his future coach wasn't worried about all those technical things.
Mullen wasn't looking for some polished 7-on-7 superstar.
The only biomechanics Mullen worried about was a player's gut, and in Fitzgerald, he felt he was looking at a playmaker.
Prescott vs. Fitzgerald Thru 1st 16 Starts Nick Fitzgerald's numbers look very similar to former Bulldogs QB Dak Prescott at the same point in his career.
Prescott Fitzgerald Pass Yds 3,743 2,966 Rush Yds 1,277 1,615 TD Resp For 50 49 W-L vs AP Ranked opp 3-2 2-2

It was the clips in between those shot-put passes that first gave Bulldogs assistant coach John Hevesy hope.
Then Mullen took a peek and liked what he saw as well.
On the second clip of Fitzgerald's highlight tape, after that less-than-impressive first-down pass, you see the same skinny kid crouching under center.
He takes the snap and executes the same triple-option offense.
Except this time he keeps the ball himself.
This time he's running toward the camera and you see his big 6-foot-5 frame come into full view.
He's athletic, ducking past the edge of the defense and into open field.
And then, just as a defender tries to cut him at the knees, he goes vertical, leaping over the defender before gathering himself to pick up a few extra yards.
"He had some talent," Mullen said.
He was raw, but as Mullen said, so was Dak.
For that matter, so was Tebow and Alex Smith and every other successful quarterback he'd ever worked with.
Fitzgerald's fundamentals didn't bother him.
He had natural talent -- the things Mullen or any other coach couldn't teach.
With enough time and enough patience, he might make for a decent player one day.
And if Fitzgerald had any doubts, all he had to do was look at Dak Prescott to see how it was done.
You can ring a cowbell anywhere on Mississippi State's campus and find at least a half dozen coeds wearing Dak Prescott No.
15 jerseys within earshot.
Prescott isn't just a football star now, he's a celebrity, and the front man for national brands like Adidas and DIRECTV.
And it's easy to understand why.
His story reads like a fairy tale: unheralded player is overlooked by hometown team; goes to conference rival with no history of winning; lifts school to No.
1 ranking; becomes everyone's All-American.
The story even repeated itself in the NFL as general managers and coaches turned their nose up at his lack of so-called measurables.
Underestimated yet again, the 135th pick in the 2016 draft went on to become a starter for the Dallas Cowboys and NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year.
Dak Prescott led Mississippi State to a No.
1 ranking in 2014 and set several school records before being drafted by the Dallas Cowboys.
Nelson Chenault-USA TODAY Sports

But the underdog narrative is ultimately too tidy, too incomplete.
It omits a three-year window in between Prescott signing with Mississippi State and him becoming a star.
Unaccounted for is the presence of the persistent, detail-obsessed Dan Mullen looking over Prescott's shoulder, pecking away at his mechanics and decision-making.
Mullen, for all his self-deprecating charm in front of the cameras, is not always an easy person to deal with.
He likes to push his quarterbacks' buttons and challenge them on the field and in team meeting rooms.
There might be two quarterbacks alive that have "arrived" in his mind, and they're future Hall of Famers Tom Brady and Aaron Rodgers.
Even today, Mullen looks at Prescott and sees a very raw product.
To a lesser extent, he says the same of 12-year NFL veteran Smith.
"I have a pretty high standard of expectations for them," Mullen explained.
"So I'm hard on all of them because I want it to be perfect."
That's what drew Prescott, and then Fitzgerald, to Mullen.
He told Fitzgerald during a recruiting visit, "Hey, you're going to have to work your butt off.
You're not going to like me most days.
That's OK.
I'm going to coach you as hard as I possibly can."
Fitzgerald nodded along, waited for Mullen to finish and asked where he should sign up.
"There's no doubt he's not going to tell you what you want to hear," he said.
Even still, Fitzgerald's first two years on campus were difficult.
Mullen and then-QB coach Brian Johnson "attacked" his fundamentals, he said, picking out all the things wrong with his throwing motion.
Already somewhat inaccurate to begin with, he became even more so.
There were days, he said, when he didn't even want to look at Mullen.
But with time, it clicked.
Or, as Fitzgerald put it, it was hammered into place.
"Everything had to be broken down, reshaped kind of in his image, you can say."
He's far from a finished product now, of course, but it's a night-and-day difference from where he was when he first set foot on campus in 2014.
At home, he'll spend an extra 10 minutes every day simply running through his throwing motion.
In his living room, with no one around and not a football in sight, he'll make sure his feet are pointed in the right direction and his follow-through is correct to create muscle memory.
He pays close attention to his non-throwing arm which, coming out of high school, he was barely cognizant that it had anything to do with the velocity and accuracy of his passes.
"I would say with quarterbacks with the light coming on, it's not always a switch, it's kind of like a dimmer.
Like mood lighting.
And you can control it and it gets brighter and dimmer based on how you control it.
But his is starting to get brighter."
Dan Mullen

Last season, his first as a starter, he managed to lead the SEC in total offense despite completing just 54.3 percent of his passes.
Three games into the 2017 season, the redshirt junior is up to 61.4 percent.
He's still a true dual threat -- since the start of 2016, he's the only FBS quarterback with six games of multiple passing and rushing touchdowns -- but his yards per attempt are up and his touchdown-to-interception ratio is down.
Has the light come on for Fitzgerald?
Not exactly, according to Mullen.
"Which light?"
he said, grinning.
"It's coming.
It's getting brighter.
I would say with quarterbacks with the light coming on, it's not always a switch, it's kind of like a dimmer.
Like mood lighting.
And you can control it and it gets brighter and dimmer based on how you control it.
But his is starting to get brighter."
Fitzgerald's best moment -- dare we say, his brightest moment -- during last Saturday's win over LSU wasn't a long touchdown pass or an electrifying run.
It was, of all things, a little 3-yard dump pass into the flat.
That, ultimately, is the measuring stick for a Dan Mullen-coached quarterback.
You see, Mullen isn't much of a risk-taker.
Although he'll show you the proper throwing motion and he'll teach you how to throw it deep, he doesn't order you to take shots downfield.
There are no big plays in his playbook, only the correct play.
And Saturday night, on third-and-11 from the MSU 45-yard line, the correct play wasn't what you might expect.
Leading 10-7 with 2 minutes, 34 seconds left in the first half, Mullen called a time out.
A three-and-out would have let the 12th-ranked Tigers go into halftime feeling good about themselves.
A score might be the final dagger.
Coming out of the break, Fitzgerald lined up in the shotgun with three receivers out wide.
The snap was terrible -- about two feet to his right -- but he snagged it with one hand, steadied himself in the pocket and watched as two LSU linebackers showed blitz.
But only one of them rushed and the other let tight end Farrod Green slip out into the flat.
Fitzgerald saw it right away, flicked the ball out to Green, who caught it and ran upfield for a 22-yard gain and a first down.
Fitzgerald will return to his native Georgia for Saturday's game in Athens.
Justin Ford-USA TODAY Sports

It was simple, ordinary even.
And Mullen absolutely loved it.
A few plays later, on second-and-goal, Fitzgerald faked the handoff to his running back, rolled left and dove into the end zone for his second rushing touchdown of the game.
"The saying has always been 'Chicks dig the long ball,'" Fitzgerald said.
"[Mullen will] say that then he'll look at you and say, 'But look at the guys in the NFL who have beautiful wives, beautiful girlfriends, and they check the ball down 95 percent of the time.'
So obviously the really good-looking girls, they like the check downs."
Said Mullen: "He's got a ways to go.
But he has a great skill set in which to do it.
He has the talent to do it.
It's just honing that talent -- probably over the next five years."
Yes, you read that correctly: five years.
That's the trajectory as Mullen sees it.
But you'll have to forgive others if they don't take quite the same long view.
As far as Georgia head coach Kirby Smart is concerned, how Fitzgerald does against his defense on Saturday in Athens, Georgia, (ESPN & ESPN App, 7 p.m.
ET)) is all that matters.
And given the fact that Georgia overlooked him on the recruiting trail, maybe he should be worried.
Fitzgerald grew up a diehard Georgia fan and went to football camps there every year he was in high school.
He spoke to coaches, but no scholarship offer ever came.
Granted, Smart wasn't the head coach at the time, but even so he recruited the state while an assistant at Alabama and he missed on Fitzgerald just the same.
"He was kind of under the radar," Smart said.
"Just goes again to show what Dan has been able to do with quarterbacks.
He saw something in the kid.
He's unbelievably competitive, physical, big.
"I mean, he did it with Dak Prescott.
Dak was not a highly recruited guy."
As for Fitzgerald, all he'll say is that he and Georgia didn't connect.
"They didn't want me," he explained.
"It's how it happens."
For now, he'll keep his motivation bottled up.
But don't be surprised if it spills over between the hedges, an overlooked recruit from an underdog program facing one of the conference's blue bloods.
Georgia can have its pair of five-star quarterbacks.
As long as Mullen can turn three-stars into bona fide superstars, it doesn't make any difference to Mississippi State.
The Warriors brush off Kevin Durant's Twitter mishap, with Draymond Green having a laugh at Durant's expense.
(0:46)

OAKLAND, Calif. -- This summer should have been a victory lap for Kevin Durant after his sublime NBA Finals.
Validation after proving himself on the biggest stage in basketball.
A continuation of that magical night in late June when the Golden State Warriors clinched at home and the basketball world hailed him as the Finals MVP.
"I haven't seen him this happy in basketball," his mother, Wanda Durant said that night.
His brother Tony Durant went even further, "I've never seen him this happy, ever."
That should have been it.
The ultimate Mutumbo-esque finger-wag to his critics.
The last time he had to apologize or even explain why he left the Oklahoma City Thunder as a free agent the previous summer.
He won.
Na-Na-Na-Na-Na.
And yet, the critics who trolled him on social media -- and some corners of the mainstream media -- never really stopped.
Not after he took some $9 million less so the Warriors could retain role players like Shaun Livingston and Andre Iguodala.
Not after he played along with Peyton Manning's bandwagon skit at the ESPYS.
That should've been a tip-off that the chorus would never stop, no matter what he does.
Winning wasn't enough.
Sacrificing financially wasn't enough.
Laughing at himself wasn't enough.
So just stop trying to win over the remaining trolls.
Stop giving them power over him.
Of course, we all know what happened next.
Durant told USA Today he woke up from a nap, checked his phone and responded to one of those trolls in an odd third-person voice that made it seem as if he were writing from a secret account and forgot to switch.
He dissed his former coach and teammates in a way that made him sick within minutes of realizing what he'd done.
Kevin Durant was named the NBA's Finals MVP after his first season in Golden State, but he enters his second Warriors training camp dealing with the distraction of social media.
Ezra Shaw/Getty Images

Durant denied the secret account theory, but the internet detectives on Reddit and Twitter had already been unleashed.
An Instagram account that was once mentioned by his brother Tony, and followed by Draymond Green and Thunder forward Andre Roberson, was quickly identified by SB Nation's Tim Cato.
It was all spiraling, which only added to the internal angst he already felt.
There was nothing left to do but own it and apologize profusely, which he did on Tuesday at TechCrunch.
Friday at the Golden State Warriors media day, Durant steered clear of the topic altogether, saying he has addressed it, apologized, owned his mistake and moved on.
But generally speaking, "I've moved on" or its cousin "let's move on" is something a person has to say multiple times to even begin to start that process.
It's a way of making uncomfortable questions stop and of stating an intention.
But it doesn't mean the moving on has actually happened.
It certainly hasn't with Durant.
He's still sick over the whole ordeal.
This week was awful for him.
Friends, teammates and Warriors coaches and executives tried to comfort him afterward.
Green, who had his own regrettable social media moment last year, "laughed in his face."
But for a sensitive person like Durant, this isn't something that can be digested in a few days.
Even the unflappable Warriors can't quite laugh this off yet.
Normally Steve Kerr would splice a reference to the embarrassing incident into a film session, Green would make fun of it, and that would be that.
Humor and winning have a way of disinfecting just about any situation.
But this one is harder.
Not because of the damage done to Billy Donovan or his former teammates in Oklahoma City.
They'll get over it.
No, this one's harder because Kevin Durant isn't happy the way he should be after winning the title and Finals' MVP last season.
He should still be basking in the post-championship glow, not being comforted by Kerr with stories of the coach's own foot-in-mouth moments or commiserating with Green over joining the social media Hall of Shame.
Maybe this will end up being a good thing.
After taking the high road all of last season, Durant has seemingly unburdened himself of the real reasons he left OKC.
No more pretending.
Whether he intended to go public with those feelings or not, he did.
So now it's out there and everyone can deal with it, including Durant himself.
Maybe this will get him off of social media, or at least lessen his engagement with it.
Maybe Russell Westbrook will decline to sign his extension and leave Oklahoma City too.
For now though, Durant's just trying to digest it and find his way back to happy.
"He knows he made a mistake," Kerr said.
"He's embarrassed by it.
As I told him, I've said a lot of things over my life that I've been embarrassed about.
It's part of being a human being."
Tom Haberstroh is intrigued by Isaiah Thomas' potential to turn the NBA upside down this season if he is healthy, but Stephen Jackson likes another seasoned player.
(1:59)

Even though the Warriors are going to curb-stomp everyone, developments outside the Bay still matter.
The growth of one player, or one unexpected boom-or-bust trade, can bend the trajectory of an entire franchise.
Editor's Picks Lowe Post: Eagle on career, Nets, Raftery Zach talks to play-by-play legend Ian Eagle about his career, the Nets, Bill Raftery, Mike & the Mad Dog, and much more.
What happens when 30 NBA owners can't share $24 billion?
According to internal NBA documents, big spending after a massive influx of cash has set off an intense debate among owners about how to divide revenues.
Zach Lowe and Brian Windhorst report on the NBA's financial picture.
1 Related

With that in mind, here's our annual spotlight on six of the most intriguing players to watch in the upcoming season.
We avoid superstars and obvious first- and second-year curiosities.
The goal is to find guys in new roles, facing new challenges, who might emerge as X factors for solid teams.
RODNEY HOOD, UTAH JAZZ

The moment Gordon Hayward hit "publish," Hood became the go-to scorer for this defense-first meat grinder that figures to be in the race for one of the West's last three playoff spots.
The presence of Ricky Rubio means Hood doesn't have to be Hayward, who served as something of a co-point guard.
Quin Snyder prefers an egalitarian offense, but Rubio's unique game -- the combination of horrid shooting and genius passing -- means he will probably have the ball more than anyone on last season's Jazz did.
That will free Hood to score, which is good, because Hood wants to score.
He averaged just 2.2 assists per 36 minutes last season, a career low, and a disappointing figure considering how often he commandeered the offense.
He sometimes holds the ball too long, and takes one fatal extra dribble toward an open teammate that gives the defense a head start in recovering:

His handle can get rickety:

Hood has flashed good vision; he wraps slick interior dimes to Rudy Gobert and Derrick Favors, likely to start together again, and occasionally slings crosscourt lasers to corner shooters.
But his assists have stemmed more from crisis response -- "Oh, crap, I'm trapped!"
-- than any proactive reading of the defense.
Utah needs a hair more playmaking.
But the Jazz know Hood is a scorer at heart.
They just want him to score more efficiently.
He pulls up for a ton of tough midrangers:

About 30 percent of Hood's shots came in the floater zone between 3 and 16 feet from the rim, a share that ranked in the 90th percentile among wing players, according to research from Ben Falk of Cleaning the Glass.
Trade a few of those for drives and 3s, and Utah will have something.
Hood could average 20 per game this season, but will they be the kind of points that lead to winning?
Hood earned only two free throws per game last season; Utah will ache for cheap points, and Hood can supply some if he drives more.
He'll have to dodge heavy traffic when both Favors and Gobert are on the floor.
He's already comfortable jacking triples out of the pick-and-roll, and whether he can nudge his accuracy on those pull-up bombs a few ticks above 30 percent -- his mark last season -- might be the single most important variable in Hood's evolution.
He's crafty opening airspace for those shots.
He disguises which way he wants to go around a screen, and jukes his defender in the wrong direction with mean shoulder shimmies.
The craft translates into the paint.
Hood does the Chris Paul thing where he locks his defender on his hip, slow-dribbles inside, and waits to see what the defense yields:

The biggest leap for a playmaker is the one from reacting to manipulating -- to envisioning multiple possible outcomes, and engineering the best one.
Hood has the goods to progress along that continuum, but it's unclear if he can do it every night against the best opposing wing defenders.
His days overwhelming weak links are over.
He struggled in the playoff hothouse and has suffered a bunch of nagging injuries.
Hood is eligible for an extension now, but Utah can wield the hammer of restricted free agency in July -- when Hood will have a teensy cap hold.
The bet here is that the Jazz will wait.
JUSUF NURKIC, PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS

Ah, the tanktastic NBA of March and April, where what looks like a positive trend might actually just be a team -- or a player -- trying against sad sacks.
The Blazers, mediocre all season, jolted to 14-5 with Nurkic in the starting lineup, and outscored opponents by nine points per 100 possessions with the Bosnian Beast on the floor, per NBA.com.
They went 5-3 in that stretch against playoff teams, and dealt a death blow to Denver's postseason hopes in an eighth-seed showdown -- a game in which Nurkic humiliated his old team.
(By the way: Remember when the Nuggets had a boatload of extra picks?
They have none now.
They attached one to Nurkic in the Mason Plumlee deal, and gave another to Philly in 2015 as a gift for taking on JaVale McGee's contract.
The Nuggets basically lit two first-round picks on fire.
Yeah, McGee was toxic, with another year left on his deal at the time worth $12 mill.
And Denver already had a ton of young guys.
Still: That's not great, Bob.)
Nurkic's revival is a useful reminder that only a half-dozen or so superstars translate independently across any roster.
Everyone else is a plant seeking the right habitat.
In Denver, Nurkic set screens for point guards who inspired no fear.
In Portland, he dances with Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum, lethal pull-up shooters who draw traps 30 feet from the rim.
Nurkic suddenly had space to rampage, and holy hell, did he rampage:

He understood defenses would swarm Lillard and McCollum early, and adjusted by slipping screens -- darting toward the paint before even setting a pick -- way more often in Portland than in Denver, per Synergy Sports.
Nurkic isn't a leaper, but he's explosive on the horizontal plane; he can zip from the foul line to the rim in a flash.
"We didn't know the extent of his game," said McCollum, who watched a lot of film with Nurkic early to accelerate their two-man chemistry.
"He's huge, but he can make plays without being a klutz."
Nurkic became a fundamentally different player.
He migrated outside, and exchanged brute force post-ups for pick-and-roll devastation.
(It also helped that he, like, tried.)
Most promising of all, he showed the passing chops to run Portland's offense from the elbows, easing the creative burden on Lillard and McCollum.
Portland's weaker shooters -- and there are a lot -- realized right away Nurkic could find them on backdoor cuts if their defenders lunged at McCollum and Lillard popping off picks.
And with Nurkic handling, McCollum and Lillard morph into dangerous, Curry-style screen-setters.
Nurkic almost doubled his assist rate in Portland.
He even used his post-ups to draw the extra help Plumlee never could, and pick out cutters.
He injected some needed unpredictability -- a new method of attack -- after the league caught up to the cascading flow offense that surprised opponents during Portland's feel-good 2015-16 season.
Nurkic will have to manage amid tighter spacing with Allen Crabbe jettisoned to Brooklyn.
Crabbe allowed Terry Stotts to stagger his worst rotation shooters -- Maurice Harkless, Al-Farouq Aminu, Evan Turner, Noah Vonleh -- so that only one or two were on the floor with Nurkic.
That will be harder now.
Help defenders might arrive in the paint sooner, and Nurkic isn't as steady on his feet when the help meets him high on the floor.
"The give and take is that you have more good defenders on the court," Stotts, Portland's coach, told ESPN.com.
"But we do need to find another shooter."
(The Blazers are confident Harkless and Aminu can stabilize as at least average 3-point shooters; Aminu shot 36 percent from deep two seasons ago, and better than that after returning from injury last season.
We'll see.
It will be awhile before anyone guards them.)
On defense, Nurkic returned the Blazers to the conservative dropback style they preferred when Robin Lopez manned the middle.
He's surprisingly nimble, with sticky paws; Nurkic recorded 1.5 steals and 2.3 blocks per 36 minutes as a Blazer, rare historic territory for a 7-footer.
Keeping Nurkic back allows Portland's wing defenders to stay close to enemy shooters, cracking down on 3-point attempts.
That scheme brings obvious trade-offs.
Portland won't force many turnovers.
Lillard and McCollum, both minus defenders, face enormous pressure to scoot cleanly around picks; get hung up, and opposing guards have acres of space to launch 3s.
Nurkic will have to scamper out of his comfort zone against centers with 3-point range.
He's a so-so rim protector who struggles to keep up when opponents run him through two or three actions in quick succession.
When he gets tired, his arms drop to his sides, like a winded boxer.
Teams are going to test his conditioning.
The Nurkic Fever honeymoon will end; adversity will strike, and Nurkic pouted when he didn't get his way in Denver.
Good news: Nurkic appears to be in great shape.
If he stays disciplined, he could become an important part of Portland's long-term plan.
THE DALLAS FRONTCOURT

It will be fascinating to see how warlock Rick Carlisle meshes three potential frontcourt pillars in Harrison Barnes, Dirk Nowitzki, and Nerlens Noel -- the last in a contract year after hilariously turning down a four-year, $70 million offer early in free agency.
The trio logged just 122 mostly ugly minutes last season.
The fit between Nowitzki and Noel is obvious: Noel is the new Tyson Chandler, sucking in defenders on rim runs while Nowitzki spots up.
But what about Barnes?
The Mavs last season shifted Barnes to power forward and turned him into Nowitzki; he isolated on the wing, set picks, and abused switches from Nowitzki's old office in the middle of the foul line.
If Noel is the go-to screen-setter now, what will Barnes do when all three share the floor?
The easy answer would be to give him the ball in the pick-and-roll, but the Mavs barely did that last season, and when they did, it went poorly:

Barnes still hasn't shown the feel or vision to run an offense; he used just 163 ball screens all season, seventh-most on the Mavs, per data from STATS.
If Yogi Ferrell and Dennis Smith run the show with Noel, Barnes will have to spend a lot of time chilling in the corner -- decoy duty is beneath max-salary scorers.
Barnes has spent the summer working on his playmaking for exactly this reason.
He has set an informal goal of averaging three assists per game, he told ESPN.com.
"It's something I have to do better," he said.
But teams might switch any Barnes-Noel stuff, daring Barnes to beat their bigs or inviting Noel to post up smaller defenders.
Noel has barely hit the post over the past two seasons, and often literally falls over when he tries.
There are natural solutions.
Barnes will get plenty of time at power forward.
Carlisle has long yanked Nowitzki early so that he can anchor second units, often as a center in lineups that bled points last season.
Carlisle's flow offense, with simultaneous motion across the floor, creates organic opportunities outside the central action:

Two of Barnes, Wesley Matthews, and Nowitzki might exchange screens under the rim while Smith and Noel run a pick-and-roll up high.
Generate a switch, and any of those three can post up a mismatch.
"Even on plays that aren't designed for me," Barnes said, "there will be an option for me."
The Mavs will still use Nowitzki as a screener, and park Noel under the hoop.
Nowitzki's defenders stick to him out of respect for his jumper, allowing Dallas guards to turn the corner, draw help, and lob to lurking centers:

The Mavs might also play through Noel at the elbow a bit, and orbit him with screens and cuts -- another way of involving everyone.
Noel is a sneaky-good passer when he resists the temptation to try no-chance thread-the-needle jobs; the Sixers installed inside-out sets to let him dish.
"Nerlens can be an elite high-post passer in a spaced environment," Brett Brown, Philly's coach, told ESPN.com.
Noel also has to anchor the defense.
Carlisle has a bag of tricks -- zones, weird matchups -- to hide Nowitzki, but no trick is better than a shot-blocking, steal-swiping center patrolling the paint.
Noel's bad bets have always outnumbered his highlight steals and rejections; he leaps for blocks he'll never get, lunges wildly into passing planes, and teeters off-balance.
Carlisle will demand more discipline.
The Mavs aren't making the playoffs, but they need to learn whether Noel is worth a big investment -- and how he mixes with their other big-money stars.
JUSTISE WINSLOW, MIAMI HEAT

Remember Justise Winslow?
Boston offered Charlotte four first-round picks just for the chance to draft him.
One head coach told ESPN.com Winslow gave the best pre-draft interview he had ever seen.
The Heat owe Phoenix two first-round picks, and they are capped out for the next three years after splurging on James Johnson, Kelly Olynyk, and the Imperator of Waiters Island.
The Heat have unearthed some good young players -- Josh Richardson, Tyler Johnson -- but Winslow is their swing piece.
If they want to leap up the East, or strike a killer trade, Winslow has to rehabilitate his value.
He might have to do it from the bench if Miami starts James Johnson at power forward, as I would expect.
The Heat probably would want maximum shooting around Johnson and Hassan Whiteside; Winslow provides none.
The Heat's offense took off last season almost the moment Winslow got hurt.
When Miami plays Winslow on the wing, it has mostly been with an ace shooter -- Luke Babbitt last season -- as the nominal power forward, a setup that allows Winslow to skulk along the baseline:

Winslow is a good cutter who made huge strides as a passer last season.
Playmaking and movement can masquerade as spacing, to some degree.
Put enough guys on the floor who can cut, drive, and dish, rapid-fire, through tight corridors, and you can score even if they are so-so shooters.
Letting James Johnson handle as a point forward mitigates the Johnson-Winslow-Whiteside spacing crunch, since opponents have to honor the ball.
Hell, Miami wasn't loaded with fearsome shooters last season, despite borderline career years from Goran Dragic, Waiters and James Johnson.
The Heat were just freaking relentless, and in better shape than everyone else.
Winslow can even be an effective pick-and-roll guy when Miami hits the gas, and gets into things before opponents can gird themselves to duck under every pick:

Still: He can't shoot, and it will be hard to play him in some groups.
Opponents hide their weakest defenders on him -- even little point guards -- which makes it easier to guard everyone else.
Winslow is a better fit as a small-ball power forward in second units with Olynyk at center, but Erik Spoelstra can play those groups only so many minutes.
Winslow just has to be better.
Step one: Stop catching the ball in 3-point range, sliding inside the arc, and barfing up 21-footers.
Either jack that open 3, or move things along.
If Luc Mbah a Moute can work himself into a 40 percent shooter on corner 3s, Winslow can, too.
Winslow can drive into the chest of smaller guys and shoot over them, though he has shown zero finesse finishing around the basket; he shot a horrid 47 percent in the restricted area last season.
Winslow will be an elite defender across four positions.
He is tenacious.
He can be a productive player even if the jumper never comes.
The Heat just have to figure out how, and in what lineups.
ANDRE DRUMMOND, DETROIT PISTONS

This is a show-me year for Drummond.
All the issues I wrote about in February remain unresolved.
If Drummond insists on posting up, Stan Van Gundy wants him to try facing the basket and blowing by fools instead of belching bricky jump hooks.
(Drummond shot a ghastly 41 percent on post-ups last season, per Synergy, and rarely got to the line -- perhaps fearful of embarrassing himself there.)
On defense, Drummond resisted Van Gundy's entreaties to venture outside the paint and disrupt pick-and-rolls around the 3-point arc.
"There's a tug of war going on between us," Van Gundy said then.
The Pistons sniffed out the Drummond trade market for much of the winter, and found little interest, sources told ESPN then.
We know what Drummond is on offense, or what he should be: a dive-and-dunk rim-runner who inhales offensive rebounds before the regular humans around him even get off the ground.
Those players have value, even in the era of pace-and-space and stretch centers.
But a lot of their value has to come on defense, and that is where Drummond regressed.
He played with low energy, and often let both his man and the ball slip behind him -- leaving the rim naked.
Drummond will never be Rudy Gobert.
To live up to his contract -- and to make it movable for a team up against the tax -- he has to at least approximate DeAndre Jordan.
Detroit is optimistic Drummond will play with more effort and verve after offseason surgery to open up his left nostril.
His wind should improve, and he just turned 24.
But if the Pistons start out slowly, this situation could turn volatile -- fast.
JRUE HOLIDAY, NEW ORLEANS PELICANS

So, umm, did the Pelicans -- with DeMarcus Cousins' free agency looming and limited paths to upgrade if he leaves -- just give Jrue Holiday $26 million per year to be an average spot-up shooter next to Rajon Rondo and two All-Star bigs?
They concluded Holiday just works better as a secondary ball handler, a role he has played next to Tyreke Evans, Tim Frazier, and others over four strange years in New Orleans.
"I honestly don't think it changes much for me," Holiday told ESPN.com.
"Rondo makes scoring so much easier."
The team worried about Holiday's court vision and shot selection as the undisputed floor general.
"The fit with Rondo is going to be much, much better for him," Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans' head coach, told ESPN.com.
"Anyone who doubts the value of Rondo just has to look at the playoffs last year.
[The Bulls] dominated with him against Boston."
Holiday is a 36 percent career shooter from deep, and right around that number on the catch-and-shoot attempts he should get more of in his new role -- decent, but far below sharpshooter status.
Nobody is afraid of Holiday letting fly.
At this salary, Holiday has to do more than stand and wait -- not easy alongside three dudes who need the ball.
Gentry wants Cousins and Anthony Davis to push after rebounds, so that Holiday can run the wing, catch at full speed, and slice into a backpedaling defense.
Things will get dicier in the half court given the Pellies' shaky outside shooting.
Cousins and Davis are skilled playmakers, and Cousins has reinvented himself as an above-average 3-point shooter.
(The same reinvention has not happened for Davis.)
But there is always a trade-off having your behemoth banger chilling 30 feet from the hoop, and defenses don't hug up on Cousins out there.
The fifth starting spot at small forward is open, and Gentry might rotate players based on matchups, he said.
The bet here is on Dante Cunningham, who shot 39 percent from deep last season -- an outlier mark that won't make opponents pay him any mind.
Gentry and his staff have to get creative.
They hired Chris Finch away from Denver, and plan to mimic how the Nuggets ran their offense through Nikola Jokic.
Cousins and Davis will handle the ball up high, while the other four players screen for one another.
Gentry might even stick one of the bigs in the corner in Rick Adelman-style sets, and have Holiday screen for him there.
"Deal with that," Gentry said.
Holiday will snare dribble handoffs at the elbows, and attack scrambled defenses when Rondo kicks him the ball after a pick-and-roll.
He has spent this summer working on quick catch-and-drive attacks.
"I am locked in on off-ball actions," Holiday said.
He is in shape after his first summer of health and peace in years.
But he's undersized at the wing, and he's not a blow-by athlete anymore.
He might find himself taking tough shots over bigger defenders.
He'll have to guard those same players at times.
Gentry plans to use three-guard lineups featuring any of Rondo, Holiday, E'Twaun Moore, and Ian Clark, and he will ask Holiday to defend bigger wings.
"The Paul Georges and Kevin Durants -- we're going to ask Jrue to guard those guys," Gentry said.
The Pelicans have the talent to make noise.
Core Boogie-Davis lineups trended up on offense after a brutal start; the Pelicans ended up outscoring opponents by three points per 100 possessions with Cousins, Davis, and Holiday on the floor.
The sheer amount of IQ and craft flowing from Cousins and Davis is overwhelming.
But these guys have a lot to figure out, fast, and the wing rotation is the bad kind of scary.
They are going to need a monster year from Holiday.
Kyrie Irving, Gordon Hayward and Isaiah Thomas were only a few of the premiere players to switch teams in the offseason.
Catch up on the rest of the moves across the association.
(1:52)

The 2017 NBA offseason was perhaps the most intense and relentless summer in the league's history.
Already in the midst of an era of star movement, a handful of big-name players switched teams again, and much of it happened with surrounding drama.
But there was a method to the madness.
Here's a look at everything you may have missed (or forgotten) in the offseason and what it may mean.
2017 was really about 2018

Transaction season truly started in February, when DeMarcus Cousins was traded to the New Orleans Pelicans.
Many of the star players who were moved in the following months had the same thing in common: They will or can be free agents in 2018.
Other moves were about setting up cap space for 2018.
Photo by Layne Murdoch/NBAE via Getty Images

Cousins was in position to be traded as the Sacramento Kings tried to get out ahead of a possible contract impasse in 2018.
The same situation played out with Paul George, who was traded by the Indiana Pacers to the Oklahoma City Thunder.
Isaiah Thomas, who is headed for a potentially complex 2018 free agency because of a hip injury, was moved by the Boston Celtics to the Cleveland Cavaliers.
It's even relevant for Chris Paul.
He was involved in a blockbuster trade before he became a free agent and picked up a one-year option as part of his move to Houston.
He will be a free agent next summer, too.
Of course, LeBron James can be a free agent in 2018, as can Carmelo Anthony and Russell Westbrook, if they choose.
The Lakers have been most aggressive in clearing and protecting cap space for next summer.
Before drafting Lonzo Ball, they sent D'Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov to Brooklyn for Brook Lopez, who comes off the books next summer.
It's a safe bet they will be looking for ways to offload Luol Deng's contract as this season unfolds.
Although there was more huge spending throughout the summer, the money dried up for some free agents.
Lower cap projections for the future and concerns about luxury tax spending chilled the market a bit by mid-July as teams started thinking more about their 2018 books.
Warriors win again

One of the major reasons a handful of teams chose to focus more on 2018 is because the Warriors show no signs of slowing.
They successfully navigated a bit of a challenging summer but ended up in a clean sweep as they re-signed Kevin Durant, Steph Curry, Andre Iguodala, Shaun Livingston, David West, JaVale McGee and Zaza Pachulia.
They also added more shooting in Omri Casspi and Nick Young.
Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP Photo

This was expensive.
Curry landed a $200 million deal, and Iguodala used some leverage to squeeze the Warriors into a three-year, $48 million deal.
The Warriors, amazingly, have never paid the luxury tax in team history.
Those days are about to end in a big way.
But the Warriors saw more than $90 million in profit last season and have a new arena on the way that promises to unlock a treasure chest of revenue, so don't worry about them.
Boston takes some risks

The Celtics had a wonderful 2016-17, enjoying a rebirth as a championship contender and an attractive playing style where the collective was often able to triumph.
But the front office saw an overachiever, which is probably accurate, and so they went on a mission to essentially blow it up.
They will have four new starters this season.
They sacrificed several role players to open cap space to sign Gordon Hayward.
They traded their most popular player, Thomas, for Kyrie Irving in a deal that could alter the course of two franchises.
Rebuilding a contender on the fly takes guts and power, which Danny Ainge has.
But he stuck his neck out by trading down from the No.
1 overall pick and proudly stating that he'd have taken Jayson Tatum, whom he drafted at No.
3, ahead of No.
1 overall pick Markelle Fultz anyway.
That's a choice that could shape Ainge's reputation, either way, in the future.
He also elected to stay on the sidelines for Jimmy Butler and George when they were dealt, although he clearly had the assets to beat the offers the Minnesota Timberwolves put forth to land Butler and the Thunder made to get George.
Instead he cashed in some big chips for Irving, who has a ring but doesn't have the same two-way rsum as George or Butler.
We'll see how it works out.
Unprecedented coaching stability

Over the past year, the Lakers, New York Knicks, Indiana Pacers, Cavs, Atlanta Hawks, Orlando Magic and Los Angeles Clippers have changed leadership in their front offices.
Phil Jackson got fired by the Knicks a few days after making a vital draft pick (Frank Ntilikina), and with $24 million left on his contract.
David Griffin couldn't come to terms with the Cavs despite three historic years as GM, kicking off a wild few weeks in Cleveland.
Mike Budenholzer and Doc Rivers were both essentially demoted, losing their personnel control.
But the 2017-18 season will open with the same 30 coaches as a year ago.
This is unprecedented in league history.
The last coach to be fired was Dave Joerger by the Memphis Grizzlies back in May 2016, and even he immediately got another job in Sacramento.
Does this mean the NBA is in a golden era of great coaching?
Don't count on it.
Yes, many teams are happy with their coaches, but insiders are already sensing a bubble.
There could be a rash of warming seats and then changes as the season unfolds.
FRESNO, Calif. -- Quincy Pondexter's spacious six-bedroom house in his hometown of Fresno sits on a few acres.
For the past eight months, the 29-year-old forward has spent more time here than ever before while rehabbing his injury.
It's a home he's proud of, especially the theater room, which is equipped with a massive screen, theater-style seating, a pool table and a cards table.
On the wall hang NBA jerseys in framed glass display cases.
He has collected them from some of his favorite teammates, including Chris Paul, Tyreke Evans and Jrue Holiday, and he even has the high school jerseys of two of his former San Joaquin Memorial High teammates, Brook and Robin Lopez.
This is where his family and friends gather for cookouts.
It's where his AAU team, California United, flocks for pizza parties.
It's where he wanted to do this interview, "because when I think of happy times, it occurs in this room," he said.
After being sidelined the past two seasons, Pondexter is ready to make his comeback on opening night for the Chicago Bulls, who acquired him from the New Orleans Pelicans this summer.
He is finally healthy after multiple surgical procedures -- and major setbacks -- on his left knee.
It's been a longer journey than many people know about.
While his knee problems have been public, Pondexter revealed to ESPN that his health issues were much grimmer.
He was dealing with a life-threatening infection.
He thought he was going to die.
Quincy Pondexter's aim was getting back on his feet and back soaring to the rim.
Layne Murdoch Jr./NBA/Getty Images

The New Orleans Pelicans acquired Pondexter from the Memphis Grizzlies in January 2015.
They needed a 3-and-D player who could help them make a playoff push, and Pondexter excelled at hitting spot-up 3s and chasing the team's best perimeter player around.
Soon after joining the team, however, Pondexter began limping laboriously to his car after games.
He can't pinpoint when his knee began to bother him, but he grew concerned at the end of February.
The pain worsened in March, and the team sent him for X-rays and MRIs, which failed to reveal any issues.
Pondexter continued to play.
If it was just a matter of tolerating the pain, then that's what he would do.
He would take pain medication and drain his knee on occasion.
He didn't want to let his team down by sitting.
New Orleans earned the eighth seed in the Western Conference playoffs and met the Golden State Warriors in the first round.
Although they were swept, the Pelicans had a bright future with a budding superstar in Anthony Davis and a young supporting cast.
Pondexter was excited about the team's potential and desperate to solve his knee issue so it wouldn't linger into the next season.
The day after the season ended, he had another MRI and then met with a few doctors for consultations.
They came to the conclusion he would need his knee scoped, with the outside chance he might require microfracture surgery.
During the May procedure, the worst-case scenario was realized.
"It was just supposed to be a cleanup," Pondexter said.
"The doctors were really positive about it.
They didn't really think we were going to need to do [microfracture surgery], and then, you know, you wake up from surgery, and it's done.
I was kind of in shock.
I didn't know what to do, but everyone was pretty optimistic that I would be able to return to play in the beginning of the season."
Pondexter worked hard to return to the court, but his knee didn't respond well post-surgery.
Opening night of the 2015-16 season came and went.
Months passed, and he was still nowhere near playing condition.
Questions arose as to what, exactly, was going on with his knee and what stage he was at in his rehab.
But Pondexter and the team didn't have answers.
Behind closed doors, Pondexter was struggling to cope with it all.
"I tried to do everything possible to play, and my knee felt really, really bad," he said.
"I couldn't even walk upstairs or do anything, let alone run, jump or anything like that, but I wanted to sacrifice everything for the Pelicans."
Midway through the season, he decided to consult other specialists, who concluded that his microfracture procedure had failed.
He was infuriated by the news but had no choice but to go through with a second procedure in January 2016 that involved inserting cartilage from a cadaver.
It was a season-ending decision to ensure he would be ready for the start of the 2016-17 season.
New Orleans' season was also very much over.
The team did not take the next step forward as expected and lost 15 more games than the previous year.
Pondexter felt responsible for the Pelicans underperforming.
"When I was in the hospital, I would look on Twitter and see all the nasty comments saying, 'He's stealing money.
He's at home chillin' and all this s---.
Nah, I'm fighting for my life."
Quincy Pondexter

After the second procedure, Pondexter was aggressive with his rehab in the hopes of being ready for next season.
But the season tipped off, and Pondexter was in street clothes yet again.
He would remain sidelined for months.
Some fans began turning on him, questioning if he was just mailing it in.
In reality, it was the exact opposite.
"[My knee] wasn't making progress, but then there was this pain in a certain area that we couldn't get over," he said.
"Again, I tried to do everything possible to play.
I tried to pass physicals, I tried to do everything, and, a year of rehab, we didn't know what to do.
"We didn't know if my career was over.
We didn't know where to go from there, and then we tried to find an answer because we didn't know if we could see it in the MRI.
I was trying to play, and a few days later, it just took a real turn for the worse, where I woke up and my knee was swollen like a watermelon."
Pondexter traveled to New York on Jan. 1, 2017, to get his knee scoped again.
But on this trip, his health suddenly began to deteriorate.
While in his hotel room, he became nauseated and started breathing heavily.
His temperature shot to 104.
He walked to a Duane Reade pharmacy to pick up a prescription for the pain.
But while waiting in line, his vision blurred, and the 6-foot-7 forward collapsed onto the floor.
Customers and employees tended to the NBA veteran, giving him a chair and some water.
Paramedics were called to the scene, as was his physical therapist.
Pondexter was drenched in sweat.
He was terrified, bewildered and in excruciating pain.
He didn't have control over his body and feared he was dying.
"Quincy never complains," his sister Myisha Pondexter said.
"He never complains about pain, swelling or anything.
So when he first called, he never let on about how much pain he was in.
He didn't ask for help.
He's an introvert.
I'm telling him it must be the room he's in.
I'm just giving motherly advice, not thinking it's anything serious.
But by the end of the night, around 1:30 in the morning my time [California], he called begging us to get to New York and saying, 'I'm about to die.'"
Dr. Riley J. Williams, a New York-based orthopedic surgeon specialist, was enlisted to help.
"Quincy was demonstrating some serious symptoms that required us to act immediately," Dr. Williams told ESPN.
"At first it was to survive for your family and everything, but I didn't just want to survive.
I wanted to overcome."
Quincy Pondexter

Pondexter said fluid was drained from his knee and, after a few days, it was discovered he had MRSA (Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), a skin infection that is difficult to manage and, if not treated properly and promptly, could lead to death.
Nobody knew when he developed the infection.
He was immediately taken to surgery to try to flush the infection out of his system.
Dr. Williams explained to Pondexter and his family that MRSA tends to cause complications to the healing process of a significant injury.
Following the third procedure on his knee, he was hospitalized for a month.
"I was getting checked on every two hours in the hospital," he said.
"I was doing three full bags of liquid antibiotics, which took close to two hours each time.
There was a point where I was connected on both sides, whether it was antibiotics or IVs or all types of other medicines to keep me alive.
It was pretty crazy.
It's a full day, 24 hours, around-the-clock watch over that recovery.
You're trying to eliminate an infection that's deadly."
Myisha and family members were by his side in the hospital for the first two weeks.
Meanwhile, the Pelicans were suffering their second abysmal year in a row and were on the verge of missing the playoffs again.
The DNPs piled up for Pondexter, and some of the team's fans directed their frustration his way without any clue of what he was facing.
"My condition was really hidden because we didn't want anyone to know, and I didn't want anyone to feel sorry for me," he explained.
"And when I was in the hospital, I would look on Twitter and see all the nasty comments saying, 'He's stealing money.
He's at home chillin' and all this s--.
Nah, I'm fighting for my life.
I was close to dying."
"My only energy is to go on Twitter to check the score of my team's game, and then I look at my Twitter account and you see people bashing you.
That was my only energy for that day and, you know, that really motivated me."
Spending several weeks in the hospital took its toll on Quincy Pondexter.
Courtesy of Quincy Pondexter

When Pondexter was released from the hospital in February, he couldn't walk and weighed 192 pounds, down from the 224 pounds he weighed when he was admitted.
Six weeks of rehab and bed rest were prescribed to keep the MRSA under control.
It would take him three weeks to relearn how to walk.
Davis and Holiday knew the severity of what he was going through and checked on him frequently via calls and texts.
And Pondexter continued to put in the work.
His Fresno-based physical therapist, Mike Martinez, pushed him harder and harder.
His trainers Josh Norman and Dave Standifer, of Fresno-based Athletic Performance, worked him out six to seven times a week.
Pondexter's day started at 4 a.m. Pilates in the morning, spin class near 10 a.m., weightlifting after lunch, followed by on-court work, running on a track in the evening and physical therapy to finish it out.
Most of the time, his day ended around midnight.
"A year ago, I questioned if he would be able to go again," Standifer said.
"There were days we just didn't know, but his work ethic is unmatched.
He wants to show everybody that he can still play at that level."
"He's ready to go," Norman said.
"Anything I ask him to do, he's a full go."
But on Sept. 1, he received bad news of a different kind.
General manager Dell Demps had traded him along with a 2018 second-round pick to Chicago for the draft rights to Ater Majok.
"It was a shock," Pondexter said.
"I was tired of letting the organization and fans down the last two years, and I wanted to do my best to help the Pelicans return to the playoffs.
It was definitely a gut punch.
But you know what?
It was also motivation in this process."
Feeling strong again, Quincy Pondexter aims to make his mark in Chicago.
Stacy Revere/Getty Images

Pondexter and the Pelicans didn't always see eye-to-eye during this process.
In the fall of 2015, months after Pondexter's first surgery, Pelicans head coach Alvin Gentry told an audience at a meeting held by the 3-Point Club of New Orleans that Pondexter was fined repeatedly by Demps for skipping scheduled MRI exams on his knee out of fear the team would shut him down following the detection of a significant injury.
Pondexter said it was a "false narrative," noting that he was never fined or missed an appointment.
"I sacrificed a lot of my body to play in that Pelicans uniform," he said.
"Every day I spent countless hours with the team's trainers trying to get right.
I did all that was asked of me and then some."
Through all the heartbreaks, the pain, the fear and the doubt, Pondexter has worked himself back to NBA-level health.
He isn't experiencing pain in his knee and routinely posts videos updating his progress.
There's even a clip of him exploding for a windmill dunk.
I like the progress....  pic.twitter.com/ymSSIsviuR  Coach Shad (@Shadymac1) September 1, 2017

"Quincy looks great, physically and mentally," said Dr. Snehal Patel, a physical therapist who treated him in New York.
"I can't predict anything, but I think he's primed to make a great comeback in the league."
Holiday, too, is rooting for his former teammate.
"Quincy is one of the hardest working teammates I've ever had," Holiday said.
"Being injured, I understand how hard it is to come back.
I have seen Q put in the work needed on a daily basis.
Through setbacks and tough times, he has been positive and still has been a great teammate, which at times can be really hard.
"We need more professionals like him."
Editor's Picks Trade grades: Who wins Bulls-Pels Pondexter deal?
The Pelicans gain flexibility and the Bulls pick up a player and a draft pick.
Kevin Pelton grades the trade.
Pondexter believes his best days on the court have yet to come.
With a new outlook on life that comes from almost having it taken away, the Bulls are getting a more determined, driven person and player.
"I have a lot of faith, and I believe in God's challenges," Pondexter says.
"I just looked at these last few years as, 'Damn, God is really testing me to see what happens.'
Basketball is such a part of my life that it was the motivation for me getting back.
At first it was to survive for your family and everything, but I didn't just want to survive.
I wanted to overcome.
"It's been an unbelievable and remarkable recovery.
All the doctors, they can't really explain how I've been able to recover and do so well, but we've had a great team of people that have really mended me back to health.
A few months ago, it was almost over.
I'm alive, and I get to play basketball again.
It's a miracle."
Darren Woodson and Herm Edwards share their predictions for the Ravens vs. Jaguars in London.
(0:42)

LONDON - Every year, from his home in Saint-Claude, France, Sebastien Juliard would wait in anticipation for the announcement of which NFL teams would play in England that season.
"I crossed my fingers and hoped to see the Ravens [on the list,]" Juliard said.
"I deeply thought they will come one day, and it's happening for real.
I still can't believe it."
Juliard, 35, a computer-aided designer, is one of many Ravens fans in Europe who will get a chance to see their favorite NFL team up close Sunday, when the Baltimore Ravens face the Jacksonville Jaguars at Wembley Stadium.
Its been a long wait because Baltimore is one of just eight NFL teams that hasn't yet played overseas.
A Facebook group called UK Ravens was set up in 2003 and has been the social media meeting place for those all over Europe.
The number of members has grown over the past decade from 80 to 1,800.
Juliard was drawn to the Ravens by his love of defense, Ray Lewis and the city of Baltimore (thanks to author and producer David Simon of "The Wire").
"Before, I was just watching the Super Bowl every year and not following the regular season and playoffs," Juliard said.
"Now, Im a die-hard fan for about 10 years."
Seb Juliard of Saint-Claude, France, is excited he won't have to rely on TV to see his team play on Sunday.
Courtesy Seb Juliard

Niall Fagan, 39, of Dublin, Ireland, stumbled upon the Ravens when he spent the summer in Ocean City, Maryland, as a student and met a girl from the Baltimore area.
"I owe my love of the NFL and the Ravens to her mom, who took me to see my first-ever NFL game in 2002 between the Ravens and the Jaguars," said Fagan, who works in sales and marketing for Facebook.
"I was instantly hooked."
Fagan has flown to Baltimore many times to see the Ravens at M&T Bank Stadium.
He watches their games every week at a Dublin bar called the Woolshed with one of his best friends, who happens to be a Ravens fan as well.
But not everyone in Ireland is as familiar with the Ravens.
"I have a Ravens logo on the back of my car, and I can see people in my rearview mirror point at it when stuck at traffic lights and ask what is that about," Fagan said.
Paul Davison became a Ravens fan in 2006 after several business trips to Baltimore.
Courtesy Paul Davison

More people in London know about Baltimores NFL team.
Even though there are no Ravens bars, there is a growing following here.
Many fans have worn their Ravens jerseys to the annual NFL games in England when the Jaguars, New England Patriots and New York Giants have played.
"Whenever I've been to the London games and see another Raven fan, you always get an acknowledgement, a nod or a wink, there," said Paul Davison, 39, who lives just outside London.
Davison became connected to the Ravens in 2006, when he visited Baltimore for business several times.
"I struck up a friendship with a Baltimore native [Dave Nowak], who got me following the Ravens, and I got him following my soccer team, Queens Park Rangers," Davison said.
"We would send each other Ravens-QPR items in the post and in person over the years and would always be in touch on Facebook and text during games."
College student Calum Hunter of Glasgow, Scotland, will drive seven hours to see his favorite team in person.
Courtesy Calum Hunter

It will take a little longer for college student Calum Hunter to get to the game.
Hunter lives in Glasgow, Scotland, which is about 400 miles from London.
The drive to see the Ravens will take about seven hours.
Hunter, 23, has been a fan since the first game of the Ravens Super Bowl season.
Baltimores season-opening rout of Cincinnati on Monday Night Football was the first NFL game he watched from beginning to end.
This is the most excited I have been since Super Bowl XLVII for a Ravens game," Hunter said.
"The defense is going to be amazing to see live, and it is not every day you get the chance to see a Super Bowl MVP quarterback [Joe Flacco] in action."
The Indians third baseman talks about the Colombian players growth in the Major League and the great season he is living with the American League Champions.
(2:08)

This interview was conducted in Spanish and has been translated.
You can read the original in Spanish here.
The Indians' good luck charm?
It's not out of the question.
The Tribe's 25-year-old third baseman, Gio Urshela, was the only player to appear in the first 21 games of their win streak.
Here he speaks with Marly Rivera about representing his home country of Colombia, embracing the Indians' Latino-heavy clubhouse and exceeding expectations after a slow start to his career.
You don't come from a baseball country -- in Colombia, soccer is the main sport played there.
So what did your appearance in the WBC mean for the country?
It was a really big deal for Colombian baseball.
It has helped us a lot.
Now we are seeing more Colombians in the minor leagues and in the majors.
That makes me very happy, and it helps a lot of the young guys who are coming up, dreaming of playing in the major leagues.
Do you remember the first Colombian you ever watched play baseball on TV?
I think it was Orlando Cabrera, [Edgar] Renteria and Orlando's brother, Jolbert.
I think they were the first players I ever saw.
I was so happy growing up, watching them play.
I even played with Edgar in a WBC qualifier.
There has been a lot of growth in baseball in Colombia.
Where does that come from?
Yes, baseball has really grown a lot.
I think [it's because of] the work that all the Colombians have been doing here in the United States, and I think that in the coming years there will be many more Colombians in major league baseball.
People obviously know Julio Teheran and Jose Quintana, but they don't know many Colombian position players beyond Cabrera or Rentera.
Do you expect to change that?
Well, let's hope so.
That's the idea.
We also have a coach who is with the White Sox.
It really fills me with joy having Colombians here in the major leagues.
Stephen Brashear/Getty Images

You've become known in Cleveland for your defensive plays at third base.
What was your development like?
I started as a shortstop when I first signed, then they decided to move me to third as I was growing.
In the early years, it was difficult to get used to playing third, but I felt very comfortable afterward.
What player did you emulate at third base?
I would like to be like Alex Rodriguez, who has been my idol since he was a kid.
[I love] how he plays, all the things he did in baseball, and I really would like to be someone like him.
Do you have a special technique for those spectacular plays that have people saying 'Wow'?
Watch the ball, catch the ball and throw it and make the out, which is the most important part [laughs].
But how much of it is based on instinct and how much is studying film?
[Studying film] means a lot.
You have to study the players a lot, where they can hit ball.
All those little details will serve you well the moment you have to field a ground ball, on whether it's going to [go] off to the side or be a line drive.
It's all going to work for you when the time comes to make that play.
You debuted in 2015, but then in 2016 you didn't play a single day in the big leagues.
Are you surprised how you came this season to stay?
Well, yes.
I just kept on working.
Even though the opportunity didn't come then, I had to continue working hard, so when that day came again, I would have the chance to stay.
Well, that's what I'm doing now, doing the work.
And I want to stay [up here in the majors].
How do you explain that change in your career?
From not playing last year to being a key piece of a team that has won the division.
Well, it's just really awesome.
That's what I always strived for in my career.
When I was in Triple-A last year, I always kept my head up.
No matter what happened, I was always focused on my goal, and well, thank God I'm here again.
Tell me about the Latino core of this team, which is pretty impressive -- the entire diamond can be composed of Latin players, if Carlos Santana is at first base, Jose Ramirez at second, Francisco Lindor at shortstop, either you or Yandy Diaz at third and Roberto Perez at the plate.
I feel really happy to know that those guys [like me] worked their way up, that they have also struggled to get ahead, and I am glad for them.
It's really impressive when you get there to your spot and you hear all the different Hispanic accents.
You feel at home, and that really makes us all happy.
We play with that passion and with that joy that characterizes us [Latinos].
They said you were the good luck charm, because you were the only one who played in every single game of the first 21 games of the 22-game winning streak ... and you guys almost lost the 22nd one because you did not play!
Well, yes [laughs], but thank God we put on a good performance in those 22 games, and I'm really happy to have established that streak.
How is the relationship with Tito Francona, and how important is it for this team that is so full of Latinos that he makes an effort to speak Spanish?
It's good.
It's like a family here.
He tries to speak Spanish, with his little words in Spanish, what he knows.
And we just really know that he tries to speak our language because he wants us to do a good job here on the team.
What has been the key to the Indians' success?
That we are like a family.
We really get along very well, all of us -- the Latinos, the American players.
This team is really like a family.
There's a big difference in expectations this year in comparison to last year.
How do you deal with that?
Well, expectations are high.
People, fans, they are really excited about the team, but that helps fuel us with excitement to keep winning, to go out there on the field every game and fight for a win.
What would you like people to know about Gio Urshela?
First of all, I have heard different pronunciations of your last name.
Some call me Urchela, others Urshela.
Sort of everything.
I don't care, call me whatever.
[In Colombia], even though there's an 'h' in the middle, they say Ursela.
I say Urshela.
I am a winner who likes to compete.
I am always happy, joyous.
I always try to have fun, which is the most important thing in baseball.
In life, you have to be happy.
And I think that's what's most important.
During the first half of the season, Matt Albers was the Washington Nationals' best reliever by a landslide.
But the bullpen was a train wreck, so nobody noticed.
Since the All-Star break, hes been just as good, if not better.
Yet he remains overlooked because he wasnt part of the pen's blockbuster midseason makeover.
Being underestimated is nothing new for Albers.
While there's no denying he can pitch, the husky righty has had to swim upstream -- because he doesn't necessarily look like a pitcher.
Matt didnt have the greatest body, says former Astros scout Rusty Pendergrass, now with the Diamondbacks.
Back in 2000, when Pendergrass first laid eyes on Albers, he wasn't quite sure what to make of the hefty high school junior from Houston.
He didnt look the part, but I decided to stay there and watch him throw, and it was really good.
"Call him the Michelin Man, Humpty Dumpty, whatever you want.
The bottom line is, he performs."
AL scout on Albers

What he saw was a lightning-quick arm with plus movement on his sinker and slider, and a deceptively good athlete who was a strike-throwing machine.
Pendergrass spent the next year trying to sell Houstons front office, and it worked.
Kind of.
At the end of his senior season, Albers was drafted by the Astros, but not until the 23rd round.
If he had a better body, says Pendergrass, he probably wouldve gone higher.
Sixteen years later, Albers takes pride in being a 23rd-rounder.
A lot of teams had quite a few chances, he says, referring to the other 29 clubs that passed on him nearly two dozen times before the Astros finally pulled the trigger with the 686th overall pick.
I try to make the most out of that.
That hasnt necessarily been easy for Albers, whos been dismissed in the big leagues almost as much as he was during the draft process.
Now in his 12th season in the majors, Albers has played for seven different teams, including the Astros (two separate times, Orioles, Red Sox, Diamondbacks, Indians, Astros, White Sox and Nationals.
Between the roundabout resume and the rounded physique, hes a little like Bartolo Colon 2.0 (minus two teams and 55 pounds).
Like Colon, hes a sneaky-good athlete who last season crushed an extra-base hit that became an Internet sensation:

Unlike Colon, he hasnt topped the $100 million mark in career earnings.
Not even close.
In fact, Albers has never earned more than $2.25 million in a season, which is peanuts for a veteran with as much tenure as he has.
In fairness to the clubs that contracted him, especially earlier in his career, those decisions were likely less about his body and more about his body of work.
During his first six years in the show, Albers struggled with his control and had only one campaign in which he posted an ERA south of 4.50.
Over the past six years though, hes quietly developed into one of the games more effective relievers, pitching to a 2.93 ERA since the beginning of the 2012 season.
His command on both sides of the plate has gotten better throughout his career, says Nationals backstop Matt Wieters, who spent 2009 and 2010 catching Albers in Baltimore, where some fans became disenchanted with the hurlers poor performance and started referring to him as Fat Albers.
Since then, the 34-year-old righty has introduced a change-up that he deploys against lefties and started throwing his sinker down and away to righties instead of exclusively down and in.
Hes also mixing in a four-seam fastball to go along with the filthy slider he already had.
Says Wieters: His stuff allows him to pitch to any hitter in any situation.
That ability to pitch anytime and anywhere is part of what has made Albers such a valuable commodity for manager Dusty Baker and the NL East champs.
Hes entered games as early as the fifth inning and as late as the 10th.
Hes been a situational guy, pitching to just one batter on six different occasions (opponents are 0-for-6 and have hit into two double plays), and hes been a multi-inning guy, throwing more than one frame a dozen times (his ERA is 0.00 in those outings).
On May 5, he even recorded his first career save, breaking a string of 460 relief appearances without one (an MLB record).
Among National League relievers with 50 or more appearances, he ranks fifth in ERA (1.72), third in WHIP (0.88), and tied for second in batting average against (.170).
Although his body type would never be confused with that of Andrew Miller, the long and lanky Indians lefty who dominated last postseason in a super-reliever role, its entirely possible Albers -- whos never appeared in a playoff game -- could have a similar impact this October.
In the meantime, hes too busy mowing down hitters to care about what people think of his physique.
"You can do all the judging you want, but he goes out there and gets outs.
[He's] one of the best relievers in baseball."
Braves catcher Kurt Suzuki on Albers

I obviously know about the perception, says Albers, whos listed at 6-foot-1 and 225 pounds, the same height and only five pounds more than Washington second baseman Daniel Murphy.
In 2016, prior to joining Murphy and the Nationals, he posted a career-worst 6.31 ERA with the White Sox.
Still, Albers views the season as a success because, unlike 2014 (torn subscapularis muscle) and 2015 (broken finger), he was able to stay whole, just as he has this year.
Mostly I focus on staying healthy and what my teammates think about me.
The other stuff, what the outside world thinks, I can't really control that much.
As long as I feel like they have my back and they want me on their team, that's all I can do."
For the record, his fellow Nats seem tickled to have him on their side.
He's been as good if not better than the new guys, says righty reliever Shawn Kelley, referring to Sean Doolittle, Ryan Madson, and Brandon Kintzler, the trio of deadline acquisitions who grabbed all the ink and have helped stabilize what was once a wretched Nationals bullpen.
And he's done it all year.
Hes done it without the benefit of a cool nickname like Doo or Mad Dog (hes known as Albie or Matty Al in the clubhouse), and hes done it without the benefit of the doubt.
People might judge him before they realize what he can do on the mound, says lefty Sammy Solis of Albers, a non-roster invitee in spring training who didnt even make the big club out of camp, then got called up from the minors a week into the season.
When he gets out there, it's just absolutely electric.
Even his opponents are impressed.
You can do all the judging you want, but he goes out there and gets outs, says Braves backstop Kurt Suzuki, whos spent the past three years in the same division as Albers and is a lifetime .133 hitter against him.
One of the best relievers in baseball.
Back in the Nats clubhouse, nobody's been more wowed by Albers than his manager.
I didnt know much about him, said Baker, who has spent his entire career in the National League, but Im glad we got him.
Hes been the find of the year.
Now that Washingtons found him, theyre not likely to let him out of their sight any time soon.
If they do, theres sure to be no shortage of suitors for his services, regardless of his figure.
Call him the Michelin Man, Humpty Dumpty, whatever you want, says one AL scout.
The bottom line is, he performs.
Webb Simpson may be a bit intimidated by the fairways and the heat at the Tour Championship, but he's in contention after two rounds for a reason.
(1:17)

ATLANTA -- It seems fairly obvious that the 30 players who made it to the Tour Championship at East Lake all want to be here.
Certainly, there are higher levels of enthusiasm for some after a long year and numerous big tournaments.
But in general, the idea of playing for an $8.75 million purse ($1.575 million to the winner) and millions more in prize money -- including a $10 million bonus for the winner of the FedEx Cup -- is a pretty sweet deal and a goal worth pursuing.
There are some players who expect to be here, such as Jordan Spieth and Dustin Johnson and Rickie Fowler.
Editor's Picks Thomas in three-way tie at Tour Championship Courtesy of a 4-under 66 in Round 2, Justin Thomas shares the lead at the PGA Tour's season finale.
If Thomas can hold on for the win this weekend, he'll also bring home the $10 million FedEx Cup bonus.
Caddie Confidential: Bonus time and a little Rory McIlroy scuttlebutt Which caddies get FedEx Cup playoff bonuses?
And what's the talk about Rory McIlroy's looper situation?
This week's anonymous caddie at the Tour Championship goes in-depth on a multitude of topics.
From fire-knife dancing to the Tour Championship Tony Finau's winding road to East Lake -- that will eventually take him to the Masters -- wasn't exactly what his parents expected.
2 Related

There are some players who figured to be here but are not, such as Rory McIlroy and Phil Mickelson.
And there are some who are here and are truly relishing it, regardless of how they fare over the weekend.
Specifically, Pat Perez, Tony Finau and Patrick Cantlay are thrilled to be here because they've qualified for the Tour Championship for the first time.
And there are veterans such as Webb Simpson and Gary Woodland who appreciate their appearance more than they might have in other years -- and have managed to put themselves in contention.
"I'm definitely way more thankful to be here than I was the four years in a row I came here, and it's because it's hard to get here," said Simpson, the 2012 U.S. Open champion who missed the Tour Championship the past two years.
"I feel like the competition on the PGA Tour is better every year.
Pursues are bigger, there's FedEx Cup points, guys are hungrier than ever.
"And next season starts my 10th season, so I'm not that young anymore.
So it felt a lot more special this year after missing two in a row and knowing that I had a tough mountain to climb.
I just started playing well the last few months and so it feels great to be back."
Simpson shot 3-under-par 67 on Friday to move into a tie for the lead with Justin Thomas and Paul Casey.
Woodland also shot 67, and he is another shot back and in a tie for fourth with Patrick Reed, Justin Rose and Jon Rahm.
In his first Tour Championship since 2014, Webb Simpson has a share of the lead after two rounds.
"I just started playing well the last few months and so it feels great to be back," he said.
AP Photo/David Goldman

For Cantlay and Finau, the reasons for wanting to be here are more basic.
They qualified for their first Tour Championship, thus ensuring finishing among the top 30 in FedEx Cup points.
That alone means a big perk: spots in the first three major championships next year, including the Masters.
Cantlay managed to do it playing in just 11 tournaments this year, after battling injuries for the past several seasons.
"I picked my spots and I played really well this year up to this point," said Cantlay, who rebounded from an opening-round 74 by shooting 66 on Friday.
"I feel like I'm just getting started, just starting to get rolling and getting comfortable playing.
I'm playing really well.
My game is in good shape."
Same for Perez, who at age 41 is the oldest player in the field.
He qualified for the Tour Championship for the first time in his career.
At 11th in the FedEx Cup standings, Perez would have to win the tournament and have a slew of things happen just right to be crowned overall champion.
But just getting to East Lake is special enough, and he's not sweating the computations.
"I didn't think it was going to take me 16 years to get here, but it has and I'm just going to enjoy every minute of it," said Perez, who is tied for 11th after consecutive 68s.
"It's awesome to be here.
"I have such a different perspective because I wasn't playing last year (due to a shoulder injury).
So the last thing on my mind was ever trying to get here.
Obviously, that's always the goal, but it' so far down the line.
I can't imagine the fact that I'm here, for one, and have done it at 41, coming back after surgery.
It's just fantasy land."
Pat Perez is playing in his first Tour Championship at age 41.
"I didn't think it was going to take me 16 years to get here, but it has and I'm just going to enjoy every minute of it," he said.
Sam Greenwood/Getty Images

Perez, who is ranked 33rd in the world, won his second career PGA Tour title in November at the Mayakoba Classic, while playing on a medical extension that he received after missing most of the 2015-16 season because of shoulder surgery.
Despite missing the cut at both the U.S. Open and The Open, Perez had one of his best seasons, with the win, six top-10s and 13 top-25s.
He has played in the FedEx Cup playoffs 10 times, with his best finish 44th.
He finished tied for 34th, tied for sixth and tied for 12th at the first three playoff events this year.
"I'll enjoy it all the way around," Perez said.
"I'd like to enjoy it while walking in the fairway and not in the rough too."
Woodland made it to the Tour Championship for the fifth time, hanging onto the 28th position after beginning the playoffs there.
It was somewhat remarkable that Woodland was able to sustain any level of play after a tumultuous year off the course.
His wife, Gabby, was pregnant with twins and lost one of the babies around the time of the WGC-Match Play.
The other baby, Jaxson, was born June 23, but premature.
That, clearly, has made it a difficult year emotionally for Woodland, who nonetheless finds himself in contention after two rounds at East Lake.
"This is definitely the most rewarding year being here," Woodland said.
"I got off to a great start earlier this year and my game was as good as it's been.
Then I obviously had to battle through the summer.
But the game never left me; it's just that mentally I wasn't always there.
I've seen some signs of putting it all together."
With a big purse and a good bit of bonus money at stake, this is certainly a good week to do it.
2016 WNBA MVP Nneka Ogwumike is gearing up for this year's WNBA Finals rematch and shares how to take the WNBA global.
(1:35)

There's a photo of that split second before Sparks forward Nneka Ogwumike launched the shot that won the 2016 WNBA title.
She's falling backward, the ball balanced in her right palm, her eyes on the rim.
If she misses, there are four Lynx players in the paint to get the rebound.
The only Sparks player there, Candace Parker, has been boxed out.
Alana Beard, Chelsea Gray and Essence Carson are all beyond the 3-point line.
For all practical purposes, this is the moment that defines the season for both teams.
Ogwumike didn't miss.
Her shot gave Los Angeles a 77-76 Game 5 victory.
Now she and the Sparks return to Minneapolis for Sunday's Game 1 (ABC, 3:30 p.m.
ET) of the 2017 WNBA Finals.
Ogwumike is not living in the past.
It was a wonderful "signature" moment last October for the Sparks: The MVP of the league making the clutch basket that won the championship.
But now the Sparks and the Lynx are battling in another best-of-five series.
WNBA Finals schedule The best-of-five WNBA Finals open Sunday.
All tipoffs ET.
Sept. 24: Sparks at Lynx, 3:30 p.m. (ABC) Sept. 26: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN2) Sept. 29: Lynx at Sparks, 9 p.m. (ESPN2) Oct. 1*: Lynx at Sparks, 8:30 p.m. (ESPN) Oct 4*: Sparks at Lynx, 8 p.m. (ESPN) * If necessary  Complete schedule and results

"Both teams are very system-oriented teams," Ogwumike said.
"We both understand really well what works for us and what the other does.
"I think it will be interesting to see the game plans on both sides and those adjustments that we have to make as the series goes on.
Because last year, every game, it was something different.
It called for people to do different things."
That fits with what Ogwumike has done throughout this season.
It's not to say she hasn't been pretty similar to the player she was last year.
But like all great players who are still evolving, she's figuring out how many ways she can impact games.
Last year, her efficiency was astonishing, as she shot 66.5 percent from the field in the regular season and 62.5 during the playoffs.
This year, she was at 56.1 for the regular season and shot 56.7 in the Sparks' semifinal sweep of Phoenix.
What her numbers reflect, though, is that she's drawing a huge amount of defensive attention.
Foes are doing whatever they can to bottle her up, but it hasn't hurt the Sparks; just like last year, they went 26-8 and finished second in the league.
And they are playing their best basketball at the right time: Los Angeles has won 10 games in a row.
"I don't want to ever allow that to hinder me or make me not be confident in what I can do out there," Ogwumike said of when defenses key in on her.
"But sometimes it means I have to get looks in different ways.
Or I might be able to help open up looks for other people.
"I know if I run the floor, congestion will follow me, and maybe that will open things up for [our guards].
I have to stay active.
I can't think, 'Oh, if I'm not getting shots, that's the end of it.'
That can't ever be the end of it, and it shouldn't be for anybody."
Nneka Ogwumike's jumper with 3.1 seconds left, off the rebound of her blocked shot, won it for the Sparks in Game 5 of the 2016 WNBA Finals.
Jordan Johnson/Getty Images

Indeed, how she ran the floor last year put her in a position to win the championship.
And while we're about to start a whole new series, it's worth revisiting the fantastic finish of Game 5.
With 23.4 seconds left, Beard inbounded the ball to Ogwumike, who had started the play at the 3-point arc, then dashed past Lynx defender Sylvia Fowles through the lane to get position on the right low block.
Fowles, Rebekkah Brunson and Maya Moore all quickly converged on Ogwumike, who now had the ball in one of her sweet spots.
But it meant Parker, who had stayed close to the arc to try to draw away Brunson, had an unimpeded path to the rim.
She raced in, and Ogwumike threw her a perfect dump pass for a left-handed layup.
It put the Sparks up 75-74 with 19.7 seconds left.
After a timeout, the Lynx had the ball at half court, and Lindsay Whalen inbounded to Moore on the left side.
In a one-on-one showdown between Moore and expert defender Beard, Moore prevailed.
She drove to the baseline, and Beard lost her footing and slipped to the floor as Moore executed her turnaround.
Moore elevated for her shot with no one to obstruct her, and her basket gave the Lynx the lead again, 76-75, with 15.4 seconds left.
But this is where Ogwumike's ability to get to the rim earned the Sparks the championship.
She inbounded the ball to Gray and then sped downcourt.
She bumped into Moore, then spun into the paint.
At this point, Ogwumike was in the "danger zone" as far as the Lynx were concerned, as she was below the defense and alone.
Editor's Picks MVP showdown highlights WNBA Finals rematch With the two best defenses in the league squaring off in the WNBA Finals, the play of Los Angeles' Candace Parker and Nneka Ogwumike or Minnesota's Sylvia Fowles and Maya Moore might determine this year's champ.
WNBA BPI: Lynx have slight edge over Sparks Will the WNBA Finals go the distance for the third consecutive season?
ESPN's WNBA Basketball Power Index predicts that a potent Lynx offense is the slight favorite to win the title over the balanced Sparks.
Lynx veteran Brunson reinvents her game Long regarded as a defensive and rebounding specialist, Rebekkah Brunson made more 3-pointers in 2017 than in her 12 previous seasons combined.
For her to win her fifth WNBA title, and fourth with the Lynx, Brunson must keep shooting from beyond the arc.
2 Related

But Minnesota's focus was on Gray, who launched a contested turnaround fadeaway shot from the left side, just below the free throw line.
If the Lynx were going to give up a shot, this wasn't a bad one for them to allow, except ...
There was Ogwumike, in perfect position and unimpeded, for the offensive rebound.
She grabbed the rebound from the right side of the basket, her momentum carrying her over to the left side.
Her putback was blocked by Fowles, but the ball ended up right back in Ogwumike's hands.
Then there's Ogwumike, falling backward, with one more opportunity.
Like everything in real time, it happened so quickly, there was no chance to contemplate how much was riding on it, or how difficult a shot it was.
There was only a player who'd had a magical season she'd worked so hard to achieve, putting one last spectacular bow on the whole thing with 3.1 seconds left.
Later, as disappointed as she was, Minnesota coach Cheryl Reeve would say it was about Ogwumike doing "a very Nneka-like thing," which is to say putting herself in the right position and then not giving up on the play.
The Lynx still had a chance for a half-court heave by Whalen, but when that hit the backboard and the horn sounded, Ogwumike and the Sparks could celebrate.
"You always have to keep looking on the bright side, and that's something I'm really good at doing," Ogwumike said in the jubilant Sparks locker room later that night.
"People think I'm a little too optimistic, but I don't care.
This is why you do it.
You have to visualize things before they happen."
Ogwumike barely paused, though, after winning the 2016 title.
She was busy, busy, busy -- taking over as president of the players' union's executive committee, playing for Dynamo Kursk overseas in Russia, posing for ESPN the Magazine's Body Issue, being a spokeswoman for causes she believes in.
This season, she averaged a team-high 18.8 points and also 7.7 rebounds.
She feels like she continues to learn all the time.
While this series won't be at Target Center like last year -- the Lynx's home for these WNBA Finals is the University of Minnesota's Williams Arena -- the memories of last year will be lingering before Game 1 begins.
At least for the fans.
Then it's a whole new chapter, and Ogwumike is ready for that.
"It's huge to be playing them again," she said of the Lynx.
"The conversation about these two teams hasn't stopped since the beginning of last season, through the WNBA Finals, and into the beginning of this season.
And all the way until now.
"I think it's a great representation of the progress of our league.
It allows people to reminisce about rivalries that have existed before, and also give them something to relate to now, in terms of a modern rivalry between two elite teams."
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he aint going!
So therefore aint no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
Mr. James wrote on Twitter, where he has nearly twice as many followers as the president.
Mr. James later elaborated in a video on Instagram.
Mr. Trump also drew an unusually strong rebuke from the commissioner of the N.F.L., whose owners include many donors to, and friends of, the president.
Mr. Trump made the commissioner, Roger Goodell, a foil, accusing him of stoking disrespect for the country by criticizing him.
The Warriors, in a statement, said they would use a visit to Washington in February to highlight issues of diversity and inclusiveness.
By midafternoon, a spokesman for the University of North Carolina national championship basketball team confirmed the team would not be going to the White House, but he said it was a scheduling conflict, not a response to the days back-and-forth.
Many athletes have been moved to comment on race and social justice more frequently in the past year after a series of police shootings of unarmed African-Americans and the support Mr. Trump has received from white supremacists.
Last year, Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice.
He left the team this season and has not worked since, inspiring debate over whether teams are punishing him, while many players have knelt or made gestures in support of him during the anthem.
At the same time, some owners of N.F.L.
teams have suggested players should not take part in political demonstrations during the game.
None appeared to speak up for Mr. Trump on Saturday, while some put out statements critical of him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its unfortunate that the president decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the N.F.L., said Mark Murphy, the president and chief executive of the Green Bay Packers.
Mr. Trumps outbursts against athletes and their leagues came as he was smarting from yet another setback in his effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and as he worked to stoke enthusiasm among his core supporters in the deeply conservative state of Alabama, where he attended a campaign rally for Mr.
Strange, who many of them regard as an establishment Republican unworthy of their backing.
Photo

The president often uses freewheeling campaign speeches and Twitter to berate and insult critics in unvarnished language and to whip up core supporters.
In the past week, he branded North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, as Rocket Man and criticized Senator John McCain of Arizona for opposing Republican attempts to dismantle the health care law.
But Mr. Trumps broadsides this time focused on some of the most prominent African-American athletes in the country, who have international followings and have called out the president for his lack of tolerance and divisive views on race.
They come about a week after the president called on ESPN to apologize after Jemele Hill, one of the sports networks anchors, who is black, referred to him on Twitter as a white supremacist and a bigot.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Ms. Hills utterances were a firing offense.
The denial of a visit to the White House by the Warriors was not the first time the president tried to pre-empt a snub by dealing one of his own; last month, he abruptly announced that he was disbanding two of his business advisory councils after some members said they would resign from them to protest his equivocating response to racially charged violence in Charlottesville, Va., at a march organized by neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
At the Alabama rally, Mr. Trump said the protests would stop if fans left games when players did not stand for the anthem.
The only thing you could do better is if you see it, even if its one player, leave the stadium, he said.
With the N.F.L.
struggling to make the game safer in light of scores of players who have been found to have severe brain damage from hard hits, Mr. Trump complained that the game was being ruined by referees trying to control unnecessarily rough tackles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Today if you hit too hard  15 yards!
Throw him out of the game!
he said, adding: Theyre ruining the game!
Theyre ruining the game.
Thats what they want to do.
They want to hit.
They want to hit!
It is hurting the game.
In an unusually strong rebuke of the president on Saturday, Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., said the president failed to understand how the league and its players work together to create a sense of unity in our country and our culture.
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, he said in a statement.
Mr. Goodell, who leads a league in which about three-quarters of the players are black while about the same percentage of fans are white, has tried to find a middle ground between the players and his bosses, the owners of the leagues 32 teams.
More than half a dozen owners contributed to Mr. Trumps inauguration, and many of them donate heavily to conservative causes.
Some owners, including Robert K. Kraft of the New England Patriots, consider Mr. Trump a personal friend.
Coincidentally, the owners are now discussing whether to renew Mr. Goodells contract, which expires in 2019.
Even before the presidents remarks, the league has been trying to weave its way through an often fierce and uncomfortable debate inside the N.F.L.
and among fans about whether the anthem protests disrespect the military and country or are simply an effective way to publicize issues players want to highlight.
Mr. Trump has a history of antagonizing the N.F.L., dating to the 1980s, when he and the fledgling United States Football League successfully sued it for antitrust violations.
Though Mr. Trump won in court, his efforts bankrupted the U.S.F.L.
His name surfaced in 2014 as a potential buyer for the Buffalo Bills.
The presidents comments seemed to embolden players.
Detroit Lions tight end Eric Ebron questioned why players were told not to talk about politics, yet the president could speak about sports.
Does anyone tell trump to stick to politics, like they tell us to stick to sports?
he wrote.
He added smh for shaking my head.
Michael Thomas, a defensive back with the Miami Dolphins, urged fellow players not to back down.
Continue to use your voices and your platforms for racial equality and to stop injustices in our communities, he wrote on Twitter.
This is bigger than us!!
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Photo

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Photo

Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
The trade comes after a tumultuous summer for the Knicks, who fired Phil Jackson after a disastrous tenure as team president and hired Scott Perry as the new general manager.
It became increasingly clear that Perry, along with Steve Mills, who was promoted to team president in the wake of Jacksons departure, wanted to move on from Anthony.
Both Perry and Mills have repeatedly expressed their desire to commit the struggling Knicks to a rebuilding plan that would emphasize youth and defense.
Although they did not say so directly, that description seemed to leave no role for the 6-foot-8-inch Anthony, who has never been much of a defender and is fairly old by basketball standards.
With Saturdays deal, the Knicks signaled the continuation of a youth movement centered on Kristaps Porzingis, their 22-year-old power forward.
But their defense remains in some doubt.
Kanter, a 25-year-old center from Turkey, averaged 14.3 points in 21.3 minutes a game for the Thunder last season.
But Billy Donovan, the coach of the Thunder, had such little faith in Kanters defensive abilities that he could not keep him on the court in a playoff series against the Rockets last season.
In May, Kanter made international headlines when he was detained in Romania after the Turkish government canceled his travel documents.
Kanter, who was later allowed to return to the United States, has been an outspoken critic of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Shortly after news of the trade broke, Kanter posted a heartfelt farewell to Oklahoma City.
McDermott, a 25-year-old forward, averaged 9 points a game last season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Thunder will be Anthonys third N.B.A.
team in a professional career that began in 2003, when he was selected by the Denver Nuggets with the No.
3 pick in the draft not long after he led Syracuse to an N.C.A.A.
championship as an 18-year-old freshman.
Anthony went on to spend seven and a half seasons with the Nuggets before forcing a trade to the Knicks in February 2011.
It was a controversial deal that the Knicks owner, James Dolan, approved over the objections of Donnie Walsh, who was then the team president.
Walsh did not want to surrender so many players to acquire Anthony when the Knicks could have simply waited a few more months and tried to sign him as a free agent.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
With the Knicks, Anthony continued to play at a high level and was an All-Star in each of his six full seasons with the team.
He appeared in 412 regular-season games for them, averaging 24.7 points, 7 rebounds and 3.2 assists while shooting 44.3 percent from the field and 36.9 percent from 3-point range.
For much of his tenure at Madison Square Garden, he was also the teams most popular player  a reputation owing to his wizardry on offense, his generally friendly demeanor and the fact that he had roots in New York, having been born in Red Hook, Brooklyn, before moving to Baltimore.
Still, he had his detractors, too, including many fans (and coaches) who believed he was too focused on manufacturing shots for himself rather than creating for his teammates.
And Anthonys individual success with the Knicks did not translate into something larger.
He led them into the playoffs three times, but only once, in 2013, was he able to get them past the first round.
In his final four seasons with the Knicks, they had an almost unthinkable record of 117-211.
Amid this long stretch of futility, Anthony underwent knee surgery in February 2015 and missed the remainder of that season.
In the two seasons that followed, he looked, at times, older and slower, although he was still a premier player.
He also became an increasingly unhappy one under Jackson, who wanted the Knicks to employ the triangle offense he had used in winning a record 11 championships as an N.B.A.
coach in Chicago and Los Angeles.
But Anthony, many of his teammates and, for that matter, much of the N.B.A.
felt the intricacies of the triangle were out of date in a league that was beginning to emphasize high-tempo play, as exemplified by the Warriors.
Still, it was Anthonys opposition to the triangle that stood out and no doubt irked Jackson, who resorted to aiming barbs at Anthony on social media, perhaps to help convince him that he would be better off elsewhere.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Instead, it was Jackson who was forced out, in part because of the rift he created with Anthony as well as a separate one that arose between Jackson and the Knicks other standout player, Porzingis.
Jacksons ouster initially made Anthony, with two years still to go on his Knicks contract, look like the survivor.
But Mills, who had spent three seasons working under Jackson, had other ideas.
First, he spent an enormous amount of money to reacquire Tim Hardaway Jr., a 25-year-old, 6-6 swingman who had originally been drafted by the Knicks before Jackson traded him.
Hardaway gave Mills a player with offensive skills that could help make up for the void left by Anthonys departure.
Once Perry joined the organization, he began to search for a team that wanted Anthony and where Anthony would actually be willing to go.
He found a landing spot in Oklahoma City, which has a dynamic offense led by Westbrook and a top-shelf scorer in George, whom the Thunder acquired in an off-season trade with the Indiana Pacers.
With the Thunder, Anthony now has a more realistic chance of winning his first N.B.A.
championship, although the Warriors remain an imposing obstacle.
As for the Knicks, Anthony leaves behind a ragged trail of brilliant and disappointing moments, all of it colored by seemingly endless dysfunction.
He loved playing in New York and being a part of the citys fabric.
But for Anthony, the Knicks and all of their many impassioned fans, his long run here ended up as a profoundly bittersweet experience.
Former players would also have to prove that the head hits they received in the N.F.L.
directly led to their troubles off the field, which is a high bar, especially for those, like Hernandez, who also played football in college and in childhood.
The league might also argue that Hernandez knew there was a risk he could be injured playing in the N.F.L., particularly because he had played the game for more than a decade before he was drafted.
Even if the league has a high probability of convincing a judge of all these arguments, the Hernandez familys lawyer, Jose Baez, might be banking on the N.F.L.
to settle the case to avoid bad publicity.
The league, though, is known to stand its ground because it wants to stop other players from suing as well.
Theres always a shot in the dark to bring the league to the table, said Jodi Balsam, a former lawyer at the N.F.L.
who teaches at Brooklyn Law School.
These cases come up all the time, and there will be more of them if they settle this without a fight.
Indeed, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for the league, said that the N.F.L.
would vigorously fight the suit and that the Hernandez family would face significant legal issues.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe, is misguided, he added.
Lockhart also cast doubt on those who are trying to connect football to C.T.E., or chronic traumatic encephalopathy, as well as C.T.E.
to violence and suicide.
The science, he said, is far from settled.
While researchers have found links between C.T.E.
and symptoms like rage, depression and irritability, they cannot definitively say that the disease predicts the behavior.
Also complicating the research is that C.T.E.
can only be diagnosed posthumously, so scientists rely on a limited number of brains donated for research.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nobody can say football and the head hits created Aaron Hernandez and his behavior, said Brad Sohn, a lawyer who has sued the N.F.L.
on behalf of former players.
But the pathology should scare anyone with a rational bone in his body.
He had a raisin-like brain of a 70-year-old even though he was 27.
Still, despite the legal hurdles facing Hernandezs family, they might still receive money from the N.F.L.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lockhart said the league had a range of benefits available to the families of deceased players, including survivors benefits and annuities.
He also pointed to the class-action settlement that the league reached with retired players in which players who died and were found to have C.T.E.
are eligible for up to $4 million.
That benefit, though, is available only to players who had retired and died before the settlement was approved in federal court in 2015.
So in effect, the settlement would be a Trojan horse.
If the Hernandez family joins the settlement, arguing that he was no longer playing as of 2013 when he was imprisoned, they give up their right to sue the league, Sohn said, without any guarantee of getting money from the settlement.
Balsam, the former N.F.L.
lawyer, suggested that Baez, through the suit, is hoping for the remainder of Hernandezs $40 million contract extension he signed in 2012.
After Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder in June 2013, the Patriots released him and refused to pay him a $3 million bonus he was owed.
The Patriots withheld the money because Hernandezs conduct was detrimental to the team.
But Hernandez, through a quirk in Massachusetts law, has had his murder conviction overturned because he died before his appeal of the case could be heard.
So, in theory, Baez could argue that because Hernandez technically is no longer guilty of murder, the Patriots should repay his family the money he did not receive.
That argument could play out in court over weeks and months, causing the team and the league significant embarrassment.
But the league does not seem to mind sticking it out, even in high-profile cases.
It has declined to settle a wrongful-death suit by another former Patriot, the Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau, who also killed himself and was found to have C.T.E.
The N.F.L.
is making clear on every level that they want to take the General Patton approach as long as possible and make it as expensive and challenging for anyone who tries to fight them in court, Sohn said.
So its a question of, whos willing to fight these cases and stand up to the bullies.
The debate over any visit proved irrelevant, however, when Mr. Trump weighed in on the subject with a tweet on Saturday.
The response from players was swift.
Several players in both leagues condemned the announcement, in a throwback of sorts to the days when political statements by star athletes like Muhammad Ali, Bill Russell, Tommie Smith and John Carlos were more common.
Potentially the boldest response to Mr. Trump came from the Warriors chief rival, LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers:

Mr. Curry was also supported by Chris Paul, the Houston Rockets point guard, who also happens to be the president of the N.B.A.s players association.
While Mr. Curry has yet to respond, his teammate, the outspoken Draymond Green, unsurprisingly weighed in.
As an organization, the Warriors were far more politically reserved than Mr. Green, saying in a statement, In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that well constructively use our trip to the nations capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No stranger to controversy involving Mr. Trump, Jemele Hill, the ESPN host, also supported Mr. Curry.
Ms. Hill was recently embroiled in a debate centered on her reference to the president as a white supremacist, and his offices call for her firing.
Mr. Trump has found just as swift a response from players and personalities connected to the N.F.L.
over his comments about players like Colin Kaepernick who have sat or knelt during the national anthem to protest the treatment of black people by the police.
At a rally in Alabama, Trump said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these N.F.L.
owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
Hes fired!
Hes fired!
Among the players to respond to Trumps statements was Chris Conley, a wide receiver for the Kansas City Chiefs.
In a series of strongly-worded tweets, Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, said he was fine with being fired for what he believes in and rejected the labels put on players by the president.
Richard Sherman, the outspoken Seattle Seahawks cornerback, said:

The topic seemed to elicit opinions from all over, with Sean Combs, the businessman and music mogul, asking N.F.L.
players to make a statement before tomorrows games.
And none other than Ed Asner, the 87-year-old comedian, tackled the subject.
Amid all the chaos online, Ayesha Curry, the wife of Stephen, took the high road in the matter, refocusing the discussion on bigger events going on around the world.
Eppler propped up his offense on Aug. 31  the last day to add players who could be eligible for the postseason  by trading for outfielder Justin Upton and second baseman Brandon Phillips, adding firepower to a lineup led by the peerless Mike Trout.
But the rotation has stayed in constant flux.
Only one pitcher has thrown 150 innings  Ricky Nolasco, whose earned run average is 5.06.
Elbow trouble cost Garrett Richards five months and ended the seasons of J. C. Ramirez and Alex Meyer.
Another starter, Andrew Heaney, is out with a sore shoulder, and the Angels plan to replace him with a procession of relievers, as they did in a seven-man, tag-team victory on Sept. 15.
Given all that, it is no surprise that the Angels have set a club record for victories by relievers.
Their bullpen has been fairly stable, with five pitchers working at least 55 games.
The staff has been helped greatly by impeccable team defense, which Fangraphs ranked as the second best in the majors, behind only the Boston Red Sox.
We laid the blueprint out in the wintertime, as far as understanding theres a run-producing aspect and a run-prevention aspect, Eppler said.
Lets try to grow the distance between those two variables as great as we can.
The Angels two best defenders, according to Fangraphs, have been shortstop Andrelton Simmons and catcher Martin Maldonado.
Eppler acquired Simmons from Atlanta before last season, and Maldonado from Milwaukee last winter.
Those moves and others might help the Angels squeeze into the playoffs, if they make the most of their remaining games against Houston, Seattle and the Chicago White Sox.
If they make it, the Angels could meet a fitting opponent in the American League wild-card game on Oct. 3  the Yankees.
We benefited from Billys baseball I.Q.
for a long time, like the Angels are now, Cashman said last week.
Im not surprised by any success they have, because they hired the right man, and they will benefit for a long time from that decision.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

An Assist From a Button

Sure, he lacked the balletic grace of Byron Buxton, Kevin Pillar or Andrelton Simmons.
But Nick Pivetta, a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies, might have made the catch of the year during his teams recent four-game series victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
With two outs in the sixth inning on Monday, the Dodgers Austin Barnes smoked a liner back up the middle at 106 miles per hour, too fast for Pivetta to get a glove on it.
Instead, his button-down jersey made the play for him.
Had Pivetta been pitching for the Phillies from 1973 to 1986, when the team wore zipper-front jerseys, this would have been impossible.
But Barness hit nestled inside Pivettas shirt, entering between the buttons, and Pivetta stayed upright.
He reached inside his jersey, found the ball and flipped it behind him as he trotted off the field to end the inning.
Actually, its funny, Pivetta told reporters after the game.
My last game in junior college, on one of the outs, I had a ball similar to that.
I caught it in my stomach.
That one hit my forearm, then my stomach.
So thats the second time it happened to me.
I didnt even see the ball.
Technically, Pivetta needed to throw the ball to first to complete the out.
According to Rule 5.09(a): A catch is the act of a fielder in getting secure possession in his hand or glove of a ball in flight and firmly holding it; providing he does not use his cap, protector, pocket or any other part of his uniform in getting possession.
But the umpires ruled it a catch, the Dodgers did not complain  and it was clearly Pivettas night, anyway.
He has a 6.57 earned run average for the season, but on Monday he beat the three-time Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw to earn his sixth victory.
Stamina in the Bullpen

Few playoff teams have a reliever quite like Chris Devenski of the Houston Astros.
Devenski has thrown about 80 innings in relief this season, more than any other pitcher for a division-leading team.
He could be the Astros answer to Clevelands Andrew Miller as a critical multiple-inning weapon for the playoffs.
Photo

Devenski worked more than one inning 17 times before pitching in the All-Star Game, his first, and he has done so far less often since then, which should keep him rested for October.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Astros acquired Devenski to little fanfare in a 2012 trade with the Chicago White Sox for Brett Myers, a veteran who was pitching his last full season in the majors.
Devenski, who had been drafted in the 25th round the year before, was in low Class A with a 4.23 E.R.A.
I had a lot of failure in the minor leagues, and I always learned something from it, he said this summer.
It helps me become better.
The pitcher I am now, he goes out there and he dominates.
Theres going to be rough times, but thats part of the game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Devenski dominates with a changeup he learned in high school but took many years to perfect.
He recognized the pitch as his ticket to the majors shortly after the trade, when he used it for about 60 percent of his pitches in a 16-strikeout, Class A no-hitter.
Even as his E.R.A.
swelled to 6.60 the next year, Devenski kept faith in the changeup.
I had to just continue to throw it and throw it and throw it, Devenski said.
Its like if youre digging for coal and youve got diamonds on the other side of the coal and you continue to dig and continue to dig.
What if you give up, and you were two inches away from the diamonds?
Its kind of like I did the same thing with my changeup.
I was going to continue to throw this and throw this and throw this until something good came out of it.
I always knew I could develop it into something nasty.
Devenski throws his changeup around 83 miles an hour, and his fastball around 94.
He throws both pitches about 40 percent of the time, and also uses a slider.
It is a rare three-pitch mix for a reliever, but useful for one who may face hitters more than once per game.
Devenski spoke with Miller about their roles at the All-Star Game, and the two could meet again in the playoffs.
Not many teams, if any teams, have what he can do for them right now, his flexibility, his length, Miller said in July.
I dont think anybodys looking forward to facing the Astros for a lot of reasons, but hes certainly part of it.
Near-Miss No-Hitters

The Detroit Tigers Matthew Boyd lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning last Sunday when Tim Anderson of the Chicago White Sox lined a two-out double to right.
That was the sixth time this season that a no-hitter had been broken up in the ninth inning or later, the most in the majors since 1989.
Photo

That season, Kirk McCaskill, John Farrell, Tom Browning, Dave Stieb and Nolan Ryan  twice!
lost no-hitters in the ninth.
Ryan had thrown five of his record seven no-hitters by then, Browning had tossed a perfect game the year before and Stieb would get his no-hitter the next season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This years group has never pitched a no-hitter.
After the Miami Marlins lost a combined no-hitter by Wei-Yin Chen, Brad Ziegler and Kyle Barraclough in April, Atlantas Mike Foltynewicz, Colorados Kyle Freeland, Washingtons Gio Gonzalez, the Los Angeles Dodgers Rich Hill (in the 10th inning) and Boyd joined the list.
Only one pitcher has finished a no-hitter this season: Miamis Edinson Volquez against Arizona on June 3.
Alas, the season did not end happily for Volquez, who two months later underwent Tommy John surgery for the second time in his career.
Speaking of Volquez, 34, how many pitchers have experienced as many extremes as he has?
Besides his no-hitter and surgeries, Volquez has been traded for Josh Hamilton (in 2007); made an All-Star team (2008); served a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs (2010); lost his playoff debut, when Philadelphias Roy Halladay threw a no-hitter against him (2010); started on opening day for three teams (San Diego in 2012 and 2013, Kansas City in 2016, Miami in 2017); started Game 1 of the World Series the day his father died, then started the clincher five days later (in 2015); and in various seasons led his league in earned runs, walks, hit batters and wild pitches.
Both squads were clearly on task from the start: The body language betrayed the tension.
Team Worlds captain, John McEnroe, crossed and uncrossed his arms like a college senior at his first job interview.
Frances Tiafoe, the American teenager who played for Team World in the opening match against Marin Cilic, could not help letting his shoulders slump after a crucial backhand approach smacked into the net.
There was electricity in the indoor air and not only of the sort that made the European captain Bjorn Borgs now gray locks levitate roofward as he posed on court in front of the trophy.
The rallies and results mattered, mattered to a surprising degree for an event with no history.
So even as the favored European team took a 3-0 lead after winning all three of the opening singles matches, this was no processional.
Photo

Every set of singles on Friday went to a tiebreaker, which would have made one wonder if it was written into the lucrative contracts if not for the intensity of the exchanges and expressions as Cilic beat Tiafoe, 7-6 (3), 7-6 (0), and Dominic Thiem rallied to defeat John Isner, 6-7 (15), 7-6 (2), and finally 10-7 in a third-set match tiebreaker.
Alexander Zverev then held off Denis Shapovalov, 7-6 (3), 7-6 (5).
People were questioning if this is going to be an exhibition, but for none of us this is exhibition, Cilic said.
We are very much into it.
We prepared really well.
And yet there were also moments that made it clear this was not quite elite tennis as usual: plenty of chuckles in fact, most of them generated by Team World.
They are much younger than us, said Nadal, now 31, with a wink.
In Davis Cup, the 117-year-old mens team competition that remains the market leader, the players not involved in the match typically sit in the front row of the stands directly behind the court.
But in Prague, the teams are sitting on couches on adjacent platforms that look down on the action, separated only by the narrow walkway leading to the locker room.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This has some drawbacks.
It puts the team cheering section a little farther from the action and also makes it glaringly apparent when all the seats in the player area are not full.
But it does give the noncombatants plenty of room to stretch their limbs as they watch, man-cave style, from the couch.
Or in the case of Nick Kyrgios, the rambunctious Australian, plenty of room to dive forward and slide on his chest, volleyball style, after Isner, his fellow member of Team World, hit an outrageously good forehand to end an epic rally late in the first set against Thiem.
Photo

While Kyrgios remained prone, his teammate Jack Sock dropped to the floor next to him and spun around on his back.
We were clearly a long way from Wimbledon, just as we remained when Kyrgios & Co. later led the crowd in a wave and celebrated points won by Shapovalov in the second-set tiebreaker against Zverev by walking forward on their hands and reeling off a few push-ups each.
Just as we remained as Isner, no youngster himself at age 32, later choreographed a pantomime volleyball match that included a spike sans ball as Sock and Kyrgios were on their way to saving some face for Team World.
With Sock diving to keep rallies alive and Kyrgios slamming serves and hitting half volleys between his legs, they narrowed the overall score to 3-1 by beating Nadal and Tomas Berdych in the days closing doubles match: 6-3, 6-7 (7) and 10-7 in the match tiebreaker.
The days celebrations were, to be sure, instant social media grist, but also refreshingly different.
I saw the sliding and whatever, the push-ups that they did, Zverev said.
I had a smile on my face a little bit.
They are all great guys.
Nick is an entertainer, we all know that.
The Americans, Jack and John, are great guys.
They are having fun.
The Europeans were, in comparison, much more subdued.
But Zverev, still just 20, had a little diversion of his own in the midst of his match after the big screen above the court showed Federer, generating loud applause from the crowd.
Zverev, who was preparing to serve, grinned and took a quick break and bantered with a fan, pointing in Federers direction.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Zverev then coolly held serve on the next point with a big delivery that Shapovalov, not for the first or last time, could not handle.
Photo

It was a fun moment with the crowd, and then it was back to serious, Zverev said.
I think both of us, we didnt joke around or anything like that.
It was a full-on serious match.
Federer was not just a distraction.
He was also a consultant, coming onto the court on one changeover to share thoughts on tactics with Zverev and Borg; just as he had done with Thiem and Borg earlier in the day.
The Laver Cup is determined to be different: from the black court, which actually looks closer to dark gray, to the tiny cameras lodged in the net to its unconventional format.
Matches are worth 2 points on Saturday and 3 points on Sunday.
The Europeans, as the home team, are allowed to see the Team World lineup for Saturday before they choose their own and can thus cherry-pick the matchups.
Team World will get the same right for Sunday.
We know who were playing, but we cant tell you yet, said Nadal, who is expected to play singles for Europe on Saturday along with Federer and Berdych.
Nadal could also play doubles, for the first time in earnest with Federer.
They have played together once before: in a charity match in Australia in 2011.
But that was an exhibition, and no matter how others might define that term in tennis, it is not the term in vogue here at the Laver Cup.
That is not the spirit of this competition, Nadal said.
You could see it in all the matches today.
How it looked on the sideline was another matter.
Yet so far, the changes are proving more evolutionary than revolutionary.
Cals first-year head coach, Justin Wilcox, for instance, characterized various gadgets as just another way to train our players, drawing a direct line between them and the more basic cycle of practices, team meetings, weight-room work and games.
Luke Rose, an assistant strength and conditioning coach at Rutgers, added: At the end of the day, the biggest thing is not to rely on technology.
Technology helps, dont get me wrong, but the conversation with the kid and how the kids feeling is a big one, too.
Photo

For the moment, investors seem less supportive of the wearables industry.
Equity funding plummeted to around $300 million last year from the more than $1.3 billion the industry raised in 2014, according to the Sports Innovation Lab.
Isaiah Kacyvenski, managing director of the firm, said investor interest had waned because wearable technology has failed to deliver on its outstretched promises.
Yet there remains some sense that wearables represent a part of the future.
Most investment is now directed toward early-stage companies; Nike and Under Armour are known to be interested in its potential; and Apple bills its fitness-tracking Apple Watch as the ultimate device for a healthy life.
For an industry licking its wounds, elite sports is a redoubt.
The tracking, the analytics, have become a big component, said Mike Joseph, director of strength and conditioning at West Virginia, which uses Catapult and Whoops wristbands, which track sleep and bodily strain.
Its not just us, Joseph added.
Its N.F.L., N.B.A., M.L.B.
all these professional leagues  and it has filtered down.
The wearable tech company with the most penetration in college football is most likely Catapult, which arose out of Australian rules football.
Roughly half the teams in college footballs Power 5 conferences, including Alabama, Wisconsin, Notre Dame and U.S.C., are clients.
Torre Becton, Cals head of strength and conditioning for football, said the companys legend grew after one of its earliest adopters, Florida State, went undefeated and won the national title in the 2013 season.
But several other companies have had their share of college football success stories.
At Rutgers, according to Rose, heart rate data from his Zephyr Performance Systems device revealed unusual prepractice spikes in one player, who was referred to the sports medicine team for anxiety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Cal running back Patrick Laird felt unusually tired after one practice this summer, he sought confirmation in numbers gleaned from Catapult.
It turned out he had broken his personal record for yards and explosive movements in that practice  valuable information for coaches and trainers who would like to keep the junior healthy and fresh.
West Virginia linebacker Al-Rasheed Benton used a Whoop wristband to track his sleep.
Ive never been one to say, O.K., Im going to get 10 hours of sleep,  he said.
But now Im more conscious.
Jay Hooten, Northwestern footballs director of sports performance, spied irregular sleep data from a players Rise Science device, and sent him to a physician.
The player was found to have sleep apnea.
Photo

Clemson, the reigning national champion, has been using Rise Sciences sleep monitors.
(So has the team it defeated in last seasons title game, Alabama.)
Unlike Whoop and Fatigue Science, whose clients include Florida State and Texas, Rise Science tracks sleep not with a wristband but with a ribbon that goes underneath its subjects mattress.
Its kind of like back in the day, when we were having nutritionists, nobody wanted to talk to the nutritionist  rabbit food  but now its cool to be with the nutritionist, Clemson Coach Dabo Swinney said.
So were trying to create that same culture with our sleep, and these guys understanding how important it is for their performance.
That is why, an hour before bedtime each night, Clemson defensive tackle Jabril Robinson puts on melatonin glasses  shades designed to block out blue light, encouraging production of the hormone associated with sleep.
Every morning, he said, he checks an app on his phone to see how long he slept, what his resting heart rate had been, and what, according to Rise Science, the overall quality of his slumber was.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They say you can feel the difference, Robinson said, and I think I feel it.
Wearable technology represents opportunity not only for the teams, but for the companies who sell it.
Many teams break down their data for their own personal insights, effectively doing research on the companies behalf.
The Clemson Data Analytics Team, for instance, is studying players on-field physiological data and sleep data in connection with each other.
The more people you get across it, the greater the set of information youre going to get, said Ryan Warkins, Catapults director of business operations for North America.
But the very value of the data continues to disturb those who criticize its collection, particularly for college players, who are nonunionized and barred from receiving compensation beyond scholarships.
Several critics objected last year when it was revealed that the University of Michigans contract with Nike opened the door to the collection and exploitation of players data.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, the devices themselves are not the surefire gauges of futurists dreams.
Few are medically validated, meaning they have not been subject to the rigorous testing and verification process legally required for, say, pacemakers.
All measure something, but the usefulness of those measurements is up for debate.
Even if you nail it on an accuracy level, Kacyvenski said, what does it mean?
Several teams interviewed for this article said that they had made intimate products like sleep-trackers voluntary and that the data they received was aggregated and kept anonymous, unless a player had chosen for it not to be.
Its like an option, West Virginia running back Justin Crawford said of Whoops tracker.
If you dont want it, theyll give it to another player.
Still, some fear the athletes data could be used against them, whether by revealing that a running back had taken greater wear and tear than might be apparent to the naked eye  information that might be extremely valuable to N.F.L.
scouts  or by revealing that a player had been up late the night before a game.
Were not looking at it like, Was he in his bed last night?
said Alexander Bina, the manager of the Clemson Data Analytics Team.
I dont particularly care about that, and none of the coaches do.
Its meant to be a tool for athletes to use.
While past acquisitions were seen as growth-oriented moves in a business  live sports and broadcasting  that thrived as other forms of media experienced headwinds, even live sports faces a challenging environment now.
Dominant companies like ESPN are showing signs of struggle, and according to some industry experts, multimedia marketing has not grown as much as some expected.
In that light, the potential merger  which would eliminate duplicative functions and most likely include some layoffs  seems less aggressive and more cautious, the corporate equivalent of the prevent defense.
The multimedia rights that companies like IMG and Learfield buy and sell are not the rights to broadcast games themselves  those are typically sold by conferences to large broadcasters like ESPN, Fox and CBS.
Instead, they sell the rights to radio broadcasts of the games and surrounding programming, including on digital platforms, and they sell ads in places like game-day programs and the stadium video board.
Photo

At major sports programs, these rights are often the third or fourth biggest revenue streams for athletics departments, behind TV rights fees, ticket sales and fund-raising.
It is difficult to compare how much each school earns from these rights because the deals can be constructed in creative ways.
But, for example, in 2014 Learfield bought Alabamas multimedia rights for 10 years in a deal worth $15 million to $16 million annually.
George Pyne, who was the president of IMG Sports and Entertainment when it entered the college athletics business, said the demographics of college sports fans  a young, wealthy and diverse fan base of almost 200 million people  attracted IMG.
The company also wanted to take advantage of a multimedia marketing business that was fragmented and localized.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
One of the big challenges in monetizing college sports is that the most important programs are not necessarily in the largest media markets.
If you are a national sponsor, and say you want to be in the top 25 markets, said Tom Stultz, president of JMI Sports, which owns Kentuckys and Clemsons multimedia rights, that doesnt necessarily include Tuscaloosa, Ala.
If a company could acquire the multimedia marketing rights for enough colleges, it would effectively have a large enough network to sell sponsorships nationally.
But the theory hasnt necessarily been matched by the reality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We all thought that there were opportunities to really grow the business, Stultz said.
I think there has been some success of that, but not what everybody thought it would be.
Learfield and IMG are betting on the idea that their previous scale was not enough, and the solution is even greater scale, a one-stop shop for any advertiser wanting to reach the vast landscape of college sports fans.
With the multimedia rights to about 85 percent of the major programs  as well as some associated licensing, naming rights and ticketing businesses  the merged Learfield and IMG will come as close to that as possible.
There is no question of power and efficiencies in big business, Palisi said.
But the merger is also a retrenchment.
Both companies are structured similarly, and when combined will have redundant functions.
The euphemistic efficiencies that will come from the merger are likely to include layoffs.
Perhaps reduced costs will achieve the profits that scale alone could not.
Given that the new company will be the dominant player in the industry, the potential merger will surely attract antitrust scrutiny.
In 2010, when IMG purchased ISP Sports, the Justice Department closely examined the purchase and raised some concerns, before eventually approving it.
If the market is defined specifically as college athletics multimedia marketing  as opposed to the entire college sports business, or the more general sports multimedia marketing  the merger could be in trouble.
The Justice Department declined to comment on the proposed merger.
Pyne said he thought the idea that the merged company would monopolize the business was overblown.
There are no barriers to entry in college sports, and I dont think that is ever going to change, he said.
The schools will have the final say in how their products and services are distributed to their fans.
Photo

HUNTSVILLE, Ala.  President Trump said on Friday night that N.F.L.
owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem, and he encouraged spectators to walk out of stadiums in protest.
In an extended riff during a speech in Alabama, Trump also bemoaned what he sees as less violence in football games.
Theyre ruining the game, he complained.
Several athletes, including a handful of N.F.L.
players, have refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest of the treatment of minorities by the police.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who started the trend last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, has not been signed by a team for this season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump says those players are disrespecting the flag and deserve to lose their jobs.
Thats a total disrespect of our heritage.
Thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, he said, encouraging owners to act.
With one out in the third inning, Frazier was on second base after a double.
Jacoby Ellsbury lined a ball into right field, and Bautista made one of three fine plays in the game  a leaping grab of the ball over his head.
As Frazier scrambled back to the bag, Bautista threw the ball back in to Goins, the second baseman.
Photo

Goins pretended to casually throw back to Estrada, but actually placed the ball in his glove as Frazier stood on the base, looking toward the outfield.
When Frazier stepped of the base by just inches, Goins tagged him for the final out.
Frazier blamed his lack of concentration for the play.
I thought the ball was thrown in, and it was one of those things, he said.
Nothing you can do about it afterward.
Castro also took the blame for his mistake  failing to catch Fraziers throw in the first inning with a runner coming into second base.
Castro said he had rushed to turn the double play, and missed the ball.
The runner, Teoscar Hernandez, ended up at third and scored on a groundout by Bautista.
Perhaps both of those mistakes could have been overcome if Tanaka had pitched better.
But he gave up a bases-empty homer to Hernandez in the third and a two-run shot by the former Yankee Russell Martin in the fourth, and the Blue Jays led, 4-1.
Then in the sixth, Tanaka walked Bautista as the leadoff batter, just as he had done before Martins homer in the fourth.
Kevin Pillar singled, but Tanaka struck out Martin and Miguel Montero, hinting that he still had the stuff to get safely out of the inning.
Photo

But he walked pinch-hitter Kendrys Morales (he said he was not pitching around him to face Goins) to load the bases.
Goins was 0 for 20 against Tanaka coming into the game and had made two outs already, which is why Girardi left Tanaka in to face him.
But this time was different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Goins rocketed a high slider over Judges head and into the seats beyond right field for his eighth homer of the season.
The only other grand slam of his career came in May.
Tanaka has had a difficult season, and the Yankees have been unable to determine the reason.
Tanaka said that it was a mechanical problem and that he would have to analyze videotape of Fridays outing to determine what flaw had doomed him.
Girardi attributed Tanakas troubles to inconsistency throughout the season with his split-fingered fastball and his slider.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tanaka is 12-12, and his E.R.A.
is 4.94.
He has surrendered seven earned runs in two of his last three starts, and should the Yankees make it to the divisional round of the playoffs, his spot in the rotation could be in doubt.
You look at everything, Girardi said.
But I dont want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
We still havent clinched anything.
We need to win games, and we need to play well.
And tonight we didnt.
The Yankees will have more shots to clinch a playoff berth, but their chances to win the American League East grew smaller as the Red Sox beat the Cincinnati Reds, 5-4, increasing their lead over the Yankees to four games with nine to play.
We are still looking to win the division, Frazier said.
We know we have a really good shot at making the playoffs, of course, but we still have an opportunity to win the division, so I think our mind-set is on that.
This makes me look at my playing career differently.
I wonder how, if Twitter had existed then, I would have handled the public release of, say, my fathers illness, or pushing back against trade rumors coming from every direction when I played for the Texas Rangers in 2003.
I viewed privacy as having the choice of whether to address a personal issue beyond my trusted circle.
For public figures today, that choice is considerably more limited.
As fans, we generally welcome these tidbits on the people we admire or enjoy as performers.
We see a private side that can explain their drive or make them more relatable.
Yet we do not want to go too deeply, given that the domain of their performance is often an escape for us.
We dont want to be bombarded, or even confronted with anything slightly uncomfortable, let alone politicized or polarizing.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
So the players can find themselves in a quandary.
This social world that can build a brand, even raise an army of followers, is the same social world that is insatiable in its demands and expectations.
The athletes are always a walking story, not just their story, but potentially for proximate strangers who can selfie or photo-bomb themselves into prominence.
Its true that the simplicity of the game went out the window long before football players knelt in protest.
For years now, fans have been going to stadiums that are more like family entertainment centers, where the game is not enough.
When you watch games with or on phones, even if youre at the ballpark, the pitchers windup can be interrupted by breaking news or maybe a reminder to pay your water bill.
Fans from earlier generations reminisce about how it used to be.
The times before the advent of social media  less noise, more sport.
Just as I, an athlete from an earlier generation, wonder about the repercussions of a contrived reality.
The observer interfering with the experiment used to be a concern, but we have moved to an invisible observer being part of the experiment.
Now as we split the athletes time into thinner tranches, he or she is always on the record.
And if we are on top of everything an athlete does, we see the blemishes, real life converging with real time.
A consequence of the red camera light being perpetually on.
There is little time for reflection in these environments, so naturally we see everything as is, including some issues we would rather not see when we pop open a beer and tune in to Monday Night Football.
The lines blur between an athletes pain and our escape from the workplace, his spiritual reflections and our politics, her moment in the sun and our daily grind, her sorrow and our happiness.
Yet for the athlete, there is little time to find other platforms to express much of anything given the moneyed and self-absorbed nature of the co-opted time in his world.
Not unless he wants to miss the window, the news cycle of his moment.
If he waits, he or his message runs the risk of irrelevance.
Thats the fear.
I would like to just watch the game, too, but the athlete may just want to catch a cab without being passed over, she may just want to be a champion without being compared to a man, he may just want to honor his fallen brothers service to his country, she may just want to not be judged by what she is wearing, he or she may not want a pronoun attached to them.
These elements could be part of what makes them tick in the game we love.
Yet we still say, as we always dismissively have, Just shut up and play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

From Jackie Robinson to Billie Jean King, many have spoken out since the advent of sports.
The benefit of time and patience often rewards us with the true significance of their efforts, even if we disagreed with their approaches or were uncomfortable along the way.
These pioneers reminded us that change is always unsettling and that silence changes nothing.
Many of these athletes are now letting us know that we are not listening well, not remembering sports longstanding relationship with activism, that in our rush for the bottom line they have been reduced to sound bites and clips, providing little room to address anything in great depth.
In turn, we have lost the helpful pauses, periods, ellipses, deep breaths and perspective-granting exercises that allow for collaboration, dissent or dialogue.
We cannot have it both ways.
Know everything but learn nothing, see everything but be blinded, count but not allow someone to matter, hear everything but not listen.
The players are now responding to our escalating voyeurism with intimacy.
Will we reciprocate  or put up a two-way mirror?
Choosing a new manager  perhaps Ausmus, Sandy Alomar Jr., or a former Met like Alex Cora, Joe McEwing or Robin Ventura  is likely to be Aldersons first priority this winter.
An easier decision should be replacing the medical and training staff.
No one can say precisely how many of the Mets injuries could have been anticipated, prevented or minimized.
But the sheer volume of debilitating physical problems to major players demands some kind of accountability.
These Mets might have been flawed in their construction.
But with the injuries, they never had a chance to find out.
Remove Noah Syndergaard, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler, Jeurys Familia, Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto and David Wright, and of course the team flatlined.
Solving the health riddle is Aldersons most important task.
He seems open to ideas.
The injuries are not just an objective fact; there are underlying causes and issues that weve wanted to and have examined in connection with those injuries, Alderson said.
Its not going to happen just at the end of the season.
Its been an ongoing review.
As for his own performance, Alderson said, the players he sought at the trading deadline should show where he went wrong earlier.
In dealing several veterans, Alderson sought one asset most: relievers.
This seasons bullpen was too thin from the start.
I think thats sort of a tacit recognition that, look, we need to get better there, he said.
Alderson was right last winter not to match the Atlanta Braves one-year, $12.5 million offer to Bartolo Colon, who had steadied the Mets rotation for three memorable seasons.
Colon looks finished now.
His 6.63 earned run average, with the Braves and the Minnesota Twins, is the worst in the majors for pitchers with at least 20 starts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the Mets were not as deep in starters as they thought.
By Memorial Day, they had given desperate promotions to Tommy Milone, Adam Wilk and Tyler Pill, who have combined to go 0-7.
Clearly, they need more than just bullpen depth.
We also are going to have to look at the rotation and see whether theres some stabilizing addition we can make that will help us bridge some of the uncertainty that comes from pitchers whove been hurt and are coming back, Alderson said.
Well be in a similar situation next year as we were this year, and hoping for better results  but perhaps planning for the possibility that they dont all come back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With few high-impact starters besides Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish on the free-agent market, the Mets might have to overpay for a reliable mid-rotation arm like Andrew Cashner, Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn or Jason Vargas.
Whomever they pursue, Alderson acknowledged that with so much uncertainty in the rotation, the Mets would have to pay closer attention to defense.
Shortstop Amed Rosario has been a revelation in the field, but can the rest of the lineup bash enough to support Juan Lagares, who has a weak bat but a sterling glove in center field?
When your pitchers arent striking everybody out, as weve had the benefit of in the past, the defense becomes a little more important, Alderson said, adding that there has been a recognition after this year that if were going to have pitching that puts the ball in play a little more, then the defense is going to have to be more of a priority.
If only the Mets had forgiven Daniel Murphy his defensive shortcomings, instead of letting him leave after his slugging led them to the 2015 World Series.
Murphy came back to town this weekend hitting .316 with 22 homers in the second season of a bargain three-year, $37.5 million contract with Washington.
Murphy was out of the lineup Friday, easing into another playoff run.
His Mets replacement, Neil Walker, was traded last month to Milwaukee.
Maybe Murphy will start on Saturday to face his old teammates, Syndergaard and Harvey, who will pitch for the Mets.
Syndergaard has not pitched since April 30 because of a torn right latissimus muscle, and he will work the first inning only.
Harvey, who has been shelled in his return from shoulder trouble, will follow.
Not long ago, they were swaggering superheroes, Thor and the Dark Knight.
Their return will be a bittersweet episode of a failed series.
In the back of your mind, youre saying, If we could have had these guys   Collins said.
But you didnt.
Thats the reality of it all.
You try not to get caught up in what could have been, because it didnt.
This empowering idea is now ubiquitous.
For the ambitious athlete who seeks to overcome a favored foe or break through to a new level of performance, the right attitude to overcoming obstacles is laid out clearly by the king of self-help books, Norman Vincent Peale, in The Power of Positive Thinking:

Just stand up to it, thats all, and dont give way under it, and it will finally break, Peale counsels.
You will break it.
Something has to break, and it wont be you, it will be the obstacle.
The peculiar circumstances in Berlin this weekend are a result of the Nike-sponsored Breaking2 project, started with great fanfare last December, which sought to marry the brilliance of East African distance runners with the full fury of modern sports science to produce a sub-two-hour marathon.
The projects time trial, held on a Formula One track in Monza, Italy, in early May, featured three runners wearing customized shoes with a curved carbon-fiber insert in the soles, chasing a rotating pack of six pacers to block the wind  the latter detail making the race ineligible for a world record.
Most pundits, including me (I was covering the project for Runners World magazine), were highly skeptical that these improvements would get anyone close to the two-hour mark.
And if the technology did make that much of a difference, what would be the point?
How would it be any more significant than breaking the record by running downhill on roller skates?
Nikes team argued that a sub-two-hour marathon, even under artificial conditions, would break down mental barriers and pave the way for others to follow under standard race conditions.
If any of the men can do it, it will open the gates for marathon running the same way Roger did for the mile when he broke the four-minute barrier, argued Paula Radcliffe, the Nike-sponsored runner, now retired, who holds the womens marathon record of 2:15.25.
The logic here isnt totally crazy.
Often forgotten is that in 1953, a year before Bannisters big run, he ran an exhibition race in which he was paced all the way to the finish, in part by one of his teammates who had deliberately allowed himself to be lapped.
His time of 4:02 wasnt ratified as a British record, because it violated the same pacing rules as the Breaking2 marathon did  but it served its purpose.
Only two painful seconds now separated me from the four-minute mile, Bannister recalled in his autobiography, and I was certain I could cut down the time.
The four-minute mile is now an allegorical staple of the self-help literature.
Bannisters feat shattered an imposing mental barrier much like the one holding you back from climbing El Capitan or getting promoted at work.
Within one year, asserts The Winning Mind Set, a fairly typical self-help tract from 2006, 37 other runners did the same thing.
In the year after that, over 300 runners ran a mile in less than four minutes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This claim is only marginally less impressive than the premise of Do It With Words: Regrow Your Hair With Your Mind, one of the related titles Amazon suggested to me, impertinently, when I looked up Norman Vincent Peale.
Unfortunately, its not true.
Just one other runner joined Bannister within a year of the first four-minute mile, and four more followed the next year.
Still, even the unvarnished truth is striking: What was once impossible became possible, and soon almost unremarkable, with startling rapidity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the time trial in May, whether the barriers were mental or physical, two of Nikes three chosen runners blew up before even hitting the halfway point.
But Eliud Kipchoge, the defending Olympic champion from Kenya, surpassed everyones expectations with his 2:00.25  a monumental effort that prompted him to take a full month off from running to recover.
How did Kipchoge run so fast?
Debate swirled in the aftermath about the relative contributions of the shoes, the ultra-flat course, the drafting effect of the human pacemakers and the Tesla pace car in front of them, and other factors.
But to Kipchoge, a devoted consumer of motivational books (his favorite is Stephen Coveys The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People), the answer was much simpler.
A few months before the race, I asked him how he planned to change his training to produce a three-minute improvement in his best time.
He and his coach werent planning any big changes, he replied, but my mind will be different.
He told another reporter that confidence was the key: The difference only is thinking, he said.
You think its impossible, I think its possible.
Now, be honest for a moment: Did you smile a bit when you read that quotation?
I know I did.
Motivational slogans are great, but 26.2 miles is still 26.2 miles, and you cant simply will your muscles to keep contracting as their fuel supplies dwindle.
In Berlin, Kipchoge will face the Ethiopian runner Kenenisa Bekele, considered by many to be the best all-around long-distance runner in history, whose best marathon time of 2:03.03 makes him the second-fastest in history (one spot ahead of Kipchoges official best of 2:03.05).
Also in the field is Wilson Kipsang, a 2:03.13 performer who held the world record before Kimetto.
All three men have announced that they intend to break the record; Bekele has said he believes he can run 2:01.30 before he retires.
But all three men are marathon veterans who under normal conditions have never cracked 2:03.
While the exact magnitude of Kipchoges boost in Italy is impossible to calculate, it seems likely that the drafting formation alone, which wont be duplicated in Berlin, saved him one to two minutes.
So, back under normal conditions in Berlin, why should we expect any of these men, all in or approaching their mid-30s, to suddenly burst through to a new level  unless what limited their previous efforts was more mental than physical?
As a hard-nosed empiricist who laughed off the sports psychology seminars I was forced to sit through as a college track athlete, the skeptical take is my default position.
Ive sneered at the bromides of self-help for as long as Ive known them.
And yet  I was there in Monza, as Kipchoge flirted with the two-hour barrier until the waning miles of the race, and something changed.
My immediate reaction, which I tapped into the Twitter app on my phone moments after he crossed the line: Hard to deny that, all caveats aside, all marathon times now sound a little different in light of what just happened.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Four months later, that still feels true.
A once-unthinkable time like 2:01-something no longer sounds that fast  because a human has run 2:00.25.
Even science, it turns out, acknowledges that such gut feelings are not without power.
Some physiologists now argue that your subjective sense of effort, rather than the metabolic state of your muscles, is the final arbiter of your limits.
When you feel that its impossible to continue, it is.
And consequently, anything that changes your sense of effort alters your limits: subliminal messages flashing a happy face or an encouraging word extend your endurance; so does training in motivational self-talk, in which you learn to substitute phrases like Ive trained for this!
for Im dying!
in your midrace internal monologue.
So, if the weather is good and the stars are aligned, I expect to see Kipchoge set out at an impossible pace, in pursuit of an impossible time.
And because any man can do what any other has done, I expect Bekele and Kipsang to follow.
The tension will mount as the trio clip off mile after reckless mile, and well hold our breaths waiting for the inevitable moment when the physiological debt comes due.
I expect to see carnage and mayhem and beauty and truth in the final miles.
Something will have to break  but, despite myself, I dont think it will be Kipchoge.
I think hes going to run 2:01-something.
And if he does, Ill start writing my self-help book on Monday morning.
Photo

TORONTO  Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier, who hit the foul ball that struck a young girl in the face at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, said he spoke to the girls father on Thursday and had been told that she was recovering well in a hospital.
He said shes doing good, Frazier said before the Yankees played the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday night.
He said the family is really happy that shes O.K.
I think they are going to do a couple more tests over the next few days, and hopefully she can get out of there.
Frazier said the girls father told him not to blame himself, and Frazier said he felt a measure of relief after the conversation.
He added that he planned to check in with the family every day, at least until the girl is discharged from the hospital.
He also said he hoped to meet her soon.
Since the incident, three major league teams have announced that they will extend the protective netting at their parks to the full lengths of the dugouts.
Another team, the Colorado Rockies, said it had already been considering the move.
Ten other teams have already extended their netting.
The Yankees, while expressing concern for the girl in public statements, have not specifically addressed whether they will extend their netting.
Frazier said it was time for all teams to do so immediately, even before the regular season ends on Oct. 1.
I think 2018 is already too late, he said.
They should be up sooner than that.
There is a new lineup of lobbyists in Washington making deals and offering access.
Nicholas Confessore spoke with Robert Stryk about how he has leveraged relationships in the Trump administration for political and business success.
Get a weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.
Hear the week's most notable tracks from Noah Cyrus, Angel Olsen, Weaves and more.
30 Rock will leave Netflix in October.
Here are some dishes to make as you binge it while you still can.
After revelations of harassment and bias in Silicon Valley, a backlash is growing against the women in tech movement.
With tensions rising between Washington and Pyongyang, North Koreas neighbors are finding diminishing room for diplomacy.
In a region that relies on visitors, hurricanes left tourism on some islands in a coma.
Officials say it is far too soon to know when the industry will fully recover.
A charitys corporate governance is in question after it allowed proceeds from an auction to be used for a staging of Finding Neverland, a musical produced by Harvey Weinstein.
Scientists have developed a healthy respect for mantises, acrobatic hunters with 3-D vision and voracious appetites.
Nicole Malliotakis, the Republican candidate for mayor of New York City, met critical fund-raising thresholds in the latest reporting period to qualify for the first debate against Mayor Bill de Blasio.
Morning Briefing: Australia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Australia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Asia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Asia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Europe Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Europe.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians, delivered weekday mornings.
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Photo

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Photo

Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
Photo

HUNTSVILLE, Ala.  President Trump said on Friday night that N.F.L.
owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem, and he encouraged spectators to walk out of stadiums in protest.
In an extended riff during a speech in Alabama, Trump also bemoaned what he sees as less violence in football games.
Theyre ruining the game, he complained.
Several athletes, including a handful of N.F.L.
players, have refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest of the treatment of minorities by the police.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who started the trend last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, has not been signed by a team for this season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump says those players are disrespecting the flag and deserve to lose their jobs.
Thats a total disrespect of our heritage.
Thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, he said, encouraging owners to act.
Mr. Hernandez stood trial for first-degree murder in Massachusetts, where state law requires the government to prove all elements of a crime, including criminal responsibility, beyond a reasonable doubt.
The prosecution was able to provide the details of Mr. Lloyds murder with a tight timeline that placed Mr. Hernandez at the scene of the murder, though his lawyer maintained that his client was no more than a witness to the crime.
The government also provided a theory to establish Mr. Hernandezs motive to kill Mr. Lloyd  anger over gossip  and his ample opportunity to premeditate and deliberate.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But under the Massachusetts formulation of the insanity defense, if he were tried today, Mr. Hernandez might successfully assert that, when he killed Mr. Lloyd, he suffered a mental defect that rendered him substantially unable to conform his conduct to the requirements of the law, utterly unable to make himself behave as the law requires.
Could the evidence of C.T.E.
now create a reasonable doubt about his criminal responsibility?
Almost certainly.
Football players in the United States are disproportionately charged with crimes of violence as compared with other professional athletes.
One explanation might suggest that participating in a sport that demands aggression and violence selects the most aggressive and violent men for its ranks.
An alternative but equally simple explanation might be that aggressive and violent men are naturally drawn to compete in an aggressive and violent sport.
And, of course, when large, strong men who have been taught to be aggressive find themselves in a conflict, they are more than capable of responding with brutal force.
After all, thats what theyre paid to do on the football field.
But C.T.E.
deprives such players of the ability to handle disputes rationally.
Indeed, being afflicted with C.T.E.
may well equate to insanity.
Thats enough to excuse  at least legally  the potentially criminal, violent actions of former N.F.L.
players in many states.
The Boston University study was published too late to help Aaron Hernandez.
He had died  probably because his damaged brain could not reason well enough to prevent him from hanging himself  several weeks earlier.
But given what we now know about the prevalence of C.T.E.
in high-level athletes, especially football players, the field is open for lawyers to begin to show juries just why their clients are unable to conform their conduct and control their emotional impulses.
There are many avenues for intervention on behalf of the men who have spent years treating their heads like battering rams for high salaries.
For those men who commit violent crimes, the legal community might start by seeing them as mentally incapacitated individuals with significantly impaired impulse control.
Aaron Hernandez should be sitting in a therapeutic hospital receiving care for a profound brain injury.
Instead, his ashes sit with his family.
Suicide appears to be another result of C.T.E.
Because of the post-mortem C.T.E.
diagnosis, we now know there was substantial evidence that Mr. Hernandez should not have been convicted of first-degree murder.
Given the conclusive diagnosis of Stage 3 C.T.E., it is likely that a lifetime of playing football  not Mr. Hernandezs will  was to blame.
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay between circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E., in his research.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have C.T.E.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, said Dr. Gandy.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
Former players would also have to prove that the head hits they received in the N.F.L.
directly led to their troubles off the field, which is a high bar, especially for those, like Hernandez, who also played football in college and in childhood.
The league might also argue that Hernandez knew there was a risk he could be injured playing in the N.F.L., particularly because he had played the game for more than a decade before he was drafted.
Even if the league has a high probability of convincing a judge of all these arguments, the Hernandez familys lawyer, Jose Baez, might be banking on the N.F.L.
to settle the case to avoid bad publicity.
The league, though, is known to stand its ground because it wants to stop other players from suing as well.
Theres always a shot in the dark to bring the league to the table, said Jodi Balsam, a former lawyer at the N.F.L.
who teaches at Brooklyn Law School.
These cases come up all the time, and there will be more of them if they settle this without a fight.
Indeed, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for the league, said that the N.F.L.
would vigorously fight the suit and that the Hernandez family would face significant legal issues.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe, is misguided, he added.
Lockhart also cast doubt on those who are trying to connect football to C.T.E., or chronic traumatic encephalopathy, as well as C.T.E.
to violence and suicide.
The science, he said, is far from settled.
While researchers have found links between C.T.E.
and symptoms like rage, depression and irritability, they cannot definitively say that the disease predicts the behavior.
Also complicating the research is that C.T.E.
can only be diagnosed posthumously, so scientists rely on a limited number of brains donated for research.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nobody can say football and the head hits created Aaron Hernandez and his behavior, said Brad Sohn, a lawyer who has sued the N.F.L.
on behalf of former players.
But the pathology should scare anyone with a rational bone in his body.
He had a raisin-like brain of a 70-year-old even though he was 27.
Still, despite the legal hurdles facing Hernandezs family, they might still receive money from the N.F.L.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lockhart said the league had a range of benefits available to the families of deceased players, including survivors benefits and annuities.
He also pointed to the class-action settlement that the league reached with retired players in which players who died and were found to have C.T.E.
are eligible for up to $4 million.
That benefit, though, is available only to players who had retired and died before the settlement was approved in federal court in 2015.
So in effect, the settlement would be a Trojan horse.
If the Hernandez family joins the settlement, arguing that he was no longer playing as of 2013 when he was imprisoned, they give up their right to sue the league, Sohn said, without any guarantee of getting money from the settlement.
Balsam, the former N.F.L.
lawyer, suggested that Baez, through the suit, is hoping for the remainder of Hernandezs $40 million contract extension he signed in 2012.
After Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder in June 2013, the Patriots released him and refused to pay him a $3 million bonus he was owed.
The Patriots withheld the money because Hernandezs conduct was detrimental to the team.
But Hernandez, through a quirk in Massachusetts law, has had his murder conviction overturned because he died before his appeal of the case could be heard.
So, in theory, Baez could argue that because Hernandez technically is no longer guilty of murder, the Patriots should repay his family the money he did not receive.
That argument could play out in court over weeks and months, causing the team and the league significant embarrassment.
But the league does not seem to mind sticking it out, even in high-profile cases.
It has declined to settle a wrongful-death suit by another former Patriot, the Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau, who also killed himself and was found to have C.T.E.
The N.F.L.
is making clear on every level that they want to take the General Patton approach as long as possible and make it as expensive and challenging for anyone who tries to fight them in court, Sohn said.
So its a question of, whos willing to fight these cases and stand up to the bullies.
Photo

Expectations were rock bottom for a Thursday night game between the Rams and the 49ers.
But the game turned out to be an entertaining shootout, and maybe a breakout performance by Jared Goff.
Goff was the No.
1 overall pick in last years draft by the Rams.
He started seven games, losing them all, and averaged only 156 yards a game, 39th among quarterbacks.
In contrast, the No.
2 pick in the draft, Carson Wentz, was a respectable 7-9 and averaged 23 for the Eagles.
Wentz is still playing well, but now so is Goff.
He and the Rams are off to a 2-1 start, he is averaging 272 yards a game, and his adjusted-yards-per-attempt figure is a dazzling 10.77, trailing only Alex Smith among quarterbacks with two or more starts.
On Thursday he outdueled, er, Brian Hoyer, throwing for 292 yards and three touchdowns without an interception in a 41-39 win.
His passing line was an eye-opening 22-for-28.
He was helped by some fine catches by Robert Woods and Sammy Watkins, who each had 100-yard games.
Goff is 20-for-27 without an interception on third downs, according to Sportradar.
He has also shown the ability to go deep, completing eight passes in which the ball traveled 20 yards or further.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before we hand the Rams the Lombardi Trophy, lets remember that their wins have come against the woeful Niners and the Colts without Andrew Luck; neither of those teams has a win of their own.
Their loss was against the Redskins, who do not appear exceptional.
Next weeks game at Dallas will be a sterner test.
And the Rams nearly blew a 14-point lead on Thursday night, winning only after a failed 2-point conversion by the 49ers that would have tied the score.
The Rams, now coached by Sean McVay after five years of Jeff Fisher, were 100-1 odds to win the Super Bowl at the start of the season.
But they are suddenly looking like a real offensive team, and they lead the N.F.C.
With Goff proving himself more adept this year, at least against the teams hes faced so far, there is hope in Los Angeles.
The league had already faced public relations problems after other high-profile players were found to have C.T.E., including Junior Seau, Ken Stabler and Frank Gifford.
Mr. Seau  along with Dave Duerson, Andre Waters and Ray Easterling, among others  killed himself.
For years, Mr. Hernandez was held up as a particularly egregious example of N.F.L.
players running amok off the field.
Just 10 months after he signed a $40 million contract with the Patriots in 2013, with the promise of becoming a superstar, the body of a friend who had been shot multiple times was discovered.
Mr. Hernandez was convicted of the friends murder, and later accused in two other killings from 2012.
Just days after an acquittal in that case, he hanged himself with a bedsheet in his prison cell.
The researchers did not make a direct link between Mr. Hernandezs violence and his disease.
But C.T.E.
is often marked by problems with controlling aggression and impulses, and some degree of dementia, as well as mood swings, lapses in judgment and a disorganized manner.
Mr. Hernandezs estate filed a federal lawsuit on Thursday against the N.F.L.
and the Patriots seeking damages to compensate his 4-year-old daughter for the loss of her father.
The suit alleges that the league and the team knew that repeated head hits could lead to brain disease, yet did not do enough to protect Mr. Hernandez from those hits.
The lawyer, Jose Baez, said the family was also contemplating suing the N.C.A.A.
and the University of Florida, where Mr. Hernandez played before playing for the Patriots.
The N.F.L.
did not comment on the medical finding, and it declined to comment on the suit.
The Patriots declined to comment.
Soon after his arrest in 2013, the team distanced itself from him, buying back more than 1,200 Hernandez jerseys from fans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The trauma to Mr. Hernandezs brain raises fresh questions about the dangers of playing tackle football.
This week, other researchers at Boston University published research that found that adults who began playing tackle football before they were 12 years old developed more cognitive and behavioral problems later in life than those players who started tackle football after they reached that age.
Photo

Mr. Hernandez played football as a teenager, and in 2013 was given the Inspiration to Youth Award by Pop Warner, the best-known youth football organization in the country.
The fact that Mr. Hernandez also led a troubled life off the field will complicate the N.F.L.s efforts to calm jitters about the sport because it will probably make some people wonder whether football had a role in his violence away from the game.
Mr. Baez said that in hindsight, Mr. Hernandezs family had witnessed him act in ways that were consistent with a person found to have C.T.E., but you dont know.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The slides of Mr. Hernandezs brain samples were unambiguous and graphic.
Dr. Ann McKee, chief of neuropathology at the VA Boston Healthcare System and director of the CTE Center at Boston University, examined his brain and said in a statement that Mr. Hernandez had early brain atrophy and large perforations in the septum pellucidum, a central membrane of the brain.
The slides also showed what she called classic features of C.T.E.
in the brain, including deposits of tau protein in the front lobes of the brain in nerve cells around small blood vessels.
The discovery of C.T.E.
adds another turn in Mr. Hernandezs meteoric rise and fall.
After a standout career at Florida, he was signed by the Patriots in 2010.
Just years before, he had been working menial jobs in Bristol, Conn., his hardscrabble hometown, where he drove a $300 used car he bought with money borrowed from friends.
At Florida, he helped the Gators win the national title in the 2008 season.
But he fell to the fourth round of the N.F.L.
draft because of off-field issues including involvement in a bar fight.
Less than a year after he signed the contract with the Patriots that might have provided a stable future, his friend was found murdered.
His conviction in the case became a stark example of N.F.L.
players who exhibit violence off the field.
Even his demise was filled with turmoil.
After Mr. Hernandez died, Mr. Baez called a news conference in front of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner and accused the state of illegally withholding Mr. Hernandezs brain.
Mr. Hernandezs body had been discovered the day before, tied with a bedsheet to the window of his prison cell in Shirley, Mass.
His death was later ruled a suicide.
Instead, Lynch has seemed rejuvenated by the year off, and has paid immediate dividends for the Raiders, adding a hard-nosed edge to the offense that is not only showing up in attitude, but also in production.
At 31, he is hardly being asked to do everything himself  he has 30 of the teams 56 carries  but he has contributed to strong gains for Oakland in the percentage of rushing yards they pick up after contact, which makes teams work hard to stop him.
He may not have had a carry for more than 14 yards yet, but he has been knocked for a loss only twice, and the tough yards he has been able to fight for have opened things up for Derek Carr and the passing game.
Carr has taken advantage with a passer rating of 126.5 thus far, which is nearly 30 points better than his career high for a season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This week the Raiders will be on the road against a Redskins (1-1) team that has done fairly well against the run, but has shown some vulnerability in the passing game.
If Lynch can hammer away at the Redskins front-seven, and let Carr exploit matchup advantages against the Washington secondary, the Raiders could have the teams first 3-0 start since 2002.
Pick: Raiders

Falcons at Lions, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Falcons by 3

Even though the Falcons are the defending N.F.C.
champions, this was not seen by many as a marquee matchup when the schedules came out.
But considering how well Atlanta (2-0) played last week against Green Bay, and how good Detroit (2-0) has looked in both games so far, this could be the most evenly matched game this week in terms of talent.
It is the only meeting of the week between unbeaten teams.
Matt Ryan of the Falcons and Matthew Stafford of the Lions will get the bulk of the publicity, but this game is likely to come down to which defense can limit the opposing offense, which makes the absence of Vic Beasley, Atlantas top pass-rusher, perhaps the most important injury note of the week.
Pick: Lions

Texans at Patriots, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Patriots by 13.5

Coach Bill Belichick has always seemed to relish picking on young quarterbacks, and with Houston (1-1) sending out Deshaun Watson for a start against the Patriots (1-1) in Foxborough, here are some numbers worth paying attention to: 5-15 (the record of rookie quarterbacks against Belichick-led Patriots teams); 0-8 (the record of those quarterbacks when playing in Foxborough); 0-5 (the record of the Texans at Foxborough regardless of who is playing quarterback).
New Englands wide receiver depth chart has only one fully healthy player, and Rob Gronkowski, who looked superhero-like last week, had yet to practice as of Wednesday, so a blowout score might be hard to manage.
Expecting Watson to pull off a victory is likely to be too much to ask, but the point spread is outlandish.
Pick: Texans

Second-Tier Games

Photo

Seahawks at Titans, 4:05 p.m. on Fox

Line: Titans by 2.5

The Seahawks (1-1) have been horrid offensively, and a lot of the blame has been placed on the teams offensive line.
Pro Football Focus backs that blame up by rating three of the teams five starters as poor, with Rees Odhiambo, the teams starting left tackle, picking up the rear with a player rating of 25.9 that ranks 72nd among tackles.
The interesting thing, though, is that according to Sportradar, Russell Wilson has had an average of 2.57 seconds in the pocket before he releases the ball or the pocket collapses, which is better than last seasons mark of 2.29 seconds, and is the fifth most time of any quarterback.
He has been hit an average of 6.5 times a game, which is tied for the 12th most, and has been sacked six times, which is tied for 9th.
Wilson undoubtedly could use better protection, but placing all of the blame on the guys up front may be misguided.
In the meantime, Seattles defense is mostly making up for the offensive inadequacy, and should be able to handle Tennessee (1-1), especially if DeMarco Murray is unable to play.
Pick: Seahawks

Giants at Eagles, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Eagles by 6

Coach Ben McAdoo of the Giants (0-2) did not hold back during a conference call this week.
Yeah, we cant keep doing the same thing over and over again, McAdoo said.
Thats insanity.
Its not working.
So we are going to look to make some changes this week, like we did last week.
Maybe it will be a little more drastic this week, to use your word.
It is hardly sunshine and puppy dogs in Philadelphia, as the Eagles (1-1) are struggling to find any sort of offensive balance, and have some key injuries on defense, but playing at home against a team in disarray can do a lot to make a team look like it has everything together.
Pick: Eagles

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Buccaneers at Vikings, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: N/A

No one is sure what to make of this game since the status of Minnesotas starting quarterback, Sam Bradford, has yet to be determined.
The Vikings (1-1) looked terrific in Week 1, with Bradford earning N.F.C.
offensive player of the week honors for his performance against New Orleans, but a knee injury kept him out of Week 2 and the result was a 26-9 loss to Pittsburgh.
If Bradford, who practiced in a limited capacity on Wednesday, is able to play, Minnesota would seemingly be at an advantage, but without him the Vikings will struggle to score, even though his backup, Case Keenum, has a 2-0 record against Tampa Bay (1-0) over the last two seasons.
Pick: Vikings

Broncos at Bills, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Broncos by 3

Denver (2-0) barely escaped with a victory in Week 1, but then absolutely dominated one of the N.F.L.s best teams in Week 2, so figuring out exactly where they fit leaguewide can be difficult.
Trevor Siemian may not be able to reel off four passing touchdowns every week, but if the teams run defense can play as well as it did while humiliating Ezekiel Elliott, then the Broncos will be no fun for opponents.
Buffalo (1-1) will do its best to get something going with LeSean McCoy, but the Bills will eventually need to throw the ball, and its hard to believe that Tyrod Taylor can find openings with Aqib Talib and Chris Harris Jr. roaming the field.
Pick: Broncos

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steelers at Bears, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Steelers by 7.5

Pittsburgh (2-0) has not exactly been setting the world on fire offensively, but it has done enough to win, and provided the team does not fall apart against the lowly Bears, they should have their first 3-0 start to the season since 2010.
It would be easy to be disappointed in the Steelers efforts considering the presence of several of the leagues biggest stars.
But Chicago (0-2) could put on a clinic in disappointment: Mike Glennon has proved his critics correct by not looking even close to being worth his huge salary, and Jordan Howard thus far is struggling to repeat his success from a year ago.
Pick: Steelers

Bengals at Packers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Packers by 9

Even if the Packers (1-1) are still figuring things out defensively, a win at home over the struggling Bengals (0-2) seems like it would be easy enough.
The complicating factor is health.
Green Bay had its roster fall apart last week, with seven starters unable to play by the end of the loss to Atlanta.
If Mike Daniels, the teams versatile defensive lineman, is unable to go because of a hip injury, then this game is far more evenly matched.
It could come down to whether a patchwork offensive line can give Aaron Rodgers some time to work.
Pick: Packers

Chiefs at Chargers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Chiefs by 3

The Chargers (0-2) have kept things close over the first two weeks of the season, but ended both games with a failed field goal attempt by Younghoe Koo and a loss.
If this game comes down to a last-second field goal attempt, it would be a shock, as the Chiefs (2-0), even when playing on the road, appear to have strong advantages on both sides of the ball.
Pick: Chiefs

Saints at Panthers, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Panthers by 6

New Orleans (0-2) has been absolutely cursed in September over the last few seasons, with a record of 1-11 in the month since 2014.
But this year they have certainly earned the losses, giving up 470 yards to Minnesota in Week 1 and 555 to New England in Week 2.
They might not be run quite as ragged this week by a Carolina (2-0) offense has been a bit rusty to start the season (and wont be helped by the absence of Greg Olsen).
But the Panthers do not need to run up the score given how well their defense has been playing.
Pick: Panthers

Bottom-Tier Games

Dolphins at Jets, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Dolphins by 6

The Jay Cutler experiment in Miami got off to a good start in a game in which he did not commit a turnover, got the entire offense involved, and helped lead the Dolphins (1-0) on a game-winning drive.
The potential for turnovers (plural) is always there, and having Lawrence Timmons suspended indefinitely for going missing from the team weakens the defense, but the Dolphins have advantages on both sides of the ball against the Jets (0-2).
Pick: Dolphins

Ravens at Jaguars, 9:30 a.m. on CBS

Line: Ravens by 4

The N.F.L.
has been playing games in London for 10 years now, and no team has played there more than the Jaguars.
Jacksonville (1-1) is still working its way through an agreement that has the team playing one home game a year there until at least 2020, and while their 2-2 record in London since 2013 may not seem impressive, it is certainly better than their 14-48 record outside of the London in the same time span.
Baltimore (2-0) has had a fairly smooth start to the season, and has the look of a playoff team.
The adjustment to international travel in the teams first visit abroad is the only thing putting this games result in doubt.
Pick: Ravens

Rams at 49ers, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday) on NFL Network

Line: Rams by 2.5

The N.F.C.
West is probably the leagues worst division in terms of overall talent, but at least when teams from the division are playing each other things are more evenly matched.
Both Los Angeles (1-1) and San Francisco (0-2) have shown year-to-year improvement, but with Eric Reid and Reuben Foster out, it would be too much to ask for the 49ers defense to do enough heavy lifting to win.
Pick: Rams

Browns at Colts, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Browns by 1

Dear Andrew Luck,

We are underdogs, at home, against a team known mostly for losing in embarrassing fashion.
We might be able to pull this one off, but it would be helpful if you could come back soon.
Sincerely, Colts fans

Pick: Colts

Mondays Matchup

Cowboys at Cardinals, 8:30 on ESPN

Line: Cowboys by 3

Dallas (1-1) is probably trying to pretend last week never happened.
Dak Prescott committed turnovers, Ezekiel Elliott could not find any room to run, and the Cowboys were simply humiliated by the Broncos.
The problems were rampant on both sides of the ball, but a chance to regroup against Arizona (1-1), a team that could barely beat the lowly Colts, could help shake the loss off and get Dallas back to a position of strength.
Pick: Cowboys
Its still too early to know if Hunt is the next Jamaal Charles, circa 2012, but we know enough to feel good about starting him in Week 3 of 2017.
Quarterback

Matt Ryan (ATL at Lions)  While he has only two touchdown passes through two games, he has been in complete control of the Falcons offense and hasnt really needed to do a whole lot in leading his team to two victories.
But in this matchup, he may need to air it out to keep up with Matthew Stafford and the Lions in what the Vegas oddsmakers are predicting to be the second highest scoring game of Week 3.
Im also not sold on the Lions secondary having improved vastly over the unit that allowed the fifth most fantasy points per game to quarterbacks in 2016.
Matthew Stafford (DET vs.
Falcons)  The other side of this potential high-scoring affair is Detroit and Stafford, who wasnt great against the Giants tough secondary, but was against the Cardinals in Week 1.
The Falcons, who gave up the second most F.P.P.G.
to the position in 2016 and helped Aaron Rodgers get back on track in Week 2, should do their part in making this game a true shootout.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Also consider: Cam Newton (CAR vs. Saints); Jay Cutler (MIA at Jets).
Running Back

Isaiah Crowell (CLE at Colts)  It has been a rough start for Crowell, who has 70 yards on 27 carries through the first two games of the season.
But it hasnt really been his fault, as the Browns have fallen behind early in both games, forcing them to shift away from the run.
Chances are that the Colts, who have a combined 21 points over the first two weeks, will be seeing a lot more of Crowell than the Steelers and the Ravens did.
Indianapoliss run defense is nothing to write home about, either, having allowed the sixth most F.P.P.G.
(20.6) to the position in 2016.
It hasnt improved that much in 2017, helping the Rams Todd Gurley to 15.6 fantasy points in Week 1.
C. J. Anderson (DEN at Bills)  No running back had a better fantasy performance than Anderson in Week 1 (118 rushing yards and two total touchdowns), and he did it in what was thought to be one of the tougher matchups for a fantasy back in Dallas.
Next up are the Bills, who yielded the third most F.P.P.G.
to running backs (21.7) last season.
While they have done better this season, they have not faced the type of tough challenge that the Broncos run game poses.
Also consider: Marshawn Lynch (OAK at Redskins).
Wide Receiver

Kelvin Benjamin (CAR vs. Saints)  After a disappointing Week 1, Benjamin last week looked more like the top receiver he showed he could be during the preseason, hauling in six of his eight targets for 77 yards.
Still, he has yet to return much fantasy value to those who drafted him this summer.
That should change against the Saints, who have been lit up by opposing pass offenses this season, including big fantasy performances by the Vikings Adam Thielen and Stefon Diggs in Week 1.
Just keep an eye on Benjamins injury status, as he has been slowed by knee soreness.
Martavis Bryant (PIT at Bears)  Antonio Brown is the obvious receiver to get excited about against the Bears porous secondary, but do not forget about Bryant, who had 91 yards and a touchdown last week against the Vikings.
This performance came after Bryant looked out of sorts in Week 1, his first regular-season N.F.L.
game in over a year.
Expect his chemistry with Ben Roethlisberger to continue growing as the season progresses, and expect him to get some help from a Bears secondary that allowed the sixth most fantasy points to wide receivers in 2016 (25.2 F.P.P.G.).
Also consider: Doug Baldwin (SEA at Titans).
Tight End

Jared Cook (OAK at Redskins)  He saw 11 of quarterback Derek Carrs 60 targets last week, though he converted only four of them into receptions for 25 yards.
Still, it shows that he is a major player in this passing offense, and a very solid streaming tight end option this week against the Redskins, who have allowed the most yards to opposing tight ends so far in 2017.
Defense/Special Teams

Ravens (vs. JAC at London); Patriots (vs. HOU).
Kicker

Giorgio Tavecchio (OAK at Redskins); Graham Gano (CAR vs. Saints).
I think the real Bernie Casey is coming through, he told Life.
There are all sorts of signs.
Just the other day, I was walking through a gallery and a man walked up and said, Are you Bernard Casey, the artist?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey balanced painting abstract oils and fantasy landscapes with acting once he stopped playing football.
He retired after the 1968 season, three years after Jim Brown, the N.F.L.s biggest star, abrupty ended his career with the Cleveland Browns and began to act.
One of Mr. Caseys first roles was in tick  tick  tick , a 1970 thriller with Mr. Brown.
He went on to play J. C. Caroline, a Chicago Bears teammate of the dying Brian Piccolo, in the televison movie Brians Song (1971); a C.I.A.
agent working with Sean Connery in the James Bond film Never Say Never Again (1983); and an aging action hero in Im Gonna Git You Sucka (1989), a parody of the blaxploitation genre that reunited him with Mr. Brown.
Mr. Casey also appeared in three of the Revenge of the Nerds movies, a series of comedies about collegiate misfits fighting a jock fraternity.
He played U. N. Jefferson, president of the Lambda Lambda Lambda fraternity.
Photo

In 1973, he portrayed the paralyzed former National Basketball Association player Maurice Stokes in the film Maurie.
Writing in The New York Times, the columnist Dave Anderson praised Mr. Casey for capturing the agonizing effort required by Mr. Stokes to lift a spoon and recalled a conversation he had with Mr. Casey late in his football career.
Just because Im a football player, he told Mr. Anderson, doesnt mean I cant be something else at the same time.
Most of us live on a small portion of our capacity.
I dont want to let the limitation of others limit me.
Bernard Terry Casey was born on June 8, 1939, in Wyco, W. Va. His father, Frank, was a coal miner.
His mother was the former Flossie Coleman.
In addition to playing on the Bowling Green football team, which was voted the small college champion in 1959, Mr. Casey competed in the high hurdles and finished sixth at the 1960 Olympic trials, short of making the team.
He earned a bachelors degree and a masters of fine arts from Bowling Green.
He was drafted by the 49ers, the New York Titans (who became the Jets) of the American Football League and the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League.
He chose the 49ers because, he said, San Francisco would advance his artistic dreams.
He was traded in 1967 to the Atlanta Falcons, which quickly sent him to the Rams.
Photo

Collectors of his paintings have included Sidney Poitier, Burt Reynolds and Maya Angelou, according to the Thelma Harris Art Gallery in Oakland, which had a major show of Mr. Caseys paintings in 2003.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey also published a few books of poetry, including Look at the People (1969) and Where Is the Revolution  and Other Poems (1973).
He is survived by his sister, Frankie Murray.
His marriage to Paula Campbell ended in divorce.
They had no children.
In 1997, Mr. Casey directed, wrote and produced the movie The Dinner, which featured three African-American men talking about slavery, white superiority, black crime and other racial subjects around a dinner table.
It was a departure from the action films and comedies he was known for.
But it was close to his heart and based on conversations with his friends.
None of the characters had names; they were Good Brother (Mr. Casey), Young Brother (Wren Brown) and Brother Man (Doug Johnson).
Most people dont know us, as African-Americans, Mr. Casey said at the time, even those of us who are greatly celebrated.
We are so expendable, we have no history in the context of the nation.
At that moment, he writes, My brain is thinking only lengthen and soften and disperse.
Mr. Brady attributes much of his unusually long N.F.L.
career and the relatively little playing time he has lost to injuries to this kind of gnomic self-talk and his muscular pliability.
But most of us are not pliable, he tells us, and our workouts are not helping.
Standard weight training and conditioning exercises, such as running and sprints, tighten and harden our muscles, he writes, opening us to injury.
Instead, we should do less weight training or conditioning and more of something else.
It involves targeted, deep-force muscle work, Mr. Brady writes.
Think of a deep, rigorous massage, but much more focused, and in my case using complex techniques based on an understanding of the biomechanics of what it takes for me to throw a football and function at peak levels as an athlete who accelerates, decelerates, runs, cuts, and more, as well as the daily acts of living that complement my off-field life.
Got it?
Me, neither.
Thankfully, Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero amplify and simplify their instructions as the book continues.
Mere massage does not produce pliability, they write.
You must contract muscles while also stretching and pummeling them, preferably with high-tech, vibrating foam rollers or vibrating spheres, Mr. Brady writes.
These are available at The TB12 Method online store for $150 and up.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The problem with this notion is that exercise science has never heard of muscle pliability.
Its balderdash, says Stuart Phillips, a professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, and an expert in muscle physiology.
In scientific terms, he says, muscles that are soft tend to be muscles that are sick.
When folks do little or nothing, as, for instance, during bed rest, then their muscles get very soft, he says.
Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero have not conducted or published clinical trials of muscle pliability.
Neither has anyone else.
On the huge PubMed online database of published science, I found only one experiment that contains the words pliability and muscles, and it concerned the efficacy of different embalming techniques.
The books sections on diet and nutrition similarly lack supporting evidence, although not common sense.
Mr. Brady writes that, like him, we should avoid sugary foods and other processed carbohydrates.
The TB12 Method advocates for a plant-based, locally sourced, organic diet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It also, however, strays into the eccentric when it suggests that we eschew foods in the nightshade family, including tomatoes, strawberries, eggplants and potatoes, focus on foods high in alkalinity  such as artichokes, dandelion greens and escarole, and cut back on foods that supposedly raise acid levels in our blood, like beef, salmon, butter and cheese.
Mr. Brady does not explain or justify these dietary choices in this book.
For that, we need to consult the separate TB12 Nutrition Manual (available for $200 at tb12store.com).
Mainstream nutritional science, meanwhile, is fine with tomatoes and does not support alkaline diets.
Artichokes are healthful, but not because they blunt the acidity of our blood (which is what most proponents of alkaline diets claim for these foods).
We have kidneys for that.
Its worth noting that Mr. Guerrero, a self-taught exercise guru, has twice been investigated by the Federal Trade Commission for making unsubstantiated health claims about products he developed, including a nutritional supplement that supposedly protected athletes against concussions.
The book does not mention his past.
Still, the TB12 Method is not without value.
The books tone is humble and encouraging.
Mr. Brady prefaces his more outlandish health claims with such qualifiers as I believe or This is what works for me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most important, the book provides useful photographic and textual instructions for dozens of body-weight resistance training exercises, many done with resistance bands.
(The TB12 Method branded set is available for $160 at the companys website).
These exercises could credibly improve our flexibility  a muscular attribute that actually exists  and joint range of motion, says Malachy McHugh, the director of research at the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.
Interventions that can maintain the functional range of motion of a series of muscle groups are critical to maintaining function as we get older, Dr. McHugh says.
Plus, The TB12 Method physical book weighs about three pounds, according to my bathroom scale, and that is a nice heft for light resistance training.
Mr. Cooksey, Mr. Pettway and Mr. TeBos did not respond to voice mail messages seeking comment on Tuesday.
Phone calls to Mr. Spielman and Mr. Kregel were not answered, and Mr. Kregel did not respond to an email seeking comment.
Mike Swider, who is the head coach and has worked on the Wheaton coaching staff for 33 years, also did not respond to an email seeking comment.
The victim, whose name prosecutors did not release, provided a statement about the episode through his lawyer, Terry A. Ekl.
In the statement, he accused the suspects of abducting him from a dorm room on March 19, 2016; wrapping duct tape around his arms, legs and chest; and transporting him in a vehicle to a baseball field.
On the way there, he said, they beat him; partly stripped him; threatened to rape him; tried to sodomize him with an unidentified object; and took his phone, wallet and one shoe.
They then dumped him half-naked in the field shortly before midnight, he said.
During the assault the assailants played Middle Eastern music on their car radio, put on fake Middle Eastern accents and threatened to rape him, the victim said.
His lawyer said the victim was not Muslim or of Middle Eastern descent and he believed that the assailants pretended to be Middle Eastern to scare the victim.
We have all seen situations where young men engage in foolish and immature conduct, Mr. Ekl said.
What was done to our client in this case is far beyond what is acceptable behavior or which can be dismissed as merely harmless hazing.
After the assault, the victim made his way back to campus and called his mother, who arranged for him to meet his grandparents at a nearby hospital.
Emergency room staff members there called the police and conducted a rape test, which concluded that he had not been penetrated, his statement said.
Photo

The victim said the assault caused a tremendous amount of pain and left him with labral tears in both shoulders that required surgery.
The day after the attack, his father moved his belongings out of his dorm and he now attends a college in Indiana, Mr. Ekl said.
This has had a devastating effect on my life, the victim said in a statement.
What was done to me should never occur in connection with participation in a football program or any other activity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I am confident that the criminal prosecution will provide a fair and just punishment to the men who attacked me, the victim added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Wheaton College is an evangelical Christian institution in Wheaton, Ill., about 25 miles west of Chicago.
The liberal arts college, which has about 2,850 students, describes its mission as providing excellence in Christian education.
Students are required to abide by a community covenant based on what the college views as Christian principles, including the call to pursue holiness in every aspect of our thought and behavior and the call to treat our own bodies, and those of others, with the honor due the very temple of the Holy Spirit.
College administrators were told about the hazing allegations by the coaching staff and members of the football team in March 2016, Ms. Taylor, the college spokeswoman, said in a statement on Tuesday.
She declined to say whether the players were taken off the team at that time or to explain why they were on the 2017 team roster.
Wheaton College aspires to provide an educational environment that is not only free of hazing, but practices our values as a Christian community, the statement from the college said.
As such, we are deeply troubled by the allegations brought by law enforcement against five members of our football team.
After an internal investigation, the players were given a range of corrective actions, the college said.
The school said it was unable to disclose what those correction actions may have been because of federal student privacy protections.
Wheaton College faced controversy last year after it put Larycia Hawkins, a tenured associate professor of political science, on administrative leave after she wrote on Facebook that Christians and Muslims are people of the book who worship the same God.
The college defended itself against criticism that its actions violated academic freedom or displayed anti-Muslim sentiment.
Ms. Hawkins agreed to part ways with Wheaton after the controversy.
The football team was also criticized in 2015 after its members wore Ku Klux Klan robes and carried Confederate flags as part of a team-building activity in a campus gym, according to The Chicago Tribune.
The team later apologized and said the robes and flags had been part of a skit parodying the 2003 Martin Lawrence and Will Smith film Bad Boys II.
The federal Consumer Finance Protection Bureau and the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, have sued a New Jersey-based financial company, RD Legal Funding L.L.C., accusing it of deceiving retired N.F.L.
players and luring them into costly advances on settlement payouts with lies about the terms of the deals.
In July, Brody gave Seeger permission to compel the lenders and law firms to turn over information about how they sought to sign up players.
In all, Seeger pursued documents and information from 36 people or companies, though some firms did not cooperate.
Seeger and a partner, TerriAnne Benedetto, detailed a litany of questionable practices, including charging players thousands of dollars in fees for loans with 50 percent interest rates; lenders paying fees to brokers for referrals; and former players being paid fees to convince those who qualify for the settlement to sign agreements with lawyers and lenders, some of whom promised to introduce the ex-players to doctors who could help them get larger amounts in the settlement.
Benedetto provided several examples, including a player who received $10,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $17,310 from his settlement payout in one year.
Another received $312,000 from a lender but will have to pay back $568,000 once he receives his settlement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Benedetto also mentioned Joe Pisarcik, a former quarterback for the Giants and the Philadelphia Eagles who once led the N.F.L.
Alumni Association and had access to a database of retired players.
Pisarcik received $200,000 from two law firms that wanted to use his name to help sign up former players.
She said Pisarcik was also offered bonuses of up to $75,000 for every 25 players with diagnoses covered under the settlement that he referred to the law firms.
Benedetto said that Pisarcik provided emails that showed that he tried to stop the lawyers from sending a deliberately misleading pitch letter with his name on it to former players.
The law firms represented 92 former players before they retained Pisarcik, then signed up an additional 241 clients after he became a consultant to the firms.
Benedetto said that some lenders had refused requests for documents.
To date, 1,200 claims from former players or their representatives have been filed, out of about 20,000 players who are eligible to file claims.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More than $130 million in claims have been approved so far, mostly for players who had previously received a diagnosis for a condition covered by the settlement.
Some of that money has not been dispersed yet, though, because the settlement administrator must deduct money to repay Medicare and legal fees.
Some awards have also been audited because of potential red flags, including doctors thought to have written incorrect diagnoses for players.
Seeger told the judge he was worried, though, that the administration of the settlement could get bogged down if the lenders or lawyers ask the claims administrator to be paid before players receive their awards.
Seeger said that he may ask the judge to pursue criminal claims against lawyers and advisers who filed false claims or asked doctors to write improper diagnoses for players.
The brain is going through this incredible time of growth between the years of 10 and 12, and if you subject that developing brain to repetitive head impacts, it may cause problems later in life, Robert Stern, one of the authors of the study, said of the findings.
The study is consistent with earlier findings by Stern and others that looked specifically at N.F.L.
retirees.
That research found that retirees who started playing before 12 years old had diminished mental flexibility compared to those who began playing tackle football at 12 or older.
A growing number of scientists argue that because the human brain develops rapidly at young ages, especially between 10 and 12, children should not play tackle football until their teenage years.
Last year, doctors at Wake Forest School of Medicine used advanced magnetic resonance imaging technology to find that boys between the ages of 8 and 13 who played just one season of tackle football had diminished brain function in parts of their brains.
The N.F.L., which long denied that there was any link between the game and brain damage, has in recent years been promoting what it considers safer tackling techniques aimed at reducing head-to-head collisions.
More recently, the league has been promoting flag football as an even safer alternative, an implicit acknowledgment that parents are worried about the dangers of the sport and turning away from it.
Participation in tackle football by boys ages 6 to 12 has fallen by nearly 20 percent since 2009, though it rose 1.2 percent, to 1.23 million, in 2015, according to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Schools across the country have shut their tackle football programs because of safety concerns and a shortage of players.
Large numbers of children have shifted to other sports like flag football, soccer, baseball and lacrosse.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The new Boston University study looked only at behavioral changes, based on the phone and online surveys.
There was no examination of physical changes in the brain.
(A separate study published by researchers at Boston University in July found that 110 out of 111 brains of deceased former N.F.L.
players had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease.)
Still, the findings are yet more evidence that have contributed to an existential crisis for the game, from youth leagues to the N.F.L.
Pop Warner, the most established youth football organization in the country, has reduced the amount of contact in practice  where the majority of head hits occur  and changed game rules, including banning kickoffs, one of the most dangerous plays in the game.
Jon Butler, the executive director of Pop Warner, said in a statement that the sport has changed significantly for the better since the players in the Boston University study participated decades ago.
He said the organizations medical advisory committee will review the study and compare it against the number of recent studies that contradict these findings.
Pop Warner is facing a class-action lawsuit asserting that it knowingly put players in danger by ignoring the risks of head trauma.
Last year, the Ivy League decided to eliminate tackling at practices during the regular season.
The Canadian Football League made a similar announcement last week.
USA Football, the governing body for the sport, is introducing a 7-on-7 version of football that includes measures, like players starting in a two-point stance, designed to reduce the risk of head hits.
Other groups, like Practice Like the Pros, suggest that only flag football be played through the sixth grade and a limited version of tackle football in 7th and 8th grades.
The curiosity about head injuries and the correct age to play full contact is peaking, said Terry ONeil, the groups founder.
Tackling is the culprit.
Everybody associated with the game is worried about the participation numbers.
Photo

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.
When the Giants were embarrassingly inept in their season-opening loss to the Dallas Cowboys, the glaring lack of offense was blamed on an ankle injury that kept the All-Pro wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. out of the game.
It turns out that even Beckhams vast, distinctive talents can be overestimated.
Beckham returned to the Giants lineup to face the Detroit Lions on Monday night, but he could not make up for another shabby performance by his teams offensive line.
He was unable to make the Giants feeble running game potent.
The Giants still struggled to mount sustained offensive drives.
And Beckham himself looked out of rhythm, which was understandable given his injury layoff.
He had little effect on the game, catching just four passes for 36 yards.
The result was a 24-10 Lions victory here at MetLife Stadium, a defeat that perilously set back the Giants season.
They began the year talked up as a Super Bowl contender, but with an 0-2 record and two difficult road games at the Philadelphia Eagles and Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the next two weeks, the Giants could soon be facing a daunting road to contend for a playoff spot.
Detroits victory, spurred by a swarming defense, improved their record to 2-0.
The Giants never led in the game and barely threatened to rally after the Lions took a commanding two-touchdown lead early in the fourth quarter with Jamal Agnews 88-yard punt return for a touchdown.
The Giants did have opportunities.
Two of their drives in the fourth quarter ended with fourth-down failures.
On the first fourth down, near midfield, the officials initially ruled that Giants running back Shane Vereen had picked up the first down with a three-yard reception.
It might seem chaotic, but it is not.
The proof is in the way the unbeaten Steelers are executing.
Through two weeks, Pittsburgh has allowed just 474 total yards, fifth among teams that have played two full games.
Sure, the Steelers have faced a rookie quarterback making his first N.F.L.
start (DeShone Kizer of Cleveland) and another who got the starting assignment minutes before kickoff (Minnesotas Case Keenum), but the team is confident its success is not a mirage.
Everybody can say the quarterbacks or whatever, but were not really worrying about that, Hargrave said.
Were just going out there, playing, trying to get to the quarterback and stop the run.
They did both on Sunday.
In a 26-9 victory over Minnesota, Pittsburgh chased Keenum around the pocket and limited Dalvin Cook, the Vikings rookie running back, to 64 yards on 12 carries, 25 of them coming on one run in the third quarter that set up Minnesotas only touchdown.
It is telling that the units lone major mistake  and not the other 55 offensive plays Minnesota ran to largely minimal effect  is what stuck with the Steelers.
Just 91 rushing yards?
defensive end Cam Heyward said, referring to the Vikings total on Sunday.
Thats still too much.
Weve got to hold ourselves to a higher standard.
And by that, Heyward meant the one that for so long stood among the gold standards in the N.F.L.
The Steelers finished in the top 10 in yards allowed every season from 2000 to 2012, including five times when they were No.
1 over all.
The precipitous slip began in 2013 as the team lost several important figures who had served as the core of three Super Bowl appearances from 2005 to 2010, including safety Troy Polamalu, defensive end Brett Keisel, cornerback Ike Taylor and the Hall of Fame defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the rebuilding process appears to be nearly complete.
When camp opened, Coach Mike Tomlin chose an interesting word to describe the defense, saying it had the talent to be a dominant group.
For a coach who rarely delves into the big picture, it was a startling pronouncement.
It may also end up being accurate.
T. J. Watt, a rookie outside linebacker and J. J. Watts brother, has been a revelation in two games, picking up two sacks and an interception in the opener and swatting down a pass against Minnesota before leaving with a groin injury.
Anthony Chickillo has done something considered nearly impossible for most of the last 12 years  he moved in front of James Harrison on the depth chart.
Harrison, 39, dressed but did not play against Minnesota, staying on the sideline when Chickillo filled in for the injured Watt.
Chickillo finished with four tackles on defense, another on special teams and a hit on the quarterback.
Harrisons day off is more a sign of Chickillos progress, one mirrored in other parts of the defense.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Defensive back Mike Hilton, who made the team off the practice squad, picked up eight tackles and even found a chance to drill Keenum on a well-designed blitz.
Joe Haden, signed at the end of training camp, had another quiet afternoon.
Burns knocked down a pass and recovered a fumble that effectively sealed the competitive portion of things.
All those splash plays start with word of mouth.
When you have communication from multiple guys, theres less room for error, Heyward said.
There have been few mental mistakes.
A trip to Chicago and another quarterback with problems  Mike Glennon  await.
The Steelers understand it is far too early to start thinking that they are back to their old selves.
Maybe thats because they are just simply not that old.
Defensive back William Gay and defensive end Tyson Alualu were the only starters who were 30 or older against Minnesota.
At the same time, Watt was the only rookie to get a significant number of snaps.
Pittsburghs defense is young but also experienced.
After spending the off-season hearing about how it could be the weak spot compared to the Killer B offense, the reality could prove to be considerably different.
Its one of our big goals this year to be one of the best defenses, Hargrave said.
With both the offense and defense clicking, he added, thats a great combination.
And still he was not happy.
His tight end, Rob Gronkowski, dropped a potential fourth touchdown pass in the end zone.
Brady threw his hands in the air.
Somewhere, perhaps Gisele Bndchen repeated the most incisive football wife comment of all time: My husband cannot throw the ball and catch the ball at the same time.
But back to the officials and how Brady rescued the league from another Patriots-versus-the-N.F.L.
contretemps.
Photo

The first incident came with the Patriots leading by 13-3 in the final minute of the first quarter.
Brady tossed a 13-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Chris Hogan, who was remarkably uncovered as he collected Bradys throw near the goal line.
But a yellow flag had fluttered to the turf: offensive pass interference.
Pointing, shouting and running toward the conferring officials, Brady was not pleased.
Tony Romo, the former Dallas quarterback who was a color analyst with CBS for the game, offered that Brady was good at winning arguments, too.
A sideline microphone picked up Bradys plea: He was blocked on the line of scrimmage.
He said it twice.
An official tried to lead Brady away, but the quarterback did not appear interested in retreating.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the game, a reporter told Brady that he had looked like he was being very persuasive.
Did I?
Brady said with a smile.
Hogan and his fellow receiver Brandin Cooks had crisscrossed on the play, with Cooks planting a sturdy shoulder block on P. J. Williams, the New Orleans defender covering Hogan, allowing Hogan to run away unaccompanied.
It was a classic pick play, one that often results in an offensive penalty.
Except, as referee Craig Wrolstad soon clarified  echoing a loud voice that must have been ringing in his head  there could be no penalty because the defender had been blocked within one yard of the line of scrimmage.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Patriots led, 20-3.
Romo, with a faint snicker, then suggested that there was always a little gray area, when it came to the rules enforcement.
It was a comment that summed up the way the Patriots have tiptoed along the borders of the rule book for more than a decade.
At the same time, the play was another small illustration of the Patriots genius that drives the rest of the league mad.
It was about knowing the rules precisely and understanding how to use them to your advantage.
There is little doubt that the New England coaches, in their game preparation, had noticed New Orleans lining up in the tight formation along the line of scrimmage and knew how to exploit the situation.
So, obviously, did Brady, who reacted appropriately as soon as he saw the flag.
Two quarters later, with New England leading by 30-13, Brady appeared to make the kind of ill-advised play that had fans wondering last week if he had suddenly slipped into middle age.
A wobbly, aimless pass down the sideline was effortlessly intercepted by Saints safety Marcus Williams, who returned the football to the Patriots 2-yard line.
The Saints, it seemed, might rally yet.
Not so fast.
The officials had yet to consult with Brady, who was already dashing toward them.
As a group, they gave him a tired What now?
expression.
As Brady jogged, he held aloft the index finger of his left hand and a peace sign with his right hand.
It was not a very complex code.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Put them together, and you have a 12.
As in, one more than the legal number of players a team can have on the field for a play.
I didnt see a flag, and I said, What the heck?
Brady said after the game.
I saw the 12th guy.
But the officials said they were going to review it.
Albeit much later than Brady had, the officials counted 12 Saints on the field.
The interception was nullified.
The Patriots actually gained 5 yards with the penalty.
I wish they had thrown the flag right away and took away the drama, Brady said.
Three plays later, Brady threw another interception.
This time the officials avoided a rebuke by Brady, immediately tossing a flag to the ground for defensive holding.
For Brady, it all added up to a redemptive victory.
His 447 yards were the most by a 40-year-old player in league history, and the third-highest total of Bradys career.
It was the 52nd time he had thrown three or more touchdowns in a game without an interception, which was an N.F.L.
record.
Peyton Manning did it 51 times.
Brady acknowledged after the game that he was aware some fans had been questioning after last weeks loss whether he had somehow precipitously declined since winning the Super Bowl seven months ago.
One stat provided a stark answer: The victory over the Saints improved Bradys record in games following a Patriots defeat to 43-10.
Im expected to lead us into good plays and to get us playing better when we need to play better, he said.
Whatever that takes.
All part of the job(s).
The veteran N.F.L.
reporter Andrea Kremer said she was hardly surprised by the backlash against Mowinss play-by-play on the sports biggest stage.
I have no doubt that hating the sound of her voice is code for I hate that there was a woman announcing football, Kremer told me.
The whining was neither surprising nor accurate, Kremer said: One of the many positives about Beth doing the game, in addition to her being a top-notch, seasoned broadcaster, is that she has a great voice that cuts through all the ambient noise in the stadium.
Whether youre in the booth or on the field, you need a resonant voice that can be audible.
The voice is like an instrument, and Beth is blessed with some great pipes.
Much of the social-media discussion of Mowinss voice was preceded by the always dubious claim that the criticism had nothing to do with the fact that Mowins was a woman.
Setting aside that starting a tweet with Im not sexist, but usually ensures that what follows will be sexist, its hard to imagine how to separate Mowins the woman from Mowins the voice.
Beth Mowins sounds like a woman.
The negative online reaction to Mowinss play-by-play calling football games is steeped in sexism, said Rebecca Martinez, who teaches womens and gender studies at the University of Missouri.
The comments, mostly from men, have focused on her voice being annoying to the point of not wanting to listen to her.
Theyll focus on the naturally higher pitch of womens voices and shrillness, all the while claiming their critiques of higher pitch have nothing to do with sexism.
Women who have high visibility, particularly in settings that are traditionally male, will experience backlash.
Photo

The response to female broadcasters voices is not new.
Sports are commonly perceived to be an arena for men  by men, of men  and anything that disrupts that makes some men uneasy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
As women in high-profile sports broadcasting jobs, we get criticized from head, and hair, to toe, Kremer said.
We are in a subjective business, and the haters are always going to find something they dont like about us because they dont want us there.
Andrew Dzurisin, an assistant professor of sociology at Middlesex County College, said the criticism stems from deep-rooted cultural beliefs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Friday Night Lights isnt just a movie or book; its real, he said.
In many parts of the country, football is an ingrained part of masculinity, culturally.
Of the major sports, football is seen as the one that fits the traditional definition of masculinity.
Its rough, its violent, its tribal, its a mans game.
To hear a woman do the play-by-play of the sport that most fits the traditional definition of masculinity is beyond comprehension to some men.
The primal masculinity of football makes a woman calling a game antithetical to their core ideas about gender.
Barriers persist in other sports, too.
The ESPN baseball analyst Jessica Mendoza has also been the target of social-media scorn, despite high praise from many of her colleagues and from former players.
Photo

Mendoza to me is an example of new baseball intersecting with the gender and even ethnicity, Dzurisin said.
Most of her commentary revolves around analytics.
Baseball audiences also skew older, so male viewership is more likely to embrace traditional gender norms that do not include female baseball analysts.
The fact that she is Hispanic also irks men, as they see a sport of the white man until Jackie Robinson now becoming increasingly Hispanic.
Some men insist they turn to sports to get a break from women.
This is something I hear more than you would probably believe.
Ive been told my voice is too high, too low, too young-sounding, too Chicago-sounding, too harsh, too soft, and just generally obnoxious.
The only time Ive ever been complimented on my voice was when I had bronchitis and a bunch of men called in to tell me my voice was sexy.
But bronchitis is hard to maintain on any kind of regular basis just to please the lonely faction of my male listeners.
And anyway, antibiotics forced me to go back to sounding like myself.
Sports fans have been subjected to a large number of male broadcasters with objectively terrible voices, from Howard Cosells nasal staccato to Phil Simmss Kentucky twang.
Chris Russos New York accent was so thick, his Florida station supposedly sent him to speech therapy.
The White Sox Hawk Harrelson is given to long stretches of silence in the booth when hes upset.
Do we even need to list the former male athletes with marbles in their mouths and very little to say who somehow retain seats in the broadcast booth?
So its 2017, and some Americans are unwilling to tolerate a sports broadcaster sounding like a woman.
Can we overcome it?
I am confident we can.
Photo

OAKLAND, Calif.  Marshawn Lynchs Oakland homecoming on Sunday turned into a dance party.
Lynch celebrated his first home game for his hometown team by running for a first-half touchdown, and then delighted the fans with a lengthy sideline dance during the fourth quarter of the Raiders 45-20 victory over the Jets.
Thats Marshawn being Marshawn, playing for his hometown team, Donald Penn, the Raiders left tackle, said.
If you grow up as a kid and grow up rooting for a team and then you get to play for them, wouldnt that be a dream?
Im just happy for him.
Hes living a childhood dream.
Lynch ran for 45 yards on 12 carries and scored on a 2-yard run late in the second quarter.
After the game, he said he planned to give the touchdown ball to his mother.
But what generated perhaps even bigger cheers was his sideline dance in the fourth quarter that was shown on the stadiums video board, prompting cheers of Beast Mode!
Beast Mode!
It got me fired up, said Jack Del Rio, the Raiders coach.
You can see the pure passion that he has.
These are his people.
These are my people.
He played well.
I know he was really happy to have his first game go like that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moments like these were why Lynch chose to come out of retirement this past off-season.
He made his decision after the Raiders announced their plans to move to Las Vegas in 2020.
Lynch said he wanted to give something back to his hometown fans and, on Sunday, he delivered in a big way.
Joe Thomas is a marvel for a team that is frequently not worth watching.
The veteran left tackle of the Cleveland Browns, who has started in each of the 162 games of his 11-season career, extended his incredible streak to 10,062 snaps without taking a play off.
Since Thomas rookie season, the Browns have had 29 different players attempt a pass, but only one play left tackle.
Photo

Falcons Outplay Packers Again

The Green Bay Packers put up a fight in the second half, but in a rematch of last years N.F.C.
championship game, they once again found themselves on the losing side, falling to the Atlanta Falcons, 34-23.
Things got out of hand in the first half, when the Packers were outgained by 155 yards and outscored 24-7.
It got immediately worse when the second half started.
Aaron Rodgers was hit while throwing, and the ball was scooped up by Desmond Trufant, who ran it into the end zone to stretch the lead to 31-7.
From that point forward, the Packers seemed to come alive, but it was far too little and far too late.
In reaction to Atlantas dismantling of the teams secondary in the playoffs, Green Bay spent the off-season rebuilding that unit, and while Kevin King proved to be a formidable addition, they still did not have enough to slow down Matt Ryan.
Ryan, who threw for 392 yards and four touchdowns against Green Bay in the playoffs, was not quite as prolific in this game, completing 18 of 28 passes for 252 yards and one touchdown.
Devonta Freeman added two rushing touchdowns and the rest of the Falcons scoring came on the fumble return and two field goals by Matt Bryant.
In the difficult loss, Rodgers did get one highlight to remember when a 1-yard shovel pass to Montgomery gave him his 300th career passing touchdown.
Rodgers accomplished the feat in 564 fewer attempts than Peyton Manning, who was the previous record-holder.
But Rodgers was unlikely to celebrate on a day in which he completed 33 of 50 passes for 343 yards and two touchdowns, but also accounted for two turnovers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

More troubling than the loss was the fact that the Packers lost several key players to injuries.
Mike Daniels, perhaps the teams best defender, was lost early in the game to a hamstring injury, and Jordy Nelson sat out the bulk of the game with a an injured quadriceps.
With health problems on the offensive line as well, the Packers will need to get healthy if they want to get back to winning against Cincinnati next week.
Photo

Broncos Shock Cowboys in Blowout

The Denver Broncos were not intimidated by a playoff-caliber team, were undeterred by a long weather delay, and rolled to a 42-17 victory over the Dallas Cowboys, punctuated by Aqib Talib streaking down the field for a 103-yard pick six late in the fourth quarter.
The game was hardly competitive.
Trevor Siemian had his way with the Cowboys defense to the tune of four passing touchdowns, and Denvers defense picked up their end of the bargain, making Dak Prescott and Ezekiel Elliott look positively mortal in defeat.
It seemed the only thing that could slow the Denver offense down was a 62-minute delay late in the first quarter caused by a passing lightning storm.
The Broncos were up 7-0 when the delay started, and things seemed to take a turn shortly after play resumed, when the Cowboys were able to take advantage of a strip-sack and fumble recovery to even the game at 7-7.
The Broncos, however, continued to press, following up the Dallas touchdown by scoring touchdowns of their own on four consecutive possessions other than a one-play kneeling on the ball to close the first half.
Siemian, who won the starting quarterback job in Denver by default after Paxton Lynch was injured, was positively electric for that middle stretch of the game, and finished the day having completed 22 of 32 passes for 231 yards, four touchdowns, one fumble and one interception.
Anderson chipped in with 25 carries for 118 yards and one touchdown.
The Broncos defense was even better, dismantling the star-studded Dallas offense.
Elliott, the N.F.L.s top rusher over the last two seasons, was held to career lows with 9 carries for 8 rushing yards, while Prescott completed 30 of 50 passes for 238 yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions.
The loss represented a low point of sorts for Prescott, as coming into the game he had only three losses in his career: Two to the Giants and one in a Week 16 loss to Philadelphia last season in which he only attempted eight passes before being removed from the game.
Todays game was one of the few times he has ever seemed overmatched, and things could actually have been worse, as the Denver secondary narrowly missed at least two more interceptions over the course of the game.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The blowout win was a clear victory in all categories for Denver.
The Broncos outgained the Cowboys, 380 to 260, largely on the strength of third downs  Denver converted 9 of 15 attempts while Dallas was 3 of 14.
Denver even got Von Miller back on track, as the dominant defender ended a five-game streak without a sack by recording two of Prescott.
Now 2-0, Denver will go into next weeks road game in Buffalo with added confidence while Dallas will head to Arizona for a Monday night game, likely wondering what went wrong.
Photo

Redskins Running Game Too Much for Rams

The Washington Redskins got two rushing touchdowns from Chris Thompson, and a late touchdown pass from Kirk Cousins to Ryan Grant, holding off the much-improved Los Angeles Rams in a 27-20 victory on the road.
Cousins, who had not done much leading up to the final scoring drive, finished the day a modest 18 for 27 for 179 yards and the one touchdown, but when his team needed him most with the score tied 20-20, he went 4 for 4 for 51 yards, finding Grant for the go-ahead score.
Until that point, the Washington offense had been mostly defined by Thompson, who contributed 77 rushing yards, 29 receiving yards, and two touchdowns, including a highlight-reel 61-yard run.
According to SportRadar, Thompson topped out at 19.41 miles per hour on the run.
Coming into the game, Thompson had just three rushing touchdowns in 36 career games.
The Rams dropped to 1-1 despite fighting back from a 20-10 deficit to tie the score midway through the fourth quarter.
They were hopeful that they could stretch things to 2-0 after a 46-9 thrashing of Indianapolis in Week 1, but a late interception by Jared Goff following Cousinss touchdown pass essentially sealed the teams fate.
-

Want the big sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
Chargers Miss Kick and Lose ... Again

For the second consecutive week, Younghoe Koo, the rookie kicker of the Los Angeles Chargers, was sent out for a last-second field goal attempt, and for the second consecutive week he failed to make the kick.
This week, the 44-yard attempt, which went wide-right of the goal posts, resulted in a 19-17 victory for the Miami Dolphins.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jay Cutler won in his debut as the starting quarterback of the Dolphins, leading his team to a go-ahead field goal with just over a minute remaining.
The Chargers got the ball back, and went 54 yards in eight plays to set up Koos attempt.
But a week after he was blocked on what would be a game-tying kick against Denver, Koo once again failed to deliver.
The Dolphins, who did not play in Week 1 because of Hurricane Irma, are now 1-0, while the Chargers, despite having played close games in of the seasons first two weeks, are 0-2.
The loss spoiled the Chargers Antonio Gates passing Tony Gonzalez for the career record for touchdowns by a tight end.
The record-breaking catch, which was the 112th in Gatess career, came on a 7-yard pass in the third quarter.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Jets No Match for Raiders

Marshawn Lynch ran for a touchdown in his first home game with Oakland and Derek Carr threw three touchdown passes to Michael Crabtree to lead the Raiders to a 45-20 victory over the Jets on Sunday.
Cordarrelle Patterson and Jalen Richard added long touchdown runs to help put the game away and give the Raiders (2-0) wins in the opening two games of the season for the first time since their AFC championship season in 2002.
Josh McCown threw a pair of TD passes to Jermaine Kearse but the Jets (0-2) proved to be no match for the more powerful and talented Raiders.
Associated Press

Photo

No Receivers, No Problem for Tom Brady

Tom Brady threw for more than 300 yards in the first half, and then put things in cruise control as the New England Patriots erased memories of an ugly Week 1 loss by beating the New Orleans Saints, 36-20.
Brady was forced to change things up thanks to an injury to Danny Amendola that left the Patriots with just three healthy wide receivers, none of whom are comfortable in the short passing game that Amendola and the injured Julian Edelman thrive in.
Brady took that in stride, reworking his strategy to focus on Rob Gronkowski and the teams running backs, and found little resistance from the Saints defense.
The result was Brady reeling off a series of big plays, including touchdowns of 19, 53 and 13 yards, while completing 30 of 39 passes for 447 yards.
It was the 10th 400-yard passing game of Bradys career, easing any concerns that may have crept up after Brady was held without a touchdown in loss to the Kansas City Chiefs last week.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Gronkowski, who was removed toward the end of the game for precautionary reasons, was particularly impressive, catching 6 passes for 116 yards, including the 53-yard touchdown.
On that play, coverage fell apart and Gronkowski found himself with 35 yards and one defender between him and his first touchdown of the season.
The big tight end rumbled forward and then simply stepped out of Marcus Williamss tackle attempt, waltzing into the end zone for the score.
If there was any cause for concern for the Patriots, it was the health of the teams already-depleted corps of receivers.
Both Phillip Dorsett and Chris Hogan limped to the sideline at various points in the second half, leaving just Brandin Cooks unscathed.
While Brady thrived despite having just 10 of his 30 completions going to wide receivers, the team will likely need more help from that unit next week against Houston, especially if Gronkowski is limited.
In a post-game news conference, Brady said the team works hard to game-plan every week, but cited the amount of scrutiny the team puts itself under after a loss for todays sense of urgency.
Our coaches were all over us this week, and they want us to get it right, he said.
They want us to get it right now.
The Saints, at one point down 20-3, did show some signs of life, including an 80-yard scoring drive in which Drew Brees found Alvin Kamara for a 38-yard completion and Brandon Coleman for a 5-yard touchdown pass.
But they simply did not seem to keep up with the Patriots on either side of the field.
The loss for New Orleans, which came on the 50th anniversary of the teams first game, dropped the Saints to 0-2, giving them a 1-11 record in September since 2014.
Steelers Defense Takes Care of Vikings

For the second consecutive week, the Pittsburgh Steelers came away with a victory while not exactly convincing anyone they are world beaters.
They rode two early touchdowns to a 26-9 victory over the Minnesota Vikings, but the win comes with the asterisk of the Vikings having played without Sam Bradford, the teams starting quarterback.
The issue, once again, was a lackadaisical effort from the Steelers offense.
The unit managed just 14 points against Cleveland last week, and this week they were not much better, gaining 335 yards but settling for four field goals following a hot start in which the team scored touchdowns on two of the first three drives of the game.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Martavis Bryant, Pittsburghs deep threat wide receiver, was the bright spot of the game with 3 receptions for 91 yards.
On Pittsburghs second offensive drive of the game, he caught a short pass in the middle of the field and ran it in for a 27-yard touchdown.
On the next drive, he drew a 49-yard pass interference penalty that set up a second touchdown.
But just like last week, it was Pittsburghs defense that seemed to take care of business, while the offense mostly sputtered.
Ben Roethlisberger completed 23 of 35 passes for 243 yards and two touchdowns, one of which went to JuJu Smith-Schuster, the N.F.L.s youngest player.
LeVeon Bell, the teams superstar running back, had 27 carries for 87 yards a week after rushing for just 32 against Cleveland, and Antonio Brown had 5 catches for 62 yards.
After the game, Roethlisberger seemed a bit defensive about his offenses performance.
Were just winning football games, he told reporters.
Were 2-0, we did what we had to do, we won the football game.
The Vikings were forced to switch to Case Keenum at quarterback after Bradford was a late scratch, and the veteran backup led the team to a touchdown and a field goal while throwing for 159 yards.
Bradford, who is a huge key to Minnesotas playoff hopes, is expected to be back next week for the Vikings game against Tampa Bay.
Photo

Brissett Throws Away Colts Chance

The Arizona Cardinals came away with a 16-13 overtime win over the Indianapolis Colts thanks to Jacoby Brissett throwing his first career interception.
It was a strong start for Brissett, the young quarterback of the Colts who recently came over in a trade with the New England Patriots.
He had his team leading 10-0 after the first quarter, and for the game completed 20 of 37 passes for 216 yards.
Arizona was able to creep back into the game and send it to overtime, but Brissett, asked to keep the Colts afloat until Andrew Luck can return, had the ball with a chance to win.
Unfortunately for the Colts, Brissett, who did not throw an interception in any of his three appearances for New England last season, was picked off on his first pass of overtime by Tyrann Mathieu.
With a short field in front of them the rest was largely a formality, as the Cardinals drove the ball just 9 yards and then won on a 30-yard field goal by Phil Dawson.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chiefs Hold on to Beat Eagles

Chiefs rookie Kareem Hunt reached the end zone twice, Travis Kelce took a shovel pass 15 yards for the go-ahead touchdown and Kansas City held on to beat the Philadelphia Eagles 27-20 on Sunday.
Kelces touchdown catch with 6:25 left and Hunts second TD scamper appeared to have put the game away.
But Carson Wentz hit Nelson Agholor for an answering score with 14 seconds left, and Trey Burton jumped on the onside kick a few seconds later to give the Eagles one last throw to the end zone.
Wentz unloaded from just inside the 50-yard line, but his pass fell incomplete as time expired.
Kelce finished with 103 yards through the air, highlighted by his somersaulting score.
Hunt had 81 yards on the ground, building on a record-setting debut in which he piled up 246 yards from scrimmage in a season-opening victory in New England.
Around the N.F.L.
Jameis Winston threw for 204 yards and one touchdown Sunday, helping the Tampa Bay Buccaneers return from an unscheduled bye week forced by Hurricane Irma to open the season with a 29-7 rout of the mistake-prone Chicago Bears.
The defense stymied former teammate Mike Glennon with four turnovers.
Robert McClain returned one of the quarterbacks two interceptions for a TD, and the Bucs didnt let the Bears into the end zone until Deonte Thompson scored on a 14-yard reception with 1:43 remaining.
Carolinas defense allowed only three points for the second straight week, and Graham Gano converted three field goals as the Panthers held on to defeat the Buffalo Bills 9-3 to remain unbeaten.
The Panthers lost Pro-Bowl tight end Greg Olsen with a broken right foot.
Derrick Henry, Delanie Walker and Jalston Fowler each ran for touchdowns, and the Tennessee Titans dominated the Jacksonville Jaguars in the second half for a 37-16 victory.
Baltimore relentlessly harassed two Cleveland quarterbacks, Joe Flacco ramped up his production with a pair of touchdown passes and the Ravens breezed past the Browns 24-10 on Sunday.
Building on their season-opening shutout at Cincinnati, the Ravens picked off four passes and forced a fumble  giving them 10 takeaways in two games.
Associated Press
With one out in the third inning, Frazier was on second base after a double.
Jacoby Ellsbury lined a ball into right field, and Bautista made one of three fine plays in the game  a leaping grab of the ball over his head.
As Frazier scrambled back to the bag, Bautista threw the ball back in to Goins, the second baseman.
Photo

Goins pretended to casually throw back to Estrada, but actually placed the ball in his glove as Frazier stood on the base, looking toward the outfield.
When Frazier stepped of the base by just inches, Goins tagged him for the final out.
Frazier blamed his lack of concentration for the play.
I thought the ball was thrown in, and it was one of those things, he said.
Nothing you can do about it afterward.
Castro also took the blame for his mistake  failing to catch Fraziers throw in the first inning with a runner coming into second base.
Castro said he had rushed to turn the double play, and missed the ball.
The runner, Teoscar Hernandez, ended up at third and scored on a groundout by Bautista.
Perhaps both of those mistakes could have been overcome if Tanaka had pitched better.
But he gave up a bases-empty homer to Hernandez in the third and a two-run shot by the former Yankee Russell Martin in the fourth, and the Blue Jays led, 4-1.
Then in the sixth, Tanaka walked Bautista as the leadoff batter, just as he had done before Martins homer in the fourth.
Kevin Pillar singled, but Tanaka struck out Martin and Miguel Montero, hinting that he still had the stuff to get safely out of the inning.
Photo

But he walked pinch-hitter Kendrys Morales (he said he was not pitching around him to face Goins) to load the bases.
Goins was 0 for 20 against Tanaka coming into the game and had made two outs already, which is why Girardi left Tanaka in to face him.
But this time was different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Goins rocketed a high slider over Judges head and into the seats beyond right field for his eighth homer of the season.
The only other grand slam of his career came in May.
Tanaka has had a difficult season, and the Yankees have been unable to determine the reason.
Tanaka said that it was a mechanical problem and that he would have to analyze videotape of Fridays outing to determine what flaw had doomed him.
Girardi attributed Tanakas troubles to inconsistency throughout the season with his split-fingered fastball and his slider.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tanaka is 12-12, and his E.R.A.
is 4.94.
He has surrendered seven earned runs in two of his last three starts, and should the Yankees make it to the divisional round of the playoffs, his spot in the rotation could be in doubt.
You look at everything, Girardi said.
But I dont want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
We still havent clinched anything.
We need to win games, and we need to play well.
And tonight we didnt.
The Yankees will have more shots to clinch a playoff berth, but their chances to win the American League East grew smaller as the Red Sox beat the Cincinnati Reds, 5-4, increasing their lead over the Yankees to four games with nine to play.
We are still looking to win the division, Frazier said.
We know we have a really good shot at making the playoffs, of course, but we still have an opportunity to win the division, so I think our mind-set is on that.
Choosing a new manager  perhaps Ausmus, Sandy Alomar Jr., or a former Met like Alex Cora, Joe McEwing or Robin Ventura  is likely to be Aldersons first priority this winter.
An easier decision should be replacing the medical and training staff.
No one can say precisely how many of the Mets injuries could have been anticipated, prevented or minimized.
But the sheer volume of debilitating physical problems to major players demands some kind of accountability.
These Mets might have been flawed in their construction.
But with the injuries, they never had a chance to find out.
Remove Noah Syndergaard, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler, Jeurys Familia, Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto and David Wright, and of course the team flatlined.
Solving the health riddle is Aldersons most important task.
He seems open to ideas.
The injuries are not just an objective fact; there are underlying causes and issues that weve wanted to and have examined in connection with those injuries, Alderson said.
Its not going to happen just at the end of the season.
Its been an ongoing review.
As for his own performance, Alderson said, the players he sought at the trading deadline should show where he went wrong earlier.
In dealing several veterans, Alderson sought one asset most: relievers.
This seasons bullpen was too thin from the start.
I think thats sort of a tacit recognition that, look, we need to get better there, he said.
Alderson was right last winter not to match the Atlanta Braves one-year, $12.5 million offer to Bartolo Colon, who had steadied the Mets rotation for three memorable seasons.
Colon looks finished now.
His 6.63 earned run average, with the Braves and the Minnesota Twins, is the worst in the majors for pitchers with at least 20 starts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the Mets were not as deep in starters as they thought.
By Memorial Day, they had given desperate promotions to Tommy Milone, Adam Wilk and Tyler Pill, who have combined to go 0-7.
Clearly, they need more than just bullpen depth.
We also are going to have to look at the rotation and see whether theres some stabilizing addition we can make that will help us bridge some of the uncertainty that comes from pitchers whove been hurt and are coming back, Alderson said.
Well be in a similar situation next year as we were this year, and hoping for better results  but perhaps planning for the possibility that they dont all come back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With few high-impact starters besides Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish on the free-agent market, the Mets might have to overpay for a reliable mid-rotation arm like Andrew Cashner, Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn or Jason Vargas.
Whomever they pursue, Alderson acknowledged that with so much uncertainty in the rotation, the Mets would have to pay closer attention to defense.
Shortstop Amed Rosario has been a revelation in the field, but can the rest of the lineup bash enough to support Juan Lagares, who has a weak bat but a sterling glove in center field?
When your pitchers arent striking everybody out, as weve had the benefit of in the past, the defense becomes a little more important, Alderson said, adding that there has been a recognition after this year that if were going to have pitching that puts the ball in play a little more, then the defense is going to have to be more of a priority.
If only the Mets had forgiven Daniel Murphy his defensive shortcomings, instead of letting him leave after his slugging led them to the 2015 World Series.
Murphy came back to town this weekend hitting .316 with 22 homers in the second season of a bargain three-year, $37.5 million contract with Washington.
Murphy was out of the lineup Friday, easing into another playoff run.
His Mets replacement, Neil Walker, was traded last month to Milwaukee.
Maybe Murphy will start on Saturday to face his old teammates, Syndergaard and Harvey, who will pitch for the Mets.
Syndergaard has not pitched since April 30 because of a torn right latissimus muscle, and he will work the first inning only.
Harvey, who has been shelled in his return from shoulder trouble, will follow.
Not long ago, they were swaggering superheroes, Thor and the Dark Knight.
Their return will be a bittersweet episode of a failed series.
In the back of your mind, youre saying, If we could have had these guys   Collins said.
But you didnt.
Thats the reality of it all.
You try not to get caught up in what could have been, because it didnt.
Photo

TORONTO  Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier, who hit the foul ball that struck a young girl in the face at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, said he spoke to the girls father on Thursday and had been told that she was recovering well in a hospital.
He said shes doing good, Frazier said before the Yankees played the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday night.
He said the family is really happy that shes O.K.
I think they are going to do a couple more tests over the next few days, and hopefully she can get out of there.
Frazier said the girls father told him not to blame himself, and Frazier said he felt a measure of relief after the conversation.
He added that he planned to check in with the family every day, at least until the girl is discharged from the hospital.
He also said he hoped to meet her soon.
Since the incident, three major league teams have announced that they will extend the protective netting at their parks to the full lengths of the dugouts.
Another team, the Colorado Rockies, said it had already been considering the move.
Ten other teams have already extended their netting.
The Yankees, while expressing concern for the girl in public statements, have not specifically addressed whether they will extend their netting.
Frazier said it was time for all teams to do so immediately, even before the regular season ends on Oct. 1.
I think 2018 is already too late, he said.
They should be up sooner than that.
Eppler propped up his offense on Aug. 31  the last day to add players who could be eligible for the postseason  by trading for outfielder Justin Upton and second baseman Brandon Phillips, adding firepower to a lineup led by the peerless Mike Trout.
But the rotation has stayed in constant flux.
Only one pitcher has thrown 150 innings  Ricky Nolasco, whose earned run average is 5.06.
Elbow trouble cost Garrett Richards five months and ended the seasons of J. C. Ramirez and Alex Meyer.
Another starter, Andrew Heaney, is out with a sore shoulder, and the Angels plan to replace him with a procession of relievers, as they did in a seven-man, tag-team victory on Sept. 15.
Given all that, it is no surprise that the Angels have set a club record for victories by relievers.
Their bullpen has been fairly stable, with five pitchers working at least 55 games.
The staff has been helped greatly by impeccable team defense, which Fangraphs ranked as the second best in the majors, behind only the Boston Red Sox.
We laid the blueprint out in the wintertime, as far as understanding theres a run-producing aspect and a run-prevention aspect, Eppler said.
Lets try to grow the distance between those two variables as great as we can.
The Angels two best defenders, according to Fangraphs, have been shortstop Andrelton Simmons and catcher Martin Maldonado.
Eppler acquired Simmons from Atlanta before last season, and Maldonado from Milwaukee last winter.
Those moves and others might help the Angels squeeze into the playoffs, if they make the most of their remaining games against Houston, Seattle and the Chicago White Sox.
If they make it, the Angels could meet a fitting opponent in the American League wild-card game on Oct. 3  the Yankees.
We benefited from Billys baseball I.Q.
for a long time, like the Angels are now, Cashman said last week.
Im not surprised by any success they have, because they hired the right man, and they will benefit for a long time from that decision.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

An Assist From a Button

Sure, he lacked the balletic grace of Byron Buxton, Kevin Pillar or Andrelton Simmons.
But Nick Pivetta, a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies, might have made the catch of the year during his teams recent four-game series victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
With two outs in the sixth inning on Monday, the Dodgers Austin Barnes smoked a liner back up the middle at 106 miles per hour, too fast for Pivetta to get a glove on it.
Instead, his button-down jersey made the play for him.
Had Pivetta been pitching for the Phillies from 1973 to 1986, when the team wore zipper-front jerseys, this would have been impossible.
But Barness hit nestled inside Pivettas shirt, entering between the buttons, and Pivetta stayed upright.
He reached inside his jersey, found the ball and flipped it behind him as he trotted off the field to end the inning.
Actually, its funny, Pivetta told reporters after the game.
My last game in junior college, on one of the outs, I had a ball similar to that.
I caught it in my stomach.
That one hit my forearm, then my stomach.
So thats the second time it happened to me.
I didnt even see the ball.
Technically, Pivetta needed to throw the ball to first to complete the out.
According to Rule 5.09(a): A catch is the act of a fielder in getting secure possession in his hand or glove of a ball in flight and firmly holding it; providing he does not use his cap, protector, pocket or any other part of his uniform in getting possession.
But the umpires ruled it a catch, the Dodgers did not complain  and it was clearly Pivettas night, anyway.
He has a 6.57 earned run average for the season, but on Monday he beat the three-time Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw to earn his sixth victory.
Stamina in the Bullpen

Few playoff teams have a reliever quite like Chris Devenski of the Houston Astros.
Devenski has thrown about 80 innings in relief this season, more than any other pitcher for a division-leading team.
He could be the Astros answer to Clevelands Andrew Miller as a critical multiple-inning weapon for the playoffs.
Photo

Devenski worked more than one inning 17 times before pitching in the All-Star Game, his first, and he has done so far less often since then, which should keep him rested for October.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Astros acquired Devenski to little fanfare in a 2012 trade with the Chicago White Sox for Brett Myers, a veteran who was pitching his last full season in the majors.
Devenski, who had been drafted in the 25th round the year before, was in low Class A with a 4.23 E.R.A.
I had a lot of failure in the minor leagues, and I always learned something from it, he said this summer.
It helps me become better.
The pitcher I am now, he goes out there and he dominates.
Theres going to be rough times, but thats part of the game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Devenski dominates with a changeup he learned in high school but took many years to perfect.
He recognized the pitch as his ticket to the majors shortly after the trade, when he used it for about 60 percent of his pitches in a 16-strikeout, Class A no-hitter.
Even as his E.R.A.
swelled to 6.60 the next year, Devenski kept faith in the changeup.
I had to just continue to throw it and throw it and throw it, Devenski said.
Its like if youre digging for coal and youve got diamonds on the other side of the coal and you continue to dig and continue to dig.
What if you give up, and you were two inches away from the diamonds?
Its kind of like I did the same thing with my changeup.
I was going to continue to throw this and throw this and throw this until something good came out of it.
I always knew I could develop it into something nasty.
Devenski throws his changeup around 83 miles an hour, and his fastball around 94.
He throws both pitches about 40 percent of the time, and also uses a slider.
It is a rare three-pitch mix for a reliever, but useful for one who may face hitters more than once per game.
Devenski spoke with Miller about their roles at the All-Star Game, and the two could meet again in the playoffs.
Not many teams, if any teams, have what he can do for them right now, his flexibility, his length, Miller said in July.
I dont think anybodys looking forward to facing the Astros for a lot of reasons, but hes certainly part of it.
Near-Miss No-Hitters

The Detroit Tigers Matthew Boyd lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning last Sunday when Tim Anderson of the Chicago White Sox lined a two-out double to right.
That was the sixth time this season that a no-hitter had been broken up in the ninth inning or later, the most in the majors since 1989.
Photo

That season, Kirk McCaskill, John Farrell, Tom Browning, Dave Stieb and Nolan Ryan  twice!
lost no-hitters in the ninth.
Ryan had thrown five of his record seven no-hitters by then, Browning had tossed a perfect game the year before and Stieb would get his no-hitter the next season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This years group has never pitched a no-hitter.
After the Miami Marlins lost a combined no-hitter by Wei-Yin Chen, Brad Ziegler and Kyle Barraclough in April, Atlantas Mike Foltynewicz, Colorados Kyle Freeland, Washingtons Gio Gonzalez, the Los Angeles Dodgers Rich Hill (in the 10th inning) and Boyd joined the list.
Only one pitcher has finished a no-hitter this season: Miamis Edinson Volquez against Arizona on June 3.
Alas, the season did not end happily for Volquez, who two months later underwent Tommy John surgery for the second time in his career.
Speaking of Volquez, 34, how many pitchers have experienced as many extremes as he has?
Besides his no-hitter and surgeries, Volquez has been traded for Josh Hamilton (in 2007); made an All-Star team (2008); served a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs (2010); lost his playoff debut, when Philadelphias Roy Halladay threw a no-hitter against him (2010); started on opening day for three teams (San Diego in 2012 and 2013, Kansas City in 2016, Miami in 2017); started Game 1 of the World Series the day his father died, then started the clincher five days later (in 2015); and in various seasons led his league in earned runs, walks, hit batters and wild pitches.
Advertisement

Baseball Diamonds Arent Forever: Bygone Ballparks of New York Much of the games history can be traced through these five ballparks, which have all been torn down.
When shortstop Don Zimmers throw settled into first baseman Gil Hodgess glove to seal a 2-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates 60 years ago this month, the Dodgers had played their final game in Brooklyn.
With the Dodgers gone from Brooklyn, so was professional baseball at their longtime ballpark, Ebbets Field.
Before long, Ebbets Field was gone, too, one in a series of ballparks that nurtured major league baseball in New York City before succumbing to the wrecking ball.
Five New York ballparks built in baseballs modern era, which began early in the 20th century  Hilltop Park (1903-12), the Polo Grounds (1911-63), Ebbets Field (1913-57), Yankee Stadium (1923-2008) and Shea Stadium (1964-2008)  seeded much of the games history before being torn down.
You can trace that history, and even more than baseball, below.
Image The Brooklyn Dodgers in their heyday at Ebbets Field.
The Dodgers won six National League pennants in their final 11 seasons in the ballpark.
Credit Ernie Sisto/The New York Times

Ebbets Field

First game: April 9, 1913.
Philadelphia Phillies 1, Dodgers 0.
Brooklyn Starts Season a Loser.
Benny Meyer Upsets Game by His Errors  Cold Chills 10,000 Fans.
Advertisement

Last game: Sept. 24, 1957.
Dodgers 2, Pittsburgh Pirates 0.
Dodgers Defeat Pirates in Ebbets Field Finale.
MDevitt Victor on 5-Hitter, 2-0.
Other games: An N.F.L.
team played at Ebbets Field from 1930 to 1944, as the Dodgers (1930-43) and the Tigers (44).
The teams had three winning records in 15 seasons.
The Brooklyn Eagles of the Negro National League played one season there, 1935.
Their owners, Abe and Effa Manley, later owned the star-studded Newark Eagles.
Distinguishing architectural feature: 80-foot-high Italian marble rotunda.
Short porch in right field: 297 feet, although with a high wall and, eventually, a scoreboard and a net.
Left-handed-hitting beneficiary: Duke Snider, 175 home runs at Ebbets Field.
Image Fans waiting at Ebbets Field to buy World Series tickets in 1955, Brooklyns only championship season.
Two years later, the Dodgers left; in 1960, the ballpark was razed.
Credit Neal Boenzi/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Dodgers outfielder, playing at Ebbets Field from its opening season, 1913, through 1917.
The teams were mostly terrible, except for a pennant in 1916.
Dodgers manager, 1934-36.
Those teams were also terrible, compiling a record of 208-251.
Babe Ruth connection: Played two games at Ebbets Field for the Boston Braves in his final season, 1935; went hitless in eight plate appearances.
Coach for the 1938 Dodgers .
Subway World Series: Brooklyn faced the Yankees in 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956.
Wait till next year except in 1955.
Music: The Sym-Phony Band, a group of fans who played in the stands during games.
Sample number: Three Blind Mice for the umpires.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: In 1931 a Gaelic football match was played at night under portable lights, seven years before the first night game there.
Image The distinctively shaped Polo Grounds  like a horseshoe or a bathtub?
was home to three major league baseball teams (Giants, Yankees, Mets) and two professional football teams (Giants, Titans/Jets).
Credit Associated Press

Polo Grounds

First game: June 28, 1911.
Giants 3, Boston Beaneaters 0.
Giants Reopen Polo Grounds and Win : The Times reported that more than 6,000 fans in the half-finished ballpark saw Boston perform its customary daily act of being defeated.
Last game: Sept. 18, 1963: Phillies 5, Mets 1.
Era of Mets Ends at Polo Grounds : The Giants had a last game in 1957 before moving to San Francisco.
Then the Mets had a goodbye ceremony for the Polo Ground s in 1962.
But Shea Stadium was not ready for the 1963 season, so they had one more Polo Grounds farewell.
Advertisement

Other games: The Yankees played at the Polo Grounds from 1913 to 1922.
The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1925 to 1955.
The Titans/Jets of the A.F.L.
played there from 1960 to 1963.
College football, especially Army.
The New York Cubans of the Negro leagues played frequently at the Polo Grounds from 1935 to 1950.
Jack Dempsey was knocked out of the ring there (but climbed back in and knocked out Luis Firpo in the next round).
In the waning years of the Polo Grounds, auto racing was conducted.
Richard Pettys father, Lee, raced there.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Horseshoe or bathtub shape, depending on how you looked at it.
Image Credit

Short porch in right field: 258 feet.
Beneficiaries: Mel Ott (323 home runs at the Polo Grounds).
Babe Ruth (85 home runs in 227 games before Yankee Stadium opened).
Short porch in left field: 279 feet.
Beneficiary: Bobby Thomson, who hit the so-called Shot Heard Round the World in 1951 down the left-field line.
Casey Stengel connection: Giants outfielder, 1921-23.
Mets manager, 1962-63.
Babe Ruth connection: Played there three seasons for the Yankees (1920-22) plus in three World Series (losing the first two, in 1921 and 22, when the Polo Grounds was the home for both teams).
Subway World Series: 1921-23.
Music: A chorus of 1,200 and a full orchestra performed Verdis Requiem in June 1916.
The Times called it impressive and interesting and as delightful as could be expected given the open-air acoustics.
The Giants werent playing because it was a Sunday.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: Polo was never played at this version of the Polo Grounds below Coogans Bluff, only at the original site, on 110th Street, in the 1880s.
Image Babe Ruth scoring a run in his final season with the Yankees, in 1934.
Yankee Stadium was already known as the House That Ruth Built.
Credit Associated Press

Yankee Stadium

First game: April 18, 1923.
Yankees 4, Red Sox 1.
74,200 See Yankees Open New Stadium; Ruth Hits Home Run.
Record Baseball Crowd Cheers as Sluggers Drive Beats Red Sox, 4 to 1.
25,000 Are Turned Away.
Gates to $2,500,000 Arena Are Closed Half an Hour Before Start of Game.
Governor Smith Throws Out First Ball  Shawkey, in Great Form, Allows Only Three Hits : It was the first ballpark to be called a stadium.
Last game: Sept. 21, 2008.
Yankees 7, Orioles 3.
A Long Goodbye to an 85-Year Run 

Other games: The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1956 to 1973.
The Stadium was the site of what came to be called  The Greatest Game Ever Played,  the 1958 championship game between the Giants and the Baltimore Colts.
College football, especially Army-Notre Dame games.
Host to a groundbreaking Negro league baseball doubleheader in 1930, then was the frequent home of the New York Black Yankees for much of the time from 1936 to 1947.
Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali fought major fights there; Alis third bout with Ken Norton was the final fight staged at the Stadium.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Frieze decorating the top of the Stadium.
Short porch in right field: Originally 258 feet, then 295 feet.
Advertisement

Left-handed-hitting beneficiaries: Mickey Mantle (266 home runs, though not all left-handed), Babe Ruth (259) and Lou Gehrig (251).
Image The roofline frieze was such an elemental part of the design of old Yankee Stadium that it was incorporated in the new Stadium.
The Yankees didn't recycle all those pillars, though.
Credit Patrick A. Burns/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Played in the first World Series game there as a member of the Giants in 1923, hitting the game-deciding home run in the top of the ninth.
Yankees manager, 1949-60.
They were terrific, winning 10 pennants and seven World Series in 12 years.
Babe Ruth connection: It was called the House That Ruth Built.
He played there from 1923 to 1934.
Subway World Series: 1923, 1936, 1937 and 1951, against the Giants; 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956, against the Dodgers; and 2000, against the Mets.
11-1 in those Series.
Music: The first concert was a 1969 R&B show hosted by the Isley Brothers.
Later artists included U2 and Billy Joel.
Whats there now: Athletic fields, including three diamonds, adjacent to the new Yankee Stadium.
Fun fact: A year after the evangelist Billy Graham attracted 100,000 people, a Jehovahs Witnesses convention drew more than 123,000 people to the ballpark in 1958.
Many of those outside munched hot dogs as they listened to the speeches over amplifiers, The Times reported.
Image Shea Stadium was home to young fans and other baseball staples  peanut shells on the ground and popcorn in hand.
Credit John Orris/The New York Times

Shea Stadium

First game: April 17, 1964.
Pittsburgh Pirates 4, Mets 3.
Shea Stadium Opens With Big Traffic Jam.
Last game: Sept. 28, 2008.
Florida Marlins 4, Mets 2.
Bitter Repeat on.
Stadiums Final Day 

Other games: The Jets played at Shea from 1964 to 1983, and the Giants joined them for the 1975 season.
The Yankees played there in 1974-75 while Yankee Stadium was being renovated.
So in 1975, Shea was home to two major league baseball teams and two N.F.L.
teams.
Not especially good teams: The Mets were 82-80, the Yankees 83-77, the Jets 3-11 and the Giants 5-9.
Thats an overall 173-177 record.
The teams were 88-85 at Shea.
Distinguishing architectural feature: The big apple in center field.
Image The Mayors Trophy exhibition game at Shea in 1964 reunited Casey Stengel, the former Yankees manager who was then managing the Mets, with two of his old Yankees stars, Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra.
Credit Larry C. Morris/The New York Times

Porch in right field: Not short at all, 338 feet.
Left-handed-hitting victim: Darryl Strawberry (127 home runs at Shea.
With a fence 40 feet closer, how many?).
Advertisement

Casey Stengel connection: Managed the Mets there in 1964-65.
Subway World Series: 2000.
The Yankees won.
Music: The Beatles ushered in the era of arena concerts, playing at Shea on Aug. 15, 1965 , and Aug. 23, 1966.
The Police drew 70,000 there in 1983.
Whats there now: A parking lot for Citi Field.
Fun fact: A dome was proposed for Shea in March 1965, and the citys sports commissioner said it could be ready in 1966.
Turns out, however, that the stadiums foundation could not stand the weight.
Image Hilltop Park in its final season, 1912.
The Highlanders, who became the Yankees, lost 102 games that season and never won a pennant while playing in the ballpark.
Credit George Grantham Bain Collection, via Library of Congress

Hilltop Park

First game: April 30, 1903.
Highlanders 6, Senators 2.
Baseballs Big Crowd.
Auspicious Opening of American League Grounds in This City.
Home Team Won From Washington  New York National League Nine Lost in Philadelphia.
Last game: Oct. 5, 1912.
Yankees 8, Senators 6.
Senators Force Yankees to Win.
With Second Place Safe, Griffith Sends Nick Altrock Into the Box on Hilltop.
Other games: The National League Giants spent two months playing at Hilltop Park after the Polo Grounds burned down before the start of the 1911 season.
Columbia Universitys football team rented the ballpark for its game against Williams on Oct. 8, 1904, forcing the baseball team then known as the Highlanders to relocate a doubleheader to Boston in the heat of a pennant race.
The Highlanders lost both games and also lost the pennant to the Pilgrims (now Red Sox) by one and a half games.
Columbia, however, won the football game .
Image Credit

Distinguishing architectural feature: The ballpark was built on high ground in Washington Heights, thus earning its name.
Distant porch in right field: 400 feet.
Center field was even more unreachable: 542 feet.
Victim: Everyone.
The best Highlanders slugger in that Dead Ball Era: Hal Chase, 20 home runs at Hilltop Park.
Whats there now: Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Fun fact: The ballpark was originally, if briefly, called American League Park.
And The Times called the team the Greater New York Club and the Greater New Yorks on opening day.
They quickly became the Highlanders and before long the Yankees.
That will leave more than a dozen teams with netting that goes beyond Manfreds 2015 recommendation.
More and more, the Twins have company.
From our perspective, it was simply the right thing to do, St. Peter said of the 2016 extension.
Im happy to report, over time, theres no doubt in my mind our nets here have prevented some injuries.
Its hard to quantify just how many.
Mostly batted balls, but sometimes even bats that sometimes fly out of batters hands.
The Twins allowed season ticket-holders to check out the sight lines behind the new netting before the 2016 season and to request a seat relocation if they found the view unacceptable.
St. Peter said roughly 10 customers took the Twins up on the offer.
For our season-ticket base, netting is part of their new reality, he said.
Target Field was built on a tight, eight-acre parcel, bordered by two bridges, an interstate highway and a garbage incinerator.
Railroad tracks had to be relocated.
The close quarters gave Target Field, which opened in 2010, an intimate feel.
But it also left fans closer to hard-hit foul balls.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
St. Peter said the club was discussing whether to add even more netting.
The Mets added netting this summer at Citi Field that stretches halfway into the outfield, and St. Peter wouldnt rule out some clubs eventually deciding to run netting all the way to the foul poles.
I think over time youre going to see more netting across the industry, with hopes of doing everything we can to prevent the types of injury that took place yesterday, St. Peter said.
We still have injuries in our ballpark and weve added more netting.
It isnt a perfect system.
Thats why its something we always need to continually evaluate and find ways to get better.
I have to tell you, he added, were not married to our current net configuration.
We expect over time it will probably grow.
St. Peter also noted that he had watched video replays of Wednesdays incident and had been shaken by what he witnessed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yankee Stadium has netting that only runs to the beginning of each dugout.
If it ran the length of the dugouts, as it does at Target Field, the line drive that struck the girl would have almost certainly been deflected away.
On Thursday, Manfred that in light of Wednesdays incident, baseball would redouble its efforts to get more teams to add protective netting in their ballparks.
He also said he was encouraged by the number of conversations his office had with various clubs on Thursday about installing more netting.
So a trend the Twins began may be gathering more momentum.
This summer, they stretched the netting at Citi Field halfway into the outfield.
In response, Trost offered what amounted to a verbal shrug.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, he said of any additional netting at Yankee Stadium beyond what Manfred had asked for.
Trosts statement certainly suggested that the Yankees were as mindful of their high-paying fans who didnt want extra screens interfering with their views as they were with keeping everyone safe.
At that time, in late July, Trost said that the Yankees were consulting with the architectural firm that built their stadium about the feasibility of installing extra netting.
He said the Yankees would think about it and study it and look at it.
We dont think this is a three-day job, he said.
Well, then, is it a 60-day job?
Because thats about how long it has been since Trost made that statement.
I bet it could be a three-hour job if that little girl in the stands on Wednesday night was your child.
Yes, the Yankees also put a statement on their website in early August saying that they were seriously exploring additional netting, but they have said little on the matter since then.
On Thursday, they issued a statement saying their thoughts and prayers were with the injured girl and that they were in contact with her family.
But thoughts and prayers are not enough.
Meanwhile, across town, the Mets look like champions for extending their netting and doing so proactively before something awful happened.
After all, safety changes in sports almost always seem to happen only after disasters happen.
It was only when a 13-year-old girl was killed by a flying puck at an N.H.L.
game in 2002 that the league called for mandatory netting to be installed at both ends of the rink.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So now the question is what it will take for Major League Baseball to make every team do what some teams already have and extend the protective netting even more.
Youd figure that a toddler getting hit in the face would be the tipping point and there were signs on Thursday that maybe it will be, with three teams  Cincinnati, Seattle, San Diego  all saying they would extend the netting now in their ballparks.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It is worth remembering in all this that, for decades, there have been harrowing incidents at baseball games in which fans were injured.
In 1970, a 14-year-old boy was killed by a foul ball at Dodgers Stadium.
Many years and many injuries later, a Red Sox fan in 2015 was hit with a broken bat at Fenway Park and suffered serious injuries.
Following the Fenway incident, Manfred stated that the sports first and foremost concern remains the safety of our fans.
He also noted that the issue was complicated, since some fans want to sit close to the field.
And when Manfred subsequently made the suggestion to all 30 teams that they add some additional netting, he cited another complication  that each stadium is designed differently.
These complications all have the feel of an excuse.
And in the end, safety issues never go away.
Consider what Nascar has been through.
For years, Nascar officials and racetrack owners have struggled to balance fan safety with the desire of some to sit as close as possible to the track.
In 2013, in what certainly wasnt the first big crash at Daytona International Speedway that injured spectators, more than 30 fans were hurt when debris flew into the stands.
One of the injured fans said he suffered a traumatic brain injury, and this year finally settled a lawsuit with Nascar.
After that 2013 crash, the speedway was renovated.
Its website touted that the front row will be moved up 12 feet to improve trackside views.
Unsaid, likely on purpose: to improve the chance you wont be hit by a flying tire.
No sport wants to acknowledge that its fans arent safe.
What it should acknowledge is its duty to do everything in its power to keep them safe.
And thats where baseball should find itself right now.
On Thursday, Manfred took note of Wednesdays incident in a statement and said that baseball officials would redouble our efforts on this important issue, although how much pressure he will ultimately apply on reluctant teams is unclear.
He did tell reporters on Thursday night in San Diego that he was encouraged by how many conversations his office was now having with teams about adding more netting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Players know putting in more netting is the right thing to do.
Many, including the Yankees C. C. Sabathia, say they wont let their families sit in the stands without netting in front of them.
Theyve called for ballparks to be safer for fans.
If you saw the look on Todd Fraziers face on Wednesday after his line drive hit the little girl, you would know why.
Frazier, who has two children who are younger than 3, crouched.
He rested his head on his bat.
He looked like he was about to cry.
Its time for teams, all the teams, to have those human emotions, too  and act on them.
Its called doing the right thing.
Photo

MIAMI  Giancarlo Stanton hit his 56th homer, the most in the major leagues, and drove in three runs as the Miami Marlins completed a three-game sweep of the Mets with a 9-2 victory on Wednesday.
Stanton connected in the eighth inning for his 30th home run since the All-Star break.
It was his 35th career homer against the Mets, including eight this year.
He kills us.
He literally kills us, Mets Manager Terry Collins said.
You cant hang stuff.
We had him down and away all series long when we made pitches.
When you make mistakes on the plate, he kills you, and he did today.
Stanton also hit a run-scoring single, giving him 120 R.B.I.
on the season.
He made a fine catch, too, against the right-field fence to rob Asdrubal Cabrera.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A. J. Ellis and Miguel Rojas hit back-to-back homers off Mets reliever Erik Goeddel to start the eighth.
With one out, Stanton pulled a breaking pitch over the left-field fence for a two-run homer.
Under the prodding of Commissioner Rob Manfred in 2015, all 30 teams agreed to extend the traditional protective netting behind home plate to at least the inner edge of both dugouts.
About a third of the teams have extended the netting further, to at least the far end of the dugout, and the Mets added netting even beyond that.
However, the Yankees have yet to expand their nets, although they did issue a statement in August that said they were seriously exploring that option.
Photo

If Yankee Stadium had netting in place that did stretch to the far end of the third-base dugout, Fraziers line drive, in all likelihood, would not have reached the stands.
As a result, Wednesdays incident will almost certainly increase pressure on the Yankees to act quickly to make their netting longer.
New York City Councilman Rafael Espinal, who introduced legislation in May to require all New York City baseball stadiums to have protective netting all the way to the foul poles, said after Wednesdays episode that he would hold a public hearing on the issue on Oct. 25.
I commend the Mets for stepping to the plate and leading the country by extending their netting farther than any other team, Espinal said in a statement.
We have been waiting to hear from the Yankees on their plans on how they will move forward and urge them to let the public know as soon as possible where they stand.
According to a Yankee Stadium paramedic, who was not authorized to publicly discuss fan injuries, the girl appeared to have been struck by the ball in the nose and right eye and was bleeding when she was carried by her grandfather to a first aid station behind the stands.
That was a screaming line drive, said Tom Barton, a fan from San Francisco who said he was seated three rows behind the girl.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I just wanted to cry for this little kid, he added.
There was so much blood.
Steve Beattie, who lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, said he was sitting about eight rows behind the girl and described what he witnessed as brutal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

According to the stadium scoreboard, the ball left Fraziers bat at 106 miles per hour.
It was terrible, Frazier said afterward.
It was something I wish had never happened.
Very unlucky, man.
I have two kids under 3 years old and I thought of them.
I just hope shes all right.
Frazier and his teammates Chase Headley, Brett Gardner and C. C. Sabathia were in agreement that protective netting needed to be extended at Yankee Stadium, echoing statements that Mets players made after the Citi Field netting was expanded.
Photo

I feel like we need to get the net, said Sabathia, who said he insists his own children sit behind netting whenever they come to a game.
I think every ballpark should have it.
Twins second baseman Brian Dozier said he cried when he saw the girl get hit.
I still have a knot in my stomach, he said.
Every stadium needs to have nets.
I dont care about the damn view of the fan.
Its all about safety.
Back in late July, after the Mets used the All-Star Game break to extend their protective netting about halfway into the outfield, the Yankees were asked for their reaction.
Lonn Trost, the teams chief operating officer and general counsel, responded by saying the Yankees had begun talking to the Yankee Stadium architects about the feasibility of more netting.
But he also noted that he received complaints from some fans who sit in box seats and who would have their views affected by additional netting.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, Trost said.
Not long after Trost made that comment, a fan at Yankee Stadium was hit in the head by a foul ball off the bat of Aaron Judge.
And, coincidence or not, the Yankees a short while later published a statement on their website saying they were looking closely at a netting extension.
The third incident at Yankee Stadium this season occurred in May, when the barrel of a shattered bat struck a boy sitting about six rows from the field, just past the third-base dugout.
He was taken from the stands holding a towel to his forehead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trost did not respond to request for comments after Wednesdays incident.
The Yankees issued a statement noting the girl had been given first aid at the stadium and then taken to an area hospital.
The team said federal patient privacy laws prevented them from providing more information.
So after Matz missed the first two months of the 2017 season with what the Mets described as elbow inflammation, it seemed like more of the same.
Still, the Mets did not express concern that there was something seriously wrong with his arm.
Matz said team doctors told him the inflammation might have been a side effect from the bone spur surgery the previous fall, and they prescribed rest and platelet-rich plasma injections.
Matz then returned to the rotation in early June and pitched fairly well in his first five starts.
But he then began to pitch less effectively, his earned run average ballooned, and by the second half of August, the Mets medical staff decided to take another look.
This time, on Aug. 21, they concluded that he had ulnar nerve irritation in his elbow.
Two days later, Matz underwent surgery to reposition the nerve  the same operation Jacob deGrom underwent last fall and from which he has made a successful comeback this season.
Matz said in a recent interview that he was glad the teams medical staff had figured out this issue, and took heart in the notion that he, like deGrom, would recover well.
Still, questions linger, particularly in a lost season in which so much has gone wrong for the Mets on the injury front.
Isnt it reasonable to think the ulnar nerve issue was bothering Matz for some time?
If so, could the problem have been detected sooner?
Should Matz have been pitching at all from June to August, if, as he later admitted, he was dealing with discomfort off and on that began in spring training?
Photo

These are, of course, the kinds of questions the Mets have been confronted with as other players, like Noah Syndergaard and Yoenis Cespedes, ended up with their seasons derailed.
And the questions are never easily answered.
Sandy Alderson, the Mets general manager, declined to talk about the way Matzs case unfolded.
But what is known is that only after it was announced that he would undergo surgery for the ulnar nerve problem was it revealed that he had been skipping numerous bullpen sessions between starts this season.
And that he was limiting the use of a secondary pitch, a slider, in hopes of lessening the strain on his troublesome elbow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if that was the case, was he healthy enough to pitch in the first place?
Ultimately, it was my decision, Matz said recently in an interview when asked about the 13 starts he made this season before he was shut down.
I wanted to go out there and pitch because Im so sick of being on the D.L.
And I did everything I could.
Matzs frequent injuries have frustrated some within the Mets organization, something Matz is no doubt aware of.
He tries to keep himself in top physical shape and seems careful about what he puts in his body.
For instance, when his bone spur was discovered early last season, he resisted taking anti-inflammatory medicine.
And this season, Matz said he received only a couple of shots of the anti-inflammatory drug Toradol for his balky elbow.
Some guys take it more, he said.
It definitely helps.
Matz said that when he did pitch this season he felt more discomfort between starts than when on the mound, when adrenaline kicked in.
His average fastball velocity was 93.1 miles per hour, similar to last years average of 93.6.
As Matzs pitching deteriorated this summer, he tried to push through the pain, in part because the diagnosis he received in spring training concluded that there was no structural damage to his elbow.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In my mind, he said, Im like: The M.R.I.
is clean, so this is something Im going to have to deal with.
I either have an arthritic elbow or whatever it is, but Im going to have to get past it.
Last season, after the Mets assured him he would not do additional damage to his elbow by pitching through the bone spur, surgery was pushed off until a shoulder injury short-circuited his season.
This time around, with his elbow barking, he took the same approach.
He said his elbow felt better on some days than on others.
He could extend his elbow as far as it could go, but he said it bothered him a little bit to twist his arm properly, which was perhaps affecting the movement and location of his pitches.
Even that admission, during the interview, took a bit of prodding.
Like most players, Matz is competitive and had convinced himself that discomfort was inevitable as a pitcher.
Photo

I definitely respect him for trying, deGrom said.
Youre not going to feel good every time you go out there  its a lot of games and a lot of pitches  even when there is nothing wrong.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We knew all along that it was irritating and he was unable to do his bullpens most of the time, Dan Warthen, the Mets pitching coach, said.
He wanted to pitch through it.
Doctors kept saying that physically it was O.K.
and there was nothing wrong in there; it was just an irritation.
We werent going to shut him down unless he wanted to.
Matz, meanwhile, denied that he received any pressure from the Mets to stay on the mound this season.
I didnt feel any pressure from the team, he said.
Did I feel pressure from myself?
I want to be out there competing and pitching.
But after he allowed six earned runs over three and a third innings against the Yankees on Aug. 17, Matz said that he decided it was time to see a doctor again.
He had developed a hunch that he might be dealing with the same problem  the ulnar nerve  that had afflicted deGrom and Mets reliever Erik Goeddel.
In this instance, Matz received a computed tomography examination that involved numbing the nerve with an anesthetic.
Once that happened, he said, the pain was almost instantly gone.
One reason Matz thinks his ulnar nerve issue was not detected sooner, assuming it could have been, was that he was not experiencing telltale symptoms.
The doctor said the symptoms I was getting were nontypical for nerve problems, Matz said.
I had no tingling or numbness.
In deGroms case, his ulnar nerve irritation started as tingling in his fingers before it became sharp pain.
DeGroms performance tailed off near the end of his 2016 season, just before he had the surgery.
Now the Mets can only hope Matz recovers as well from this surgery as deGrom did, because their pitching staff, which has one of the worst earned run averages in baseball, is in serious need of rehabilitation.
Syndergaard has yet to return from his early-season latissimus tear.
Matt Harveys return from his latest injury setback has been marked by ugly outings that have been demoralizing for both him and the team.
Zack Wheeler last pitched in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And then there is Matz, with his repositioned ulnar nerve.
Maybe he can help in 2018, after he first files away 2017 as a season to forget.
This edition of the Twins, with its young and unheralded roster, has exceeded the expectations of its own front office, which dealt away several veterans in late July, to remain in playoff contention.
But they have hardly looked the part in two games here, being limited to one run in five and two-thirds innings on Monday by Jamie Garcia  whom the Twins traded to the Yankees earlier this summer  and then seeing their deficiencies repeatedly exposed on Tuesday in a game that was delayed by an hour because of rain.
A wild pitch by Minnesota reliever Alan Busenitz in the fourth inning led to a run, and first baseman Joe Mauer misplayed a two-out grounder in the fifth that allowed another.
The Yankees ran repeatedly on right fielder Max Kepler, and three Yankees who scored reached base via a walk or getting hit by a pitch.
When the Twins had an early chance to assert themselves, loading the bases in the first inning with none out against Sabathia with two bunt singles and a base hit, they wilted.
Eduardo Escobar grounded into a double play, scoring one run, but the Twins got no more after Byron Buxton tapped one back to Sabathia.
Kepler provided Minnesotas only other run with a third-inning homer into the right-field seats that put the Twins ahead by 2-1.
The Yankees, who had a steady parade of base runners, were hardly opportunistic  they left 14 runners on base  but on this night they did not need to be.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They jumped in front for good in the fourth.
Jacoby Ellsbury sliced a double into the left-field corner and, after Jose Berrios struck out Todd Frazier, he walked Greg Bird on a nine-pitch at-bat.
Gardner followed with a single, scoring Ellsbury to tie the score and chase Berrios.
Busenitz then bounced a pitch to Aaron Judge, allowing both runners to move up, which put Bird in position to score  which he did on Judges fly ball to right.
It gave the Yankees a 3-2 lead, which Sabathia, Chad Green, David Robertson and Aroldis Chapman carried to the finish line.
A sign of the Yankees conflicting priorities came before the game, when Manager Joe Girardi reversed course and announced that his ace, Luis Severino, would take his regular turn in the rotation on Wednesday in the series finale against the Twins instead of pitching Friday at Toronto, which Girardi had initially decided to do earlier in the week.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That gives the Yankees the option of using Severino on the final day of the regular season  if they have a chance of finishing ahead of the Red Sox.
That possibility grew a little more dim on Tuesday when the Red Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles, 1-0, in 11 innings.
It was the Red Soxs third extra-innings victory in the last five days.
While the Yankees have won five of their last six games, they have gained no ground on the Red Sox, who they do not play again in the regular season.
I think everybody knows the situation, Green said.
We obviously know theyre going to have to lose games and were going to have win, but we can only control what we do.
When the Red Sox won in extra innings on Friday and on Monday, the Yankees returned to the clubhouse TVs to watch after they had won their game.
With their game running late on Tuesday because of the rain delay, the Yankees kept an eye on the scoreboard.
It stinks.
Its terrible, said Frazier after pulling in vain for the Orioles.
You see it  oh, God almighty, find a way to win.
But thats what happens when you need help.
Sometimes you dont get it.
Its tough to watch.
You cant really rely on hope sometimes.
The feats have come with startling regularity.
On Sept. 12, the Minnesota Twins became the first team ever to homer in each of the first seven innings of a game.
On June 24, three Oakland Athletics rookies  Franklin Barreto, Jaycob Brugman and Matt Olson  became the first trio of teammates in more than a century to each hit their first major league homers in the same game.
And 108 players have hit at least 20 home runs, close to last seasons record of 111.
I still think hitting 20 home runs is a big feat, to be honest with you, said the Yankees Todd Frazier, who has 26.
I dont care if theres a lot of guys doing it, its awesome.
Its pretty neat, man, from a hitters standpoint.
We love home runs.
The trend has been well-documented: More and more hitters are tailoring their swings to hit fly balls, which have a much better chance to go for extra bases than ground balls.
More slugging means more run production, which helps the players team  and, usually, his earning power.
The spike in home runs has happened relatively quickly.
Baseball last expanded in 1998, and starting that year there were at least 5,000 home runs every year for nine seasons.
But in the next nine seasons, through 2015, only one featured at least 5,000 homers.
The low point in the last two decades was 2014, when just 4,186 home runs were hit.
The total climbed to 4,909 in 2015, then 5,610 last year, making for a curious trend line.
An undetected, large-scale increase in performance-enhancing drug use could still be an explanation for the current surge in home runs, but the stricter testing and penalties in place would argue against that notion.
If you want to use the 2000 analogy, we know what was going on there, said the broadcaster Al Leiter, an All-Star left-hander for the Mets in 2000 who neutralized power hitters with inside cutters, keeping opponents from extending their arms at the plate.
The assumption now is that steroid testing is legit, and its working, so a lot of it has to do with approach, Leiter added.
You dont see two-strike approaches anymore.
Guys dont care if they strike out, and its basically turn and burn.
It used to be turn and burn for three or four guys in the lineup.
Now its seven.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Leiter, who calls games for the YES Network and works as an analyst for the MLB Network, said too many players who should be hitting eight to 10 homers per season were now hitting 15 to 20.
Bert Blyleven, the Hall of Fame pitcher and Twins broadcaster, echoed Leiter, saying that even bottom-of-the-order hitters are willing to risk strikeouts for the chance to go deep.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But, Blyleven added, the problem really starts on the mound.
I would have to say the bottom line is the lack of quality pitching, he said.
We see a lot of it.
A lot of guys come up so quick, all they do is throw as hard as they can.
I dont care how hard they throw, if the balls right there, these guys are going to hit it.
As for the balls themselves, Major League Baseball has said repeatedly that extensive testing has shown them to conform to normal specifications.
But if the balls are wound tighter  even within an acceptable range  they could be harder, with lower seams, and less prone to resistance when airborne.
Theories abound, said Twins Manager Paul Molitor, a Hall of Famer who had 3,319 hits but just one season with at least 20 home runs.
Baseball, bats, velocity  in some ways its tougher, but in some ways it provides some of the power  and Im not sure which one has the most merit.
I do see that the ball seems to soar, from people that are hitting it farther than maybe they did a year ago, and they kind of look like the same person.
For me, theres something in there.
Whatever the cause, there is little doubt that modern hitters have noticed the rapid transformation of some of their peers.
Hitters like Martinez, Josh Donaldson, Daniel Murphy and Justin Turner have all made a dedicated effort in recent years to hit more balls in the air.
Data on launch angles and exit velocity is readily available to show the precise bat path needed to hit a ball hard and far.
Rhys Hoskins, a rookie for the Philadelphia Phillies, recently belted his 18th home run in just his 34th career game  by far the fastest anyone has ever reached 18 homers.
When Hoskins was in the low minors, he added a leg kick as a timing mechanism that helped him hit balls far over the infield.
At 6 feet 4 inches and 225 pounds, he said, he will not leg out many infield hits.
Theres not a lot of hits on the ground here, especially for a guy like me, Hoskins said recently.
So I think, to maximize success, youve got to hit the ball in the gaps.
In the gaps is a good start.
Over the gaps and the fences is where the game has gone, at an unprecedented pace.
But is it good for the sport?
Well, people do like home runs, because thats exciting, Leiter said.
But I dont know how exciting it is to watch a combined 18 to 20 strikeouts a game between the two teams, and theres four home runs and nine combined hits.
I dont know how exciting that is.
An all-or-nothing game becomes largely a feat of strength, often at the expense of daring baserunning, acrobatic fielding and a faster pace of action.
Leiter has boundless enthusiasm for his sport; at 51, he is far from an old crank pining for days gone by.
But the home run binge has left him somewhat resigned to the sports new reality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trust me, Im a fan of the game, Leiter said.
But I dont know how, if and ever, its going to change.
The only thing Ive gotten use to, Suzuki told reporters recently when asked about pinch-hitting, is that I dont think Ill ever get used to it.
Even so, Suzuki has dedicated himself to creating a routine that gives him the best chance to excel.
Menechino noted that many pinch-hitters start warming up later in the game, but Suzuki has adopted a different habit.
He hits in the indoor cage in the first and third innings, Menechino said.
No one else does that.
Early on, I had to write it on my hand, bottom of the third, because I would get caught up in something else and before I knew it, Id forgotten to meet him in the cage.
By starting early, he knows hell never get caught with his pants down.
Suzuki is not the hitter he once was  he was hitting .265 on the season going into Tuesday nights game in Miami against the Mets  and his large number of pinch-hits this season are, in part, a reflection of the fact he has been put in that role so often by Marlins Manager Don Mattingly.
Hes easy to use, Mattingly said before Tuesdays game.
You always feel hes going to give you a quality at-bat.
Going into Tuesdays game, Suzuki had 100 plate appearances as a pinch-hitter this season, and 91 actual at-bats.
Both are major league records, with two former Mets (Rusty Staub, 94 plate appearances in 1983, and Lenny Harris, 83 at-bats in 2001) holding those marks until now.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The 26 hits Suzuki has in those 91 at-bats translates into a solid .286 average and includes three doubles and a home run.
Back in 1995, Van der Wal got his 28 hits in 72 at-bats, for a dazzling .389 average.
Van der Wal was 29 when he pulled off his feat, 14 years younger than Suzuki.
The pinch hits that Suzuki has compiled this season are not his only statistical achievement.
On Sept. 8 in Atlanta, a Suzuki single was the 2,500th of his major league career.
Afterward, one of his teammates, Dee Gordon expressed his amazement when told what Suzuki had done.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Are you kidding me?
Gordon exclaimed.
I cant believe that.
Ichis amazing.
To me, as a similar leadoff-type hitter, 2,500 singles is incredible because I understand how difficult that is to do.
2,500 singles?
Thats crazy.
Most guys cant even dream of getting that many hits of any kind in a whole career.
Indeed, just 100 players in history have recorded at least 2,500 total hits and Suzuki is now just the sixth player to hit that many singles.
The Yankees Derek Jeter was the last player to do it, in 2014.
He finished his career with 2,595, joining Pete Rose (3,215), Ty Cobb (3,053), Eddie Collins (2,643), and Willie Keeler (2,513) in that group.
With home runs on the rise in baseball and sluggers like Giancarlo Stanton and Aaron Judge capturing huge amounts of attention, the fact that Suzuki has reached the 2,500 mark for singles is not exactly a major headline.
Still, there are plenty of baseball people who appreciate the art of the single and one of them, Don Sutton, the Hall of Fame pitcher and Atlanta Braves radio broadcaster, extolled Suzuki.
Were in an era of the home run and there is no shame in falling down on your butt swinging away trying to get one, Sutton said.
If Ichiro had a big ego, do you think hed be happy having 2,500 singles?
No, hed want 500 homers.
Thats why I say its not just fantastic hand-eye coordination, but its also the ability to be content with a less sexy, but tremendously important, result.
If things go Suzukis way in the final two weeks of the season, perhaps a couple of singles off his bat will come as pinch-hits, giving him one more record.
He is making $2 million this season with the Marlins and the team has a $2 million option to keep him in a Miami uniform in 2018.
Suzuki, for his part, has given no indication he is about to retire.
Somewhere in the major leagues, Miami or elsewhere, more singles and pinch-hits probably await.
Second-place Miami is 10 games under .500, and Atlanta and the Mets are worse.
The Phillies, at 59-91, are the second-worst team in baseball.
The last team to win a division by at least 20 games was the 2008 Los Angeles Angels.
It has happened four other times in the six-division era: the 1999 Indians, 1998 Yankees and the 1995 Braves and Indians.
Two of these five teams, the Yankees and Braves, won the World Series.
Four of the five won their division the next year as well.
Most of them also benefited from playing in a division with no other winning teams.
The exception was the 1998 Yankees.
The Red Sox were 92-70 that season and won the wild card.
But the Yankees were 114-48, the most wins in more than 90 years.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That 1995 Indians team deserves special mention.
While most of these teams won their titles by 20, 21 or 22 games, the Indians managed to take their title by a mind-boggling 30 games, a record.
Their 100-44 record in a strike-shortened schedule trounced runner-up Kansas Citys 70-74 mark.
In the four-division era it was even harder to win by 20 games.
Only three teams did  the 1986 Mets, 1983 Chicago White Sox and 1975 Cincinnati Reds.
Before the leagues broke into divisions in 1969, as you might expect, romping to a 20-game victory was extraordinarily difficult.
Even Babe Ruths Yankees couldnt do it.
(The 1927 team, sometimes cited as the best in history, won by 19 games.)
But two teams somehow did.
The 1902 Pirates finished 27 games ahead of the Brooklyn Superbas.
Perhaps this outstanding team is not remembered because the World Series did not start until next year.
The 1906 Chicago Cubs are usually remembered for their 116-36 record, the best in history.
The New York Giants, in second place, were a more-than-respectable 96-56 and finished 20 games out.
And honorable mention goes to the 1884 St. Louis Maroons of the Union Association, which is considered by some to be a major league.
A dazzling 94-19 record gave them a 21-game margin over the Cincinnati Outlaw Reds.
The league went out of business after a year, and the Maroons moved to the National League, but didnt fare well there, finishing last.
And who was on the mound for the Yankees?
Why, Garcia, of course, looking to deal a blow to his former team  and perhaps win the confidence of his current manager along the way.
Asked before the game if he thought facing the Twins might give Garcia extra motivation, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said: I sure hope so.
I think thats an interesting twist to this.
And if there had been any regret on the part of Minnesota for prematurely trading away Garcia, his performance Monday night probably intensified it.
Although he was again deprived of a victory  that went to David Robertson, who came in to get the final out of the sixth inning and pitch a clean seventh  Garcia pitched effectively in the Yankees 2-1 win in the first game of an important three-game series at Yankee Stadium.
Jaime was just fabulous, an outstanding start on his part, Girardi said after the game.
Just last week, Garcia was visibly angered when Girardi removed him in the fifth inning of a game against the Tampa Bay Rays at Citi Field, depriving him of the chance to get his first win since that July 28 victory over the Athletics as a Twin.
But on Monday night, he left the Yankee Stadium mound with his head up, having delivered five and two-thirds innings of quality pitching.
The game was tied at 1-1 at the time, but the single that Garcia allowed to Joe Mauer just before leaving the game was only the Twins fourth hit of the game.
However, unlike last week, when he avoided making eye contact with Girardi while muttering to himself, Garcia nodded to Girardi, calmly handed the ball over and strode off the field to a warm ovation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Garcias outing was notable, too, for the nine strikeouts he notched, including five in the first two innings.
After he departed in the bottom of the sixth, the Yankees scratched out a run on singles from Chase Headley and Starlin Castro and a sacrifice fly by Todd Frazier.
That was enough for the victory.
It gave the Yankees a five-game cushion ahead of the Twins in the wild-card race and moved the Yankees to within two and a half games of the American League East-leading Boston Red Sox, pending the outcome of their game against the Orioles in Baltimore late Monday.
I didnt get to know Jaime all that well, Twins Manager Paul Molitor said before the game.
Its just one of those things; I dont know if Ive ever been part of something so short-lived.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Garcia baffled the Twins with his slider, which accounted for seven strikeouts, and probably kept himself in the game by inducing Twins catcher Jason Castro to rap into a double play to end the fifth.
The Yankees had to weather a white-knuckle eighth inning in which reliever Dellin Betances once again struggled with his control, loading the bases on a hit batter and two walks.
Girardi replaced him with Aroldis Chapman, who quelled the threat with four pitches, all more than 100 miles per hour  a three-pitch strikeout of Mauer and a first-pitch fly ball by Byron Buxton.
Chapman then pitched a perfect ninth inning to earn his 19th save of the season.
I wish I had his arm, Robertson said of Chapman.
Its unfair what he throws.
Throwing like that and getting five outs, that could be a game-changer come playoff time.
Although Girardi maintained that he trusted Garcia, and said there were no lingering resentments from his quick hook last Wednesday in Flushing, he got his bullpen up early on Monday.
Chad Green began warming up when Garcia allowed two singles to start the fifth and Robertson quickly got ready to go into the game after Ehire Adrianza led off the sixth by lining out hard to Brett Gardner in left.
The Yankees had taken a 1-0 lead on a solo home run by Aaron Judge off Twins starter Ervin Santana in the first inning.
It was Judges 44th homer of the season, which not only leads the American League but is the most hit by a Yankee in a single season since Alex Rodriguez hit 54 in 2007, when he won his third Most Valuable Player Award.
The Twins tied it in the fifth, partly because of Judges error in right field.
His misplay of Eduardo Escobars single allowed Eddie Rosario, who had led off with a single, to advance to third, from where he scored on Robbie Grossmans groundout.
Cashman could not find a match with the Diamondbacks to work out a trade but wondered if another team could.
That August, Shane Greene, then a rookie right-hander with the Yankees, had thrown two gems against the powerful Detroit Tigers, allowing two runs in 15 innings.
Cashman told Dave Dombrowski, then the Tigers general manager, that he would give him Greene if Dombrowski could get Gregorius.
Dombrowski has a reputation for quick, decisive action, and he came through within two days, trading pitcher Robbie Ray and an infield prospect to Arizona for Gregorius, and flipping Gregorius to the Yankees for Greene.
Ray is now an All-Star for the Diamondbacks, and Greene is closing for the rebuilding Tigers after fizzling as a starter.
At the time, I felt like we were pitching-deficient, and we were depleting one area of need to shore up another area of need, Cashman said.
It was a difficult decision.
I was so desperate for a shortstop, I had to step up and put an important piece on the table to get it done.
Cashman said he remembered the wisdom of front-office mentors like Gene Michael, Bill Livesey and Brian Sabean, who had always emphasized the importance of strength up the middle  catcher, shortstop, second base and center field.
He insisted he liked Greene despite his ordinary minor league track record, but he prioritized the everyday player.
The deal looks like a heist, because Gregorius, now 27, has developed into a worthy heir to Jeter.
On Sunday he matched Jeters club record for homers by a shortstop (Jeter hit his 24 in 1999) and only one major league shortstop, Clevelands Francisco Lindor, has hit more homers this season.
Gregorius is also hitting .292 with 81 R.B.I.
after going 0 for 4 on Monday.
Photo

Just hitting line drives, thats all Im trying to do, said Gregorius, who hit 20 homers last season.
Im not trying to do anything different, just trying to be the same player.
Im just working on my swing, trying to make it shorter and quicker and stronger.
Gregoriuss minor league high in homers was seven, which he did twice in the Cincinnati Reds system.
He signed with the Reds out of Curaao for $50,000 in 2007, the same year they drafted Todd Frazier in the first round.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When I first saw him, he was skin and bones, man, said Frazier, now the Yankees third baseman.
It was crazy.
He was only 17  I started growing at 18, so he probably started sprouting around that time  and next thing you know he started lifting a little more.
And now look at him: Hes one of the best shortstops in the league.
Hes underrated, and thats the best part about him.
He doesnt look for accolades, he doesnt look for praise.
All he wants to do is win.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Frazier said he had been impressed by Gregoriuss adjustments within at-bats, as well as by his willingness to choke up at times and trust his hands.
People dont understand how hard it is to trust that, and to commit to it, Frazier said.
It took me six years and Im finally doing it now with two strikes.
Gregoriuss power is not a product of the cozy dimensions in right field at Yankee Stadium.
Through Sunday, he had 11 homers and a .435 slugging percentage at home, with 13 homers and a .548 slugging percentage on the road.
We envisioned that he was going to impact the baseball; we envisioned that he would hit some home runs, Manager Joe Girardi said.
I dont know if any of us put a number on it, but what Ive seen is what you see from a lot of players  they just continue to mature and get better and better and understand who they are.
The Yankees have continued to supplement their lineup with other players still in that process of discovery.
Second baseman Starlin Castro  acquired from the Chicago Cubs in a December 2015 trade  is also 27.
He made the All-Star team this season and is hitting around .300.
Catcher Gary Sanchez and Judge are pillars of the future.
First baseman Greg Bird and outfielder Clint Frazier might be, too.
All are 25 or younger.
Barring a total collapse, they will soon reach the playoffs together.
Everybody sees what we can do, Gregorius said.
We were doubted in spring training, that were going to be in last, and now were here.
Its a surprise for everybody, but I knew we had a good team since the second half of 16, when they traded away all their best guys and then called the young guys up.
Its basically the same young guys from 16 thats playing right now and having a really great year.
Gregorius was the first of the young guys to arrive in the lineup, and his impact keeps growing more powerful.
The veteran N.F.L.
reporter Andrea Kremer said she was hardly surprised by the backlash against Mowinss play-by-play on the sports biggest stage.
I have no doubt that hating the sound of her voice is code for I hate that there was a woman announcing football, Kremer told me.
The whining was neither surprising nor accurate, Kremer said: One of the many positives about Beth doing the game, in addition to her being a top-notch, seasoned broadcaster, is that she has a great voice that cuts through all the ambient noise in the stadium.
Whether youre in the booth or on the field, you need a resonant voice that can be audible.
The voice is like an instrument, and Beth is blessed with some great pipes.
Much of the social-media discussion of Mowinss voice was preceded by the always dubious claim that the criticism had nothing to do with the fact that Mowins was a woman.
Setting aside that starting a tweet with Im not sexist, but usually ensures that what follows will be sexist, its hard to imagine how to separate Mowins the woman from Mowins the voice.
Beth Mowins sounds like a woman.
The negative online reaction to Mowinss play-by-play calling football games is steeped in sexism, said Rebecca Martinez, who teaches womens and gender studies at the University of Missouri.
The comments, mostly from men, have focused on her voice being annoying to the point of not wanting to listen to her.
Theyll focus on the naturally higher pitch of womens voices and shrillness, all the while claiming their critiques of higher pitch have nothing to do with sexism.
Women who have high visibility, particularly in settings that are traditionally male, will experience backlash.
Photo

The response to female broadcasters voices is not new.
Sports are commonly perceived to be an arena for men  by men, of men  and anything that disrupts that makes some men uneasy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
As women in high-profile sports broadcasting jobs, we get criticized from head, and hair, to toe, Kremer said.
We are in a subjective business, and the haters are always going to find something they dont like about us because they dont want us there.
Andrew Dzurisin, an assistant professor of sociology at Middlesex County College, said the criticism stems from deep-rooted cultural beliefs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Friday Night Lights isnt just a movie or book; its real, he said.
In many parts of the country, football is an ingrained part of masculinity, culturally.
Of the major sports, football is seen as the one that fits the traditional definition of masculinity.
Its rough, its violent, its tribal, its a mans game.
To hear a woman do the play-by-play of the sport that most fits the traditional definition of masculinity is beyond comprehension to some men.
The primal masculinity of football makes a woman calling a game antithetical to their core ideas about gender.
Barriers persist in other sports, too.
The ESPN baseball analyst Jessica Mendoza has also been the target of social-media scorn, despite high praise from many of her colleagues and from former players.
Photo

Mendoza to me is an example of new baseball intersecting with the gender and even ethnicity, Dzurisin said.
Most of her commentary revolves around analytics.
Baseball audiences also skew older, so male viewership is more likely to embrace traditional gender norms that do not include female baseball analysts.
The fact that she is Hispanic also irks men, as they see a sport of the white man until Jackie Robinson now becoming increasingly Hispanic.
Some men insist they turn to sports to get a break from women.
This is something I hear more than you would probably believe.
Ive been told my voice is too high, too low, too young-sounding, too Chicago-sounding, too harsh, too soft, and just generally obnoxious.
The only time Ive ever been complimented on my voice was when I had bronchitis and a bunch of men called in to tell me my voice was sexy.
But bronchitis is hard to maintain on any kind of regular basis just to please the lonely faction of my male listeners.
And anyway, antibiotics forced me to go back to sounding like myself.
Sports fans have been subjected to a large number of male broadcasters with objectively terrible voices, from Howard Cosells nasal staccato to Phil Simmss Kentucky twang.
Chris Russos New York accent was so thick, his Florida station supposedly sent him to speech therapy.
The White Sox Hawk Harrelson is given to long stretches of silence in the booth when hes upset.
Do we even need to list the former male athletes with marbles in their mouths and very little to say who somehow retain seats in the broadcast booth?
So its 2017, and some Americans are unwilling to tolerate a sports broadcaster sounding like a woman.
Can we overcome it?
I am confident we can.
What has the sitcom done for his English proficiency?
Its near perfect, said Floress teammate, Jerry Blevins, who is from Tennessee.
When he doesnt know something, its surprising.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Flores, Peralta and Galvis built a rudimentary command of English in school in Venezuela.
But I always got bad grades because I didnt like that way of learning, Galvis said.
Gonzalez, who was surrounded by Spanish, his first language, at home, also had English classes in school when he moved to Southern California.
Some players also received English instruction after signing with a team.
Photo

But these players said that they learned more when they arrived in the United States and fully plunged into English.
In terms of immersion, few things compare to landing in a small minor-league town with few Spanish speakers  and needing to order food.
Popular culture, especially Friends, was education through entertainment.
The basics you can learn in a classroom, said Flores, who was interviewed in Spanish, along with most of the players, for ease.
But to speak the language, that comes from here in the clubhouse, on the street or from television.
Flores said he cannot remember exactly when he first watched Friends, but it was sometime early in his minor league career in the United States, perhaps when he was in Class A as a teenager and far from home.
Although he said he understood enough English then, he was too unsure to respond in conversation.
As he grew more comfortable, he soaked up words from teammates and bought the DVDs for all 10 seasons of Friends, which ran from 1994 to 2004, so he could watch it again at home in the off-season.
Now he is surely baseballs biggest Friends fanatic.
He has visited the studio in Burbank, Calif. where the show was filmed , and has chosen the shows theme song to be played on the stadium public-address system when its his turn to bat during home games.
Photo

Flores said he still watches it almost every day, and that he had seen every episode at least seven times.
My mom thinks I watch it too much, he said.
Gonzalez speaks perhaps the best English of this bunch because he was exposed to it at a young age growing up in San Fernando, Calif.
Yet he still had help from movies and television shows, including Saved by the Bell  and Friends, which he watched with an uncle.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Thats what he watched, so wed sit there and watch TV with him, Gonzalez said.
For Galvis, the English-language broadcast with Spanish subtitles on Venezuelan television, was an excellent learning tool.
You can compare whats going on that way, he said.
If they say happy, you see hes happy and the subtitle says feliz, then you can learn.
You might not learn 100 percent, but youll learn to associate.
And if Severino did not understand a word from the show, he would ask teammates or friends for help.
Peralta said that listening to music in English and marrying an American woman were also beneficial.
He does not need subtitles anymore to watch Friends, and still watches it daily despite having already seen every episode.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
When were in Arizona, it starts at 11 p.m. on Nick at Nite, so I watch until 1 a.m. and then I go to sleep, he said.
Most of the players said Joey, the floundering actor played by Matt LeBlanc, was their favorite character.
The shows comedy appealed to them even though  or perhaps because  the lives of six white Americans in the West Village hardly resembled their own.
The New York that Flores has come to know playing for the Mets is not like the one represented in Friends.
In photos, it all looks the same, but the traffic and driving around is way different, he said.
Like Flores, Galvis is evangelical about Friends.
He tells young Spanish-speaking players that he is living proof that consuming popular culture in English can help.
And although he is now a capable English speaker, he still watches Friends with subtitles in Spanish so that his wife can learn English.
Marta Kauffman, one of the creators of the show, said she was delighted to hear about its unlikely and unintended impact on certain players.
She compared the phenomenon to how Viagra was originally designed to treat heart problems but later was embraced for a very different purpose.
You always want your show to be enjoyable and for people to say, Oh my God, I love watching your show, she said.
But what you dont expect is for it to accomplish something, and this feels mighty fine.
Kauffman added that she would love to meet the Friends-loving players one day.
But she offered one regret: To the player whose wife is sick of watching it so much, I apologize.
Photo

ATLANTA  Robert Gsellman held the Braves without an earned run over seven innings, Asdrubal Cabrera had a two-run, pinch-hit homer, and the Mets beat Atlanta by 5-1 on Sunday.
The Braves (67-81) were eliminated from postseason contention and must win their remaining 14 games to avoid posting a losing record in four straight seasons.
Atlanta has not had such a streak since it had seven losing seasons in a row from 1984-90.
Gsellman (7-7) scattered three hits and struck out three for his best outing since June 10, when he pitched six and two-thirds scoreless innings to beat Atlanta.
Julio Teheran (11-12), who had won his previous four starts, allowed two runs, three hits and four walks in six innings.
He became the first Braves pitcher to make 30 starts in five consecutive seasons since Greg Maddux did so from 1996-2003.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Despite winning the last two games of this series, the Mets have lost 14 of their last 20 road games.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They took a 2-0 lead in the first when Jose Reyes hit a run-scoring triple and then scored on Amed Rosarios grounded out.
Phil Evans, who made his major league debut on Sept. 8, hit a run-scoring double in the ninth for his first R.B.I.
in the majors, and Cabrera followed with his 13th homer.
Theyre both really good hitters, Showalter said afterward of his decision.
Youre really just picking your poison there.
He was also counting on Britton, who was the best closer in baseball last season with 47 saves and a 0.54 E.R.A., to make him look smart.
Britton missed two months this season with a forearm problem and his numbers have been nowhere near as intimidating as they were in 2016.
But he is still a premier pitcher.
And in this instance, he got the better of Sanchez, buzzing a pitch past him to end the game and give the Orioles a 6-4 victory after the Yankees had stampeded them in the first three games of the series.
Photo

The result kept the Yankees from gaining ground on the Boston Red Sox, who lost, 3-2, at the Tampa Bay Rays but retained their three-game lead atop the American League East.
The games ending also allowed Showalter to breathe easier  It came up heads today, tomorrow it might be tails, he said afterward  and left Yankees Manager Joe Girardi grimacing at a missed opportunity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At that point, youre feeling pretty good, Girardi said afterward as he relived Showalters decision to walk Judge and let Sanchez hit.
Sanchez is a really good hitter with a lot of power.
I know Britton is tough and he doesnt give up a lot of fly balls but it just takes one mistake.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The fact that an otherwise dreary game came down to such a tense conclusion was a surprise in itself, considering that Yankees starter Sonny Gray lasted just four innings on Sunday and allowed five runs  his shortest outing of the year and his worst in nine starts as a Yankee.
C. C. Sabathia, who is 19-10 in his career against the Orioles, was originally supposed to start Sunday, but Girardi decided to insert Gray and move Sabathia to Tuesday, which allows him to avoid pitching on the artificial turf in Toronto next weekend.
But Gray was not the only disappointment for the Yankees.
Their offense, which had raked Baltimores pitchers for 34 hits and nine home runs in the first three games of the series, could manage only three hits in five innings off starter Ubaldo Jimenez, who had an 11.42 E.R.A.
in three previous starts against the Yankees this season.
I just couldnt get the ball down much today, said Gray, who is 3-6 as a Yankee and 9-11 over all this season.
My stuff just wasnt sharp from the get-go.
The Yankees lone run off Jimenez came on a Didi Gregorius home run in the second inning.
It was Gregoriuss 24th of the season, which was a career high for him and matched the most homers in a season by a Yankees shortstop, a mark he now shares with Derek Jeter, who hit 24 in 1999.
That was the Yankees only highlight of the game until Matt Holliday doubled in two runs in the sixth.
The Yankees added an unearned run in the eighth to cut the lead to 6-4, setting up the ninth-inning showdown between Showalter, Britton, Judge and Sanchez, with Girardi taking it all in.
The Yankees and Red Sox each have 13 games left in the regular season and will not play each other again.
On Monday, the Minnesota Twins, who would be the Yankees opponent in the wild-card game on Oct. 3 if the current American League standings were to hold, come to Yankee Stadium for a three-game series that could serve as a preview.
Although Girardi said it was too early to start looking ahead to the wild card game  which would, by extension, mean admitting the division title belonged to the Red Sox  he was, nevertheless, preparing to move his ace, Luis Severino, from Wednesdays game against the Twins to Fridays opener against the Blue Jays in Toronto.
That rotation shuffle would accomplish two purposes: It would line up Severino to make the Oct. 3 start on regular rest.
And it would deprive the Twins, who have never faced Severino, of the chance to see him before a possible wild-card showdown.
Photo

ATLANTA  Mets Manager Terry Collins loves watching Jacob deGrom pitch.
Hes a tremendous competitor, Collins said.
He deserves everything hes got.
Hes got two starts left.
I hope he wins them both.
DeGrom reached a career high in wins on Saturday night, and his teammates Dominic Smith and Gavin Cecchini each drove in two runs as the Mets ended a five-game losing streak with a 7-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves.
DeGrom (15-9) allowed five hits, one run and two walks in seven innings, while striking out seven.
Needing just 4 innings to reach 200 in a season for the first time in his career, deGrom will most likely cross that threshold in the two starts he has left.
The plan for next year is that everybodys hopefully healthy and to go to a World Series again, so getting this amount of innings is something that I want to do in the next few years, he said.
Getting there and seeing what its like is definitely a big plus for me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Mets had lost eight straight on the road and had just four wins in their last 18 games away from Citi Field, but they led, 5-0, by the fourth inning.
But no team has been more yielding than the Orioles, whom the Yankees have beaten in 12 of 18 games, with one more matchup scheduled for Sunday afternoon.
Photo

Theyre a really good team, and offensively theyve always been extremely dangerous, Manager Joe Girardi said.
This year, weve played better against them, and weve been able to contain their offense a little bit more.
To be able to do what weve done the last few days, our pitchers have done a really good job.
The won-lost record tells only part of the story.
Despite an Orioles roster that leads Major League Baseball with 225 home runs, the Yankees have outscored Baltimore by 30-10 in the first three games of this four-game series.
Over the past six games, including three at Camden Yards last week, the margin has been 52-22.
And even with a game to go, the Yankees have scored more runs against the Orioles this season, 150, than they have against any opponent in a single season for more than six decades.
In 1956, they scored 158 against the Kansas City Athletics and 152 against the Washington Senators.
That Yankees team went on to beat the Brooklyn Dodgers in the World Series.
With no head-to-head meetings remaining with the Red Sox, this Yankees team may have to settle for a wild-card playoff spot and the randomness of a one-game play-in.
Because of a quirk in this years schedule, the final regular-season meeting between the Yankees and Red Sox was unusually early  Sept. 3.
Even after winning three of the four games in their last series against Boston, the Yankees remained three and a half games behind in the division race.
By Saturday night, they had narrowed the gap only slightly, to three games.
Do you wish you we more in control of your own destiny?
Absolutely, Girardi said.
But we played them 19 times.
You wish you had another series with them, but thats not the case.
Photo

The Yankees secret weapon remains the rest of the A.L.
East: Of their 14 remaining games, 10 are against the Toronto Blue Jays, the Tampa Bay Rays and the Orioles, and seven are at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Saturdays rout, the Yankees got three-run homers from Didi Gregorius and Greg Bird, who each also hit a home run on Friday, to take a 6-0 lead after four innings.
The Yankees tacked on another run via a single by Jacoby Ellsbury, who had three hits on Saturday and is batting .419 (18 for 43) in September.
Todd Frazier added a two-run homer, his 26th of the year, in the seventh inning.
Gregoriuss home run was his 23rd of the season, extending his career high and putting him within one of the record for a Yankees shortstop, set by Derek Jeter in 1999.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The offensive eruption provided a cushion for starter Jordan Montgomery, who allowed four hits in six innings, walked one and struck out six.
This was the second time Montgomery (8-7) had beaten Baltimore at home this year.
Reliever Chasen Shreve allowed a two-run homer to Austin Hays in the ninth and then, one strike from ending the game, walked the bases loaded.
Giovanny Gallegos replaced him and balked in the Orioles third run, forcing Girardi to get his closer, Aroldis Chapman, up in the bullpen.
But Gallegos struck out Anthony Santander to end the game.
Were on a nice little run right now, said Frazier, who hit a three-run homer in Thursdays 13-5 victory.
Were putting up runs in bunches and putting a lot of pressure on the other teams in the race.
You need all the chess pieces to line up, and right now, we got a whole bunch.
Inside Pitch

Girardi announced a switch in the starting rotation for the next three days: Sonny Gray will start the series finale against Baltimore Sunday afternoon.
Jaime Garcia will open the three-game series against the Minnesota Twins on Monday night, and C. C. Sabathia, who had been scheduled to start Sunday, will move to Tuesday.
Girardi said he wanted to avoid putting Sabathia and his troublesome right knee on the unforgiving artificial turf at the Rogers Centre, where the Yankees start a three-game series against the Blue Jays on Friday night.
By starting on Tuesday, Sabathia would not be scheduled to pitch again until Monday, Sept. 25, when the Yankees return home to play the Kansas City Royals.
