A photo illustration shows the Uber app on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph in central London, Britain September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. taxi firm Uber is prepared to make concessions as it seeks to reverse a decision by London authorities not to renew its license in the city, which represents a potentially big blow for the fast-growing company, a newspaper reported.
The Sunday Times also quoted sources close to Londons transport body as saying the move was encouraging and suggested the possibility of talks.
While we havent been asked to make any changes, wed like to know what we can do, Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in London, told the newspaper.
But that requires a dialogue we sadly havent been able to have recently.
A spokesman for Transport for London (TfL) declined to comment.
The Sunday Times said Ubers concessions were likely to involve passenger safety and benefits for its drivers, possible limits on working hours to improve road safety and holiday pay.
TfL stunned the powerful U.S. start-up on Friday when it deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service for safety reasons and stripped it of its license from Sept. 30, although the company can continue to operate while it appeals.
The regulator cited failures to report serious criminal offences, conduct sufficient background checks on drivers and other safety issues.
Uber responded by urging users in London to sign a petition that said the city authorities had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
The move echoed Ubers strategy in disputes with other cities.
By 2200 GMT on Saturday, more than 600,000 people had signed although it was not clear how many of them were in London.
A spokesman for Uber said around 20,000 Uber drivers had emailed the citys mayor directly to object to the decision.
Writing by William Schomberg; Editing by Marguerita Choy and Paul Simao
SAN FRANCISCO/LONDON (Reuters) - Half a million people have signed an online petition in under 24 hours backing Ubers bid to stay on the roads of London, showing the company is turning to its tried-and-tested tactic of asking customers for help when it locks horns with regulators.
Londons transport authorities stunned the powerful U.S. start-up on Friday when they deemed Uber unfit to run a taxi service for safety reasons and stripped it of its license from Sept. 30, although it can operate while it appeals.
The regulator cited failures to report serious criminal offences, conduct sufficient background checks on drivers and other safety issues, threatening the U.S. firms presence in one of the worlds wealthiest cities.
Uber immediately urged users in London to sign a petition that said the city authorities had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
By 1400 GMT on Saturday, nearly 540,000 people had signed although it was not clear how many of them were in London.
Uber counted 3.5 million active users in London in the past three months.
Even if many tourists are probably included in the total, the figure represents a potential political force of commuters who face long journeys between their home and offices and who use Uber as a cheaper alternative to other taxi firms.
Turning to users for help is one of the first steps in Ubers playbook.
In Jakarta, Budapest, Toronto and Portland it asked riders to sign petitions and built online tools to contact lawmakers to show their support.
Regulators have at least partly relented in Portland, Toronto and Jakarta, but Budapest remains a work in progress.
Uber now faces a showdown with Londons Mayor Sadiq Khan, who this month said he wouldnt let his teenage daughters use cabs like Uber on their own over fears for their safety.
Khan, a leading figure in Britains opposition Labour Party, said on Saturday he had sympathy with Uber drivers and customers.
But their anger really should be directed at Uber, Khan said in a statement.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
But he also suggested that Uber might eventually be allowed to continue operating in London.
I want to be absolutely clear that there is a place in London for all private hire companies that play by the rules, Khan said.
I suspect it will take some time before this situation with Uber fully plays out.
As mayor, Khan is chairman of Transport for London, the regulator which stripped Uber of its license.
Londons decision is the first major challenge for new Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi, who took over from co-founder and ex-CEO Travis Kalanick.
He was forced out after internal and external investigations into sexual harassment complaints, the thwarting of government inquiries and potential bribery.
NEW REGIME?
So far, Khosrowshahi has adopted a softer tone to the crisis in London than his predecessor did in similar situations.
Dear London: we (are) far from perfect Khosrowshahi tweeted on Friday.
But he noted that 40,000 drivers and millions of riders were dependent on the service.
Please work with us to make things right.
A photo illustration shows the Uber app on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph in central London, Britain September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

Khosrowshahi appeared to be following earlier game plans, said Bradley Tusk, an Uber investor who advised on policy in New York City for the company.
A lot of people rely on it, so theres going to be a lot of fertile ground to mobilise, Tusk said.
If real people are angry, its a lot harder for regulators.
But while Uber has been ready to make campaigns personal in the past, Khosrowshahi may take a more moderate tone.
In New York City, Austin, Texas and Washington, D.C., Uber hired political ad agencies and consultants and blasted political leaders for supporting measures that could eliminate jobs and worsen traffic.
During a stand-off in New York City in 2015, Uber named a mock feature on its app after the citys mayor, Bill de Blasio, and used it to warn that a regulatory proposal he backed could increase waits for rides.
Kalanick issued tweets criticizing opponents, including an all-capitalized message saying WATCH THIS!
which linked to a video that suggested the mayor was obstructing social progress.
Slideshow (2 Images)

They have a lot more scrutiny on them now, said Reed Galen, a political consultant who worked with Uber on a campaign in Austin.
Going with the old idea of punching the local leader in the nose, that strategy doesnt work when youve had the issues Uber has had.
Khosrowshahis statements on Friday were an absolutely different take, Galen said.
In an internal email seen by Reuters, Khosrowshahi said there was a high cost to having a bad reputation.
He described it as critical that employees act with integrity in everything we do, and learn how to be a better partner to every city we operate in.
WAITING GAME

For a company known for the speed of its growth, Uber has shown patience when needed.
It has long treated tussles with government as inevitable challenges, but ones it sees as temporary setbacks.
Uber has suspended its services for months in some markets, including Alaska and Texas.
But its been able to return within a year or two in most cases by working out new rules or turning to higher authorities such as courts and state governments.
The efforts have a cost.
Uber and rival Lyft Inc together spent more than $10 million on a failed ballot-box campaign in Austin and millions more on lobbying elsewhere in Texas.
Uber continues to engage in a cat-and-mouse game with city officials in many of the 600 plus cities in which it operates.
It suspended services in July in Finland but plans to re-enter Helsinki next year after a law was passed de-regulating taxi services.
Whether Uber continues such tactics is unclear.
But Tusk said Uber was probably already in touch with members of Britains parliament.
In a sign of early political opposition to Londons move, Greg Hands, the minister for London in the Conservative government, hit out at what he called a blanket ban on Uber.
At the flick of a pen Sadiq Khan is threatening to put 40,000 people out of work and leave 3.5 million users of Uber stranded, Hands tweeted late on Friday.
Once again the actions of Labour leave ordinary working people (to) pay the price for it.
Additional reporting by Eric Auchard in Frankfurt; Editing by Peter Henderson and Andrew Bolton
FILE PHOTO: A woman who was pushed down by police is helped by a protester while police try to disperse a crowd, after a not guilty verdict in the murder trial of Jason Stockley, a former St. Louis police officer, charged with the 2011 shooting of Anthony Lamar Smith, who was black, in St. Louis, Missouri, U.S. on September 15, 2017.
REUTERS/Lawrence Bryant/File Photo

ST. LOUIS (Reuters) - Protests in St. Louis over the acquittal of a white former policeman who killed a black man could impede the citys bid to attract Amazon.coms second headquarters, academics and business executives said.
Marked by scuffles, teargas and property damage, the protests have been unfolding as the city, which has a history of social unrest, is vying for the lucrative Amazon deal.
There is no good timing for something like this and it will have an impact, said Didi Caldwell, founding principal with Global Location Strategies in South Carolina, which helps companies choose locations for new businesses and expansion.
Amazon, the worlds biggest online retailer, said this month that it planned to build a $5 billion second headquarters that could bring 50,000 new jobs to the winning city.
An Amazon spokesman declined to discuss the site search.
In its call for proposals from cities, Amazon said a compatible cultural and community environment that included diversity, a high quality of life and stable business climate were key.
The company intends to make a decision in 2018.
William Collins, a Vanderbilt University economic historian who has studied the aftermath of the 1960s race riots in the United States, said the impact on a citys ability to draw new employers depended on how companies view such incidents.
Does it suggest a deeply rooted problem thats likely to make living, working, and investing in a particular location less attractive or less profitable than alternatives?
If so, it can have lasting implications, Collins said.
A September 16 ruling found former St. Louis policeman Jason Stockley, 36, not guilty of first-degree murder in the 2011 killing of Anthony Lamar Smith, 24.
NATIONAL ISSUE

In August, after clashes in Charlottesville, Virginia, over plans to remove a statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee, regional economic development officials wrote to site selection companies saying the violence did not define the city.
St. Louis Economic Development Partnership officials said they were aware of racial tensions highlighted by the protests but argued that the problem was not unique to St. Louis.
FILE PHOTO: A Black Lives Matter protester stands in front of St. Louis Police Department officers equipped with riot gear after the not guilty verdict in the murder trial of Jason Stockley, a former St. Louis police officer, charged with the 2011 shooting of Anthony Lamar Smith, who was black, in St. Louis, Missouri, U.S. on September 15, 2017.
REUTERS/Lawrence Bryant/File Photo

The protests, although the timing of them was not the best for St. Louis, are really indicative of a national issue that needs to be looked at, the partnerships Chief Executive Sheila Sweeney said on Thursday.
The day before, protesters at a high-end shopping mall blocked traffic and chanted, No justice, no profits.
Other cities that have indicated they are in the running for the Amazon site include Seattle, Dallas, Houston and Denver.
Charlotte, North Carolina, which saw riots last year after the fatal shooting of a black man by a police officer, has not seen business opt against moving there.
Officials, who noted that the citys efforts to break down bias led to the protests, said quantifying any lasting impact was difficult.
Its a troubling challenge of our time, said Dianne Chase, spokeswoman for the Charlotte Regional Partnership, a public/private economic development organization trying to attract Amazon.
Were not alone, its most unfortunate to say.
St. Louis Mayor Lyda Krewson declined to speak on the issue, but told reporters this week that the city had a legacy of institutional racism and needed to move forward with more jobs and stronger civilian oversight of the police.
St. Louis is touting its central U.S. location, riverways, interstate highways and rail lines, vibrant technology environment and urban setting, as its main attractions.
While the city is a transportation hub with a low cost of living, good housing stock and access to research universities, the unrest could hurt its chances even if it made Amazons final list, said Global Location Strategies Caldwell.
Companies looking for locations will never announce they have eliminated a city for reasons like racial unrest, but that would likely be the case, she said.
St. Louis residents expressed concern on social media over economic impact related to the unrest.
People were saying, Unless the city cleans up its act, well never get Amazon,' said Lindenwood University economics professor Howard Wall.
Sometimes the economics are sort of a wash and it just becomes about where am I more comfortable doing business and living, Caldwell said.
The St. Louis metro area has been a hot spot for the national debate over racial bias in law enforcement since Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager, was killed in 2014 by a white police officer in nearby Ferguson.
The Brown shooting sparked riots and the rise of the Black Lives Matter movement.
Reporting by Brendan O'Brien; Additional reporting by Chris Kenning in Chicago and Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Ben Klayman, Toni Reinhold
FILE PHOTO: The headquarters of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are seen in Washington,U.S., on July 6, 2009.
REUTERS/Jim Bourg/File Photo

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A global investor group on Friday called for an independent investigation into a cyber breach at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and urged the regulator to delay new data-gathering rules until it could assure investors that its computer systems were secure.
Wall Streets top regulator came under fire on Thursday after admitting hackers had breached its database of corporate announcements in 2016 and might have used it for insider trading.
The Investment Company Institute (ICI), which represents over 95 million U.S. shareholders, wants the SEC to clear up concerns about its cyber defenses before requiring funds to submit monthly performance data to the regulator, Paul Schott Stevens, the groups chief executive, told Reuters in a phone interview.
What the SEC breach now makes very clear is precisely what we were concerned about - that market-sensitive information of that nature can be exploited to the disadvantage of millions and millions of investors, Stevens said.
ICI, whose members hold $20 trillion plus in assets, has raised concerns about how the SEC safeguarded industry data it gathers since 2015.
Im certain there will be a full inquiry by the Government of Accountability Office - and there should be, so we understand exactly what happened here, Stevens said.
In a July report, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), a congressional watchdog, criticized the SEC for failing to fully protect its computer networks from cyber attacks and recommended a slew of improvements.
Some of recommendations it had made in previous reports had still not been implemented, it noted.
Former SEC Chair Mary Jo White, in office when the hack occurred, told Reuters in 2016 that cyber security posed the biggest risk to the U.S. financial system.
Her successor, Jay Clayton, uncovered the full extent of the hack after launching a review of the SECs cyber security standards earlier this year.
Some recommendations the GAO made havent yet been implemented.
Theres obviously a failure here of some kind.
Thats why were so glad Chairman Clayton has moved to address this, said Stevens.
The SEC declined to comment.
New reporting rules which start to come into force in December would require funds for the first time to confidentially file complete monthly portfolio holdings with the SEC, data which the ICI has said could easily be used for insider trading if obtained by hackers.
Until that information security environment has been established, funds should continue to collect data quarterly, not monthly information, as quarterly data is not nearly as sensitive, said Stevens.
The SEC disclosure came two weeks after credit-reporting company Equifax Inc said a breach had exposed sensitive personal of data up to 143 million U.S. customers.
This followed last years cyber attack on SWIFT, the global bank messaging system.
Stevens said rules governing the disclosure of such breaches should be tighter for both public and private organizations.
That disclosure obligation fixes the mind on need to fix the breach in the first instance.
Reporting by Michelle Price; editing by Richard Chang and Jonathan Oatis
(Reuters) - T-Mobile US Inc (TMUS.O) is close to agreeing tentative terms on a deal to merge with Sprint Corp (S.N), people familiar with the matter said on Friday, a major breakthrough in efforts to merge the third and fourth largest U.S. wireless carriers.
The transaction would significantly consolidate the U.S. telecommunications market and represent the first transformative U.S. merger with significant antitrust risk to be agreed since the inauguration of U.S. President Donald Trump in January.
The progress toward a deal also indicates that T-Mobile and Sprint believe that the U.S. antitrust enforcement environment has become more favorable since the companies abandoned their previous effort to combine in 2014 amid regulatory concerns.
The latest development in the talks between T-Mobile and Sprint comes as the telecommunications sector seeks ways to tackle investments in 5G technology that will greatly enhance wireless data transfer speeds.
Japans SoftBank Group Corp (9984.T), which controls Sprint, and other Sprint shareholders will own 40 to 50 percent of the combined company, while T-Mobile majority owner Deutsche Telekom (DTEGn.DE) and the rest of T-Mobile shareholders will own the majority, the sources said.
SoftBank founder Masayoshi Son met with Trump late last year and said in February that the Japanese firm should benefit from Trumps promised deregulation.
Once terms are finalized, due diligence by the two companies will follow and a deal is expected by the end of October, though talks may still fall through, the sources said.
Related Coverage Sprint hired Trump-connected lobbyist amid deal talks

A merger would create a business with more than 130 million subscribers, just behind Verizon Communications Inc (VZ.N) and AT&T Inc (T.N).
Revenues would top $70 billion and analysts say there would be massive scope to cut costs.
Sprint shares were up 5 percent in afternoon trading in New York on Friday to $8.44, giving the company a market capitalization of close to $34 billion.
T-Mobile shares were up 0.4 percent to $63.66, giving that company a market capitalization of around $53 billion.
The sources asked not to be identified because the negotiations are confidential.
Sprint and Deutsche Telekom declined to comment.
T-Mobile and SoftBank did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
SoftBanks Son abandoned an earlier attempt to acquire T-Mobile for Sprint in 2014.
Under that deal, SoftBank would have been in control of the merged company, with Deutsche Telekom becoming a minority shareholder.
Smartphones with the logos of T-Mobile and Sprint are seen in this illustration taken September 19, 2017.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration

Since then, T-Mobile has outperformed Sprint under Chief Executive John Legere, who the sources said would lead the combined company.
SON IN TRUMP TOWER

Earlier this month, Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai gave a potential boost to a tie-up when he recommended that the FCC find for the first since 2009 that there is effective competition in the marketplace for mobile wireless services.
The FCC is set to vote on Tuesday on the proposed annual report on the state of the wireless competition market required by U.S. Congress.
Slideshow (2 Images)

T-Mobile and Sprint will likely tout planned investments in 5G and their network that would create jobs, though combining operations would also lead to layoffs, said Roger Entner, an analyst at Recon Analytics.
They will argue that the track record of T-Mobile and Sprint shows they are vigorous competitors and that this will not cease to be the case after the deal, said Entner.
Son made headlines in early December when he appeared in the marble lobby of Trump Tower in New York alongside the president-elect, dressed in a red vest and red tie nearly identical to that of the tycoon turned commander in chief.
He was among the first in a series of Asian billionaires and leaders to pay a congratulatory visit to Trump, who won office in November on a platform that focused on national security and protecting U.S. jobs.
Sons pledge to Trump to invest $50 billion in the United States and create 50,000 jobs was light on details but spoke to the presidents election promise to boost economic growth by making deals with individual companies, rather than through complicated trade deals.
Last month, Sprint CEO Marcelo Claure said an announcement on merger talks should come in the near future.
Sprint had approached cable company Charter Communications Inc (CHTR.O) about a potential merger earlier this year, but quickly abandoned that effort.
AT&T is in the process of getting its own transformative deal, its $85.4 billion acquisition of media conglomerate Time Warner Inc (TWX.N) approved by U.S. regulators.
Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York and Arno Schuetze in Frankfurt; Additional reporting by Pamela Barbaglia in London, Douglas Busvine in Frankfurt, David Shepardson in Washington; Writing by Douglas Busvine; Editing by Bernadette Baum and Meredith Mazzilli
SAN FRANCISCO/SYDNEY/TOKYO (Reuters) - Apple Incs (AAPL.O) launch of the iPhone 8 kicked off with less fanfare on Friday than new models in previous years in the United States, Asia, Australia and Britain, as fans held out for the premium iPhone X, due out in early November.
In San Franciscos Union Square, 50 miles from Apples Cupertino headquarters, just 80 people were lined up at the companys flagship store, a sharp contrast to years past when lines stretched for blocks when new products were released.
In Australia, hundreds of people usually gather at Apples Sydney city store, with queues winding down George Street in the central business district.
But there were fewer than 30 people lining up before the store opened on Friday, according to a Reuters witness.
Apples flagship store in Londons Regent Street also experienced a slim turnout, according to several British newspapers.
Shares of the company were down 1.3 percent to $151.39 in afternoon trading.
The stock has lost 6.3 percent since closing at $161.50 on Sept. 11, a day before its new products were announced.
While the number of people queuing up outside Apple stores has dropped over the past several years with many buyers choosing to shop online, the weak turnout for the latest iPhone has partly been due to poor reviews.
Mazen Kourouche, who was first in line in Sydney after lining up 11 days outside the store so he could buy and review the product on YouTube, said there were modest refinements.
(It) is pretty similar to the iPhone 7 but it shoots 4k 60 frames per second and its got a new glass back instead of the metal which is apparently more durable, he told Reuters.
There arent too many new features to this one.
In China, a loyal Apple customer said the improved camera was one of the reasons she had bought the new device.
I waited until midnight to watch the launch event with my boyfriend to learn whats new with this iPhone.
Its photograph function is pretty good.
So I think I must change with no hesitation, said Ta Na, a 29-year-old consumer in Shanghai.
Staff members applaud customers as they arrive to purchase Apple's new iPhone 8 after it goes on sale at an Apple Store in Shanghai, China September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Aly Song

Mentions of iPhone 8 and iPhone X on the popular Chinese social media platform Weibo, an indicator of consumer interest, were less than seen for previous launches.
In San Francisco, customers waiting in line were evenly split between those interested in the iPhone 8 and those looking to buy the Apple Watch Series 3.
The latest watch includes standalone cellular data connectivity for the first time, meaning it can be used to make phone calls without an iPhone nearby.
Chayce ONeal, 27, said he had come to buy the new watch and wasnt discouraged by reviews that mentioned connectivity problems.
But he was skipping the iPhone 8 and holding out for the iPhone X.

I like being on top of the cutting edge of technology, he said.
Slideshow (10 Images)

Indifferent reviews of the iPhone 8, which comes 10 years after Apple released the first version of the revolutionary phone, drove down shares of the company to near two-month lows of $152.75 on Thursday, as investors worried pre-orders for the device had come in well below previous launches.
The iPhone 8 will only cater to those who want a new version but do not want to pay a hefty $999 for the iPhone X, said iTWire.coms technology editor Alex Zaharov-Reutt, who did not line up for the launch.
That was the case for Damien Roberts, a customer in line at Apples San Francisco store.
Roberts owns a battered iPhone 6s and wanted an upgrade to the iPhone 8 Plus for phone calls, messages and playing his favorite video game Clash of Clans.
He said he didnt need the extra features of the $999 iPhone X.
Its a lot of money to shell out for a phone, said Roberts, a Briton who was purchasing the phone while on vacation.
Speaking to CNBC, Apple Chief Executive Tim Cook said the Apple Watch with cellular data service is sold out in so many places around the world and iPhone 8 models were also sold out.
He did not specify the locations he was referring to.
The iPhone X is a glass and stainless steel device with an edge-to-edge display that Cook has called the biggest leap forward since the original iPhone.
I think itll be more lively with more people with the iPhone X, said Ray Yokoyama, after buying an iPhone 8 in Tokyo.
Reporting by Paulina Duran, Jill Gralow and James Redmayne in SYDNEY, Teppei Kasai in TOKYO, Jiang Xihao in SHANGHAI, Joyce Zhou in Beijing; Pak Yiu in Hong Kong and Stephen Nellis in San Francisco; Editing by Himani Sarkar and Bernadette Baum
The Google logo is seen on a smartphone in front of a displayed HTC logo in this illustration taken September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration

TAIPEI/SINGAPORE (Reuters) - When HTC Corp brought back founder Cher Wang two years ago to turn around the struggling Taiwanese mobile phone maker, investors hoped she could stem a sharp loss in market share to Apple and Samsung Electronics.
But the gamble to rebuild the early smartphone pioneers reputation failed, as its market share has continued to dwindle - to below 1 percent from closer to 10 percent in 2011.
On Thursday, Wang announced HTC was shifting around 2,000 staff, mainly handset engineers, to Alphabets Google in a $1.1 billion deal that casts doubts over the companys longer-term future.
Our main consideration is that our brand will continue, Chialin Chang, who heads HTCs mobile business, told reporters.
So our major releases will be as usual.
In future, HTC will concentrate not on our portfolio size, but whats in the portfolio.
Wang, a pioneer in Taiwans male-dominated technology industry, founded HTC 20 years ago as a contract manufacturer and established it as a leader, designing and making Microsoft-powered smartphones.
It later turned out its own branded phones, but often struggled to translate positive early reviews into strong sales, despite spending heavily on marketing, including a collaboration with Iron Man star Robert Downey Jr for its flagship HTC One phone.
It also struggled to carve out a strong consumer brand in a market where Apple and Samsung grew quickly and have since been joined by Chinese rivals such as Huawei, Oppo and Vivo.
HTC shares have slumped around 90 percent since the companys 2011 peak.
This weeks deal marks a retreat from HTCs smartphone legacy.
It may take a hard look at its smartphone business ... and think its probably better to wind it down as soon as possible rather than for it to drain more cash, said David Dai, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.
If it focuses on virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR), theres a much more concrete chance the company turns things around.
The Google logo is seen on a smartphone in front of a displayed HTC logo in this illustration taken September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration

That prospect pushed up HTC shares by their daily maximum of 10 percent on Friday, valuing the company at around $1.7 billion, as some investors hope the Google cash helps HTC focus on its Vive VR headsets and reduce its development costs.
HTC Chief Financial Officer Peter Shen said the deal will cut operating costs by 30-40 percent.
GLIMMER OF HOPE

While the Google cash throws HTC a lifeline for now, it may find it hard to retain staff, analysts said.
Slideshow (4 Images)

Google has cherry-picked the best people, said a former HTC executive who has spoken to current employees, adding: Its hard to see how anyone remaining would be enthusiastic.
Googles investment will probably slow, but not stop, HTCs decline, said Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy Analytics.
Even Vive faces tough competition against the likes of Samsung and Sony Corp, which control half the $2 billion global AR and VR headset market.
HTC saw flat second-quarter growth, and had 4.4 percent market share after a price reduction.
Vive remains in the red; free cash flow is negative; book value is eroding; and sales growth is decelerating, JP Morgan analyst Narci Chang said in a note following the Google deal.
Nevertheless... we think HTC might narrow the loss considerably... enough to keep the business afloat and beat the (market) consensus for the next few quarters.
For now, no major VR overhaul has trickled down to staff.
It (Googles investment) could be (a good thing), but its business as usual, one Vive employee told Reuters.
Writing by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Ian Geoghegan
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Nielsen Holdings Plc (NLSN.N) filed a lawsuit on Friday to stop comScore Inc (SCOR.PK) from using its technology to launch a competing service for measuring television audiences.
In a complaint filed with the U.S. District Court in Manhattan, Nielsen is seeking an injunction to stop the launch of comScores Extended TV service, which it said would incorporate its proprietary Portable People Meter data.
ComScore declined to comment on the lawsuit, saying the matter was being addressed through binding arbitration.
The dispute arose from Nielsens 2013 purchase of Arbitron Inc, which was completed after those companies promised federal regulators to preserve competition for cross-platform services measuring both television and online viewership.
Nielsen, based in New York, said it contracted in 2014 to let its Reston, Virginia-based rival use Portable People Meter data to measure both TV and online audiences.
But it said that contract forbade using the data for individual, stand-alone services, which it said include Extended TV.
Nielsen said it has several large contracts up for renewal, and would suffer irreparable harm to its business through [the] loss of important customers and decreased market share if comScore launched Extended TV, perhaps by the end of 2017.
According to the complaint, Nielsen has filed for arbitration as required by the contract to establish comScores alleged breach, but is entitled to seek a court-ordered injunction before the arbitration is resolved.
In an Aug. 8 letter attached to the complaint, a lawyer for comScore said Extended TV qualifies as a cross-platform service, and is not limited to linear TV estimates as it measures content across multiple platforms, including but not limited to television, online, mobile, tablets, etc.
The case is Nielsen Holdings Plc v comScore Inc, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No.
17-07235.
Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York, editing by Marcy Nicholson
(Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc is testing a service to stock groceries directly to customers refrigerators as it seeks to take on e-commerce giant Amazon.com.
The delivery of groceries and meal kits is emerging as the next frontier of competition among retailers.
The world's biggest brick-and-mortar retailer said on Friday it is partnering with August Home, a provider of smart locks and home accessories, to test the service with certain customers in the Silicon Valley.
(bit.ly/2ffqqvT)

The grocery business is set to be upended through Amazons acquisition of upmarket grocer Whole Foods last month and the online retailer is also entrenching itself more deeply in the restaurants business.
Amazon Restaurants on Friday teamed up with online food ordering company Olo whose network of restaurants includes Applebees and Chipotle.
A Wal-Mart Stores Inc company distribution center in Bentonville, Arkansas June 6, 2013.
REUTERS/Rick Wilking

The partnership will help Olos restaurant customers connect with Amazons delivery services.
The competition in the meal-kits business is also heating up.
Supermarket operator Albertsons Cos Inc said it would buy meal-kit delivery service Plated while rival Kroger-owned Ralphs started selling meal kits in stores this week.
ONE-TIME PASSCODE DELIVERY

As part of the test, Wal-Mart delivery persons gain access to a customers house using a pre-authorized one-time passcode and put away groceries in the fridge and other items in the foyer.
Homeowners would receive notifications when the delivery is in progress and could also watch the real-time process from their home security cameras through the August Home app.
The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer has been exploring new methods of delivery and in June said it was testing using its own store employees to deliver packages ordered online.
Reporting by Vibhuti Sharma and Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bengaluru; Editing by Martina D'Couto
LONDON (Reuters) - Germanys Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) is moving to secure long-term supplies of cobalt, a vital component of rechargeable batteries, as the group accelerates its ambitious shift to electric cars.
Cobalt industry sources told Reuters that VW, the worlds largest automaker, has asked producers to submit proposals on supplying the material for up to 10 years from 2019.
Volkswagen, which decided on the strategic shift to electric vehicles (EVs) after it was engulfed in the dieselgate scandal, plans to invest more than 20 billion euros ($24 billion) in zero-emission vehicles by 2030 to challenge pioneer Tesla in creating a mass market.
The company, which aims to make up to three million EVs a year by 2025, wants all the cobalt tender proposals submitted by the end of September.
The tender doesnt actually tell you how much cobalt they want.
They tell you how many EVs they want to make, you have to work out the cobalt content yourself, one cobalt industry source said.
Volkswagen did not respond to Reuters questions on the details of the tender but noted that the group would need more than 150 gigawatt hours of battery capacity annually by 2025 for its electric vehicles.
This would mean major purchases of necessary materials.
The procurement project is one of the largest in the history of the automotive industry, with a total order volume of over 50 billion euros, it said in a statement.
That will meet the Groups needs for the first wave of e-mobility.
Demand for cobalt is expected to soar in the coming years due to the electric vehicle revolution as governments around the world crack down on pollution.
Volkswagen is under particular pressure as it had been slow to embrace electric cars and self-driving technology until admitting two years ago to cheating on U.S. diesel emissions tests.
Battery and auto manufacturers need to sign multi-year deals to secure supplies of raw materials including cobalt and lithium.
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) produces roughly 65 percent of global cobalt supplies estimated at around 100,000 tonnes this year.
Canada, China, Russia, Australia and Zambia are also major sources.
At the company level, the market is dominated by Glencore , which produced more than 28,000 tonnes last year.
Reuters recently reported that Glencore had signed a major deal to sell up to 20,000 tonnes of cobalt products to a Chinese firm, a move that would help Volkswagen secure car batteries for its shift to electric vehicles.
MISUNDERSTANDING?
A VW logo is seen in front of the main building of the Volkswagen brand at the Volkswagen headquarters during a media tour to present Volkswagen's so called "Blaue Fabrik" (Blue Factory) environmental program, in Wolfsburg, Germany May 19, 2017.
REUTERS/Fabian Bimmer

According to the cobalt industry sources, Volkswagen said wanted all contracts agreed by the end of the year.
Electric vehicles use rechargeable batteries containing cobalt, a byproduct of copper and nickel output, which boosts energy density and extends battery life.
This allows automakers to offer guarantees between eight and 10 years.
The Volkswagen tender specifies the chemistry for the battery will initially be six parts nickel, two parts cobalt and two parts manganese or 6:2:2, but that it could at some stage switch to 8:1:1.
They want a fixed price, which wont work for people who need security and they want to reserve the right to not take metal they dont need, another cobalt source said.
They want producers to take all the risks ... they want an option at low prices, for long maturities at zero cost.
Cobalt metal is around $30 a lb, its highest since October 2008 and up from less than $10 in December 2015.
Volkswagen has said that by 2025 it would roll out 80 new electric car models across the group, which also includes the Audi, Seat, Skoda and Porsche brands, up from a previous goal of 30.
It wants to offer an electric version of each of its 300 group models by 2030.
Analysts estimate each battery uses between 8-12 kg of cobalt.
That would mean VW will need 24-36 million kg a year for three million EVs, which at current prices would total $1.6-$2.4 billion.
The sources said the wording of the tender suggests it will probably have also gone to lithium producers, chemical producers and battery makers.
Theres a section on sustainability... asking what processes are in place to make sure the cobalt does not come from child labour in the DRC, one said.
Child labour is a reference to artisanal mining in places such as the DRC, where individuals mine independently to produce metal, often illegally and under poor health and safety conditions.
UBS expects global sales of electric vehicles in 2025 to reach 14.2 million units or 13.7 percent of the total from under one million units and less than one percent this year.
Analysts at CRU Group forecast the battery sector will need more than 75,000 tonnes of cobalt a year by 2025, up from around 41,000 tonnes this year.
Reporting by Pratima Desai; Additional reporting by Andreas Cremer; Editing by Veronica Brown and David Stamp
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows hydrocarbon compounds splitting into carbon and hydrogen inside ice giants, such as Neptune, turning into a "diamond (rain) shower."
Hide Caption 1 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This striking image is the stellar nursery in the Orion Nebula, where stars are born.
The red filament is a stretch of ammonia molecules measuring 50 light-years long.
The blue represents the gas of the Orion Nebula.
This image is a composite of observation from the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explore telescope.
"We still don't understand in detail how large clouds of gas in our Galaxy collapse to form new stars," said Rachel Friesen, one of the collaboration's co-Principal Investigators.
"But ammonia is an excellent tracer of dense, star-forming gas."
Hide Caption 2 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is an illustration of the Parker Solar Probe spacecraft approaching the sun.
The NASA probe will explore the sun's atmosphere in a mission that begins in the summer of 2018.
Hide Caption 3 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe See that tiny dot between Saturn's rings?
That's Earth, as seen by the Cassini mission on April 12, 2017.
"Cassini was 870 million miles away from Earth when the image was taken," according to NASA.
"Although far too small to be visible in the image, the part of Earth facing Cassini at the time was the southern Atlantic Ocean."
Much like the famous "pale blue dot" image captured by Voyager 1 in 1990, we are but a point of light when viewed from the furthest planet in the solar system.
Hide Caption 4 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope, using infrared technology, reveals the density of stars in the Milky Way.
According to NASA, the photo -- stitched together from nine images -- contains more than a half-million stars.
The star cluster is the densest in the galaxy.
Hide Caption 5 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This photo of Saturn's large icy moon, Tethys, was taken by NASA's Cassini spacecraft, which sent back some jaw-dropping images from the ringed planet.
Hide Caption 6 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is what Earth and its moon look like from Mars.
The image is a composite of the best Earth image and the best moon image taken on November 20, 2016, by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The orbiter's camera takes images in three wavelength bands: infrared, red and blue-green.
Mars was about 127 million miles from Earth when the images were taken.
Hide Caption 7 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe PGC 1000714 was initially thought to be a common elliptical galaxy, but a closer analysis revealed the incredibly rare discovery of a Hoag-type galaxy.
It has a round core encircled by two detached rings.
Hide Caption 8 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Cassini spacecraft took these images of the planet's mysterious hexagon-shaped jetstream in December 2016.
The hexagon was discovered in images taken by the Voyager spacecraft in the early 1980s.
It's estimated to have a diameter wider than two Earths.
Hide Caption 9 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A dead star gives off a greenish glow in this Hubble Space Telescope image of the Crab Nebula, located about 6,500 light years from Earth in the constellation Taurus.
NASA released the image for Halloween 2016 and played up the theme in its press release.
The agency said the "ghoulish-looking object still has a pulse."
At the center of the Crab Nebula is the crushed core, or "heart" of an exploded star.
The heart is spinning 30 times per second and producing a magnetic field that generates 1 trillion volts, NASA said.
Hide Caption 10 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Peering through the thick dust clouds of the galactic bulge, an international team of astronomers revealed the unusual mix of stars in the stellar cluster known as Terzan 5.
The new results indicate that Terzan 5 is one of the bulge's primordial building blocks, most likely the relic of the very early days of the Milky Way.
Hide Caption 11 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's conception of Planet Nine, which would be the farthest planet within our solar system.
The similar cluster orbits of extreme objects on the edge of our solar system suggest a massive planet is located there.
Hide Caption 12 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An illustration of the orbits of the new and previously known extremely distant Solar System objects.
The clustering of most of their orbits indicates that they are likely be influenced by something massive and very distant, the proposed Planet X.
Hide Caption 13 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Say hello to dark galaxy Dragonfly 44.
Like our Milky Way, it has a halo of spherical clusters of stars around its core.
Hide Caption 14 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A classical nova occurs when a white dwarf star gains matter from its secondary star (a red dwarf) over a period of time, causing a thermonuclear reaction on the surface that eventually erupts in a single visible outburst.
This creates a 10,000-fold increase in brightness, depicted here in an artist's rendering.
Hide Caption 15 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Gravitational lensing and space warping are visible in this image of near and distant galaxies captured by Hubble.
Hide Caption 16 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe At the center of our galaxy, the Milky Way, researchers discovered an X-shaped structure within a tightly packed group of stars.
Hide Caption 17 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Meet UGC 1382: What astronomers thought was a normal elliptical galaxy (left) was actually revealed to be a massive disc galaxy made up of different parts when viewed with ultraviolet and deep optical data (center and right).
In a complete reversal of normal galaxy structure, the center is younger than its outer spiral disk.
Hide Caption 18 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Crab Nebula and its "beating heart," which is a neutron star at the right of the two bright stars in the center of this image.
The neutron star pulses 30 times a second.
The rainbow colors are visible due to the movement of materials in the nebula occurring during the time-lapse of the image.
Hide Caption 19 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured an image of a hidden galaxy that is fainter than Andromeda or the Milky Way.
This low surface brightness galaxy, called UGC 477, is over 110 million light-years away in the constellation of Pisces.
Hide Caption 20 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe On April 19, NASA released new images of bright craters on Ceres.
This photo shows the Haulani Crater, which has evidence of landslides from its rim.
Scientists believe some craters on the dwarf planet are bright because they are relatively new.
Hide Caption 21 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows the millions of dust grains NASA's Cassini spacecraft has sampled near Saturn.
A few dozen of them appear to have come from beyond our solar system.
Hide Caption 22 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image from the VLT Survey Telescope at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile shows a stunning concentration of galaxies known as the Fornax Cluster, which can be found in the Southern Hemisphere.
At the center of this cluster, in the middle of the three bright blobs on the left side of the image, lies a cD galaxy -- a galactic cannibal that has grown in size by consuming smaller galaxies.
Hide Caption 23 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the central region of the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
The young and dense star cluster R136, which contains hundreds of massive stars, is visible in the lower right of the image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.
Hide Caption 24 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe In March 2016, astronomers published a paper on powerful red flashes coming from binary system V404 Cygni in 2015.
This illustration shows a black hole, similar to the one in V404 Cygni, devouring material from an orbiting star.
Hide Caption 25 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe new map of the Milky Way was released February 24, 2016, giving astronomers a full census of the star-forming regions within our own galaxy.
The APEX telescope in Chile captured this survey.
Hide Caption 26 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the elliptical galaxy NGC 4889, deeply embedded within the Coma galaxy cluster.
There is a gigantic supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy.
Hide Caption 27 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of 2MASS J2126, which takens 900,000 years to orbit its star, 1 trillion kilometers away.
Hide Caption 28 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Caltech researchers have found evidence of a giant planet tracing a bizarre, highly elongated orbit in the outer solar system.
The object, nicknamed Planet Nine, has a mass about 10 times that of Earth and orbits about 20 times farther from the sun on average than does Neptune.
Hide Caption 29 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An international team of astronomers may have discovered the biggest and brightest supernova ever.
The explosion was 570 billion times brighter than the sun and 20 times brighter than all the stars in the Milky Way galaxy combined, according to a statement from The Ohio State University, which is leading the study.
Scientists are straining to define the supernova's strength.
This image shows an artist's impression of the supernova as it would appear from an exoplanet located about 10,000 light years away.
Hide Caption 30 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers noticed huge waves of gas being "burped" by the black hole at the center of NGC 5195, a small galaxy 26 million light years from Earth.
The team believes the outburst is a consequence of the interaction of NGC 5195 with a nearby galaxy.
Hide Caption 31 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's illustration shows a binary black hole found in the quasar at the center of the Markarian 231 galaxy.
Astronomers using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope discovered the galaxy being powered by two black holes "furiously whirling about each other," the space agency said in a news release.
Hide Caption 32 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of what a black hole might look like.
In February, researchers in China said they had spotted a super-massive black hole 12 billion times the size of the sun.
Hide Caption 33 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Are there are oceans on any of Jupiter's moons?
The Juice probe shown in this artist's impression aims to find out.
Picture courtesy of ESA/AOES Hide Caption 34 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers have discovered powerful auroras on a brown dwarf that is 20 light-years away.
This is an artist's concept of the phenomenon.
Hide Caption 35 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Venus, bottom, and Jupiter shine brightly above Matthews, North Carolina, on Monday, June 29.
The apparent close encounter, called a conjunction, has been giving a dazzling display in the summer sky.
Although the two planets appear to be close together, in reality they are millions of miles apart.
Hide Caption 36 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Jupiter's icy moon Europa may be the best place in the solar system to look for extraterrestrial life, according to NASA.
The moon is about the size of Earth's moon, and there is evidence it has an ocean beneath its frozen crust that may hold twice as much water as Earth.
NASA's 2016 budget includes a request for $30 million to plan a mission to investigate Europa.
The image above was taken by the Galileo spacecraft on November 25, 1999.
It's a 12-frame mosaic and is considered the the best image yet of the side of Europa that faces Jupiter.
Hide Caption 37 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This nebula, or cloud of gas and dust, is called RCW 34 or Gum 19.
The brightest areas you can see are where the gas is being heated by young stars.
Eventually the gas burst outward like champagne after a bottle is uncorked.
Scientists call this champagne flow.
This new image of the nebula was captured by the European Space Organization's Very Large Telescope in Chile.
RCW 34 is in the constellation Vela in the southern sky.
The name means "sails of a ship" in Latin.
Hide Caption 38 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured images of Jupiter's three great moons -- Io, Callisto, and Europa -- passing by at once.
Hide Caption 39 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A massive galaxy cluster known as SDSS J1038+4849 looks like a smiley face in an image captured by the Hubble Telescope.
The two glowing eyes are actually two distant galaxies.
And what of the smile and the round face?
That's a result of what astronomers call "strong gravitational lensing."
That happens because the gravitational pull between the two galaxy clusters is so strong it distorts time and space around them.
Hide Caption 40 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Using powerful optics, astronomers have found a planet-like body, J1407b, with rings 200 times the size of Saturn's.
This is an artist's depiction of the rings of planet J1407b, which are eclipsing a star.
Hide Caption 41 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A patch of stars appears to be missing in this image from the La Silla Observatory in Chile.
But the stars are actually still there behind a cloud of gas and dust called Lynds Dark Nebula 483.
The cloud is about 700 light years from Earth in the constellation Serpens (The Serpent).
Hide Caption 42 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is the largest Hubble Space Telescope image ever assembled.
It's a portion of the galaxy next door, Andromeda (M31).
Hide Caption 43 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA has captured a stunning new image of the so-called "Pillars of Creation," one of the space agency's most iconic discoveries.
The giant columns of cold gas, in a small region of the Eagle Nebula, were popularized by a similar image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope in 1995.
Hide Caption 44 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers using the Hubble Space pieced together this picture that shows a small section of space in the southern-hemisphere constellation Fornax.
Within this deep-space image are 10,000 galaxies, going back in time as far as a few hundred million years after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 45 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Planetary nebula Abell 33 appears ring-like in this image, taken using the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope.
The blue bubble was created when an aging star shed its outer layers and a star in the foreground happened to align with it to create a "diamond engagement ring" effect.
Hide Caption 46 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This long-exposure image from the Hubble Telescope is the deepest-ever picture taken of a cluster of galaxies.
The cluster, called Abell 2744, contains several hundred galaxies as they looked 3.5 billion years ago; the more distant galaxies appear as they did more than 12 billion years ago, not long after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 47 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's NuSTAR telescope array generated the first map of radioactivity in the remnants of an exploding star, or supernova.
Blue in this image of Cassiopeia A represents radioactive material.
Hide Caption 48 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A supernova was spotted on January 21 in Messier 82, one of the nearest big galaxies.
This wide view image was taken on January 22.
Hide Caption 49 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The M82 supernova, seen here, has been designated SN2014J because it is the 10th supernova detected in 2014.
At 11.4 million light years from Earth, it is the closest Type Ia supernova recorded since systematic studies with telescopes began in the 1930s.
Hide Caption 50 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Is that a giant hand waving at us?
Actually, it's what's left of a star that died and exploded a long time ago.
Astronomers nicknamed it the "Hand of God."
NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR , took this image in high-energy X-rays, shown in blue.
The image was combined with images from another space telescope, the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Hide Caption 51 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Southern Pinwheel Galaxy, one of the largest and closest galaxies of its kind.
The center of the galaxy is mysterious , researchers say, because it has a double nucleus -- a supermassive black hole that may be ringed by a lopsided disc of stars, giving it the appearance of a dual core.
Hide Caption 52 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Hubble scientists say this is the best-ever view of the Tarantula Nebula, which is located in one of our closest galactic neighbors, the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Hide Caption 53 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Those spots on our sun appear small, but even a moderate-sized spot is about as big as Earth .
They occur when strong magnetic fields poke through the sun's surface and let the area cool in comparison to the surrounding area.
Hide Caption 54 of 55
Jackson Gordon is no ordinary 21-year-old.
By day he is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University, but Gordon has another side to him -- a side altogether darker, tougher and more enigmatic.
Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Five years ago and 154 million miles away, NASA's Curiosity Mars rover successfully landed on the planet.
Take a look back at what the rover has been up to these past five years, including this selfie it took on January 19, 2016.
Hide Caption 1 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The bright blue speck in the middle of this image is NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The image was taken from another NASA spacecraft, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is in orbit above the planet, on June 6, 2017.
Hide Caption 2 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity has temperature and humidity sensors mounted on its mast.
Calculations in 2015 based on Curiosity's measurements indicate that Mars could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night.
Hide Caption 3 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity does a test drill on a rock dubbed "Bonanza King" to determine whether it would be a good place to dig deeper and take a sample.
But after the rock shifted, the test was stopped.
Hide Caption 4 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Wheel tracks from Curiosity are seen on the sandy floor of a lowland area dubbed "Hidden Valley" in this image.
Hide Caption 5 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover recently encountered this iron meteorite, which NASA named "Lebanon."
This find is similar in shape and luster to iron meteorites found on Mars by the previous generation of rovers.
A portion of the rock was outlined by NASA scientists.
Hide Caption 6 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity took this nighttime photo of a hole it drilled May 5 to collect soil samples.
NASA said this image combines eight exposures taken after dark on May 13.
Hide Caption 7 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the twilight sky and Martian horizon, taken by Curiosity, includes Earth as the brightest point of light in the night sky.
Earth is a little left of center in the image, and our moon is just below Earth.
A human observer with normal vision, if standing on Mars, could easily see Earth and the moon as two distinct, bright "evening stars."
Hide Caption 8 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The lower slopes of "Mount Sharp" are visible at the top of this image, taken on July 9, 2013.
The turret of tools at the end of the rover's arm, including the rock-sampling drill in the lower left corner, can also be seen.
Hide Caption 9 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rock on the left, called "Wopmay," was discovered by the rover Opportunity, which arrived in 2004 on a different part of Mars.
Iron-bearing sulfates indicate that this rock was once in acidic waters.
On the right are rocks from "Yellowknife Bay," where rover Curiosity was situated.
These rocks are suggestive of water with a neutral pH, which is hospitable to life formation.
Hide Caption 10 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity shows the first sample of powdered rock extracted by the rover's drill.
The image was taken by Curiosity's mast camera on February 20, 2013.
Hide Caption 11 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover drilled this hole, in a rock that's part of a flat outcrop researchers named "John Klein," during its first sample drilling on February 8, 2013.
Hide Caption 12 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity's first set of nighttime photos include this image of Martian rock illuminated by ultraviolet lights.
Curiosity used the camera on its robotic arm, the Mars Hand Lens Imager, to capture the images on January 22, 2013.
Hide Caption 13 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity A view of what NASA describes as "veined, flat-lying rock."
It was selected as the first drilling site for the Mars rover.
Hide Caption 14 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity used a dust-removal tool for the first time to clean this patch of rock on the Martian surface on January 6, 2013.
Hide Caption 15 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity recorded this view from its left navigation camera after an 83-foot eastward drive on November 18, 2012.
The view is toward "Yellowknife Bay" in the "Glenelg" area of Gale Crater.
Hide Caption 16 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Three "bite marks" made by the rover's scoop can be seen in the soil on Mars surface on October 15, 2012.
Hide Caption 17 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The robotic arm on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity delivered a sample of Martian soil to the rover's observation tray for the first time on October 16, 2012.
Hide Caption 18 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what the rover team has determined to be a piece of debris from the spacecraft, possibly shed during the landing.
Hide Caption 19 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover's scoop contains larger soil particles that were too big to filter through a sample-processing sieve.
After a full-scoop sample had been vibrated over the sieve, this portion was returned to the scoop for inspection by the rover's mast camera.
Hide Caption 20 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity cut a wheel scuff mark into a wind-formed ripple at the "Rocknest" site on October 3, 2012.
This gave researchers a better opportunity to examine the particle-size distribution of the material forming the ripple.
Hide Caption 21 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA's Curiosity rover found evidence for what scientists believe was an ancient, flowing stream on Mars at a few sites, including the rock outcrop pictured here.
The key evidence for the ancient stream comes from the size and rounded shape of the gravel in and around the bedrock, according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech science team.
The rounded shape leads the science team to conclude they were transported by a vigorous flow of water.
The grains are too large to have been moved by wind.
Hide Caption 22 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity completed its longest drive to date on September 26, 2012.
The rover moved about 160 feet east toward the area known as "Glenelg."
As of that day the rover had moved about a quarter-mile from its landing site.
Hide Caption 23 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows the robotic arm of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity with the first rock touched by an instrument on the arm.
The photo was taken by the rover's right navigation camera.
Hide Caption 24 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers used the Curiosity rover's mast camera to take a photo of the Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer.
The image was used to see whether it had been caked in dust during the landing.
Hide Caption 25 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers also used the mast camera to examine the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the rover to inspect its dust cover and check that its LED lights were functional.
In this image, taken on September 7, 2012, the imager is in the center of the screen with its LED on.
The main purpose of Curiosity's imager camera is to acquire close-up, high-resolution views of rocks and soil from the Martian surface.
Hide Caption 26 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the open inlet where powdered rock and soil samples will be funneled down for analysis.
The image is made up of eight photos taken on September 11, 2012, by the imager and is used to check that the instrument is operating correctly.
Hide Caption 27 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the calibration target for the imager.
This image, taken on September 9, 2012, shows that the surface of the calibration target is covered with a layor of dust as a result of the landing.
The calibration target includes color references, a metric bar graphic, a penny for scale comparison, and a stair-step pattern for depth calibration.
Hide Caption 28 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the three left wheels of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity combines two images that were taken by the rover's Mars Hand Lens Imager on September 9, 2012, the 34th day of Curiosity's work on Mars.
In the distance is the lower slope of "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 29 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The penny in this image is part of a camera calibration target on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity.
The image was taken by the Mars Hand Lens Imager camera.
Hide Caption 30 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover captured this mosiac of a rock feature called 'Snake River" on December 20, 2012.
Hide Caption 31 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The left eye of the Mast Camera on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity took this image of the rover's arm on September 5, 2012.
Hide Caption 32 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image one of three shows the rover and its tracks after a few short drives.
Tracking the tracks will provide information on how the surface changes as dust is deposited and eroded.
Hide Caption 33 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image two shows the parachute and backshell, now in color.
The outer band of the parachute has a reddish color.
Hide Caption 34 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image three shows the descent stage crash site, now in color, and several distant spots (blue in enhanced color) downrange that are probably the result of distant secondary impacts that disturbed the surface dust.
Hide Caption 35 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An image released August 27, 2012, was taken with Curiosity rover's 100-millimeter mast camera, NASA says.
The image shows "Mount Sharp" on the Martian surface.
NASA says the rover will go to this area.
Hide Caption 36 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity moved about 15 feet forward and then reversed about 8 feet during its first test drive on August 22, 2012.
The rover's tracks can be seen in the right portion of this panorama taken by the rover's navigation camera.
Hide Caption 37 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA tested the steering on its Mars rover Curiosity on August 21, 2012.
Drivers wiggled the wheels in place at the landing site on Mars.
Hide Caption 38 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity moved its robot arm on August 20, 2012, for the first time since it landed on Mars.
"It worked just as we planned," said JPL engineer Louise Jandura in a NASA press release.
This picture shows the 7-foot-long arm holding a camera, a drill, a spectrometer, a scoop and other tools.
The arm will undergo weeks of tests before it starts digging.
Hide Caption 39 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity With the addition of four high-resolution Navigation Camera, or Navcam, images, taken on August 18, 2012.
Curiosity's 360-degree landing-site panorama now includes the highest point on "Mount Sharp" visible from the rover.
Mount Sharp's peak is obscured from the rover's landing site by this highest visible point.
Hide Caption 40 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This composite image, with magnified insets, depicts the first laser test by the Chemistry and Camera, or ChemCam, instrument aboard NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The composite incorporates a Navigation Camera image taken prior to the test, with insets taken by the camera in ChemCam.
The circular insert highlights the rock before the laser test.
The square inset is further magnified and processed to show the difference between images taken before and after the laser interrogation of the rock.
Hide Caption 41 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An updated self-portrait of the Mars rover Curiosity, showing more of the rover's deck.
This image is a mosiac compiled from images taken from the navigation camera.
The wall of "Gale Crater," the rover's landing site, can be seen at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 42 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what will be the rover's first target with it's chemistry and camera (ChemCam) instrument.
The ChemCam will fire a laser at the rock, indicated by the black circle.
The laser will cause the rock to emit plasma, a glowing, ionized gas.
The rover will then analyze the plasma to determine the chemical composition of the rock.
Hide Caption 43 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, with a portion of the rover in the corner, shows the wall of "Gale Crater" running across the horizon at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 44 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, taken from the rover's mast camera, looks south of the landing site toward "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 45 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 46 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 47 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Two blast marks from the descent stage's rockets can be seen in the center of this image.
Also seen is Curiosity's left side.
This picture is a mosaic of images taken by the rover's navigation cameras.
Hide Caption 48 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This color full-resolution image showing the heat shield of NASA's Curiosity rover was obtained during descent to the surface of Mars on August 13, 2012.
The image was obtained by the Mars Descent Imager instrument known as MARDI and shows the 15-foot diameter heat shield when it was about 50 feet from the spacecraft.
Hide Caption 49 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This first image taken by the Navigation cameras on Curiosity shows the rover's shadow on the surface of Mars.
Hide Caption 50 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image comparison shows a view through a Hazard-Avoidance camera on NASA's Curiosity rover before and after the clear dust cover was removed.
Both images were taken by a camera at the front of the rover.
"Mount Sharp," the mission's ultimate destination, looms ahead.
Hide Caption 51 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The four main pieces of hardware that arrived on Mars with NASA's Curiosity rover were spotted by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The High-Resolution Imaging Science Experiment camera captured this image about 24 hours after landing.
Hide Caption 52 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the landscape to the north of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity was acquired by the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the first day after landing.
Hide Caption 53 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is one of the first pictures taken by Curiosity after it landed.
It shows the rover's shadow on the Martian soil.
Hide Caption 54 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows Curiosity's main science target, "Mount Sharp."
The rover's shadow can be seen in the foreground.
The dark bands in the distances are dunes.
Hide Caption 55 of 56
This feature is part of Vision Japan , a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here .
(CNN) Japan is building the world's fastest supercomputer, which it hopes will make the country the new global hub for artificial intelligence research.
The supercomputer is expected to run at a speed of 130 petaflops, meaning it is able to perform a mind-boggling 130 quadrillion calculations per second (that's 130 million billion).
Once complete (the target date is April 2018), the AI Bridging Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI) will be the most powerful supercomputer in the world, surpassing the current champion, China's Sunway TaihuLight, currently operating at 93 petaflops.
What makes a computer 'super'?
While the ABCI will not have a mouse or screen, it's not vastly different from a personal computer -- just souped-up, a whole lot faster, and much, much bigger.
"The current supercomputer system is one million times faster than your personal computers," explains Satoshi Sekiguchi, a director general at Japan's National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology.
Sekiguchi calculates that it would take 3,000 years for a personal computer to achieve what a supercomputer can do in just one day.
In terms of size, Japan's supercomputer will be comparable to a parking lot with space for 30 to 40 cars.
"The supercomputer that is currently under development would take up about 1,000 square meters of floor space," says Sekiguchi.
What will it be used for?
The ABCI could help Japanese companies develop and improve driverless cars, robotics and medical diagnostics, explains Sekiguchi.
"A supercomputer is an extremely important tool for accelerating the advancement in such fields," he says.
Its supersonic speed will also help Japan develop advances in artificial intelligence technologies, such as "deep learning."
But supercomputers are to thank for smaller everyday inventions too.
"The initial design of paper diapers was actually done using a supercomputer," explains Sekiguchi.
"However, mothers continue to use them without knowing that fact."
Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Sunway-TaihuLight  Chinese supercomputer Sunway-TaihuLight is currently the fastest supercomputer in the world, operating at 93 petaflops.
That means it's able to perform 93 quadrillion (million billion) calculations per second.
China uses the supercomputer for weather forecasting, pharmaceutical research, and industrial design.
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers K Computer  Fujitsu's K Computer, housed at the RIKEN institute in Japan, clocks in at 10 petaflops.
It was the fastest in the world from June to November 2011.
The supercomputer draws almost 10 megawatts of power  about the same as 10,000 suburban homes.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers IBM Roadrunner  The $130-million IBM Roadrunner was the first computer to break the petaflop barrier in 2008.
Operating at around 1 petaflop (performing 1 million billion calculations per second), the IBM Roadrunner was the fastest supercomputer in the world from June 2008 to June 2009.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers ASCI Red  This US-built supercomputer was the first to break the 1 teraflop barrier (performing 1 trillion calculations per second).
It was the fastest supercomputer in the world from 1997 to 2000, and also the first supercomputer installation to use more than 1 megawatt of power.
Pictured here, VP Rick Stulen and Intel designer Stephen Wheat look at the innards of an ASCI Red rack.
Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Cray 2  The Cray-2 was the world's fastest computer between 1985 and 1989, capable of 1.9 gigaflops.
This was the first supercomputer to break the gigaflop barrier (1 billion calculations per second).
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers CDC6600  The world's very first supercomputer, the Control Data Corporation (CDC) 6600, only had a single CPU.
Released in 1964, the CDC 6600 achieved a peak performance of 3 million floating point operations per second (3 megaflops).
Hide Caption 6 of 6

$173m key to the future

Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry will spend 19.5 billion yen ($173m) to build the ABCI and two research centers.
Photos: How Japan is living in the future High-tech aquarium  It may look like sci-fi, but in Japan, this is reality.
Often Japanese technology offers a glimpse into the future, and in the futuristic world of Japanese tech, just about anything is possible.
At this aquarium in Tokyo -- the EPSON Aqua Park Shinagawa -- touch panel exhibits, neon lights and audiovisual displays transform the encounter with sea creatures into a psychedelic, multi-sensory experience.
Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Hydrogen cars  Currently, only three auto manufacturers in the world sell hydrogen-powered cars -- and they're all Japanese.
In 2016 Honda launched the world's first commercially available hydrogen powered car -- called Clarity -- for the Japanese market.
Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Futuristic cemetery  A Buddhist burial building in downtown Tokyo houses over 2,000 neon glass Buddha statues.
Each statue corresponds to a drawer containing the cremated remains of the deceased.
When a visitor enters the building they swipe an electronic pass card, which makes a single Buddha glow a different color, guiding the visitor to their loved one's statue.
Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bullet train  Looking like something out of Star Wars, Japan's high-speed bullet trains run on the Shinkansen network, which stretches across 2,740 km.
They can hit speeds of 320 km/h.
Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Maglev train  Even faster is Japan's maglev train.
In 2015 it hit 603 km/h on an experimental track -- a new world record.
Maglev trains use magnets to float above the tracks and move forward.
However, Japan's won't actually open to passengers for another decade.
Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart toilets  High-tech toilets in Japan can check your blood pressure, urine, protein, weight and body fat.
That's over and above offering the standard front and rear spray features.
All of these options can be found on the control panel of the "Intelligence toilet," pictured, designed by Japan's largest toilet maker, Toto.
Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart Mirror  Not your ordinary looking glass -- this mirror detects wrinkles, redness, pores and sun damage, and offers a range of suitable products to address them.
This Panasonic device also lets you virtually try out a variety of makeup looks -- and mustaches -- in the mirror.
You can event print out the makeup, set on a sheet like a temporary tattoo, from a 3-D printer and stick it on your face.
The Smart Mirror debuted in October 2016 at the Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies in Japan.
Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dementia tagging  In order to keep track of senior citizens with dementia, Iruma, a Japanese city north of Tokyo, has tagged tagged the fingers and toes of the elderly with scannable barcodes.
Each nail sticker carries a unique identity number to help families find loved ones who are prone to getting lost.
Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows  Many countries have winter fairs.
Many countries have light shows.
But they don't look like this.
Huge light shows have become a winter institution in Japan and the Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki has particularly eye-catching illuminations, featuring millions of light bulbs ...
Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows  ... it even has a neon boat that sails over Technicolor water.
Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Future fashion  Walk down the street in Tokyo's Akihabara district and you may spot people dressed like it's the 22nd century, decked out as future retro sci-fi steam punks.
And also maids.
Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Kirobo Mini  Japan is the home of robotics, and there more than anywhere else, robots have found a place in society.
Toyota's Kirobo Mini companion robot is small enough to be carried around or sit in a car's cup holder.
It is able to strike up a conversation encourages safe driving by saying "Oops" when the driver brakes suddenly.
Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Hotel  In Japan, robots turn up in unexpected places.
At the five-star Henn-na Hotel in Nagasaki Prefecture, humanoid robots greet Japanese-speaking guests at reception, while English-speaking guests are met by a robotic dinosaur.
Naturally.
Droids cart luggage to the hotel's 72 rooms and clean up after you.
Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot front of house  Humanoid robot Pepper has taken over from human front of house staff at Hamazushi, a chain of sushi restaurants in Japan.
Pepper handles your seating, escorts you to your table and lets you order from a touch screen menu on its chest.
Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Restaurant  But the robots at Tokyo's famous "Robot Restaurant" aren't quite what they seem.
Here, dancers in robot suits stage mock battles.
Performances have included fembots with Thor hammers, dinosaurs battling robots and a giant neon tank.
Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dancing holograms  At Tokyo's Madame Tussauds wax museum, a special exhibit allows visitors, or rather, their holograms, to dance with the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio, Marilyn Monroe or Beyonc.
Visitors get a 3D face scan, which is transposed onto a hologram dancer for the 90-second dance performance.
Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Vending machines  Vending machines aren't uniquely Japanese -- but Japan's vending machines are definitely unique.
From draft beer to batteries, bras to fishing bait, just about anything can be found in them.
A growing number of restaurants use vending machines as ordering systems.
Customers can browse through photos of the meals on offer before making a selection, paying at the machine, taking a ticket and choosing a seat.
Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Three-wheeled vehicles  The Toyota i-Road is a three-wheeled, two-seat (driver and passenger sit in tandem) electric "personal mobility vehicle."
The little car has a 37-mile range and is able to squeeze into tiny parking slots and weave through traffic, while reducing congestion and carbon emissions.
Test drive pilots at the Toyota Tokyo Design Research Laboratory are in the process of trying out the technology.
Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Orphe smart shoes  Wearable tech is big in Japan -- these smart shoes incorporate 100 LED lights and smart motion sensors in sneaker soles so the wearer can create patterns just by moving their feet.
The idea is to give dancers and performers another level of artistic expression.
Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Archelis wearable chair  The Archelis chair is a wearable seat specially designed to provide surgeons with support during long surgeries.
The chair wraps around the legs and buttocks and is designed to support pressure points in the back, feet and legs without limiting range of motion.
Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV  As well as the technology already on the market, Japan has a bunch of game-changing innovations waiting for commercial release.
At the flick of a switch, Panasonic's OLED television turns into a transparent pane of glass.
The OLED display doesn't need a backlight to give it a picture as each pixel lights itself .
Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV  ... and the TV can serve as a glass pane of a cabinet.
You can slide it to access the shelves behind it, or adjust the height of the display.
The transparent television was first unveiled in Japan at the Consumer Electronics Show in 2016.
Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Artificial meteor showers  Japanese space start-up ALE is getting ready to deploy a satellite into orbit, which will enable the company to paint the sky with artificial meteors.
Still undergoing research and development, the company plans to launch its first meteor show in 2018.
Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bendy batteries  In the future this bendable lithium ion battery could be used in smart clothing, watches and fitness bands.
It can bend and twist up to 25 degrees without damaging the battery.
Unveiled at Japanese technology fair Ceatec in 2016, Panasonic's bendable battery could further provide scope for curved designs and foldable smartphones.
Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i  Unveiled at tech show CES 2017, Toyota's super intelligent car will be tested on the streets of Japan in the next few years.
While the car has autonomous driving features, it still needs a human in the driving seat.
Its built-in artificial intelligence is designed to grow with the driver.
The front of the vehicle displays whether the Concept-i is in automated or manual drive.
The rear of the vehicle shows messages to let trailing cars know about upcoming turns ...
Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i  ...
The doors are made almost entirely of glass to give passengers a better view of the road beneath them.
The rear wheels are built into the car's sleek white frame.
Hide Caption 26 of 26

"They [the government] recognize that artificial intelligence will be a key to the future, or the key to the competitiveness of the industry," says Sekiguchi.
Japanese firms often turn to the likes of Amazon, Microsoft and Google when looking to crunch big numbers.
But once it's running, Japanese researchers and companies will be able to pay to use the ABCI, rather than renting cycles on public clouds like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.
Race to the top?
Japan's K computer, which runs at just over 10 petaflops, claimed the title of world's fastest supercomputer for six months in 2011, before it was outperformed by the United States and China.
The K computer is named after the Japanese word "kei", which stands for 10 quadrillion.
But for Sekiguchi, it is not about the race to build the fastest supercomputer.
"Before, there was a competition in the computer industry itself, however, from now on, it is going to be more about what you can do with the computers," he said.
"It is no longer about which computer becomes the best in the world, but rather, creating an environment in which these new applications can be used properly."
Ingrem, a Chinese company has created the "husband pod," an arcade booth intended to stave off boredom for men who accompany their partners to the mall.
Source: CNN
Scientists have figured out how to grow organs from skin cells.
CNN's Rachel Crane explores a lab that is using this technique to revolutionize cancer treatments.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights "Int-Ball" will make astronauts' work hours more efficient

The drone facilitates more real-time communication with crew on Earth

(CNN) The Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency has released the first set of images and videos taken by its debut zero-gravity fully-autonomous camera drone.
Functionally, the JEM Internal Ball, or "Int-Ball" for short, will optimize communication between astronauts in space and scientists on Earth.
Aesthetically, it is the cutest little orb since Star Wars' BB-8 droid.
Star Wars actor Oscar Isaac poses alongside BB-8.
Int-Ball arrived in space at "Kibo," which is the Japanese Experiment Module on the International Space Station, on June 4 this year.
The photos were disclosed by JAXA on July 14.
The 2.2 pounds (1 kilogram) limbless sphere -- which spans just six inches (15 centimeters) -- is currently on duty to take photos and videos of astronauts at work.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Corporate titans converge at Sun Valley Conference

Apple CEO Tim Cook, right, walks with Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services, at the Allen & Co. Sun Valley Conference on Wednesday, July 12.
The annual weeklong conference, held in Sun Valley, Idaho, brings together some of the world's most wealthy and powerful businesspeople.
See some of the corporate titans attending the event this year.
Beneath its heavy cloud cover, Jupiter has been able to keep its secrets from astronomers.
Now, first results from NASA's Juno mission are challenging researchers' beliefs about the gas giant.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights Japanese scientists are developing a system to capture and remove space debris

They plan to use magnets to catch and force debris down to burn up in Earth's atmosphere

This feature is part of Vision Japan, a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here.
(CNN) Japan's Space Sweepers are taking it upon themselves to do a little spring cleaning in space.
One hundred and seventy million pieces of space debris currently orbit the Earth, according to estimates from the European Space Agency (ESA).
Defunct satellites and other man-made objects rocket around the atmosphere at eight kilometers per second -- 10 times faster than a bullet.
Some chunks are as big as a truck, others smaller than a dime.
But even the tiniest piece of cosmic junk poses an enormous threat to other satellites and spacecraft.
A collision with a one centimeter speck of space debris at orbital velocity, for example, has the equivalent energy force of an exploding hand grenade, according to Heiner Klinkrad, head of the space debris office at the ESA.
When an accident like this occurs, fragments scatter around space, increasing the risk of further accidents.
Read More
Thursday's news that Yahoo suffered a hack of 500 million of its user accounts may have many people taking a new look at how to keep their own email accounts and personal information secure.
One easy way to protect yourself from hackers is by regularly updating your software.
"Hackers are always finding new vulnerabilities to exploit," said Consumer Reports Editor Jerry Beilinson.
(Published Friday, Sept. 23, 2016)

How to Protect Yourself From Hackers

Hackers breached the filing system of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and may have accessed "nonpublic information" for profit, the agency said in a statement late Wednesday.
The SEC, which regulates the financial securities industry, gave few details on the hack but said the hackers may have made "illicit gain through trading," NBC News reported.
It is not believed that any personally identifiable information or SEC operations were compromised, the agency added.
The hack was first detected in 2016, but the SEC didn't realize until last month that the hackers may have benefited from the data accessed.
With more factory jobs now demanding education, technical know-how or specialized skills, many US plants are struggling to fill positions.
(Published Tuesday, Aug. 15, 2017)

Some companies are so set on having workers who know just how their computer systems work that they're partnering with schools to start or invest in job training programs of their own, NBC News reported.
Call it "new collar" jobs, as opposed to white collar and blue collar.
They require some specialized education to get the job, but not a four-year degree.
For example, Delta has partnered with 37 aviation maintenance schools to help shed light on the often-technical aviation maintenance technician job.
A company executive said that the curriculum required by the Federal Aviation Administration is "very generic" and that it takes at least a year of working at Delta even with certification to be able to sign off on anything as an AMT.
Nationwide, there were 6.2 million job openings at the end of June, a record high, and many of these openings are "new collar jobs that are unfilled as a result of an unskilled and under-skilled workforce," said Eugene Giovannini, chancellor at Tarrant County College in Texas.
To celebrate the Blu-ray release of Wonder Woman, 300 drones flew over downtown Los Angeles in an illuminated, choreographed art show creating some stunning visuals.
Patty Jenkins has signed on to direct the sequel, and the deal will make her the highest-paid female director of all time.
FILE - A Kaspersky employee shuffles tokens around a table-top display at the company's stand at a cybersecurity conference in Lille, northern France, Jan. 25, 2017.
Federal agencies have been ordered to stop using software made by Kaspersky Lab because of concerns about the companys ties to Russian intelligence.
The Department of Homeland Security said Wednesday that the "risk that the Russian government, whether acting on its own or in collaboration with Kaspersky, could capitalize on access provided by Kaspersky products to compromise federal information and information systems directly implicates U.S. national security."
The move came after mounting concerns about Kaspersky, which is the subject of an ongoing FBI counterintelligence investigation.
FBI agents in June paid visits to at least a dozen employees at home, asking questions about that company's operations as part of the inquiry, multiple sources familiar with the matter told NBC News.
A Kaspersky spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Apple has unveiled the iPhone X, a new flagship model that coincides with the tenth anniversary of the popular device.
The new phone has an edge-to-edge screen that eliminates the "home" button to unlock it, in favor of a biometrics sensor called Face ID.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
Let's face it - that was awkward.
Apple had an embarrassing moment during the tech giant's much-hyped reveal of its new iPhone X Tuesday when a key facial recognition feature failed to work during a demonstration, CNBC reported.
The new Face ID feature is supposed to allow you to unlock the $1,000 gadget with a glance, but an Apple exec needed to enter a passcode to get it to work while on-stage Tuesday in California.
Check out how the facial recognition feature flopped during Apple's demo in the below video.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
A data breach discovered in July may have affected as many as 143 million U.S. consumers, credit tracker Equifax said Thursday.
And three of the company's executives sold nearly $2 million in Equifax shares days after the cyberattack was discovered, SEC filings show.
It was unclear whether their share sales had anything to do with the breach, CNBC reports.
An Equifax spokeswoman didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Leaked data includes names, birth dates, Social Security numbers, addresses and some driver's license numbers, CNBC reported.
The company added that 209,000 U.S. credit card numbers were also obtained.
Equifax said it is alerting customers whose information was included in the breach via mail, and is working with state and federal authorities.
Its private investigation into the breach is complete, the company said.
Consumers who think their personal information may have been compromised in this incident can find out more here.
FILE - In this April 18, 2017, file photo, conference workers speak in front of a demo booth at Facebook's annual F8 developer conference in San Jose, Calif.
It is likely Russian political operatives spent $100,000 on Facebook ads with divisive messages between June 2015 and May 2017, the company said Wednesday.
In a blog post on the issue and the companys internal investigation, Facebook said the operation involved 3,000 separate ads purchased over a two-year period and appears to have been run out of Russia.
In addition, Facebook found 470 affiliated fake accounts and pages.
About $50,000 of the funds  about 2,200 ads were potentially related to U.S. politics.
The majority of the ads did not reference the U.S. presidential election, voting or a specific candidate.
Zuckerberg: Facebook Has More Work To Do on Safety

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg made his first public comments since the Cleveland murder case, saying that the social media giant has more work to do when it comes to policing disturbing content online and making its online community safer.
(Published Tuesday, April 18, 2017)

As CNBC reports, the ads focused on "divisive social and political messages" about hot-button topics including LGBT rights, race, immigration and gun rights.
Facebook has shared its findings with U.S. authorities.
Advanced hackers have successfully broken into core operations systems after targeting energy companies in the United States and Europe, according to new report from a cybersecurity firm.
Reuters reported that Symantec researchers found malicious email campaigns helped a group, apparently one called Dragonfly, gain entry into U.S. energy firms, as well as in Turkey and Switzerland and likely elsewhere.
The researchers believe the cyberattacks are probably the work of a foreign government, and while their report didn't name Russia, some code strings were in Russian.
The research adds to concerns that utilities and other industrial firms could be susceptible to damaging cyberattacks in a global conflict.
In June, the U.S. government alerted firms about a hacking campaign targeting the nuclear and energy sectors.
Trump Says Russia, Others Could Have Been Involved in Election Hacking
The Trump administration on Tuesday decided to scrap from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, triggering ripple effects throughout Silicon Valley.
Scott Budman reports.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2017)

The Trump administration on Tuesday decided to scrap the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, triggering ripple effects throughout Silicon Valley.
The tech industry is known as a place where immigrants have risen to, and often started, successful companies.
The loss of DACA, which gives renewable, two-year permits to immigrants who entered the United States as undocumented minors, is expected to heavily cost Silicon Valley.
This has a very real impact on the bottom line of companies, said Peter Leroe-Munoz, the vice president of tech and innovation policy at the Silicon Valley Leadership Group.
He said certain industries have especially benefited from young immigrant employees.
Trump Tightens Sanctions Against North Korea

President Trump is hitting North Korea with severe new sanctions and issuing an ultimatum to the world: If you do business with Kim Jong Un the United States will not do business with you.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

Whether in autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence or cyber security, there is a source of intellectual capital that can help grow those technologies here in the US and increase American jobs, he stressed.
Meanwhile, at the Asian Law Alliance, the phone rang off the hook, with young immigrants from all over the world reacting to the uncertainty of their future.
"There are people who came here from Asian countries, African countries, European countries, obviously people who crossed the southern border from Mexico to California, but the population of DACA recipients (is) very diverse, said Richard Konda, with the Asian Law Alliance.
Video 'You're a Liar': Demonstrators Confront Pelosi Over DACA Talks

The movers and shakers of the tech world on Tuesday vocalized their support for DACA.
"The decision to end DACA is not just wrong, said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
It is particularly cruel to offer young people the American Dream, encourage them to come out of the shadows and trust our government, and then punish them for it."
Dara Khosrowshahi, who was recently named the chief executive of San Francisco-based ridesharing company Uber echoed the sentiment.
GOP Still Split on Graham-Cassidy Health Care Bill

Republicans expect to vote next week on a health care bill known as Graham-Cassidy, named for the senators who wrote it, which would scale back Medicaid.
Some GOP lawmakers are split on the newest effort to undo Obamacare, while Democrats are planning for more demonstrations against it.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

It's against our values to turn our backs on #DREAMers.
Everyone deserves a chance to work, study and contribute - the #AmericanDream!
he wrote on Twitter.
NBC Bay Area's Rhea Mahbubani contributed to this report.
FILE - In this Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2011 file photo, an Apple logo is seen during an announcement at Apple headquarters in Cupertino, Calif.

Apple will host its iPhone 8 event on Sept. 12, CNBC reported.
The company sent invites out to the press with a note: "Let's meet at our place.
Please join us for the first-ever event at the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino."
Apple is expected to unveil three new iPhones, including the iPhone 7s, iPhone 7s Plus and iPhone 8.
A 4K Apple TV is also reportedly on the docket, according to CNBC.
Apple provided few details in its announcement but has previously rolled out new iPhones at its September events.
One in five women are sexually assaulted or raped while in college.
Take a look at these new tools that aim to help combat the problem through technology.
Warning: Details in this story may be disturbing for some users

A suburban Chicago dad has issued a now-viral warning to parents after he made a disturbing discovery on a popular app being used by his 7-year-old daughter.
Brad Summer, of Batavia, said he and his wife allowed their daughter to use the app Musical.ly on their phones while under supervision by an adult.
She used this app to connect with her cousins and make goofy duets of songs together, he wrote on Facebook.
But what he said was a fun, family-friendly game, quickly made him furious.
Summer said someone pretending to be 9 years old had messaged his daughter via the app and his daughter alerted him to the disturbing exchange.
First I want to say how proud of our daughter I am and want this to be a warning to your families, he wrote.
In screenshots posted by Summer, the messages show someone identified only as Jessy asking the young girl how old she is.
The person then asks the girl to send a photo of herself.
When the girl sends a selfie, the person says looking nice and send me your pics without t-shirt.
I like to see your body without t-shirt, one message read.
The girl tells the person she cant, but they continue to press for photos, saying dont tell to anyone and its secret between us only.
Then, the young girls father chimes in.
I am her father and I am a police officer, the message reads.
We have documented your ip address and location.
I recommend that you refrain from any other contact.
Summer said he called police and handed the phone over so they could pull information in hopes of tracking the person down.
He said he knows some might criticize his parenting but said we never thought like predators and I guess we were nave in thinking our daughter safe on what we thought to be a kid friendly app.
We live and learn and I continue to do so everyday as a parent, he wrote.
This post is meant as a warning call to others that let their children use this app.
This post wasn't meant for people telling me how to raise my child.
My child came and told me and it didn't get any further luckily.
She followed what I taught her.
I'm sure that others families aren't so lucky.
The world we live in needs focus on these types of things, say what you will.
Summers post has been shared more than 80,000 times and liked more than 18,000 times.
Musical.ly did not respond to NBC Chicagos request for comment, but the apps rules prohibit anyone under the age of 13 from using it.
The apps website also provides resources for parents on internet safety and cyberbullying and details how to change message settings so only approved followers can message an account.
If youd like to make sure that only approved followers can send messages via direct.ly, we recommend enabling the only friends can direct.ly me on the settings page, the website reads.
With these private settings enabled, only approved followers can view your teens videos and send them messages.
Summer said since his posting, hes received support from parents across the world.
This story has spread through almost every continent and the replies have been overwhelmingly touching, he wrote.
From those who comment, to those of you who send me a PM, I read each and every one.
I have been given advice, other sites to look out for and most appreciated, the encouragement to keep fighting.
Japanese telecommunications company Softbank has built a robot programmed to fulfill religious duties.
The robot, named "Pepper," is on display at a funeral and cemetery expo in Tokyo.
Samsung announced its newest smartphone, the Galaxy Note 8, on Aug. 23.
The new phone is the successor to the Galaxy Note 7, which was recalled when dozens caught fire because of a battery problem.
London's mayor said Saturday that people angry about the decision by transit authorities to strip Uber of its license to operate in the city should blame the ride-hailing company itself.
"I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber," Mayor Sadiq Khan said.
The city's transportation agency, Transport for London, said Friday that it would not renew Uber's license when it expires Sept. 30, citing a lack of corporate responsibility.
The agency said the factors it considered included Uber's "approach to reporting serious criminal offenses" and its use of software designed to evade the authorities.
Khan said in a statement that it would be wrong "to license Uber if there was any way this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety or security."
Uber has long been a target of complaints from taxi drivers and companies.
Cab drivers say Uber drivers don't have to comply with the same licensing standards, giving the ride-hailing service an unfair advantage and placing the public at risk.
Uber said it plans to appeal and accused London's regulator of caving in to special interests "who want to restrict consumer choice."
It can keep operating in the city pending the outcome of the appeal.
More than 500,000 people have signed an online petition protesting the decision not to renew Uber's license.
Uber has 3.5 million customers and 40,000 drivers in London.
NASA's asteroid-chasing spacecraft is swinging by Earth on Friday on its way to a space rock.
Launched a year ago, Osiris-Rex was on track to pass within about 11,000 miles (17,700 kilometers) of the home planet Friday afternoon  above Antarctica.
It needs Earth's gravity as a slingshot to put it on a path toward the asteroid Bennu.
Osiris-Rex should reach the small, roundish asteroid next year and, in 2020, collect some of its gravel for return to Earth.
If all goes well, scientists should get the samples in 2023.
Friday's flyby is a quick hello: The spacecraft will zoom by at about 19,000 mph (31,000 kph).
NASA has taken precautions to ensure Osiris-Rex  about the size of an SUV  does not slam into any satellites.
"Everything looks great!
Thanks for the well wishes," the University of Arizona's Dante Lauretta, chief scientist for Osiris-Rex, said late Thursday via Twitter.
Ground telescopes have been trying to observe the spacecraft while it's in the neighborhood.
NASA has posted a picture gallery online.
NASA expected to be out of contact with Osiris-Rex for about an hour during the flyby.
The spacecraft was going to be too close for the Deep Space Network for communication relay.
Bennu is just 1,640 feet (500 meters) or so across and circles the sun in an orbit slightly wider than ours.
Osiris-Rex will go into orbit around the asteroid and seek the best spot for grabbing a few handfuls of the bite-size bits of rock.
It will hover like a hummingbird as a mechanical arm briefly rests on the surface and sucks in samples stirred up by nitrogen gas thrusters.
Scientists say the ancient asteroid could hold clues to the origin of life.
It's believed to have formed 4.5 billion years ago, a remnant of the solar system's building blocks.
This is the first U.S. attempt to bring back samples from an asteroid.
Japan already has visited an asteroid and returned some specks.
The federal government on Friday told election officials in 21 states that hackers targeted their systems before last year's presidential election.
The notification came roughly a year after U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials first said states were targeted by hacking efforts possibly connected to Russia.
The states that told The Associated Press they had been targeted included some key political battlegrounds, such as Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.
The AP contacted every state election office to determine which ones had been informed that their election systems had been targeted.
The others confirming were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas and Washington.
Being targeted does not mean that sensitive voter data was manipulated or results were changed.
A hacker targeting a system without getting inside is similar to a burglar circling a house checking for unlocked doors and windows.
Even so, the widespread nature of the attempts and the yearlong lag time in notification from Homeland Security raised concerns among some election officials and lawmakers.
For many states, the Friday calls were the first official confirmation of whether their states were on the list  even though state election officials across the country have been calling for months for the federal government to share information about any hacks, as have members of Congress.
"It is completely unacceptable that it has taken DHS over a year to inform our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for information," California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement.
"The practice of withholding critical information from elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy."
U.S. Sen. Mark Warner, of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that's investigating Russian meddling in last year's election, has been pushing the department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states.
He said states need such information in real time so they can strengthen their cyber defenses.
"We have to do better in the future," he said.
Homeland Security said it recognizes that state and local officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election infrastructure.
"We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners," it said in a statement.
The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide details about what had been sought.
But election officials in several states said the attempts were linked to Russia.
The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the state's systems were targeted by "Russian government cyber actors."
Alaska Elections Division Director Josie Bahnke said computers in Russia were scanning election systems looking for vulnerabilities.
A spokeswoman for Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson, the president of National Association of Secretaries of State, said Lawson requested a list of the states where there were hacking efforts.
In most cases, states said they were told the systems were not breached.
Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states the targeting was preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.
The targets included voter registration systems but not vote tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks but most were unsuccessful.
Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter systems.
Other states said their cybersecurity efforts turned back efforts to get to crucial information.
"There are constant attempts by bad actors to hack our systems," Iowa Secretary of State Paul Pate, a Republican, said in a statement.
"But we continue to deflect those attempts."
Colorado said the hacking wasn't quite a breach.
"It's really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would break into your computer," said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado secretary of state's office.
"It's not an attack.
I wouldn't call it a probe.
It's not a breach, it's not a penetration."
Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that hackers obtained information from a company that provided software to manage voter registrations in eight states.
The May report said hackers sent phishing emails to 122 local election officials just before the November 2016 election in an attempt to break into their systems.
The latest disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel investigates whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between Russia and associates of Donald Trump.
Trump, a Republican who defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax.
He says Russian President Vladimir Putin "vehemently denied" the conclusions of numerous American intelligence agencies.
For states that were told they were not targets, the news brought relief.
"This is one time we like being at the bottom of the list," said Lisa Strimple, a spokeswoman for Nebraska's secretary of state.
Associated Press statehouse reporters around the country contributed to this report.
Follow Mulvihill and Pearson at http://www.twitter.com/geoffmulvihill and https://twitter.com/JakePearsonAP



This story has been corrected to show that a spokeswoman for the president of the National Association of Secretaries of State said a request had been made for the list of states that were targeted, not a spokeswoman for the organization.
Google faces a new lawsuit accusing it of gender-based pay discrimination.
A lawyer representing three female former Google employees is seeking class action status for the claim.
The suit, filed Thursday in San Francisco Superior Court, follows a federal labor investigation that made a preliminary finding of systemic pay discrimination among the 21,000 employees at Google's headquarters in Mountain View, California.
The initial stages of the review found women earned less than men in nearly every job classification.
Google disputes those findings and says its analysis shows no gender pay gap.
The suit, led by lawyer James Finberg of Altshuler Berzon LLP, is on behalf of three women  Kelly Ellis, Holly Pease and Kelli Wisuri  who all quit after being put on career tracks that they claimed would pay them less than their male counterparts.
The suit aims to represent thousands of Google employees in California and seeks lost wages and a slice of Google's profits.
"I have come forward to correct a pervasive problem of gender bias at Google," Ellis said in a statement.
She says she quit Google in 2014 after male engineers with similar experience were hired to higher-paying job levels and she was denied a promotion despite excellent performance reviews.
"It is time to stop ignoring these issues in tech."
Google spokeswoman Gina Scigliano said the company will review the suit in detail, "but we disagree with the central allegations."
"Job levels and promotions are determined through rigorous hiring and promotion committees, and must pass multiple levels of review, including checks to make sure there is no gender bias in these decisions," she said.
Charges of gender discrimination have swirled at Alphabet Inc.-owned Google since the U.S. Labor Department sued in January to bar Google from doing business with the federal government until it released thousands of documents related to an audit over its pay practices.
The sides have been battling in court over how much information Google must turn over.
The lawsuit also follows the firing of male engineer James Damore, who wrote a memo circulated on internal message boards that blamed inherent differences between men and women for the underrepresentation of women in engineering roles.
Worries rippled through the consumer market for antivirus software after the U.S. government banned federal agencies from using Kaspersky Labs software on Wednesday.
Best Buy said it will no longer sell software made by the Russian company, although one security researcher said most consumers don't need to be alarmed.
Best Buy Co. declined to give details about why it dropped Kaspersky products, saying that it doesn't comment on contracts with specific vendors.
The Minneapolis Star Tribune first reported that Best Buy would stop selling Kaspersky software.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security cited concerns about possible ties between unnamed Kaspersky officials and the Kremlin and Russian intelligence services.
The department also noted that Russian law might compel Kaspersky to assist the government in espionage.
Kaspersky has denied any unethical ties with Russia or any government.
It said Wednesday that its products have been sold at Best Buy for a decade and that the relationship may be re-evaluated.
Nicholas Weaver, a computer security researcher at the University of California, Berkeley, called the U.S. government decision "prudent," after arguing for such a step in July .
But he added by email, "for most everybody else, the software is fine."
The biggest risk to U.S. government computers is if Moscow-based Kaspersky is subject to "government-mandated malicious update," Weaver wrote this summer.
Kaspersky products accounted for about 5.5 percent of anti-malware software products worldwide, according to research firm Statista.
Another expert, though, suggested that consumers should also uninstall Kaspersky software to avoid any potential risks.
Michael Sulmeyer, director of a cybersecurity program at Harvard, noted that antivirus software has deep access to one's computer and network.
"Voluntarily introducing this kind of Russian software in a geopolitical landscape where the U.S.-Russia relationship is not good at all, I think would be assuming too much risk," he said.
"There are plenty of alternatives out there."
Sulmeyer also said retailers should follow Best Buy's lead and stop selling the software.
Amazon, which sells Kaspersky software, declined to comment.
Staples and Office Depot, both of which sell the software, didn't immediately return messages seeking comment.
Various U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies and several congressional committees are investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
Kaspersky said it is not subject to the Russian laws cited in the directive and said information received by the company is protected in accordance with legal requirements and stringent industry standards, including encryption.
Nakashima reported from San Francisco.
Space station astronaut Joe Acaba is getting a double dose of hurricanes  even in orbit.
Harvey flooded his home in Houston last month.
Now Maria has slammed into Puerto Rico, his family's homeland.
In an interview with The Associated Press on Wednesday, the first astronaut of Puerto Rican heritage offered words of comfort to family members and everyone else during the wrath of Hurricane Maria.
"My parents were born there, so a lot of relatives, cousins, godparents" are still in Puerto Rico, Acaba said.
"I hope everyone's doing well and that you take care of yourselves."
Acaba, a former teacher who arrived at the International Space Station last week, said he had not yet seen the hurricane from space.
The storm made landfall at Puerto Rico an hour before the TV interview.
"It's kind of hard to believe, but you get so busy in the day working so hard that at times you forget to look out the window," said Acaba, who is on his third spaceflight and his second visit to the space station.
Acaba was in Russia then, getting ready for his launch, when his home flooded in Houston.
Friends and colleagues came to his rescue, yanking out walls and drying out his house.
"It was a huge relief to know that there were people at home, taking care of me," he said.
Fellow NASA astronaut Mark Vande Hei's home in Houston fared much better.
It's tough being in space when you want to help those back home, he said, but all the help to the astronauts' families from Johnson Space Center colleagues has been "hugely appreciated."
Acaba, Vande Hei and Russian cosmonaut Alexander Misurkin rocketed from Kazakhstan on Sept. 12.
They joined American Randy Bresnik, Italian Paolo Nespoli and Russian Sergey Ryazanskiy already at the orbiting outpost.
Acaba took Puerto Rican flags up with him.
"No Puerto Rican can travel without their Puerto Rican flags, so I have my share of those.
And pretty soon, the space station's going to start looking like Puerto Rico with all the flags," he said.
Acaba's parents were from Hatillo, Puerto Rico, and, while young, moved to the U.S. Born and raised in Southern California, Acaba served in the Marine Corps Reserves, volunteered for the Peace Corps in the Dominican Republic and worked as a hydro-geologist before becoming a science and math teacher in Florida.
NASA chose Acaba in its first official group of astronaut-educators in 2004 along with Richard Arnold, who will make another trip to the space station in March, a month after Acaba departs.
The two will make short video clips and use social media to reach out to youngsters.
"For all of us, it's a dream come true and we want them to believe the same," he said.
He added: "As much as we can do to help the great teachers out there, we're going to try to do that."
Meanwhile, Nespoli, in orbit since July, said he misses sharing pizza with friends.
He recently dug out the space station's espresso machine, an Italian experiment from two years ago.
He brought up some coffee capsules to try.
After weeks of instant space coffee, "a really good espresso would make a difference."
Online:

NASA: https://www.nasa.gov/missionpages/station/main/index.html
The soft soil that lines the ancient lake bed that Mexico City is built on amplified the shaking from Tuesday's earthquake and increased its destructive force, seismologists say as they try to better understand the quake that has killed more than 200 people.
Scientists are looking at other quirks of the magnitude 7.1 earthquake, including the absence of aftershocks and if it is somehow related to a distant, even stronger, Mexican temblor that struck a dozen days earlier.
LIKE JELLY

Mexico City is built on deep, soft soil that was once the bottom of a lake.
Instead of cushioning the city from earthquakes, it exaggerates their effects, said James Jackson, a professor of geophysics at the University of Cambridge in England.
The vibrations, or seismic waves, from the hard rocks below are amplified by the soil and sediments above, making the surface  and the structures built on the surface  shake longer and more intensely.
"It's like being built on jelly on top of something that is wobbling," Jackson said.
The soft sediments were the major cause of damage in Mexico City's 1985 earthquake, according to Cornell University geophysicist Geoffrey Abers.
OTHER SOFT SPOTS

The same deep soft soil effect worsened the deadly 2015 Nepal earthquake because Katmandu is also built on a dry lake bed, Jackson said.
While the geology is not quite the same, Los Angeles, Seattle and the San Francisco Bay area have soft soil that can amplify seismic waves, according to U.S. Geological Survey seismologist Oliver Boyd.
New Zealand has been affected by similar issues in past quakes, he said.
WHERE ARE THE AFTERSHOCKS?
Scientists have been unable to detect any aftershocks as of Wednesday afternoon, said USGS seismologist Paul Earle.
Usually an area can expect an aftershock one magnitude lower, which would be in the 6.1 range, he said  even though Tuesday's quake was a type that is usually accompanied by fewer aftershocks.
Unlike most earthquakes, it did not happen where two tectonic plates meet.
Instead, Tuesday's quake happened in the middle of the Cocos plate, the result of pressure built up as it slips under the North American plate.
This so-called "slab fault" quake usually has fewer aftershocks, like the relative quiet after a 2001 earthquake in Seattle.
Tuesday's quake was deeper than normal at 51 kilometers (32 miles) below the surface, and deeper quakes are also associated with fewer aftershocks.
TWO IN TWELVE DAYS

Tuesday's earthquake was the second in just 12 days in Mexico.
The first was a magnitude 8.1 quake that struck southern Mexico and killed at least 90 people.
Geologists say the second quake was not an aftershock because it was too far away  about 650 kilometers (400 miles)  from the first.
Most aftershocks are within 100 kilometers (62 miles), Earle said.
It was also not a release of stress generated by the far-off quake, Earle said.
Still, he said, seismologists will probe further to see if there might be some kind of link between the two  or not.
"Earthquakes are random," Earle said.
"Sometimes they happen spaced out in time.
Sometimes they happen at the same time."
Follow Seth Borenstein on Twitter at @borenbears .
His work can be found here .
This Associated Press series was produced in partnership with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education.
The AP is solely responsible for all content.
The Latest on President Donald Trump and Russia probes (all times local):

7:25 a.m.

Vice President Mike Pence says the Trump administration is focused on issues "the American people are focused on" and isn't getting distracted by investigations into Russian interference in last year's U.S. election.
"We have cooperated with the special counsel's investigation and we will continue to do that," Pence tells "CBS This Morning" Thursday.
Asked if he thought special counsel Robert Mueller was moving beyond his investigative authority, Pence replied, "Well, I think that's for others to say."
Asked about reports that Paul Manafort, then the Trump campaign manager, offered to brief a Russian billionaire, he demurred.
Pence said, "We're just going to let this process go forward."
3:40 a.m.

Special counsel Robert Mueller's team of investigators is seeking information from the White House related to Michael Flynn's stint as national security adviser and about the response to a meeting with a Russian lawyer that was attended by President Donald Trump's oldest son, The Associated Press has learned.
Mueller's office has requested a large batch of documents from the White House and is expected to interview at least a half-dozen current and former aides in the coming weeks.
Lawyers for the White House are in the process of trying to cooperate with the document requests.
Though the full scope of the investigation is not clear, the information requests make evident at least some of the areas that Mueller and his team of prosecutors intend to look into and also reveal a strong interest in certain of Trump's actions as president.
The World Wildlife Fund filed a lawsuit Monday over extensive pollution to the coastline outside Athens following the sinking of a tanker near Greece's largest port.
The environmental group's Greek branch filed the lawsuit in the port city of Piraeus against "anyone found responsible," a common practice when a party that could be held legally accountable has not been identified formally.
The Agia Zoni II tanker sank Sept. 10 while anchored in calm seas and carrying 2,200 tons of fuel oil and 370 tons of marine gas oil.
The ship's cargo spilled into waters where dolphins, turtles, seals and a variety of fish and sea birds feed and live.
Oil slicks have extended from the island of Salamina, near where the tanker went down, to the entire length of the Athens coast.
The World Wildlife Fund said it considered the case to be "an environmental crime deserving exemplary punishment."
The Greek government has faced criticism for what many observers said was a slow, inadequate response that allowed leaking oil to spread along the greater Athens area's coastline.
The tanker sank very near Piraeus, the country's largest and best-equipped port.
The government has rejected the criticism, insisting it did everything possible to contain and clean up the slick.
"The effort to tackle the pollution is a difficult affair that requires the immediate mobilization of all the responsible bodies," Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras told his Cabinet ministers in televised comments Monday.
"Already, all available counter-pollution means have been mobilized and great efforts are being made."
Demetres Karavellas, chief executive of the World Wildlife Fund's Greece office, said it was essential to identify where responsibility lies.
"Through a thorough analysis of the causes, we will emerge better prepared to avert or control similar accidents in the future," Karavellas said.
Transcript for Facebook to turn over Russian-linked political ads to Congress

New developments in the Russia investigation.
Facebook is admitting Russia agents bought thousands of ads during the election.
Now, the social media giant says it will turn over those ads to congress.
Our chief investigative correspondent Brian Ross is here with that story.
Good morning.
Reporter: Good morning.
For months Facebook had been stonewalling congress on turning those over but now caved with Mark Zuckerberg finally acknowledging the scope of the issue and saying his company will provide copies with Russian ads.
I don't want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy.
That's not what we stand for.
Reporter: Russian companies spent more than $100,000 on Facebook ads during the campaign.
Many of them praising Donald Trump or attacking Hillary Clinton and others dealing with controversial issues.
But Facebook has refused to let congress keep copies of even the few ads they showed them.
They showed the senate staff seven of those ads and they didn't allow us to even keep them and that was just with stats -- Took them back?
Took them back.
Reporter: Millions saw those ads and Clinton said Facebook has to own up to the problem.
I don't think anybody can with a straight face say that the Russians did not set out to influence our election and they did so.
This latest revelation about the way they bought ads on Facebook and targeted them, we're going to find out a lot more.
Reporter: Zuckerberg did not say Facebook would prohibit the Russians from buying political ads again but he said the company will at least make it clear who paid for them.
We can do better.
Reporter: It was not just ads.
Investigators say they have also found huge numbers of fake Facebook pages linked to the Russians.
Like this one discovered by "The New York Times" supposedly an anti-clinton father in Pennsylvania but he didn't ex-he is.
The picture was actually of someone in Brazil.
Now even with the new concession senator Warner says the time may have come for Facebook and other social media sites to face restrictions about who can buy political ads and what must be disclosed.
Zuckerberg called senator Warner with his change of heart.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for iPhone 8 release day announced

In today's tech bike its iPhone eight day Apple's new device hits the market six weeks before the iPhone ten a move bush.
Many experts say could hurt sales and Australian man with sites for today's release he waited in line eleven day is to be the first person to get his hands on that song.
There is celebrating in Sydney while and you cannot use its rams face filters for live video streaming.
Through this program and a bit visual effects can be added before you start streaming ordering your broadcast his defense says it could take a couple weeks for the upgrade to be available around the world.
And Porsche is unveiling a sleek new model offering style and speed but.
You can't taken on the road it's the first ever Porsche super yacht the high tech all aluminum vessel with two electric motors.
As for cabins and us Bob we'll of course only seven will be made price tag not a bad sixteen million dollars does your tech bytes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Equifax breached months prior than admitted

It today sect Mike's new concern over that Equifax data breach the Wall Street Journal reports hackers broke into Equifax computers in March.
That's two months earlier than the company disclosed.
Beckett hackers more time to eventually gain access to the data possibly.
A 143 million people.
He may have to wait a little longer for the iPhone ten according to reports production of the phone has been delayed.
Meaning there'll be fewer phones available once they finally go on sale in November pre orders of the thousand dollar foam begin on October 27.
And Bill Gates is apologizing for Ctrl+Alt+Del.
And he says he now is.
It's awkward the former Microsoft chairman tried to have the three key function.
As a single Peabody says the designer of they IBM keyboard wasn't on board with his ideas so we wound up with a Ctrl+Alt+Del.
Thanks IBM this.
Does your check back.
All over the place.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Amazon mistakenly sends baby registry email

It's a sect likes an apology from Amazon and random Amazon customers receive email notices telling them a gift from their baby registry had been purchased.
Problem is most of those recipients don't have a registry and don't have a baby Amazon blames a glitch for those emails what some customers are fuming calling them insensitive.
And returning items that were actually purchased on Amazon is about to get a whole lot easier now starting next month Coles will start accepting returns for Amazon.
At 82 of its stores across Chicago and Los Angeles packing and shipping them for free.
And McAfee antivirus software company has compiled a list of the most dangerous celebrities online today or the celebs with the highest percentage search engine results was.
Malignant.
And link it's easier less top five idol Levine Bruno Mars Carly ray Jackson Zain mallet.
And Celine Dion.
They say the lizard tech bikes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple CEO talks Dreamers, augmented reality

back now with apple's CEO Tim cook.
Here for his first interview since the launch of the highly anticipated and revolutionary new iPhones 8 and X with facial recognition and cutting-edge augmented reality technology.
Something you can have in your hands and use for the first time today.
It's going to be downloaded today in all these phones you have here and Tim says it could change our lives and so wonderful to have you here live with us, Tim cook, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you, thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for the live demo yesterday and earlier this morning ginger and some kids had a great time with ar.
They were playing with various games and people want to know, augmented reality.
It's different.
It's new.
That's on apple right now, in fact, it's going to be downloaded later today.
Tell us why it's a big deal.
This is huge because it's the first time that hundreds of millions of customers actually later today hundreds of millions of customers will be able to use ar for the first time.
So we're bringing it to mainstream.
If you have an iPhone 6s or later you have augmented reality today.
We've made it really simple for developers to design apps with their passion and bring it to everybody.
Explain what it is, ar.
It's taking the virtual world and overlaying it to physical world.
And so you saw a Democrat Poe earlier to position chairs in a living room.
We're seeing that right now.
It's a fantastic way to shop.
It's a fantastic way to learn.
You might even want to look at your favorite car and actually go in the car and so you have to do that in a showroom today, you can now do that right from your living room.
It's unbelievable.
Well, it's fun.
Face it as you're talking about we're look at the set and looking at how we just saw it -- see, that's what we're seeing right now and then when we had the demonstration earlier it shows such a difference.
Now we have to admit ar has been around for awhile but apple is putting its stamp on it.
What's making it different.
We're taking the complex and making it simple.
I mean, this is what apple is so fantastic at.
We want everybody to be able to use ar and so we've taken the complexity that developers would normally have to do in their apps and made it simple for them to convert all of their apps to an ar experience.
And the thing that's very different about apple is in one day, we can make ar available for hundreds of millions of people and that will happen in a few hours from now.
Get ready for the download.
You know when it says a download that's what's going to happen on your phone.
This is a day to remember.
This is a day to remember.
This is a profound day.
Let's talk a little about the 8 and 10.
The two new phones and wonderful options part of it.
But there's one facial recognition that's getting a lot of attention.
People are saying, wait a minute here.
What is the potential of -- because we're talking about this facial data, millions of people and the potential that it could be misused or hacked.
Should people be concerned about that, Tim?
Not with us.
Because we're about your privacy.
We want to protect your data because we know it's yours, not ours.
And so once you place your face in the phone, it's in the phone.
Apple doesn't have it.
We've encrypted on your device.
You make the decisions about who has it.
Not us.
We're very protective of our customers' data because we believe that privacy is very important in this world, that there are hackers everywhere trying to steal your information.
We want it to be yours.
It is not ours.
That's been the hallmark of apple from the very beginning.
We fought very hard for it.
The headphone jack gone.
Now the home button gone.
I know you said the space is a premium on the phone.
What's next?
Why the home button.
You know, the home button is belogged but we think having an edge-to-edge display such that the whole phone is a display will be loved even more and so we're doing that for all of us.
Well, we have a couple of questions from our viewers but I do want to ask you one question, though, your response to when president trump announced that he was going to change the laws that protect d.r.e.a.m.ers, DACA, you mentioned to your beloved apple employees that there were 250 d.r.e.a.m.ers that you have and you encouraged them and said you were dismayed by that but now that the president seems to be willing to at least compromise with the Democrats are you encouraged by that at all?
I am encouraged about it.
These folk, I think this is really important for everybody to understand, these folks came to the country when they were very young.
Most of them don't even remember coming to the country because they were 1, 2, 3 years old at the time and these kids, if you talk to them, they deeply love this country.
They have great jobs.
They pay taxes.
These guys are our neighbors, they're our co-workers and so we feel it's essential that we not only allow them to stay in our country but we welcome them, that we desire that they be here.
I hope everyone reaches out and meets some of the d.r.e.a.m.ers, because it will really warm your heart in meeting them.
And so I am encouraged that congress will pass a law to make this permanent and we're doing everything we can to advocate for that.
Good we're having this dialogue.
Thank you for discussing that.
Back to the phone and the questions from -- they didn't hold back.
You know that.
You know they never hold back.
One viewer asks, you knew this was coming.
I understand inflation, et cetera, but don't you find the price tag for the iPhone X out of reach for the average American?
Well, it's a value price actually for the technology that you're getting and as it turns out, you know, most people are now paying for phones over long periods of time.
And so very few people will pay the price tag of the phone initiay.
Also most people actually trade in their current phone and so that reduces the price further and some carriers even throw in subsidies and discounts.
And so when we look at it, the phone -- the iPhone in particular has become so essential in our daily lives, people want it to do more and more and more and so we built more and more technology in to be able to do that.
I love how you told me you don't want to sell the most, you want to sell the best.
Apple has never been about selling the most of anything.
We don't -- that is not our objective.
Our objectives are not big revenues.
Our objective is to make the best product that enriches people's lives.
All right.
We want to help people.
I know you do.
Here's another question.
This one says about face I.D.
Can more than -- can more than one person use facial re krechlt on the same phone.
Kids on parents' phone, spouses, for instance?
Oh, that's a good question.
I wouldn't recommend that one.
I wouldn't recommend that.
So just leave it at that.
I'd leave it at that.
I wouldn't recommend that.
Steve jobs, when you had your announcement last week you got really emotional.
His DNA is still so much of apple.
I walked in the theater that day and from the moment I walked in there, I know this may strange to your viewers, but I could feel him there.
His DNA is very much the DNA of apple.
And the way that his philosophy of life is how we run the company.
We don't sit and think about what would Steve do?
But we think about the principles that apple is based on, a values-based company that is making insanely great products that are simple to use for the technology takes the backseat, not the front seat.
The user experience is top for us.
We want users to be happy.
And so this company still runs like that today.
And you can feel him in there.
You can feel him in the products and in everything and I love it that way.
Very grateful and appreciate your passion and creativity.
You and your team.
Get ready for that download.
You guys are going to love it check it out.
Tim cook, thank you very much.
Always a pleasure to see you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple iOS 11 operating system will start rolling out to iPhone users

In today's tech site it's time for Apple's new operating system iPhone users should get a notification today telling them it's time to download the new IOS eleven.
Those who've already is a beta version say IOS eleven has a new control center and a more natural sounding teary.
Video gamers will feel right at home on board the navy's newest submarines the Paris goes.
We'll be operated by Xbox-360.
Controllers at.
Which cost the navy a lot less edit your stuff I get to buy for that next baby shower.
Here's an option Lander over has come up with then all terrain stroller.
The baby buggy was unveiled at a German motor show its seats even have fancy sitting just like the vehicles it set to go on sale early next year for about 2000 dollars.
2000 power wind and I would hope this insect bites out of anything.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Scam found to be connected to the Equifax hack

In today's tech sites to scam connected to the Equifax tack get these are contacting consumers claiming they want to verify accounts and then they steal information.
Officials say never give out info to anyone who calls or emails he Equifax breach potentially impacted 143.
Million people.
Of course is showing off its first all electric car the mission eight.
The company says it'll go zero to sixty in just over three seconds the mission he will go on sale in about two years a price tag around 80000 dollars.
And as expected the Emmys dominated social media overnight twitters at the moment that drove the most tweets was one Elisabeth Moss won best lead actress in a drama the star most we did about on the red carpet Millie Bobby brown and the most likely end to Graham post.
Was this image by Melissa McCarthy with her husband.
On the way to the show.
Tebow a room there to protect my.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Cassini spacecraft goes out in a blaze of glory

And explore exceeding all expectations.
Tonight Cassini is gone sent in to saturn's atmosphere for a fiery finale.
Of its twenty year mission of discovery.
The first craft circling saturn's rings sending spectacular images Cassini was running out of fuel snapping a final photo as it descended.
Until silence we have a lot.
The spacecraft responsible for striking scientific breakthroughs finding oceans on two of the planet's moons suggesting the possibility of life disintegrated with its teams saying farewell to the faithful explorer.
I'm going to call this the end of mission.
Project manager often that.
A celebration unsuccessfully.
Incinerating Cassini to avoid contaminating saturn's moons the hope to someday return to Saturn and build on the cosmic accomplishments.
Of Cassini.
In opening up a new world.
David Curley ABC news Washington.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple pre-orders for IPhone 8 and Plus are now live

It's a basic rights pre orders for Apple's iPhone aide added plus.
Dollars and they'll be the most advanced I've phones on the market.
Very exactly six rigs until the iPhone ten is released on November 3 Ani for android fans Samsung's latest edition of its flagship Smartphone goes on sale today.
And it got you know eight has already received its first update improving cameras stability and wireless charging prices start at 930 dollars.
And FaceBook has come up with a new way to keep over sharing friends off your news speed temporarily without hitting the un friend button.
FaceBook assessing our news news feature that can temporarily block a person group or page you can hide them.
And their post for 24 hours a week for an entire month I'd give him a little probation jury exactly does your tech bikes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for NASA's Cassini spacecraft sends final image

I.
Awesome feeling a little and one wireline forcing me.
Point ESPN's Allan hands these could.
Project manager on him so large blue Libya and you're losing and she left.
Just turn these political and on Aaron.
Next 45 seconds old special news.
And I hope to hear all.
This leave early rounds.
It's an amazing accomplishment.
Congratulations to you all.
This is spinning many tuning in and liberated and out and you're all an incredible team.
I think all this didn't mean.
Project man you're non and then.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Tesla to reveal new tractor-trailer

In today's tech likes Tesla is set to shift gears CEO Elon Musk tweaks that Tesla is set to unveil a battery powered tractor trailer.
The reveal is set for October 26 in California Tesla says it's worth seeing this beast in person.
It's on a real.
Polaroid is making a comeback.
Ten years after it stopped making its iconic instant film camera the new 99 dollar Polaroid one step two is actually made by the impossible project company.
On a mission to revive the instant photography the company is also launching new film in color and black and white.
Angela says Powell to draw is a fifth most popular Howell to question users a vast in the last thirteen years.
Number four.
How to lose weight number three.
How to get pregnant number two and a possible answer how to kits remember one how to tie had tough pitcher Ted writes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Google reveals the No.
1 'how to' search

Do you guys, everybody in the audience, when you have a question about something, anything, what is the first thing you do to get an answer?
Search for it.
You Google it, right?
The name Google has become a verb.
If you just Google it.
That's what people say, you want to know who I am, just Google me, girl.
If you want to know -- Very easy for you.
Hey, I have never used that, okay.
I have evnever used it -- You're saying that's the first time.
You've said that before.
He said that before.
You have.
Let's get off me and -- No, no, no.
Usually if you do#something, you search for things like how to draw, how to make money, Google -- How to make money?
George, people have done it.
I have a list.
Number six, you can't see what's on the list.
There's number six, how to make money.
I say just go work.
But the searches for how to are up 140% over the past decade because people literally go out and try to figure it out online.
What have you guys done to how to search for lately?
The last thing I think I did was how to tie a bow tie.
Did it work?
Those diagrams -- no, they don't work in diagrams?
No -- Too much folding and flipping.
I just gave up and put on a regular tie.
I did how to braid your own hair and I actually had to cut the piece of my hair out.
I knotted it so badly.
Everything is back -- you know -- have you ever tried to braid your own hair?
Just don't.
George and I haven't.
I'll be honest with you.
But I'm going to give 2017 top ten lists.
I won't give all ten, how to make money was number six, that confused me too.
Number five is how to draw.
Well -- Number four, how to lose weight.
Number three, how to get pregnant.
Oh, boy.
That is not true.
That is not true.
That's not true.
And I tell you right now -- I could answer that but I'm trying to keep my job.
Yeah, about to say.
Number two -- you'll love number two.
Goes with number three, number two, how to kiss.
Oh, no.
You are totally making all of this up.
George, this is real.
This is real.
And the number one googled item of how to is very simple.
How to tie a tie.
That makes sense.
After number three -- How to make pancake, how to write a cover letter.
How to make French toast is number nine then the one my dad always asked me like how to lose belly fat.
Your dad -- My dad always -- he's 80 years old and he's like, I want to be build like a wasp.
How a wasp -- A -- At first -- I've never.
He's 80 years old.
Did I say that?
But that is it.
Those are the top things,

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Researchers have fresh evidence that invasive grass carp are swimming and spawning near the mouth of a river that flows into Lake Erie.
Their next step is figuring out how to stop it from gaining a foothold and devouring wetland plants along the shoreline and underwater vegetation in the lake that shelters native fish.
Grass carp are one of four Asian carp species threatening the Great Lakes, but they're not as worrisome as the bighead and silver carp, which could devastate fish populations in the lakes.
While environmental groups and scientists have put much of their attention on preventing the bighead and silver carp from reaching the lakes, the grass carp already have been found in Lakes Erie, Michigan and Ontario.
A look at the efforts to stop the grass carp:



WHAT ARE GRASS CARP?
Brought to the U.S. more than 50 years ago to control weed growth, they're still sold to pond owners.
Some states now require that they be sterilized before being released.
But recent surveys have found grass carp eggs in Great Lakes waterways.
Some made their way into the lakes via rivers, while others were dumped into the waterways.
The fish feed on aquatic plants, eating up to 90 pounds a day and damaging areas used by spawning fish and migrating birds.
What is not known is how many are in the lakes and where they've spread.
HOW BIG OF A THREAT?
It's believed there are still only a small number of grass carp in the lakes.
But a report released by U.S. and Canadian researchers warned this year that if effective steps aren't taken, it's likely that the invasive fish will be established in lakes Erie, Huron, Michigan and Ontario within 10 years.
WHERE ARE THEY BEING FOUND?
The biggest concern is in Lake Erie where grass carp have been found in tributary rivers and along the shoreline.
Researchers have been closely watching the Sandusky River, between Cleveland and Toledo, since the discovery of grass carp eggs in 2015.
More eggs were found this summer along with eight adults that were netted during a two-day search.
WHAT HAVE RESEACHERS LEARNED?
It appears the grass carp spawn after heavy rains or when there's high water on the Sandusky River, said Rich Carter, who oversees fish management and research for the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.
The fish also seem to like long rivers.
All of that is important to know, he said, to help find a potential way to control their populations.
WHAT'S BEING DONE?
Plans are being developed to make a more intensive effort to capture and remove the carp from the Sandusky River, where more than 100 have been found since 2012, Carter said.
There's also ongoing work to follow grass carp that have been tagged to determine where they spawn and where they can be found, said Mark Gaikowski, a research director with the U.S. Geological Survey.
London's mayor said Saturday that people angry about the decision by transit authorities to strip Uber of its license to operate in the city should blame the ride-hailing company itself.
"I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber," Mayor Sadiq Khan said.
The city's transportation agency, Transport for London, said Friday that it would not renew Uber's license when it expires Sept. 30, citing a lack of corporate responsibility.
The agency said the factors it considered included Uber's "approach to reporting serious criminal offenses" and its use of software designed to evade the authorities.
Khan said in a statement that it would be wrong "to license Uber if there was any way this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety or security."
Uber has long been a target of complaints from taxi drivers and companies.
Cab drivers say Uber drivers don't have to comply with the same licensing standards, giving the ride-hailing service an unfair advantage and placing the public at risk.
Uber said it plans to appeal and accused London's regulator of caving in to special interests "who want to restrict consumer choice."
It can keep operating in the city pending the outcome of the appeal.
More than 500,000 people have signed an online petition protesting the decision not to renew Uber's license.
Uber has 3.5 million customers and 40,000 drivers in London.
The federal government on Friday told election officials in 21 states that hackers targeted their systems before last year's presidential election.
The notification came roughly a year after U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials first said states were targeted by hacking efforts possibly connected to Russia.
The states that told The Associated Press they had been targeted included some key political battlegrounds, such as Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.
The AP contacted every state election office to determine which ones had been informed that their election systems had been targeted.
The others confirming were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas and Washington.
Being targeted does not mean that sensitive voter data was manipulated or results were changed.
A hacker targeting a system without getting inside is similar to a burglar circling a house checking for unlocked doors and windows.
Even so, the widespread nature of the attempts and the yearlong lag time in notification from Homeland Security raised concerns among some election officials and lawmakers.
For many states, the Friday calls were the first official confirmation of whether their states were on the list  even though state election officials across the country have been calling for months for the federal government to share information about any hacks, as have members of Congress.
"It is completely unacceptable that it has taken DHS over a year to inform our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for information," California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement.
"The practice of withholding critical information from elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy."
U.S. Sen. Mark Warner, of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that's investigating Russian meddling in last year's election, has been pushing the department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states.
He said states need such information in real time so they can strengthen their cyber defenses.
"We have to do better in the future," he said.
Homeland Security said it recognizes that state and local officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election infrastructure.
"We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners," it said in a statement.
The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide details about what had been sought.
But election officials in several states said the attempts were linked to Russia.
The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the state's systems were targeted by "Russian government cyber actors."
Alaska Elections Division Director Josie Bahnke said computers in Russia were scanning election systems looking for vulnerabilities.
A spokeswoman for Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson, the president of National Association of Secretaries of State, said Lawson requested a list of the states where there were hacking efforts.
In most cases, states said they were told the systems were not breached.
Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states the targeting was preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.
The targets included voter registration systems but not vote tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks but most were unsuccessful.
Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter systems.
Other states said their cybersecurity efforts turned back efforts to get to crucial information.
"There are constant attempts by bad actors to hack our systems," Iowa Secretary of State Paul Pate, a Republican, said in a statement.
"But we continue to deflect those attempts."
Colorado said the hacking wasn't quite a breach.
"It's really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would break into your computer," said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado secretary of state's office.
"It's not an attack.
I wouldn't call it a probe.
It's not a breach, it's not a penetration."
Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that hackers obtained information from a company that provided software to manage voter registrations in eight states.
The May report said hackers sent phishing emails to 122 local election officials just before the November 2016 election in an attempt to break into their systems.
The latest disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel investigates whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between Russia and associates of Donald Trump.
Trump, a Republican who defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax.
He says Russian President Vladimir Putin "vehemently denied" the conclusions of numerous American intelligence agencies.
For states that were told they were not targets, the news brought relief.
"This is one time we like being at the bottom of the list," said Lisa Strimple, a spokeswoman for Nebraska's secretary of state.
Associated Press statehouse reporters around the country contributed to this report.
Follow Mulvihill and Pearson at http://www.twitter.com/geoffmulvihill and https://twitter.com/JakePearsonAP



This story has been corrected to show that a spokeswoman for the president of the National Association of Secretaries of State said a request had been made for the list of states that were targeted, not a spokeswoman for the organization.
NASA's asteroid-chasing spacecraft is swinging by Earth on Friday on its way to a space rock.
Launched a year ago, Osiris-Rex was on track to pass within about 11,000 miles (17,700 kilometers) of the home planet Friday afternoon  above Antarctica.
It needs Earth's gravity as a slingshot to put it on a path toward the asteroid Bennu.
Osiris-Rex should reach the small, roundish asteroid next year and, in 2020, collect some of its gravel for return to Earth.
If all goes well, scientists should get the samples in 2023.
Friday's flyby is a quick hello: The spacecraft will zoom by at about 19,000 mph (31,000 kph).
NASA has taken precautions to ensure Osiris-Rex  about the size of an SUV  does not slam into any satellites.
"Everything looks great!
Thanks for the well wishes," the University of Arizona's Dante Lauretta, chief scientist for Osiris-Rex, said late Thursday via Twitter.
Ground telescopes have been trying to observe the spacecraft while it's in the neighborhood.
NASA has posted a picture gallery online.
NASA expected to be out of contact with Osiris-Rex for about an hour during the flyby.
The spacecraft was going to be too close for the Deep Space Network for communication relay.
Bennu is just 1,640 feet (500 meters) or so across and circles the sun in an orbit slightly wider than ours.
Osiris-Rex will go into orbit around the asteroid and seek the best spot for grabbing a few handfuls of the bite-size bits of rock.
It will hover like a hummingbird as a mechanical arm briefly rests on the surface and sucks in samples stirred up by nitrogen gas thrusters.
Scientists say the ancient asteroid could hold clues to the origin of life.
It's believed to have formed 4.5 billion years ago, a remnant of the solar system's building blocks.
This is the first U.S. attempt to bring back samples from an asteroid.
Japan already has visited an asteroid and returned some specks.
Video

Bees in Manchester are having computer chips glued to their bodies, to help beekeepers track when they enter and exit the hive.
Rory Cellan-Jones visited the project to find out how it works.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Apple introduced new iOS on Tuesday

Android devices as well as Apple computers have Persian keyboards, but until this week the option wasn't available on Apple phones or iPads.
For years Persian speakers used the Arabic keyboard on the iPhone, which was not really ideal for writing quickly or accurately in Persian.
There were lots of petitions to Apple, pressing them to add a Persian keyboard to mobile phones.
That finally paid off with the latest release.
Arabic and Persian keyboards are very similar.
But there are two major issues - the four extra letters in Persian - and the "half space" feature needed for a well-edited Persian message.
In order to type the extra four letters in our alphabet we had to press and hold another letter and wait for a window to pop up so we could drag our finger on it and see it on screen.
Yet that was still doable.
The "half space" was the more serious issue.
In Persian, the letters in a single word are joined-up.
Some words we make by combining two words together.
These compound words should be near but not attached to each other.
On Apple and Microsoft computers, as well as in Android devices we have long been able to use a "half space" to separate words but keep them close enough.
A hyphen does almost a similar task in English.
But the half space is used far more in Persian.
Image caption First line is typing without half space and the second line has the half space.
Extra Persian letters are circled in Red.
Half space button has a blue circle around it.
For example: "I work for the BBC."
If I want to write this sentence in Farsi, I use the "half space" three times to keep the BBC letters close to each other and to join two parts of the verb.
For several years, many Iranians and Afghans signed petitions, hoping to add the keyboard.
One of my friends personally wrote to Steve Jobs twice, but never heard back.
Even though Apple could have given us this option sooner, I took the joy of having a proper keyboard to Twitter and wrote about it there.
Some Android enthusiasts replied to me, saying their devices had it for "ages".
Others wondered why Apple would add the keyboard as they abandoned Iranian apps.
Recently Apple has removed some apps developed in Iran from their stores.
Snapp, a popular ride-hailing app like Uber, was one of those affected.
Apple said it was deleting them due to US sanctions, but some Persian cooking apps or video streaming apps developed outside Iran were also deleted.
Google did not take the same measures.
Even though many see Apple's recent moves as a double standard, I still think having a Persian keyboard is good for our language.
Persian written in the Persian alphabet is common in only two countries: Iran and Afghanistan.
During the time of the Soviet Union, Iranian elites often sent their sons to Europe and the USSR to study.
Image copyright Getty Images

Amazed by the Western world, some suggested we should change our alphabet to Latin, much like Turkey did.
Others argued we would cut our ties with our literary heritage, and those arguments won out.
We ended up keeping our alphabet.
Then came the era of computers and smartphones.
Early technology did not support the Persian alphabet.
So my generation, who grew up in the 80s and 90s, started writing Persian with a Latin alphabet on computers and early phones, calling it Farglish.
Because of the sanctions, Apple and other major tech companies do not have any legal presence in Iran and as some of these smartphones are considered expensive, they don't have a big market in Iran and Afghanistan.
One may wonder why it was important for us to have a Persian keyboard on devices that not many Iranians own.
The answer is that we do care about our cultural heritage and appreciate any attempt to have a better connection with our great poets and writers - masters like Sa'di, Rumi, Hafiz, Ferdowsi, Khayyam and others.
A text for me is like a wall.
Every word is like a brick.
If I want to build a sturdy and beautiful wall I cannot use broken bricks.
I don't want any extra space between the pieces of a brick.
As a journalist or even as a user on Twitter, I would like to make a good impression on my audience.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Drivers and passengers react to news that Uber's licence in London will be revoked

Uber will not be issued a new private hire licence, Transport for London (TfL) has said.
TfL concluded the ride-hailing app firm was not fit and proper to hold a London private hire operator licence.
It said it took the decision on the grounds of "public safety and security implications".
Confirming it would appeal against the decision, Uber said it showed the world "far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies".
TfL's concerns include Uber's approach to carrying out background checks on drivers and reporting serious criminal offences.
What does the ruling mean?
Seven things Londoners will miss if Uber goes

Now what next for Uberisation?
Your views: Uber London loses licence

Uber's current licence is due to run until 30 September.
It has 21 days to appeal against TfL's decision and can continue to operate while any appeals are ongoing.
Some 3.5 million passengers and 40,000 drivers use the Uber app in London.
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said: "I fully support TfL's decision - it would be wrong if TfL continued to license Uber if there is any way that this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety and security."
Image copyright PA Image caption Taxi drivers have been campaigning against Uber, such as engaging in this "go slow" protest in 2014

Fred Jones, head of cities for Uber across the UK and Ireland, told the BBC Uber drivers had to pass the same safety checks as black cab and mini cab drivers in London.
There had been growing speculation that the app could be banned from London.
Opponents of the firm claim it causes gridlocked roads and does not do enough to regulate its drivers.
But one driver with Uber in London said: "I don't think it is a fair decision.
Uber offers a flexible schedule, and a weekly income."
Uber controversies

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Some 3.5 million passengers and 40,000 drivers use the Uber app in London

Uber's general manager in London Tom Elvidge said: "By wanting to ban our app from the capital, Transport for London and the mayor have caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
"If this decision stands, it will put more than 40,000 licensed drivers out of work and deprive Londoners of a convenient and affordable form of transport.
"To defend the livelihoods of all those drivers, and the consumer choice of millions of Londoners who use our app, we intend to immediately challenge this in the courts."
He said Uber operated in more than 600 cities around the world, including more than 40 towns and cities in the UK.
Analysis: From BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones

Throughout its short, tempestuous life, Uber has clashed with regulators around the world - and more often than not it has come out on top.
Its tactic has often been to arrive in a city, break a few rules, and then apologise when it's rapped over the knuckles.
Some regulators have backed down, others have run the company out of town.
In London, despite protests from angry taxi drivers, the company has had a relatively easy ride until now.
But a wave of bad publicity about its corporate culture, its lax attitude to checks on its drivers and its treatment of this freelance army seems to have spurred TfL into action.
Make no mistake, Uber will use every legal avenue to fight this ban.
It will argue that consumers, in the shape of the millions of mainly young Londoners who rely on its service, will be seriously let down if it can no longer operate.
But the courts will have to balance that with the serious concerns about public safety raised by TfL.
On social media, a fierce debate has broken out over the decision.
An online petition launched by Uber urging Sadiq Khan to reverse the decision to strip its London licence has been signed by tens of thousands of people in the space of a few hours.
Twitter user @Gabbysalaza_ said that she was "annoyed" at the decision as Uber allowed to her to get out of "uncomfy" situations if out at night.
Skip Twitter post by @gabbysalazar_ As a woman who lives alone and goes outside after dark, I'm really annoyed.
Uber is so useful (and cheap) when in uncomfy situations.
https://t.co/Q9iaMN1rrD  Gabriella Salazar (@gabbysalazar_) September 22, 2017 Report

Labour MP Wes Streeting, chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Taxis, called the decision "courageous" in a tweet.
James Le Lacheur called the decision a "victory" on Twitter.
Skip Twitter post by @JamesLeLacheur I've never felt the need to use the ethical colander that is #Uber Not once.
And I always make it home safely and cheaply.
This is a victory  Mx James Le Lacheur (@JamesLeLacheur) September 22, 2017 Report

General secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association Steve McNamara said it was the "right call" not to re-license Uber in London.
"This immoral company has no place on London's street," he said.
Across the world, Uber has been pushed out or denied access by local licensing laws.
Legislators in Darwin, in Australia's Northern Territory, are debating whether to allow Uber to return after a raft of reforms designed to open up the ride-sharing market were announced.
Uber is currently fighting a test case in Denmark after four if its drivers were found to be in violation of the country's laws requiring taxi meters.
'Devastating blow'

David Leam, of London First which campaigns for business in the capital, said London needed to be open to new ideas, business and services.
He said: "This will be seen as a Luddite decision by millions of Londoners and international visitors who use Uber, and will also hit London's reputation as a global tech hub."
James Farrar, chairman of the Independent Workers' Union of Great Britain's United Private Hire Drivers branch, said it was a "devastating blow" for the drivers who now face losing their jobs.
"To strip Uber of its licence after five years of laissez-faire regulation is a testament to a systemic failure at TfL," he said.
Image copyright Pact

Fitness app Pact, which promised members financial rewards for meeting their health goals, has settled accusations that it broke its promises.
The app let people set exercise and dietary goals, and charged them a penalty between $5 (3.70) and $50 if they failed to meet their target.
It pledged to share some of the "fines" with members who did reach their goals.
But the US Federal Trade Commission said Pact had now started to return money wrongly taken from subscribers.
Pact - originally known as GymPact - was launched in 2012 to help people meet fitness goals.
Pledges were verified by using smartphone location data and photographs to prove members had been to the gym.
Image copyright PAct Image caption Pact used smartphone data to prove people were genuinely exercising

People could choose how much they would be "fined" if they failed to meet their own targets.
The FTC alleged that the company had broken its promises and charged "tens of thousands" of people a penalty even if they had met their fitness goals, or cancelled their subscription.
It also said the app did not pay out the rewards it had promised,

"Unfortunately, even when consumers held up their end of the deal, Pact failed to make good on its promises," said the FTC's Tom Pahl.
As part of the settlement, the company will return $940,000 to members who earned cash rewards or were incorrectly charged.
The BBC has attempted to contact principals of the Pact team.
Image copyright die-phalanx Image caption It's still not clear what the attack code does on compromised machines

Hackers who booby-trapped widely used security software also used their malware to infiltrate machines at tech firms, suggests analysis.
Evidence that other companies had been compromised came to light as Cisco researchers probed how attackers got at the popular CCleaner programme.
Millions of people downloaded a Windows version that hackers had laced with malicious code.
Cisco said the attackers were seeking valuable intellectual property.
Cleaning up

Last week CCleaner creator Piriform revealed that attackers had managed to place a hijacked copy of version 5.33 that works on Windows on some download servers.
The booby-trapped code was available for about a month between August and September,

Millions of people downloaded the compromised version of CCleaner but damage was limited because whoever created it had not updated it to include elements that could scan machines and steal data.
However, Cisco said its analysis suggested that attackers had taken that extra step on machines at tech firms they had managed to infiltrate.
Hi-tech giants including Cisco, Intel, Google, Samsung and Microsoft were among the 20 or so companies believed to have been hit in this way.
"These new findings raise our level of concern about these events, as elements of our research point towards a possible unknown, sophisticated actor," wrote the Cisco researchers.
Cisco said it was likely that a lot of other firms had been hit by whoever was behind the sophisticated and wide-ranging attack.
It recommended that anyone cleaning up after finding they had been compromised restore machines from backup as it was not clear what other code the attackers had installed on those computers.
It said it was still analysing the code to find out exactly what it did.
Cisco said it was not yet clear who carried out the sophisticated attack on CCleaner and the other technology firms.
The Xbox One X is nearly here - and fans in the UK have just been able to play it for the first time.
People at the EGX games expo in Birmingham have been playing demos of new games for the follow-up to the Xbox One.
Microsoft promise a more powerful processor which will be able to run games in 4K ultra-HD.
Here's what gamers thought - after being some of the first in the UK to try the console.
Ashley and Omick

"Wow.
It's mind-blowing," says Ashley, who was playing Assassin's Creed.
"The game really does pop out at you, whereas before you didn't get that depth of field that you get now."
Omick adds: "It's definitely leaps and bounds ahead of what's currently out there.
"It's just a matter of using the power to take it to new gaming heights.
And they don't have any qualms paying around 500 for the console - they've both pre-ordered it.
"It's a case of if you want that PC-level quality experience but don't want the complexity of setting it all up," says Omick.
Christina and Myles

Having just played the new console, Christina and her boyfriend Myles are both slightly more reserved.
"The game we played showed off the 4K really well, and showed the potential of the new Xbox," says Christina.
"Definitely going from 720p to 4K is nicer.
It ran really well.
No latency at all," agrees Myles.
But they're both concerned about the price - and not just of the console.
"To get the 4K and the top graphics, you need to buy the 4K TV as well," says Christina.
"PlayStation already do 4K, so Xbox needed to step up.
They are, but you have to look at the price and see what else they can give us [for that price]".
Matt and Matt

One of the Matts isn't really buying the claims of the Xbox One X being more powerful than ever.
"Apparently the PS4 Pro was the most powerful one as well.
They can say what they want, it's just marketing gimmicks."
He's not sure the console will take off because 4K TVs are still relatively new and expensive: "When they become a lot cheaper, people will appreciate the ability of the consoles," he says.
The other Matt dopes admit the game play was "really good" with impressive graphics, but is still "a Sony fanboy" at heart.
He's more into indie games, so "it's more about the games than power for me.
"I don't have a 4K TV, so at the minute it's fun but not realistic."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright EPA

Credit rating firm Equifax has apologised after it mistakenly directed some customers to an imposter website via its Twitter page.
The firm recently disclosed a data breach affecting more than 143 million people, and set up a new website to share information with customers.
But it mistakenly tweeted the wrong web address several times, leading some customers to a fake website.
One security researcher told the BBC it was a "massive faux-pas".
Image caption The fake Equifax website looked just like the real thing, but was critical of the company

Following its data breach, Equifax set up a new website - equifaxsecurity2017.com - to let people find out more information.
The website also let people register for a credit monitoring service, by entering personal details into a form.
Many security researchers said Equifax should have hosted this information on its main website - equifax.com - rather than setting up a new one.
They pointed out that the new web address looked like one a scammer might set up to try to fool victims.
Security researcher Nick Sweeting tweeted: "Yeah... no thanks... it would take me literally 20 mins to build a clone of this site."
He then did exactly that, creating an almost identical version of the website at securityequifax2017.com.
His fake version of the website also let people fill in their personal information - but then told them they had been "bamboozled".
Staff operating the Equifax twitter feed shared the fake website with customers several times.
Image copyright Twitter.com/Equifax Image caption The incorrect tweets have since been deleted

In a statement, Equifax said: "All posts using the wrong link have been taken down.
We apologise for the confusion.
"Consumers should be aware of fake websites purporting to be operated by Equifax.
Our dedicated website for consumers to learn more about the incident and sign up for free credit monitoring is equifaxsecurity2017.com and our US company homepage is equifax.com."
Faux-pas

"Clearly, the social media team has not been thoroughly briefed," said Ken Munro from the security firm Pen Test Partners.
"That's a massive faux-pas, they should not be pointing people to a website that is not the real one.
"They are lucky the person behind it was a well-intentioned security researcher, it could easily have been somebody harvesting credentials."
Criminals often use a widely-publicised data breach to try and fool victims into handing over more of their personal data.
"People have to be careful after a data breach.
Hackers often email victims trying to spoof the affected organisations," said Mr Munro.
"You might get phone calls from people pretending to be from the support team.
We see this all the time - be on your guard."
Image copyright Fingopay Image caption The system could be handy if you have forgotten your purse or wallet

A supermarket in London is trialling a biometric payment system that uses the unique vein pattern in fingertips to pay for goods.
Costcutter said it would consider rolling Fingopay out more widely if the test, at Brunel University, was successful.
An electronic reader maps the user's finger veins, generating a unique key.
But one expert questioned whether biometric systems had any benefit over traditional methods of payment.
During registration, users need to link their finger pattern to their credit or debit card and then they can pay for goods without the need to be carrying any cash or cards.
The technology has been developed by electronics giant Hitachi, with biometric payments company Sthaler licensed to roll it out in the retail sector.
Nick Dryden, chief executive of Sthaler, said the system would appeal to young people.
"Today's millennial generation now expects a higher level of ease, security and efficiency from the way that we pay," he said.
James Budkiewicz, assistant director of the commercial directorate at Brunel University London, said that it would give students "the opportunity to take cash off campus, benefiting not just customers, but our retailers too".
A spokeswoman for Costcutter said: "We will be interested to see the results and will decide on next steps at that point."
Finger change

Barclays bank introduced the same Hitachi-developed technology in 2014 when a similar finger vein desktop reader was rolled out to its corporate customers.
Fingopay was also trialled at a bar in Camden earlier this year, with 2,000 customers signed up.
Sthaler says its method is "the safest form of biometrics with no known breaches".
Security consultant Graham Cluley said: "There have been fingerprint biometric systems in the past that have been easily tricked.
"The problem with biometrics is that you can't change it, so if someone gets hold of your information and reproduces it, what are you going to do?
You can't change your finger.
"I do wonder why there is such an urgent push to use this technology rather than the traditional methods of identifying yourself."
Prof Alan Woodward, a computer scientist from the University of Surrey, said a system that relied on vein patterns was more secure than previous biometrics.
"This is a good thing to do," he said.
"With this system, blood needs to be flowing through the veins so you can prove it is a real, live person using it, which is much harder to spoof."
Image copyright AFP

Losses have risen sharply at the gig economy food delivery firm, Deliveroo, according to its latest accounts.
The company, incorporated under the name Roofoods, made a worldwide loss of 129m in 2016, up from 30m in 2015.
Deliveroo made sales of 128.56m, up from 18.1m, but the cost of getting the goods to customers was 127.47m, leaving it a wafer-thin profit margin.
On top of that the company has been funding an international expansion plan.
Deliveroo is now in 12 countries, including Germany and Singapore.
It connects thousands of bike couriers to customers wanting food from restaurants that do not have their own delivery system.
Deliveroo does not employ its riders directly, but pays them per delivery - hence the term "gig".
In July the company said it would pay sickness and injury benefits to its 15,000 riders in the UK if the laws were changed.
Deliveroo said UK employment rules should be changed so that people who work for companies like Deliveroo can receive enhanced benefits and not lose the flexibility to work when they want.
'Heavy investment'

Last year the number of Deliveroo riders worldwide rose from 5,700 in 2015 to 26,500, a number that has carried on rising.
That rapid expansion was behind rising administrative expenses, which ballooned to 142m last year.
Its accounts also show it raised 208m from shareholders in 2016, representing 29% of the company.
A company spokesman said in a statement: "Deliveroo is investing heavily in new technology and new sites across the world.
'We are extremely proud that in only four years Deliveroo now works with over 30,000 riders and 20,000 restaurants to deliver great-tasting food in over 140 cities around the world."
Image copyright CTP South East Image caption Taha Hussain sent videos of himself driving outside army barracks listening to jihadi chants following terrorist attacks in Paris and Orlando

A man who filmed a drive-by video calling British soldiers "baby butchers of the Muslims" has been jailed for posting terrorist propaganda online.
Taha Hussain, from Slough, Berkshire, also made a film in Windsor, saying a statue of the Queen "will be toppled" like the one of Saddam Hussain in Iraq.
The 21-year-old was convicted of seven counts of disseminating terrorist publications on YouTube and WhatsApp.
He was jailed for four and a half-years at the Old Bailey in London.
Hussain, of Langtree Avenue, attended "road shows" and encouraged others to "prepare or commit acts of terror" in the two years before his arrest in August 2016, the trial at Kingston Crown Court previously heard.
He used a phone emblazoned with so-called Islamic State's black flag to post the videos.
In June 2016, he made a drive-by video around the area of Cavalry Barracks in Hounslow, where the 1st Battalion Irish Guards are based.
Hussain was heard to say: "We are outside the British barracks today, as you can see, the baby butchers of the Muslims."
The occupants of the car were heard to shout: "Allah is the greatest."
Image copyright Police handout Image caption A propaganda image belonging to Taha Hussain found by police

Another video filmed in a car driving around Windsor shows Hussain saying: "So you see the statue of the Queen here, like the statue of Saddam Hussein was toppled, so will the statue of the Queen."
He also distributed videos and audio files on topics that included attempting to justify the Charlie Hebdo murders and the Paris attacks in 2015.
The court heard Hussain has expressed remorse for his actions and a willingness to embark on a deradicalisation programme.
His defence counsel Frida Hussain said: "This is a young man who was immersed into a world of this nature from a very early age and (during) his formative years.
"It is not too late for this young man to turn his life around."
During sentencing, Judge Paul Dodgson described some of the evidence as "chilling", particularly in light of recent terror attacks in the UK.
Judge Dodgson said: "I can only hope that your public renouncement of the aims of Isis and its allies is genuine and will lead you to take a new direction in the way you observe your religion."
Image copyright Getty Images

Alphabet's Google has struck a $1.1bn (822m) deal with Taiwan's HTC to expand its smartphone business.
Google will not take a stake in the firm, but some HTC staff will join the Silicon Valley giant.
The Taiwanese company was once a major player in the smartphone market but has struggled to compete with the likes of Apple and Samsung.
Google expects the deal to close by early 2018, provided it gets the all clear from regulators.
Shares in HTC were suspended in Taiwan on Thursday.
Betting on hardware

The deal marks the latest move by Google to boost its hardware capabilities.
"It's still early days for Google's hardware business," the firm's senior vice-president of hardware Rick Osterloh said in a blog post on Google's website.
Under the deal, Google will acquire a team of people who develop Pixel smartphones for the US company and receive a non-exclusive license for HTC's intellectual property.
It builds on an existing partnership between the two tech companies.
"These future fellow Googlers are amazing folks we've already been working with closely on the Pixel smartphone line," Mr Osterloh said.
According to HTC half their smartphone research and development team - about 2,000 people - will go to Google.
HTC manufactures Google's smartphones, the Pixel and Pixel XL.
The company will release updated version of the devices next month.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google will unveil new products including smartphones next month

Analysis - Dave Lee, BBC North America technology reporter, San Francisco

Yesterday, within just a few hours, most of Apple's millions upon millions of users were using the latest mobile operating system, having tapped on the prompt to download iOS 11.
Contrast that experience on Android, where the company's impressive and innovative updates are greatly hampered as it can take months, sometimes years, for those features to filter to users.
Google knows this disconnect between its software and hardware is a massive problem.
And so this curious deal with HTC, which falls short of the rumoured buyout, is about solving that problem.
If it can have close control over key premium devices, it can be more ambitious with its software.
In some respects, this $1.1bn deal is like a good friend lending their pal a few quid to tide them over for a while.
HTC needs Google's money to keep going.
And Google needs HTC's expertise and manufacturing capability to remain competitive with its mobile devices.
Deal benefits

The deal marks Google's second major foray into smartphone manufacturing.
In 2011 Alphabet, then named Google, bought Motorola's Mobility for $12.5bn, only to sell it on three years later.
Geoff Blaber from CCS Insight said while the HTC deal might "raise eyebrows" given Google's history with Motorola, it will give the firm valuable design and engineering resources.
"The far bigger risk for Google would be to stand by and do nothing as hardware becomes an all-important means to an end for its core business," Mr Blaber said.
But the big winner is HTC.
"It's a much needed investment as HTC struggles to maintain its smartphone business and grow its early start in virtual reality," he added.
HTC makes Vive, the VR headset favoured by Google, as the alternative Oculus Rift is owned by Facebook.
Vive is reportedly outselling Oculus Rift by a margin of nearly two-to-one, albeit with still modest numbers, and is recognised by many as the superior system.
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
Mario is no longer a plumber, and other news

BBC Click's Kat Hawkins looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories.
Burger robot rolled out to US restaurants

BBC Click's Stephen Beckett looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories.
Image copyright Getty Images

YouTube has announced the end of paid channels, which were launched in 2013 as one of the site's first attempts at charging for content.
The facility let people pay a monthly fee to access individual YouTube channels from providers such as National Geographic and Sesame Street.
However, the service was not popular with viewers and will end in December.
"It never achieved popularity with creators or users," Google admitted in a blog post.
In December, videomakers who currently host their videos on a paid subscription-only channel will have the option of hiding them or making them available free.
The closure does not affect YouTube Red, the website's own subscription service that offers exclusive programmes and removes advertisements from YouTube.
It is currently available only in the United States.
Image copyright YouTube Image caption Individual paid movie and concert rentals will also still be offered on YouTube.
To help videomakers earn money, YouTube said it would open up its sponsorship facility to more content creators.
That facility lets viewers set up voluntary monthly payments of $4.99 (3.70) to their favourite YouTube stars, in exchange for perks such as customised emojis.
"They haven't seen the take-up they wanted," said Joseph Evans, an analyst at Enders.
"It's somewhat surprising when you look at what the other giants are doing.
Amazon is pushing a modular 'subscribe to one channel at a time' service, having started with its all-you-can-eat package.
"With the sort of content people expect on YouTube, the sponsorship model does make more sense.
"But YouTubers may be wary of giving Google control of their video distribution and sponsorship money."
Image copyright Microsoft Image caption Windows XP dates back to October 2001 and was replaced by Vista five years later

England's second biggest police force has revealed that more than one in five of its computers were still running Windows XP as of July.
Greater Manchester Police told the BBC that 1,518 of its PCs ran the ageing operating system, representing 20.3% of all the office computers it used.
Microsoft ended nearly all support for the operating system in 2014.
Experts say its use could pose a hacking risk.
The figure was disclosed as part of a wider Freedom of Information request.
"Even if security vulnerabilities are identified in XP, Microsoft won't distribute patches in the same way it does for later releases of Windows," said Dr Steven Murdoch, a cyber-security expert at University College London.
"So, if the [police's] Windows XP computers are exposed to the public internet, then that would be a serious concern.
"If they are isolated, that would be less of a worry - but the problem is still that if something gets into a secure network, it might then spread.
That is what happened in the NHS with the recent Wannacry outbreak."
Image copyright EPA Image caption The NHS and other organisations were hit by the Wannacry attack four months ago

In May, ransomware malware known as Wannacry caused havoc to the National Health Service's computer systems.
Infected computers' files were digitally scrambled making them inaccessible, while staff were told to switch off other PCs to stop the infection from spreading.
Operations and other appointments had to be cancelled as a consequence.
Greater Manchester Police said it was reducing its reliance on XP "continually".
"The remaining XP machines are still in place due to complex technical requirements from a small number of externally provided highly specialised applications," a spokeswoman told the BBC.
"Work is well advanced to mitigate each of these special requirements within this calendar year, typically through the replacement or removal of the software applications in question."
Attack risk

Most of the UK's police forces refused to disclose their numbers in response to the Freedom of Information request, citing security concerns.
Several suggested revealing a large figure might lead them to become a target, while revealing a low tally could put others at greater risk of attack.
However, eight forces that had fewer than 10 PCs using XP were willing to confirm the fact.
Of the other forces that shared their numbers:

Cleveland Police said it had seven computers running XP, representing 0.36% of the total

the Police Service of Northern Ireland said it had five PCs still running XP, representing 0.05% of the total

the Civil Nuclear Constabulary said it had fewer than 10 computers in operation running Windows XP, representing less than 1% of the total, but it added none of them was on its live network

Gwent Police, North Wales Police, Lancashire Constabulary, Wiltshire Police and City of London Police all said they had no computers running XP

The UK's biggest force - London's Metropolitan Police Service - was among those that refused to share an up-to-date figure.
But in June it said about 10,000 of its desktop computers were still running XP.
"Disclosing further information would reveal potential weaknesses and vulnerability," the force's information manager, Paul Mayger, said.
"This would be damaging as criminals/terrorists would gain a greater understanding of the MPS's systems, enabling them to take steps to counter them."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Microsoft says computers that still use XP should not be considered "secure"

The Met had, however, answered a Freedom of Information request on the subject in October 2015, when it said 35,640 of its desktop and laptop computers were running XP.
The BBC has appealed against its refusal to provide an update.
Revelation risks

Police Scotland was among those to refuse to provide any numbers at all.
"The requested information could be used by a hostile party to plan and execute an attack," said Colette McGloan, its lead disclosure officer.
"Such attacks could take the form of data theft, denial of service or other deliberate disruptions."
Cumbria Police indicated the Wannacry attack had caused it to refuse the request.
"Taking into account the recent cyber-attacks within the United Kingdom, no information... which may aid cyber-attacks should be disclosed," said disclosure and compliance officer Sarah Pearce.
"The more information disclosed over time will give a more detailed account of the ICT [information and communications technology] infrastructure of not only a force area but also the country as a whole."
However, one computer security expert took issue with these excuses.
"We should be praising police forces that have made good progress in upgrading to a newer operating system and calling those who haven't to account," said Ken Munro from Pen Test Partners.
"Surely it's in everyone's interests for us not to have an incident with the police like we did with the NHS, where we only discover the scale of the problem after an attack."
'Easy to detect'

Dr Murdoch said it would not be difficult for skilled attackers to identify vulnerable systems anyway.
"There is probably not much harm in disclosure, since if someone can get access to the computers, it's relatively easy to work out which ones are running Windows XP," he said.
"There are standard toolkits that adversaries use to run all the exploits they are aware of, and if anything works, then they will go with that."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Manchester's police force says it is trying to reduce its reliance on Windows XP

For its part, Greater Manchester Police said that it saw no problem in complying with the request.
"The decision to share the figures on this has been made as the simple numerical response would not pose a significant increase to our organisational risks," said a spokeswoman.
Image copyright PA

The prime minister wants technology companies to do more to tackle extremist content on the web.
They say it's not as straightforward as it might sound.
As so-called Islamic State faces defeat in the battlefield of the Middle East, British security officials know the online battle will increasingly take centre-stage.
IS has shown its ability to reach out to people online and radicalise, recruit and even instruct them on how to carry out acts of violence.
A report from the think tank Policy Exchange said the UK was the world's fifth biggest audience for extremist material.
The companies say they are acting on this problem.
Facebook says it has begun to use artificial intelligence to spot images, videos and text related to terrorism as well as clusters of fake accounts.
Meanwhile, Twitter says it suspended 299,649 accounts in the first six months of this year - 75% of these before their first tweet.
The companies are now sharing databases of suspicious material, and they have set up the Global Internet Forum to bring together the major players on the issue.
They stress that the challenge remains immense when so much material is being uploaded.
Image copyright PA Image caption Theresa May in New York, where she is addressing the UN General Assembly

"It is a computer science challenge when you are dealing with the scale and scope of the internet and the number of different accounts that are at issue," says Kent Walker, general counsel at Google, speaking in advance of the UN meeting where he is representing the Global Internet Forum.
But Theresa May wants internet companies to go "further and faster", including developing new technology to stop extremist material from appearing on the web in the first place, or taking it down within an hour or two of appearing (the period in which it is more widely disseminated).
Much of the talk has been about taking down content, but officials in London say they want the companies to tackle a broader problem - the presence of extremist groups on their platforms.
The concern is over the ability of groups such as IS to not just upload propaganda but to use social media to engage directly with people and communicate with them.
For instance, someone may find material on a site and then be directed to another channel (perhaps encrypted) where they will find a call to carry out acts of violence and perhaps even instructions on how to do it.
Officials believe the companies could do more to deny extremist groups any presence on the platforms by focusing not just on content but also on the actors using the platforms.
They believe technology companies could look at the metadata of users to spot potential extremist actors and then either exclude them or quarantine any material they try to upload so it can be reviewed.
Such actions, they argue, are similar to the work to keep not just paedophile content but paedophile groups off the web.
Image copyright Getty Images

Companies have been resistant about going down this path.
They say they do not want to have the "signals intelligence" work of government outsourced to them.
They have been sensitive about accusations of spying on their users on behalf of government since the Edward Snowden revelations of 2013 revealed the way in which the US National Security Agency (NSA) obtained material from companies including Microsoft, Yahoo and Facebook.
British officials argue in turn that technology companies already analyse metadata in order to search for botnets (networks designed to infect computers and deliver spam).
They say systems determine that a certain type of account in a certain country, exhibiting a certain pattern of behaviour, is likely to be being used in a botnet and therefore should be either blocked or reviewed.
The same type of technology could be used for extremist actors, they maintain.
Another problem for technology companies is that they are criticised when their automated tools remove the wrong material.
For instance, there have been complaints that videos about the conflict in Syria have been removed from sites that document war crimes or analyse what is going on.
There are also fears that tools might eliminate content that relates to legitimate news but features imagery from propaganda videos.
"We have thousands of people on behalf of all the different companies who are working to train and improve the quality of our machine learning," says Mr Walker.
"The challenge is that while machine learning is a powerful tool, it is still relatively early in its evolution.
We need the ability to identify the problematic material and remove it while being able to separate the wheat from the chaff.
We need feedback from trusted government sources and our users."
For the companies, another challenge is their own global presence.
They fear that bowing too far to demands to remove extremist content or blocking actors will lead to an avalanche of requests from governments who each define such content in different ways.
A further problem is that the big companies of Silicon Valley are not the only players.
The company Telegram in particular has been criticised for not doing more.
It has positioned itself as keeping its distance from governments and their demands for information.
This problem may grow as more and more companies set up outside the US and UK and see resisting pressure from governments as a way of differentiating themselves from the big players in Silicon Valley.
Technology companies point to the amount of staff they are now putting in to review material, but government officials say they are still not putting their best engineering minds on the issue - for instance, the developers who come up with highly profitable techniques for targeting ads.
Companies often say that technology can solve any problem.
And government wants to see if they can prove it.
Image caption Facebook is testing a tool that allows users to hide alcohol adverts.
Facebook is testing a tool that lets people hide advertisements for alcohol.
It is the first time a social network has let people proactively block adverts on a specific topic.
The move has been welcomed by Alcohol Research UK, which says social media is "saturated" with alcohol promotions.
It said advertising rules were not "fit for purpose", but the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said the UK had some of the strictest rules in the world.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hayles wants to hide alcohol adverts from her social media feeds.
Hayles, from south Wales, describes herself as a "binge-aholic", and told the BBC she did not want to see alcohol adverts on social media.
"To me, it's a trigger," she said.
"Not only do I get told that it's Friday night and it's 'wine night' for mum when the kids are in bed, I also get told I should be out drinking flavoured vodka because that's the only way I can go dancing, I can only enjoy rugby if I have a lager it's tiresome, if I'm honest."
During the Facebook trial, participants will be able to block alcohol-related ads for six months, a year or permanently, by accessing their ad preferences.
They will also be able to hide ads related to parenting.
The social network has asking people to suggest other topics they would like to be able to block.
Dr James Nicholls, director of research and policy development at Alcohol Research UK, told BBC Radio 5 live that the volume of marketing material on social media was a particular problem for those who had struggled with alcohol misuse.
"You'll often find that brands create a range of content: funny videos and memes, competitions, tie-ins with real-world events, that are designed to keep their brand visible in timelines," he said.
Image caption Hayles doesn't want to see alcohol ads on social media.
She celebrated 100 days sober with a new "sober mama" tattoo.
"They can do this without breaking the rules on celebrating drunkenness, or showing people who look under 25, but still saturate the online environment with references to drinking."
The charity wants a comprehensive review of the regulations on social media "in order to ensure that people - particularly young people - develop healthier relationships with alcohol".
Alcohol adverts on all platforms are governed in the UK by statutory regulation from the ASA.
There is also a self-regulatory code of practice produced by the Portman Group, the responsibility body for drinks producers in the UK.
The ASA rejected claims that regulation around alcohol adverts online needed reviewing.
Constant review

Craig Jones, the organisation's spokesman, insisted that the rules were applied "just as stringently online - including ads on social media, user-generated content and vlogs - as they are in traditional media.
"The number of complaints we receive about alcohol ads has halved in recent years, but we're not complacent and keep the rules under constant review.
If people see an alcohol ad they think is irresponsible they can make a complaint to the ASA.
If an ad breaks the rules, one complaint can be enough to see it banned."
The British Beer and Pub Association agreed that the regulations around advertising alcohol online were strict enough.
Chief executive Brigid Simmonds said: "Our members adhere to the ASA's rules as well as the Portman Group's code.
"All our marketing is about brand awareness and not encouraging people to drink more.
As an industry we also use advertising to deliver soft consumer messaging around alcohol awareness, linking to DrinkAware and providing responsible messaging."
Hayles is celebrating reaching 100 days sober and is looking forward to trying the new Facebook tool.
"You're always going to be faced with difficulties and I don't want to hide away from it.
But I'd like my social media to be controlled by what I want to see, because it's mine, it's my page."
Image copyright Proterra Image caption Electric buses are beginning to be tested in cities around the world

An electric bus has broken a world record by travelling more than 1,000 miles on a single charge.
The 40ft Catalyst E2 Max bus - designed by Californian company Proterra - went 1,102.2 miles on a testing ground in New Carlisle, Indiana.
Cities around the world are looking to use more electric vehicles for public transport, to combat air pollution.
Some experts believe the bus's long journey could be a breakthrough moment for electric vehicles.
The previous record of 1,013.76 miles was set by a light-duty passenger electric vehicle 46 times lighter than the bus.
Big battery

Proterra said its "major feat" paved the way for more heavy-duty electric vehicles (EV) such as coaches and trucks.
"As we see incumbents and more companies enter the heavy-duty EV market, it has become very apparent that the future is all-electric, and the Sun is setting on combustion engine technology," said chief executive Ryan Popple.
The battery used for the journey had 660kWh of energy storage capacity.
Buses can hold much larger batteries than cars, and the one in the Catalyst E2 Max has nearly nine times the capacity of that in a Tesla Model S.

Proterra has sold more than 400 of its buses to councils, universities and commercial transport agencies in 20 states across the US.
Improving health

Greenpeace clean air campaigner Rosie Rogers said: "Some companies are still trying to say the technology isn't ready to power an electric vehicle revolution and we need to hang on to diesel for years to come.
"The makers of this bus prove that really all you need is a bit of ambition and determination.
"If only our biggest mass-market carmakers had this kind of drive to tackle air pollution and improve the health and lives of the public."
More and more cities are putting in the infrastructure to support electric vehicles, and Japan now has more electric car charge points than petrol stations.
In Europe, Norway has the highest per capita number of all-electric cars, with more than 100,000 on the roads.
London boasts the largest electric bus fleet in Europe, with more than 2,500 hybrid electric buses running across the capital.
Ben Wood, an analyst from CCS Insight, said Proterra's accomplishment could help overcome one of the biggest issues in the adoption of electric vehicles: "range anxiety".
"If it is getting to the point now that a bus is travelling a significantly long distance, then that changes the perception of what an electric vehicle can deliver."
But he added: "A bus offers much more room for bigger, heavier batteries and comparisons between that and a small urban run-around could be misleading."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The recent HTC U11 was distinguished by its squeezable sides

A Google takeover of at least part of HTC's business has been rumoured for some time.
Now that the Taiwanese firm has announced its shares are being suspended, speculation is rampant that an agreement has been struck.
HTC made the first ever Android handset - the Dream - and is rumoured to be the manufacturer of one of the US firm's Pixel 2 models, which is set to be announced next month.
But Google has already struggled to integrate one phone-maker, Motorola Mobility, and it's not clear why it would want to repeat the experience.
Yes, HTC has proven itself capable of developing unusual features - such as the squeeze-to-take-photos design of its recent U11 - but it has repeatedly failed to launch a bestseller.
And does Google really want to own HTC's factories at a time when others, including Apple, are happy to outsource production?
An alternative deal could involve buying HTC's virtual reality business.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Might a takeover deal be limited to HTC's virtual reality division?
Its high-end Vive headset is reportedly outselling Facebook's Oculus Rift rival by a margin of nearly two-to-one - albeit with still modest numbers - and is recognised by many as the superior system.
Moreover, Google already poached Vive's chief designer Claude Zellweger away at the start of the year for its own Daydream VR effort.
Many believe virtual and augmented reality (in which graphics are mixed with real-world views) have the potential to revolutionise how we interact with computers, but only after further huge sums are invested in R&D.
Cash-strapped HTC might thus be incapable of making the most of its early lead, while Google may be willing to dig deep to give itself every advantage possible against Microsoft and Apple, which are also eyeing the space.
Image copyright Texas Department of Public Safety Image caption Police say Gonzalez's Instagram video revealed his location

US police say an Instagram Live video helped lead to the arrest of a "most wanted" fugitive earlier this week.
Christopher Ricardo Gonzalez allegedly streamed footage of himself alongside several guns on the Facebook-owned app.
Dallas police detectives say the feed identified the man's location and they passed these details on to the Los Angeles Police Department.
The LAPD says it subsequently captured the 18-year-old at about 02:00 local time on Tuesday.
Gonzalez had been added to the Texas Department of Public Safety's Most Wanted Fugitives list in August, after he was accused of murder, several home robberies and involvement in organised crime.
The Los Angeles Times reports he had tried to escape arrest by fleeing in a car when the officers arrived, but crashed it into a pole and was then tracked down by a police dog.
Saved videos

Instagram added the ability to broadcast live videos in November 2016.
Previously, users were able to share the clips with only their friends in real-time and the footage self-destructed as soon as the stream ended.
But earlier this year the app added the ability for members to share video replays within their Stories section, where others can watch them for up to 24 hours.
Instagram records users' global positioning system (GPS) co-ordinates when they use the feature, in order to let others browse its Stories by location.
The US police declined to provide further information about Mr Gonzalez's alleged video because they said "investigations are still being actively worked".
Instagram's video facility played a role in another California-based arrest earlier this year, after a driver was accused of having live-streamed a car accident in which her younger sister died.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Obdulia Sanchez was arrested after a car crash that allegedly involved the use of Instagram

Obdulia Sanchez appeared in court last week, where the footage she was said to have filmed was played.
The 18-year-old faces charges of gross vehicular manslaughter and driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, but her lawyer said the tyres of her car were to blame.
Image copyright TNT Image caption TNT has yet to restore all its computer systems

Delivery company FedEx says a recent cyber-attack cost its TNT division about $300m (221m).
The company was one of several to have its computer systems severely disrupted by the NotPetya ransomware outbreak in June.
Company executives also acknowledged TNT had yet to fully restore all its IT operations and was expected to do so only at the end of the month.
And they said deliveries and sales continued to suffer as a result.
Other international companies have also taken sizeable financial hits as a result of the malware.
Shipping company Maersk announced in August that it had costed its damage at "up to $300m".
And consumer goods company Reckitt Benckiser warned the attack was likely to have cost it 110m.
The British company may provide an update on that figure when it issues its next earnings report, in October.
Long recovery

During a conference call with bank analysts, FedEx's chief information officer confirmed his company believed it had been exposed to the attack via an infected tax software update used by its Ukrainian office.
Rob Carter added he believed no customer data had been exposed as a consequence and the malware had not spread to FedEx's wider systems.
Image copyright TNT Image caption FedEx bought TNT in May 2016, about a year before the attack

But he said TNT had lost business as a result of its struggle to recover.
"This was not an ordinary cyber-attack," said Mr Carter.
"This attack was the result of [a] nation state targeting Ukraine and companies that do business there.
"At the time of the attack, there was already work under way to replace TNT legacy systems with FedEx technology.
"In the wake of the attack, these efforts have been accelerated.
"The recovery and restorations of TNT Express's global operations and IT systems has... included every facility, hub and depot.
"Many systems that were not impacted by the virus were also fortified and rebuilt to ensure additional focus on security."
The BBC reported in August that TNT had had to resort to WhatsApp for internal communications as its email system had become inaccessible.
A source also disclosed its depots had been "pushed to their limit" and had found themselves with tens of thousands of unprocessed packages at the end of the day instead of the usual "handful".
But FedEx's chief operating officer defended the decision not to turn away business.
"Our operational teams remain focused on serving our customers and made a critical decision in the first 24 hours after the attack - keep our doors open for business, despite being reduced to manual processes for pick-up, sort and delivery," said Dave Bronczek.
"Our teams are [now] restoring customer volumes to our expected levels.
"This plan includes leveraging our senior officer team on sales calls to instil confidence with customers so that we can fully meet their expectations."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google-owned YouTube has been singled out for criticism about the hosting of inappropriate material

Google has announced it will give a total of 1m ($1.3m) to fund projects that help counter extremism in the UK.
The UK fund was part of a $5m global commitment, the search giant said.
Prime Minister Theresa May wants technology companies to be more proactive in shutting down spaces where extremist ideology is shared.
In a speech at the United Nations general assembly, she will challenge tech firms to take down terrorist material in two hours.
She is expected to urge Google, Facebook and Twitter to go "further and faster" in developing artificial intelligence tools that can spot terror propaganda.
On the same day, Twitter announced that it had taken down 300,000 terror accounts in the first six months of the year as its own AI tools improve.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Google's general counsel Kent Walker defended its anti-terrorism efforts on BBC Radio 4's Today

Google's funding will be handed out in partnership with the Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD), a UK-based counter-extremist organisation.
An independent advisory board including academics, policymakers, educators, representatives from creative agencies, civil society and the technology sector will be accepting a first round of applications in November, with grants of between 2,000 and 200,000 awarded to successful proposals.
ISD chief executive Sasha Havlicek said: "We are eager to work with a wide range of innovators on developing their ideas in the coming months."
Over the next two years, the wider Google funding pot would support "technology-driven solutions, as well as grassroots efforts such as community youth projects that help build communities and promote resistance to radicalisation", the search giant said.
"By funding experts like ISD, we hope to support sustainable solutions to extremism both online and offline.
We don't have all the answers, but we're committed to playing our part.
We're looking forward to helping bring new ideas and technologies to life," said Kent Walker, general counsel at Google.
In March, the UK government suspended its adverts from YouTube, following concerns they were appearing next to inappropriate content.
In June, YouTube announced four new steps it was taking to combat extremist content:

Improving its use of machine learning to remove controversial videos

Working with 15 new expert groups, including the Anti-Defamation League, the No Hate Speech Movement, and the Institute for Strategic Dialogue.
Tougher treatment for videos that are not illegal but have been flagged by users as potential violations of its policies on hate speech and violent extremism
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Deloitte said the 55-75 age group represents 14 million people in the UK

Smartphone sales are booming with older consumers in the UK, according to a study of the market.
It indicates that 71% of 55-to-75 year olds now own an app-capable handset.
The research also suggests that the age group has seen a faster adoption rate than any other over the past five years.
But it also highlighted that members of the demographic tended to use their smartphones less than younger people.
For instance, about 20% said they checked their phones within 15 minutes of waking compared with a national average of 56%.
And about 50% had Facebook installed compared to a 70% figure for all adults.
The study was based on a sample of 1,163 people questioned between May and June this year.
Deloitte suggested that the 55-to-75-year-old group's higher than average wealth might make members more likely to buy premium handsets, although some will have inevitably started using a smartphone as a consequence of being given a hand-me-down from their children.
Its research team also acknowledged that some first-time buyers might have felt forced into making the purchase.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some elderly users may have felt pressured to adopt the technology

"A growing number of parking meters may encourage payment via mobile phone, for example with a smartphone app offering the greatest convenience," they said in a company report.
"It may [also] become increasingly difficult to order a taxi in cities without using an app."
One industry-watcher highlighted that some of the older population should have benefited from some of the changes made to smartphones over recent years.
"Modern smartphones have much bigger screens, so as older people's eyesight deteriorates they are easier to view, and they have louder speakers too" commented Ian Fogg from the IHS Technology consultancy.
"The software has also become easier to use over the years - quite a few of the mainstream Android manufacturers now offer streamlined versions of their app launchers aimed at elderly people, and Apple has a lot of built-in accessibility features in iOS too."
Another expert added that a feature added to Apple and Samsung's latest handsets might attract further members of the older generations.
Image copyright Samsung Image caption Samsung highlights younger users in its facial recognition marketing, but older ones should also appreciate the feature

"Facial recognition is a very popular authentication mechanism among the elderly," said Dave Birch from Consult Hyperion.
"Research suggests older people like the idea of being able to just pick up a phone and look at it, rather than having to fiddle about with buttons to press or having to put on their glasses to type in a password.
"There's a lot of stories about people using photos to fool the tech, but actually the quality of the systems has come along in leaps and bounds."
Image copyright EPA

Technology companies must go "further and faster" in removing extremist content, Theresa May has told the United Nations general assembly.
The prime minister will also host a meeting with other world leaders and Facebook, Microsoft and Twitter.
She will challenge social networks and search engines to find fixes to take down terrorist material in two hours.
Tech giant Google said firms were doing their part but could not do it alone - governments and users needed to help.
The prime minister has repeatedly called for an end to the "safe spaces" she says terrorists enjoy online.
Ministers have called for limits to end-to-end encryption, which stops messages being read by third parties if they are intercepted, and measures to curb the spread of material on social media.
At the general assembly, the prime minister hailed progress made by tech companies since the establishment in June of an industry forum to counter terrorism.
But she urged them to go "further and faster" in developing artificial intelligence solutions to automatically reduce the period in which terror propaganda remains available, and eventually prevent it appearing at all.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Google's general counsel Kent Walker defended its anti-terrorism efforts on BBC Radio 4's Today

"This is a major step in reclaiming the internet from those who would use it to do us harm," she said.
Together, the UK, France and Italy will call for a target of one to two hours to take down terrorist content wherever it appears.
Internet companies will be given a month to show they are taking the problem seriously, with ministers at a G7 meeting on 20 October due to decide whether enough progress has been made.
Kent Walker, general counsel for Google, who is representing tech firms at Mrs May's meeting, said they would not be able to "do it alone".
"Machine-learning has improved but we are not all the way there yet," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme, in an exclusive interview.
"We need people and we need feedback from trusted government sources and from our users to identify and remove some of the most problematic content out there."
Asked about carrying bomb-making instructions on sites, he said: "Whenever we can locate this material, we are removing it.
"The challenge is once it's removed, many people re-post it or there are copies of it across the web.
"And so the challenge of identifying it and identifying the difference between bomb-making instructions and things that might look similar that might be perfectly legal - might be documentary or scientific in nature - is a real challenge."
A Downing Street source said: "These companies have some of the best brains in the world.
"They should really be focusing on what matters, which is stopping the spread of terrorism and violence."
Technology companies defended their handling of extremist content after criticism from ministers following the London Bridge terror attack in June.
Google said it had already spent hundreds of millions of pounds on tackling the problem.
Facebook and Twitter said they were working hard to rid their networks of terrorist activity and support.
YouTube told the BBC that it received 200,000 reports of inappropriate content a day, but managed to review 98% of them within 24 hours.
Addressing the UN General Assembly, Mrs May also said terrorists would never win, but that "defiance alone is not enough".
"Ultimately it is not just the terrorists themselves who we need to defeat.
It is the extremist ideologies that fuel them.
It is the ideologies that preach hatred, sow division and undermine our common humanity," she said.
'Mystified'

A new report out on Tuesday found that online jihadist propaganda attracts more clicks in the UK than in any other country in Europe.
The study by the centre-right think tank, Policy Exchange, suggested the UK public would support new laws criminalising reading content that glorifies terror.
Image copyright AFP Image caption IS militants are moving to less well-known sites after being chased off mainstream social media

Google said it will give 1m to fund counter-terrorism projects in the UK, part of a $5m (3.7m) global commitment.
The search giant has faced criticism about how it is addressing such content, particularly on YouTube.
The funding will be handed out in partnership with UK-based counter-extremist organisation the Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD).
An independent advisory board will be accepting the first round of applications in November, with grants of between 2,000 and 200,000 awarded to successful proposals.
ISD chief executive Sasha Havlicek said: "We are eager to work with a wide range of innovators on developing their ideas in the coming months."
'International consensus'

A spokesman for the Global Internet Forum to Combat Terrorism, which is formed of tech companies, said combating the spread of extremist material online required responses from government, civil society and the private sector.
"Together, we are committed to doing everything in our power to ensure that our platforms are not used to distribute terrorist content," said the spokesman.
Brian Lord, a former deputy director for Intelligence and Cyber Operations at UK intelligence monitoring service GCHQ, said the UN was "probably the best place" to raise the matter as there was a need for "an international consensus" over the balance between free speech and countering extremism.
He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "You can use a sledgehammer to crack a nut and so, actually, one can say: well just take a whole swathe of information off the internet, because somewhere in there will be the bad stuff we don't want people to see.
"But then that counters the availability of information," adding that what is seen as "free speech" in one country might be seen as something which should be taken down in another.
Image copyright Penguin Image caption Many of the affected apps are games and educational titles

Owners of iPhones and iPads who install the latest version of Apple's mobile operating system will find that some older apps will stop working.
The move will generally affect apps that have not been updated in the past two years.
Although many will have been abandoned by their developers, owners will still use some of them frequently.
It is a consequence of iOS 11 being restricted to running apps written in what is known as 64-bit code.
The number signifies how much data a processor can handle at once - the larger the figure, the faster a computer can potentially operate.
Dropping support for 32-bit software lets Apple streamline its operating system and helps it run more quickly since it no longer needs to load software libraries to make sense of the older programs.
Apple has explained in the past that it is relatively easy for app-makers to reversion their products, and its App Store has rejected updates that lack 64-bit support since June 2015.
Even so, the move bucks a general trend for operating systems to support legacy software for longer periods of time.
"Two years is a very short period for something to become obsolete, even in the technology world where things move very fast," said Prof Alan Woodward, from the University of Surrey's computing department.
"What most vendors have done so far - and Microsoft is the biggest example of this - is to keep as many things as compatible as possible for as long as possible.
"It wouldn't have taken a huge amount of work for iOS 11 to have continued supporting 32-bit, so it's difficult not to conclude that Apple is really trying to force the pace and make people move on."
The iOS 11 update became available to download earlier in the day.
Image caption Apple has made it possible to check which apps will stop working before iOS 11 is installed

Many of the affected apps are by independent developers who have shifted focus to other projects.
However, the list also contains software from more established publishers, including:

several Disney products, including its Winnie the Pooh Puzzle Book, Tangled digital book, and Princess & the Frog app

high-profile video games, including 2K's XCom: Enemy Within and Gears' Flappy Bird

American Express's Amex UK-iPad

several Penguin Books apps for young children, including its Ladybird I'm Ready to Spell and First Focus titles, as well as its Spot Goes to School interactive book

Some of these products were still on sale in the App Store at time of writing.
IPhone and iPad owners can find out which, if any, products they will lose access to by going into their devices' Settings menu, clicking the About button and then tapping the Applications subheading.
There are, however, benefits to installing iOS 11.
Image copyright Apple Image caption Users of iOS 11 will be presented with a revamped App Store

Among them are:

support for new augmented-reality apps, which mix together graphics and real-world views

a redesigned App Store that includes articles about some of the products and developers it features

improved voices for Siri

a "do not disturb" facility that activates when a device detects it is being used in a moving vehicle

"Of course, you don't have to upgrade to iOS 11, and in theory you could say people have a choice," said Prof Woodward.
"But in practice users are bound to go up to the new version, assuming their products support it."
64-bit v 32-bit: a brief introduction

Image copyright Getty Images

The number of bits in relation to a microprocessor affects the size of the numbers that can be handled by its registers - the tiny bits of memory on the processing chip itself.
Those numbers are then used to address Ram (random-access memory).
In the case of 32-bit architecture, the amount of memory than can be addressed is two to the power of 32, in other words 4.3 billion values.
In the case of 64-bit architecture the processor can theoretically address 18,400,000 trillion values.
As a result, operating systems written for 32-bit chips can only access up to 4GB of Ram, but those written for 64-bit processors can, in theory, support up to 16 billion gigabytes of Ram.
If a program has been written to take advantage of a 64-bit operating system, it should mean the processor can access data that is in this larger memory rather than retrieving it from flash storage or a hard disk, which can speed up the whole processing chain.
However, including more Ram also makes equipment more expensive and power-hungry.
None of Apple's iOS products to date has included more than 4GB of Ram.
Image copyright PA Image caption The Amazon investigation followed the detonation of a bomb on the London Underground

Amazon is to "review" how products are presented on its website, following revelations about bomb-making ingredients for sale.
A Channel 4 investigation found the retailer's algorithms grouped together household ingredients that when combined could make a lethal bomb.
Less than a week ago, a home-made explosive device was detonated on a London Underground train.
Amazon said it now intended to display products "in an appropriate manner".
What do we know?
Image copyright AFP

The Channel 4 investigators put together a shopping basket of goods that could have theoretically been used to create a deadly explosion.
One of the ingredients was said to be widely used in food production, although it was not identified.
The reporters discovered that when some of the bomb-making ingredients were selected, Amazon's algorithms suggested others via a "frequently bought together" panel on its pages.
The journalists also found that remote detonators, ignition systems and ball-bearings - which could be used as shrapnel - were also promoted in a separate "customers also bought" section.
Such ingredients are not illegal to buy individually.
But the programme pointed out that people had previously been arrested for buying large quantities of the chemicals involved.
The Amazon shopping basket created by Channel 4 had 45kg (99lb) of ingredients although the transaction was not completed.
Under current legislation, an individual can produce 100g of gun-powder for private use.
Are hundreds of people buying bomb-making equipment online?
The fact that the bomb-making ingredients popped up in the promoted panels has led many to speculate that others must have purchased the goods together.
The BBC asked Amazon how many people would have needed to have purchased the ingredients before they were grouped in these ways, but received no reply.
But according to ex-Amazon software engineer Owen Miller, there would have to had been a "significant number".
"If a few people bought post-it notes and blue shoes that wouldn't show up as recommended," he explained.
"It is defined on probability, so it is difficult to say exactly but it would be significant."
Calum Chace, author of The Economic Singularity, said it was unsurprising that Amazon was remaining tight-lipped on the inner-workings of its algorithms.
"These algorithms are a closely-guarded secret," he said.
"But it is worth noting that one third of all purchase searches start at Amazon not Google, so there could be a lot of people speculatively playing around with such product combinations."
Many Twitter users remarked that a bomb-maker would "have to be pretty dumb" to acquire such ingredients via Amazon, because their purchase would be far easier to trace than someone walking into a high street store.
It should also be pointed out that bomb-making recipes can be found elsewhere online, and it seems unlikely a terrorist would rely on Amazon's recommendations.
In 2013, the Australian government published a list of 96 ingredients that could be used for improvised explosive devices.
"If you think that I'm being irresponsible in giving away bomb-making instructions to terrorists, I can assure you that unfortunately these instructions are already easily accessible via the internet," federal attorney-general Mark Dreyfus said at the time.
There have also been plenty of offline guides, including the Anarchist's Cookbook, which caused a furore when it was published in 1971.
What is Amazon doing about it?
The investigation has sparked outrage on social media with many calling for the US store to alter its algorithms to stop grouping bomb-making ingredients.
"All products sold on Amazon must adhere to our selling guidelines and we only sell products that comply with UK laws," the company told the BBC.
"In light of recent events, we are reviewing our website to ensure that all these products are presented in an appropriate manner.
"We also continue to work closely with police and law enforcement agencies when circumstances arise where we can assist their investigations."
It did not explain how it planned to do this.
Mr Miller told the BBC that recommendations could be filtered.
He also mentioned that that "a blacklist of keywords" already existed within Amazon, although he added that in this case any banned words would have to be specifically related to bombing.
What are governments around the world doing to limit online information about bomb-making?
In 1994, US Congress passed a law making it illegal to distribute or pass out information about building bombs.
However, the law only applies when the information is passed out to help someone commit a federal crime - meaning the website would also have to incite readers to build such a bomb.
In 2004, German authorities forced a 17-year-old to shut down his website, entitled Der Abarisch Sturm after he posted detailed instructions of how to build a bomb.
In 2007, EU security commissioner Franco Frattini outlined a set of anti-terror proposals, including plans to criminalise the publication of bomb-making instructions on the net.
The legislation never became law.
Mr Miller told the BBC that if people were determined to buy bomb-making ingredients, it might "be better" they did so via Amazon.
"The trend data from Amazon will enable [the authorities] to learn when others are up to no good," he said.
Image caption Pepe the Frog was created by artist Matt Furie and has since become a hugely popular meme

The artist who created Pepe the Frog has issued several takedown notices against alt-right commentators he accuses of stealing his work.
The cartoon frog has been hijacked by nationalists, says Matt Furie.
The figure has been used to accompany hate speech.
Lawyers for Mr Furie have contacted both individuals and sites such as Reddit and Amazon, where images featuring Pepe have been posted, on the grounds of breaking copyright law.
One recipient, Mike Cernovich, described the action as "frivolous".
In a Medium post in which he also denied being a member of the alt-right movement, Mr Cernovich said that an image of Pepe in a cemetery, which accompanied an article he wrote for right-wing news site Breitbart, was fair use.
Fair Use is legal concept that allows the use of copyrighted work in order to add comment, criticism or parody.
"The image from Breitbart is clearly fair use, as is nearly every other Pepe meme floating around online," he wrote.
"I don't even care about Pepe and hardly ever talked about him."
In an article for Time magazine last year, Matt Furie lamented that his creation had become "a hate symbol".
"[Pepe] began his life as a blissfully stoned frog in my comic book Boy's Club, where he enjoyed a simple life of snacks, soda and pulling his pants all the way down to go pee," he said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Daily Stormer mocked the death of protester Heather Heyer in Charlottesville in August

Neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer has reappeared on the publicly available internet after registering a domain in Iceland.
The site was shut down at the end of August after it elicited widespread condemnation for a viral blog post mocking the death of a protestor at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
The site was launched in 2013 and had previous used the domain provider GoDaddy.
After apparently encouraging its readers to troll supporters of Heather Heyer, the woman who was killed after a car rammed into a group of protesters near a "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville this August, the website's registration was cancelled by GoDaddy and later denied a home by Google.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Events in Charlottesville have spurred a national conversation in the US about far-right groups, free speech and censorship

The site then unsuccessfully tried to register domains in Russia and Albania before it set up on the "dark web" - a subsection of the internet only accessible with a special browser.
Iceland has some of the world's most stringent free speech protection and privacy laws, a point stressed by one of the latest stories on The Daily Stormer site.
As a furore over paedophile's links to Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson has led to the collapse of Iceland's ruling coalition, The Daily Stormer went on to say that they believe this political instability will enable them to keep the domain active for the foreseeable future.
You may also like:

Media playback is unsupported on your device

Icelandic company OrangeWebsite, which describes itself as a "freedom of speech web hosting provider", is listed as a host of the new site according to registry directory site Whois.com.
When contacted by BBC Trending, however, the company said it was simply a proxy and was not directly hosting the site.
BBC Trending has also contacted The Daily Stormer for comment.
The Daily Stormer takes its inspiration from the Nazi Germany newspaper Der Stuermer, which was infamous for its anti-Jewish propaganda.
Its publisher was Julius Streicher, a Nazi Party member who was executed for crimes against humanity in 1946.
You can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending, and find us on Facebook.
All our stories are at bbc.com/trending.
Image copyright Oli Scarff

The rise of cyber-bullying and monopolistic business practices has damaged trust in the internet, pioneering entrepreneur Baroness Lane-Fox has told the BBC.
The Lastminute.com founder also called for a "shared set of principles" to make the web happier and safer.
She said the internet had done much good over the last 30 years.
But she said too many people had missed out on the benefits and it was time to "take a step back".
"The web has become embedded in our lives over the last three decades but I think it's reached an inflexion point, or a sort of midlife crisis," she told Radio 4's Today programme.
Baroness Lane-Fox co-founded travel booking site Lastminute.com in 1998 before going on to sell the firm for 577m seven years later.
She described the early days of the internet as being "full of energy and excitement", and akin to the "wild West".
"There was this feeling that suddenly, with this access to this new technology, you could start a business from anywhere," she said.
Tech 'minnow'

However, she said that while technology had become a hugely important sector of the UK economy, it had not fulfilled its early potential.
While the web had given people access to the "the world's knowledge" and enhanced communication, huge numbers still did not use the internet.
She added that the UK's technology sector remained an "absolute minnow" compared with that of the US.
"More importantly, perhaps a handful of Western companies control a huge amount of our experience of the internet - Apple, Facebook, Google and Amazon - and that is different to how I imagined," she said.
The baroness, who is also a Twitter board member, lamented the negative effects of social media sites on some young people's self-esteem.
And she said many people had begun to question the commercial motives of the major internet platforms, arguing they needed to be more transparent.
In response, she said there needed to be a Geneva Convention-style charter of internet good practice for web firms to sign up to.
She said the UK government's proposal for a Digital Charter would be a good place to start, and argued that the web giants would back such an idea.
"I think an agreed set of principles is in the interest of those big companies.
They want all of us to keep enjoying and using their products and services."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chinese regulators have issued strict instructions on how Bitcoin exchanges should dismantle their operations

China is moving forward with plans to shut down Bitcoin exchanges in the country, starting with trading platforms in key cities.
All Bitcoin exchanges in Beijing and Shanghai have been ordered to submit plans for winding down their operations by 20 September.
The move follows the Chinese central bank's decision to ban initial coin offerings in early September.
Top exchange BTCC said it would stop trading at the end of the month.
Chinese authorities decided to ban digital currencies as part of a plan for reducing the country's financial risks.
A website set up by the Chinese central bank warned that cryptocurrencies are "increasingly used as a tool in criminal activities such as money laundering, drug trafficking, smuggling, and illegal fundraising".
Strict instructions

According to a document leaked online by users on the social network Weibo that was seen by Coindesk, Chinese regulators ordered all cryptocurrency exchanges in Beijing to stop registering new user registration by midnight local time on 15 September, and to notify users publicly when they formally close.
All exchanges are required to send regulators a detailed "risk-free" plan of how they intend to exit the market before 18:30 local time on Wednesday 20 September.
The regulator also ordered the exchanges to submit DVDs containing all user trading and holding data to the local authorities.
Shareholders, controllers, executives, and core financial and technical staff of exchanges are also required to remain in Beijing during the shutdown and to co-operate fully with authorities.
Being cautious

"China is shutting the exchanges down for good reasons - I think it's right they're being cautious at this time," Paul Armstrong, an emerging technology adviser and author of the book Disruptive Technologies, told the BBC.
"Bitcoin is by proxy unregulated and peer-to-peer, it's a very volatile currency."
However, Mr Armstrong does not think that this will be the end of Bitcoin in China for good.
"They're shutting it down for now, but it doesn't mean that in six months or so they won't create new Bitcoin regulations like Japan and Australia did," he said.
"All the other countries have digital currencies and are making important decisions about it, so it doesn't make sense for China to dismiss it out of hand."
He added that China's decision could prompt Chinese investors to seek alternative options to digital currencies, such as moving out of the country and operating exchanges or Bitcoin mining pools in other regions.
Image copyright Microsoft

Microsoft says that its Outlook email services have been fully restored, following problems which lasted several hours.
Many Outlook users were unable to send email or access their accounts.
Hundreds from around Europe commented on the website Downdetector that they had been affected by the problem - many since Monday morning.
One common issue seemed to be that sent emails remained in the drafts folder and were not delivered to recipients.
On its website, Microsoft said the service dropped "unexpectedly" and it was working on a fix.
Not all account holders were affected.
"Intermittent connectivity is affecting customers in some European countries, which we are working to resolve as soon as possible," said a Microsoft representative.
Outlook incorporates Hotmail and Windows Live Hotmail accounts.
On its service status page, Microsoft said that an "alternate infrastructure" is being used while the service is restored.
"We've identified that a subset of infrastructure was unable to process requests as expected, which caused general service availability to drop unexpectedly," it says.
"We've redirected requests to alternate infrastructure to restore service, and we're monitoring the environment while connectivity recovers.
"Additionally, we're investigating an issue in which users are unable to send email messages."
In an updated statement, Microsoft now says services are "fully restored".
Image copyright TOSHIFUMI KITAMURA Image caption Mining crypto-currencies typically involves a lot of computer power

The Pirate Bay briefly put code on some of its web pages that used visitors' machines to mine a virtual currency.
The hidden code helped the file-sharing site generate coins for the Monero digital currency.
The Pirate Bay's administrators said using the code had been an experiment to see whether it could provide a way to end its reliance on ad revenue.
But many visitors objected to the code being foisted on them without any prior notification.
One Monero coin is currently worth about $100 (74).
The code inserted on The Pirate Bay pages was under development, said the site's administrators, who also asked people for feedback.
"Do you want ads or do you want to give away a few of your CPU [central processing unit] cycles every time you visit the site?"
they asked.
A note added to the blog post said an error in the code had caused it to try to grab all available CPU power to mine Monero.
This bug had now been fixed, the administrators said, which should limit how much it used to 30% at most.
The Pirate Bay had adapted code from software company Coin-Hive for its test.
Many crypto-currencies work by getting some of those who hold the coins to run code that verifies who has spent or transferred which coins.
The reward for carrying out this work, known as mining, is typically newly minted coins.
Ad-blockers or browser add-ons that stopped scripts being run on web pages would also disable the mining code, the administrators said.
File-sharing news site Torrent Freak said the test had been carried out for 24 hours over the weekend and many people had complained.
Many had called the idea "dumb" and urged The Pirate Bay to disable the code.
While others had said mining virtual cash was an "interesting idea" but criticised The Pirate Bay for not warning users about the test.
"Agree on the overall goal," wrote one contributor, "but not so on the way it runs without explicit knowledge or authorisation of users."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Users of CCleaner are being urged to upgrade to the latest version

A security company has issued a warning after its software was compromised by malicious hackers.
Piriform told users a booby-trapped version of its CCleaner software had been made available in August and September.
Millions of people use the CCleaner program to remove unwanted junk from Android phones and Windows PCs.
Piriform's owner, Avast, said it had managed to remove the compromised version before any harm had been done.
It appears that it was only the Windows version of CCleaner that was compromised.
Cleaning up

If the malicious hackers who had managed to subvert the software had not been spotted, they could have remotely taken over the devices of the 2.27 million people who had downloaded version 5.33 of the program, said Paul Yung, from Piriform.
Mr Yung said the company had spotted some "suspicious activity" on 12 September that led it to discover version 5.33 had been "illegally modified" before it had been made available to the public.
The modified version was available for about a month.
The modifications made infected machines contact some recently registered web domains - a tactic often used by cyber-thieves who then use this route to install more damaging software on compromised devices.
The impact of the infection had been limited, said Mr Yung, because relatively few people automatically updated the CCleaner software.
Anyone who had downloaded the compromised version of CCleaner was now being moved to the latest uninfected version, he said.
"To the best of our knowledge, we were able to disarm the threat before it was able to do any harm," said Mr Yung.
He apologised for any inconvenience that had been caused and said the company's investigation into the attack was "ongoing".
Separate analysis by Cisco's Talos security group suggests whoever was behind the attack on CCleaner had managed to get access to the server Piriform used to host new versions of the software.
Talos researcher Craig Williams told the Reuters news agency the attack had been "sophisticated" because it had targeted a trusted server and sought to make the booby-trapped version look legitimate.
"There is nothing a user could have noticed," he said.
Image copyright AFP Image caption IS militants are moving to less well-known sites after being chased off mainstream social media

Online jihadist propaganda attracts more clicks in the UK than any other country in Europe, a report has found.
Britain is the fifth-biggest audience in the world for extremist content after Turkey, the US, Saudi Arabia and Iraq, Policy Exchange's study said.
The think tank suggested the UK public would support new laws criminalising reading content that glorifies terror.
The government has told internet companies like Facebook and Google to do more to remove jihadist material.
Former US military chief General David Petraeus, who wrote a foreword to the report, said efforts to combat online extremism were "inadequate".
He said the bombing of a London Tube train last week "merely underscored once again the ever-present nature of this threat."
"There is no doubting the urgency of this matter," he said.
"The status quo clearly is unacceptable."
The report suggested new laws to criminalise the "aggravated possession and/or persistent consumption" of extremist ideology - but not to criminalise someone who "stumbles across" jihadist content.
It said images of child abuse were approached in a similar way, with tougher penalties for the most serious cases.
Under section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000, it is currently an offence to possess information that could assist a would-be terrorist, but not material which glorifies terrorism.
Policy Exchange surveyed 2,001 adults in the UK, finding 74% of people supported new laws to criminalise the "persistent consumption" of extremist material online.
'Vast' online presence

Its 130-page report found IS produces more than 100 new articles, videos and newspapers in a week - saying any decline of the terror group in the online space had been "significantly overstated".
"For at least a year, the production of content has continued despite the death of key figures, loss of territory and ongoing fighting," it said.
The jihadist group has retreated from territories it has seized in the Middle East, following pressure from a number of Iraqi and Syrian forces.
IS, also known as Daesh, disseminated its online propaganda across a "vast ecosystem" of platforms, the report found - including file-sharing services, encrypted messaging platforms and social media websites, as well as Facebook, Google and Twitter.
Internet giants say they have made efforts to clamp down on extremist content, with Google describing online extremism as a "critical challenge for us all".
Facebook said it was working "aggressively to remove terrorist content" from its website, and had developed a shared industry database of "hashes" - unique digital footprints - which catalogues violent extremist videos or images.
Twitter said that terrorist content had no place on its platform.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd said: "We know that Daesh pose a threat online and this report helps to highlight the scale of the issue.
"I have made it crystal clear to internet bosses that they need to go further and faster to remove terrorist content from their websites and prevent it being uploaded in the first place."
The report suggested the UK government introduce a "sliding scale" of measures to bear down on internet companies - including giving the proposed new commission for countering extremism powers to oversee the removal of online content.
Policy Exchange said 74% of Britons surveyed thought big internet companies should be more pro-active in locating and deleting extremist content.
Martyn Frampton, Policy Exchange's co-head of security and extremism, said governments and security services were playing a "fruitless game of whack-a-mole" by focusing on removing individual pieces of content.
"If the internet companies won't do what their customers want and take more responsibility for removing this content, then government must take action through additional regulation and legislation," he said.
Mrs Rudd added: "The internet cannot be used as a safe space for terrorists and criminals, and industry need to ensure that the services they provide are not being exploited by those who wish to do us harm."
Image copyright Getty Images

Uber has apologised after being accused on social media of sexism in a promotional message sent to customers in Bangalore.
The message urged "husbands" to "let your wife take a day off from the kitchen", with a discount on its Uber Eats food delivery service.
It said: "Dear husbands, a gentle reminder - today is Wife Appreciation Day."
Uber later tweeted that the message had been "totally inappropriate".
"We've removed it, and we apologise," it said on the social media platform.
Uber's chief brand ambassador, Bozoma Saint John, also tweeted it had been "completely unacceptable".
Skip Twitter post by @badassboz Oh hell no.
This is completely unacceptable.
Will take care of this.
Bozoma Saint John (@badassboz) September 17, 2017 Report

"Sorry Uber but why do you think that only the 'wife' needs to be at the kitchen!"
tweeted @GNUmanth.
However, the campaign did not cause much of a stir locally.
"Most people on Monday did not seem to know about the promo or even the negative impression it is said to have created," BBC journalist Ayeshea Perera said.
"It did not create any impression on social media, and the story is missing from the city's main tabloids and newspapers."
Uber's main competitors in the food delivery market were apps such as Zomato and Swiggy, she added.
"But if Uber is to be taken seriously, it will have to be careful to avoid carelessly worded messages like this one and come up with something more imaginative," she said.
Sexism at Uber

This year, Uber conducted an investigation into claims of sexual harassment within the company, and fired more than 20 people following a damning review.
Senior executives who left the company included Uber founder and chief executive Travis Kalanick.
The review was carried out after a blog post by former Uber engineer Susan J Fowler, which documented her experiences of alleged sexism at the company, went viral.
Mr Kalanick described her experiences as "abhorrent" and against the company's values.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google suspended the Gab app in August.
Social network Gab has filed a lawsuit against Google for removing it from Play, the Android app store.
Gab describes itself as a platform dedicated to free speech and has become popular with the alt-right.
Messages posted often contain abusive language, pornography and hate speech.
Gab's lawyer said Google was violating anti-trust laws because it owns rival apps such as YouTube and Google Plus.
Google said Gab lacked sufficient moderation to be included for download.
It has never been available on Apple's app store.
"Google Play and Android have monopoly power in the app store market, and Google's apps YouTube and Google+ compete directly against Gab," said lawyer Marc Randazza, representing Gab, in a post on publishing platform Medium.
"Google's intimate partnership with Twitter, which also competes against Gab, makes Google's control of all Android apps available through the Play Store a serious restraint of trade issue."
Google removed the app in August.
The tech giant said in a statement that it was happy to defend itself in court.
"In order to be on the Play Store, social networking apps need to demonstrate a sufficient level of moderation, including for content that encourages violence and advocates hate against groups of people," it said.
"This is a long-standing rule and clearly stated in our developer policies.
This developer is welcome to appeal the suspension if they've addressed the policy violations and are compliant with our Developer Program Policies."
The BBC contacted Gab for further comment but the platform has previously tweeted that the BBC is on its "media blacklist".
On Monday, the platform tweeted an email from its Australian-based domain registrar Asia Registry, giving it five days to transfer its domain.
It stated that Gab was in breach of Australia's anti-discrimination laws.
Image copyright Google Image caption Google is is offering Tez users the chance to win prizes

Google has launched a mobile payments app in India that will work on both Android and Apple smartphones.
Tez allows users to make money transfers to each other and to buy goods from physical stores and mobile websites.
It is based on the country's Unified Payment Interface (UPI) standard - a government-backed system launched last year to encourage digital payments.
But it will have to compete with PayTM, a popular local mobile wallet system.
PayTM - which is part-owned by Japan's Softbank and China's Alibaba - already has more than 200 million registered users in the country.
However, the rival systems work on a different basis.
Tez - which is Hindi for fast - transfers money from a user's bank account directly to the recipient and thus acts as a replacement for a bank card, in a similar manner to Android Pay or Apple Pay.
By contrast, PayTM - which is an acronym for pay through mobile - involves first placing money into an "electronic wallet" before being able to use it to make cash-free payments.
It launched in 2010 and has the benefit of already being widely adopted with several merchants offering discounts and cashback offers.
Launch partners

Google says that Tez works with all 55 banks that are already participating in UPI, including many of India's largest lenders.
However, the Tech in Asia blog noted that the majority of India's 150 eligible banks have yet to adopt UPI.
Other launch partners include Domino's Pizza restaurants, Jet Airways, the RedBus transport network and PVR Cinemas - India's biggest cinema chain.
Image copyright Google Image caption Tez can trigger payments by sending an audio signal from one phone to another

Payments can be made by a variety of means:

by entering the recipient's UPI number, phone number or email address

via a "cash mode", which involves sending a short audio signal to another nearby phone - somewhat similar to Chirp's technology

using the app's in-built merchant "channels", which group together past purchases with the same store/service in a similar way to how conversations appear in chat apps

via third-party websites that have adopted the facility

Google provides the services without charge.
It has been speculated that it might introduce additional profit-making functions at a later stage.
The US firm said Tez would soon be pre-installed on new handsets from Lava, Micromax, Nokia, and Panasonic.
To spur on its adoption, Google has also included an in-app "scratch card" offer, in which users can win a prize every time they make a purchase costing more than 50 rupees (78 cents; 57p).
The search giant is hoping that the public come to see Tez as being more convenient than PayTM and other similar wallet-based systems.
"It doesn't cost you anything to use Tez, and your money stays in your bank so you continue to earn interest," Google stated in its India blog.
"And best of all, because Tez works directly with your bank account, there's no need to top up a wallet balance or pay fees to get money out."
The country's Economic Times newspaper reported that the app would soon have competition from Facebook's WhatsApp, which is working on an update that will add UPI-based services and already has more than 200 million active users in India.
Early adopters have also faced a slow service when trying to use Tez, which Google has blamed on "higher than expected traffic".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lawyer Joachim Steinhoefel is one of the most vocal critics of a new German online speech law

In October a new law comes into force in Germany that will impose huge fines on social networks if they don't delete illegal content including hate speech.
It's touched off a huge debate over freedom of expression and has attracted an unusual collection of opponents.
The law is called Netzwerkdurchsetzungsgesetz - NetzDG for short.
It obliges the biggest social networks - those with more than two million German users - to take down "blatantly illegal" hate speech within 24 hours of it being reported.
For material that's less obviously violating the law, networks such as Facebook and Instagram will have seven days to consider and, if appropriate, delete posts.
Failure to meet these deadlines could lead to fines of up to 50m.
Critics argue the short timeframes coupled with the potentially large fines will lead social networks to be overly cautious and delete huge amounts of content - even things that are perfectly legal.
But the law's supporters, and the German government, argue that it will force social media companies to proactively deal with online incitement and hate speech.
What counts as 'illegal hate speech' in Germany?
The law doesn't actually change what's considered hate speech in Germany.
No new offences are created.
The law simply cites sections of the German Criminal Code which details illegal speech online.
The categories range from "forming terrorist organisations", to the much vaguer "defamation of religions, religious and ideological associations."
In addition, German law restricts some types of speech that are allowed in many other countries.
For instance, the use of Nazi symbols is banned, as are the symbols and flags of some extremist groups.
An earlier draft of the NetzDG bill barred "defamation of the President of the Federation", but the clause was removed after criticism.
The law has also been criticised for containing no legal mechanism for people whose posts are wrongly deleted to appeal to get them reinstated.
You might also be interested in:

So who is worried?
Opposition has come from a wide range of groups and politicians on both the left and right - and Facebook has also made its disagreement with the law clear.
The United Nations has also weighed in.
David Kaye, the UN's Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Expression, has written to the German government to warn about the potential consequences of the law.
"With these 24 hour and seven day deadlines - if you are a company you are going to want avoid fines and bad public branding of your platform," he says.
"If there is a complaint about a post you are just going to take it down.
What is in it for you to leave it up?
I think the result is likely to be greater censorship."
The group Reporters without Borders says the German law has already inspired a "draconian" new online media law in Russia.
Image copyright Facebook Image caption Anas Modamani has been falsely linked to terror attacks in posts on social media.
But there are voices in Germany who are in favour of the law and who argue that making social networks more responsible for hate speech and illegal content on their platforms is a good thing.
Anas Modamani is a refugee from Syria who now lives in Berlin.
In August 2015 he was catapulted to notoriety for taking a selfie with Angela Merkel while she was visiting a migrant shelter.
But the picture would come back to haunt him, as it was used to accuse him of attacks in Brussels and Berlin.
His famous photograph was cropped and pasted into wanted posters and false news reports.
"When I read the fake news on the internet, I really cried, it was really bad in my life, it was all untrue," Modamani says.
He decided to take Facebook to court for not doing enough to stop the lies being shared about him, but in March 2017 he lost the case.
The court ruled Facebook had taken enough measures to attempt to block defamatory images of him for users in Germany.
Because of his experiences, Modamani is a supporter of NetzDG.
"I think the law is a good idea because people will be a little bit afraid, they can't just write what they want," he says.
"I don't mind if other comments get deleted along with the bad ones."
Modamani's lawyer, Chan-Jo Jun, is also optimistic about the new law, and plans to use it immediately after it comes into effect.
"I regularly report the post that was the subject of the [earlier] trial and I keep getting the answer [from Facebook] that it does not violate community standards," Jun says.
"Therefore it is still online.
After October I will file a complaint against Facebook under the NetzDG - with the NetzDG, the court case would not have been necessary."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The moment a famous refugee meets a right-wing nationalist

On the other side of the legal debate is attorney Joachim Steinhoefel.
While Chan-Jo Jun has taken Facebook to court to get them to remove posts, Steinhoefel has threatened the company with legal action to get a post reinstated.
In May, photojournalist Markus Hibbeler wrote a Facebook post about Islam and freedom of expression.
Translated from German, the post read in part: "We shouldn't shield Muslims, and certainly not Islam, which has never been through an enlightenment or reformation, from criticism and constantly protect them."
His post was deleted by Facebook and his account was suspended for seven days.
Hibbeler, with Steinhoefel's help, threatened to sue Facebook if the post wasn't put back up within a week and his account reinstated.
They succeeded, and Facebook reinstated the post and apologised.
It's cases like Hibbeler's, Steinhoefel says, that show how NetzDG threatens freedom of expression.
He says he doesn't trust Facebook to decide what posts are legal and illegal and thinks the most likely outcome will be a mass deletion of legal posts that Facebook doesn't want to take any risks with, out of an abundance of caution.
Image caption Markus Hibbeler (left) with Joachim Steinhoefel

The attorney has started a blog where he posts examples of Facebook deleting posts which he says break no laws.
The blog also catalogues what Steinhoefel says are blatantly illegal posts which Facebook hasn't removed.
For example, one of the latter posts reads: "Jews to the gas chambers".
Facebook has not removed it, despite it being reported to the company.
"It goes to show how unprofessional they are in dealing with this content," Steinhoefel says.
He is suspicious of the real motive behind the new law and says it will allow "the media and political elite to regain control over the political debate in Germany."
"The law is superfluous," he says.
"The law as it is right now in Germany makes Facebook responsible for illegal content on its site from the moment they know about it.
It just takes state prosecutors and courts to implement these laws."
The German government, however, is determined to press forward with NetzDG.
Gerd Billen, a State Secretary in the German Ministry of Justice, says that although existing laws oblige Facebook to delete illegal comments "there are no rules about when they have to do it, how they have to organise and what their complaint management system should look like."
"There is a fear of 'over-blocking' but the reality is 'under-blocking'," Billen says.
"They don't block enough.
We don't believe there will be a problem (with over-blocking) because the social networks want to keep their customers."
Also from Trending:

Billen downplays concerns about freedom of speech, and points out that social media companies already censor content that is perfectly legal.
"There is no obligation for any private company in Germany or somewhere else in the world to guarantee freedom of speech," he says.
"To guarantee freedom of speech is something a government does but not private companies.
I didn't find any notice in the terms and conditions of Facebook that the company will respect freedom of speech.
"For example they delete many things that are allowed in Germany.
Facebook don't accept naked people on their platform.
They can decide if they don't want it, so they delete it."
Image caption Gerd Billen, a State Secretary in the German Ministry of Justice, defends the new law and says social networks won't 'over-block' because of the risk of alienating their users

Opposition from social media companies

A Facebook spokesperson admitted to the BBC that they can't rule out the possibility of legal content being deleted.
"The law is not the right way to fight hate speech online," the spokesperson says.
"It provides an incentive to delete content that is not clearly illegal and would have the effect of transferring responsibility for complex legal decisions from public authorities to private companies.
"Several legal experts have assessed the draft law as being against the German constitution and non-compliant with EU law.
Facebook is committed to working in partnership with governments and civil society on solutions that would have made this law unnecessary."
The BBC also learnt that although the company will soon have another 500 content moderators based in Essen, in western Germany, Facebook has not hired any new staff in response to the law.
"We are still evaluating what the law really means for us," the spokesperson says.
You can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending, and find us on Facebook.
All our stories are at bbc.com/trending.
Image copyright Getty Images

Social media platform Snapchat has blocked access to Al Jazeera content in Saudi Arabia.
Snapchat said it was asked by the Saudi authorities to remove the Qatari-backed broadcaster's Discover Publisher Channel because it violated local laws.
Qatar is in an ongoing dispute with Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Egypt and the UAE.
The four countries cut ties with Qatar earlier this year, accusing the country of supporting terrorism.
Saudi Arabia has one of the world's most restrictive media environments, according to human rights groups and media freedom advocates.
But the Saudi authorities have a particular dislike for Al Jazeera.
At one point they had demanded Qatar's government shut it down altogether as one of 13 conditions to remove sanctions against the country.
Those conditions were later withdrawn.
Saudi Arabia is one of the largest social media markets in the Middle East, boosted by a high rate of smart phone ownership.
That can sometimes place US-listed companies like Snapchat's parent Snap Inc in an awkward position, as local laws are far more restrictive than in many other markets.
"We make an effort to comply with local laws in the countries where we operate," a Snapchat spokesperson said in a statement.
Image copyright Science Photo Library

The creators of a new artificial intelligence programme hope it could one day save democracy.
Are we ready for robots to take over politics?
"Siri, who should I vote for?"
"That's a very personal decision."
Apple's "personal assistant", Siri, doesn't do politics.
It has stock, non-committal answers for anything that sounds remotely controversial.
Not unlike some politicians in fact.
But the next generation of digital helpers, powered by advances in artificial intelligence (AI), might not be so reticent.
One piece of software being developed by a company in Portland, Oregon, aims to be able to offer advice on every aspect of its users' lives - including which way to vote.
"We want you to trust Nigel, we want Nigel to know who you are and serve you in everyday life," says Nigel's creator Mounir Shita.
"It (Nigel) tries to figure out your goals and what reality looks like to you and is constantly assimilating paths to the future to reach your goals.
"It's constantly trying to push you in the right direction."
Shita's company, Kimera Systems, claims to have cracked the secret of "artificial general intelligence" - independent thinking - something that has eluded AI researchers for the past 60 years.
Image copyright Kimera Image caption Mounir Shita has big plans for Nigel

Instead of learning how to perform specific tasks, like most current AI, Nigel will roam free and unsupervised around its users' electronic devices, programming itself as it goes.
"Hopefully eventually it will gain enough knowledge to be able to assist you in political discussions and elections," says Shita.
Nigel has been met with a certain amount of scepticism in the tech world.
Its achievements have been limited so far - it has learned to switch smartphones to silent mode in cinemas without being asked, from observing its users' behaviour.
But Shita believes his algorithm will have the edge on the other AI-enhanced digital assistants being developed by bigger Silicon Valley players - and he has already taken legal advice on the potential pitfalls of a career in politics for Nigel.
"Our goal, with Nigel, is by this time next year to have Nigel read and write at a grade school level.
We are still way off participating in politics, but we are going there," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Not robots: Nigel Farage and Donald Trump

AI is already part of the political world - with ever more sophisticated algorithms being used to target voters at election time.
Teams of researchers are also competing to produce an algorithm that will halt the spread of "fake news".
Mounir Shita argues that this will be good for democracy, making it infinitely harder for slippery politicians to pull the wool over voters' eyes.
"It's going to be a lot harder to brainwash an AI that has access to a lot of information and can tell a potential voter what the politician said is a lie or is unlikely to be true."
What makes him think anyone would listen to a robot?
Voters are increasingly turning their back on identikit "machine politicians" in favour of all-too-human mavericks, like the most famous Nigel in British politics - Farage - and his friend Donald Trump.
How could AI Nigel - which was named after Mounir Shita's late business partner Nigel Deighton rather than the former UKIP leader - compete with that?
Because, says Shita, you will have learned to trust Nigel - and it will be more in tune with your emotions than a political leader you have only seen on television.
Nigel - robot Nigel, that is - could even have helped voters in the UK make a more informed decision about Brexit, he claims, although it would not necessarily have changed the outcome of the referendum.
"The whole purpose of Nigel is to figure out who you are, what your views are and adopt them.
"He might push you to change your views, if things don't add up in the Nigel algorithm.
"Let me go to the extreme here, if you are a racist, Nigel will become a racist.
If you are a left-leaning liberal, Nigel will become a left-leaning liberal.
"There is no one Nigel.
Everyone has their own Nigel and each one of those Nigel's purpose is to adapt to your views.
There is no political conspiracy behind this."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Will Smith tackled the classic Hollywood AI story in I, Robot

Ian Goldin, professor of globalisation and development at the University of Oxford, also believes AI could have a role to play in debunking political spin and lies.
But he fears politicians have yet to wake up to what it will mean for the future of society or, indeed, their own jobs.
In his book, Age of Discovery: Navigating the Risks and Rewards of Our New Renaissance, Goldin and co-author Chris Kutarna seek a middle ground between apocalyptic visions of humans controlled by robots and the techno-utopian dreams of Silicon Valley's elite.
He tells BBC News: "I think the threats posed by technology are rising as rapidly as the benefits and one hopes that somewhere, in some secret place, people are worrying about it.
"But the politicians certainly aren't talking about it."
Instead of thinking about machine-learning as some distant piece of science fiction, they should "join the dots" to see how it is already changing the political and social landscape, he argues.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Elon Musk is on a crusade to stop AI from enslaving the human race

He points to a research paper by the Oxford Martin Programme on Technology and Employment, which suggested that Donald Trump owes his US election victory to voters who have had their jobs taken away from them by automation.
"In the machine-learning world innovation happens more rapidly, so the pace of change accelerates," says Goldin.
"That means two things - people get left behind more quickly, so inequality grows more rapidly, and the second thing it means is that you have to renew everything quicker - fibre optics, infrastructure, energy systems, housing stock, mobility and flexibility."
He adds: "They (politicians) are going to have to form a view on whether they throw sand in the wheels.
What are they going to do with the workers who are laid off?"
AI evangelists like Mounir Shita have a simple answer to this.
And it does not involve throwing sand in the wheels of technology - they see meddling politicians as the enemy and Elon Musk, creator of the Tesla electric car, who has warned about the catastrophic consequences for humanity of unregulated AI, as misguided, at best.
Shita is relaxed about a world where machines do all the work: "I am not envisioning people sitting on their couch eating potato chips, gaining weight, because they have nothing to do.
I envision people free from labour and can pursue whatever interests or hobbies they have."
Ian Goldin takes a less rosy view of an AI-enhanced future.
Rather than indulging in hobbies or world travel, those made idle by machines are more likely to be drinking themselves to death or attempting suicide, if recent research into the so-called "diseases of despair" among poorly educated members of the white working class in America is anything to go by, he says.
In the end, it all comes down to two competing views of human nature and whether we want Nigel or something like it in our lives.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Equifax's share price has fallen by more than a third

US credit report giant Equifax has replaced two senior staff after revealing last week it had suffered a massive data breach.
Data on up to 143 million Americans, about 400,000 Britons and a number of Canadians may have been stolen by hackers between mid-May and July.
The chief information officer and chief security officer have both stood down.
Equifax faces dozens of legal claims over the breach, which the US Federal Trade Commission is investigating.
Social security numbers, birth dates, addresses and driving licence numbers for up to 143 million Americans were exposed, the Atlanta-based firm says.
Credit card numbers for about 209,000 Americans and "certain dispute documents with personal identifying information" for some 182,000 Americans were also accessed by the hackers, it adds.
Lenders use data amassed by firms like Equifax to assess the credit worthiness of customers seeking to acquire houses, cars and credit cards.
'How did you fail?'
Susan Mauldin, chief security officer, retired and was replaced by Russ Ayres in an interim role, while chief information officer David Webb left and was replaced by Mark Rohrwasser in an interim capacity, the firm said.
The changes, made as part of the firm's review of the cyber security incident breach, were "effective immediately", Equifax said in a statement.
Recent massive data breaches

The company added that its external investigation was ongoing and it was working closely with the FBI in its criminal probe.
Equifax holds data on more than 820 million consumers as well as information on 91 million businesses.
Its share price has fallen by more than a third since it revealed the breach on 7 September, Reuters news agency reports.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Senator Warren wants answers

US Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has built up a reputation as a consumer champion, is demanding to know how the firm's security systems failed.
"Equifax has failed to provide the necessary information describing exactly how this happened, and exactly how your security systems failed," she said in a letter to the company.
"Equifax's initial efforts to provide customers information did nothing to clarify the situation and actually appeared to be efforts to hoodwink them into waiving important legal rights."
The credit rating firm's chief executive, Richard Smith, has openly apologised for the breach and will testify at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in the US Congress on 3 October.
Image copyright Twitter / @ccylchina Image caption The Twitter account appeared to be set up on Friday

Setting up a Twitter account may seem a fairly obvious thing for a political party to do, but the step has not so far worked for an account in the name of China's Communist Party.
The account, which claimed to be from the party's youth wing, made its debut on Friday with a chirpy one-liner - "I'm here!"
- and a picture of what appeared to be cartoon communist rabbits.
It was immediately met with a barrage of tweets asking how the Party was getting around China's Twitter ban.
But then late on Monday, the Youth League strongly denied that it had a Twitter account at all.
The Twitter bio for @ccylchina says the account provides "information on the work and activities of the Communist Party Youth League and hot topics among youths".
It has posted more than dozen times since its launch - in Chinese - covering patriotic topics like the anniversary of the Japanese invasion in 1931 and links to state media articles.
China closely controls what can be posted and seen online, and is steadily tightening its restrictions.
So angry internet users who assumed the account was real responded with questions about how it had managed to circumvent the "Great Firewall" surrounding China's internet and accusing the youth wing of hypocrisy.
"Go back behind the firewall" and "Give us our VPN" were some of the more popular - and printable - responses to @ccylchina.
Chinese users have always used VPNs to access Twitter and other banned sites by making it seem like their device is in another country.
But dozens of VPN apps have been withdrawn in China in recent weeks after the government issued new rules requiring them to get a licence.
It has also been reining in social media and messaging apps in recent months.
"Please tell me what kind of miraculous VPN you've used to circumvent the firewall... how brazen you are, you should know that those who do so can be caught!"
wrote Twitter user Maoyaodong.
Other criticism referenced Weibo, China's heavily censored Twitter-like microblogging platform.
One user warned: "This isn't Weibo [where you can] scrub away opinions, get lost."
The Youth League has now insisted the account is not an official one.
An article in the Party mouthpiece the Global Times said rumours of the existence of the account had gone viral in China, and that it had "asked relevant platform to deal with this issue".
Some of the tweets were no longer available on Tuesday.
Image copyright @ComYouthLeague

It's not the first Twitter account in the Youth League's name to appear this month.
@ComYouthLeague.
appeared on Twitter on 12 September in a very similar way - with a tweet, announcing "Hello Twitter" - and has also been posting patriotic links and news stories.
It met similar questions about firewalls and VPNs.
Apparently in an attempt to make itself look more official, @ccylchina warned its followers that one was a fake account, saying: "Please look for the Central Communist Youth League."
It posted a picture - crossed out - of a tweet from @ComYouthLeague which talked about respecting China's internet laws.
The ComYouthLeague responded seeming slightly wounded, saying its post was "not fabricated nor fake" but aimed to reflect "the positive energy that Chinese youth should have".
Image copyright @ComYouthLeague Image caption The @ComYouthLeague said its post about values was neither "fabricated, nor fake" - but didn't claim to be real

Neither account has yet gathered a substantial following yet - in fact @ComYouthLeague is slightly ahead with 1,666 followers at the time of writing.
But that's perhaps unsurprising given the limited Twitter audience in China, where organisations are far more likely to rely on the likes of Weibo to interact with the public.
The Global Times article noted that CCYL already has more than five million followers on its Weibo account and 400,000 on WeChat.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Facebook looks at what people do and say on its site to categorise them for advertisers

Facebook is reviewing its ad targeting system after investigators found they could direct ads to self-described anti-Semites.
Researchers at ProPublica found several ad categories for people who had declared that they "hated" Jews.
Facebook said its algorithms automatically created the categories when analysing user interests.
It said it would trim the number of categories available and check the list before letting advertisers see it.
The ProPublica researchers found the anti-Jewish categories while conducting a larger investigation into the way Facebook targets adverts at users.
To find out if the classifications were real, it bought ads that combined the three separate anti-Semitic categories with several others that were about far-right topics.
'Discrimination prohibited'

ProPublica said it had to use several categories because Facebook would not let it buy adverts for the small number of users who had described themselves as being anti-Semitic.
One category had only two Facebook users in it.
The three adverts it prepared, which advertised ProPublica's work, were approved and posted to the news feeds of the people who had revealed they were interested in the right-wing topics.
The data informing the advertising categories on Facebook was generated automatically, said the ProPublica reporters, and was created from content people explicitly shared on the site as well as by what they revealed via their activity.
In a statement, Rob Leathern, product management director at Facebook, said it had now removed the "targeting fields".
The social network said no-one appeared to have used the ad categories before ProPublica uncovered them.
Mr Leathern said Facebook did not allow hate speech to appear on its site.
"Our community standards strictly prohibit attacking people based on their protected characteristics, including religion," said Mr Leathern, "and we prohibit advertisers from discriminating against people based on religion and other attributes."
However, he said, there were times when information appeared on Facebook that violated its standards.
He said it was building "guardrails" into its processes to stop offensive self-reported profile traits being used as ad categories.
"We know we have more work to do," he said.
Image copyright AFP/Getty

Three women who used to work at Google have filed a lawsuit against the technology giant, alleging it pays women less than men for comparable work.
The suit says Google is aware of the situation, but has not moved to fix it.
It comes as companies in Silicon Valley face growing scrutiny over gender relations.
Google is also under investigation by the US Department of Labor over its pay practices.
"It is time to stop ignoring these issues in tech," said Kelly Ellis, a former software engineer at Google and one of the women who filed the suit.
She posted on Twitter that she hopes the suit will force Google and other companies to change their practices.
Skip Twitter post by @justkelly_ok My hopes for the Google suit: to force not only Google, but other companies to change their practices and compensate EVERYONE fairly.
Kelly Ellis (@justkelly_ok) September 14, 2017 Report

The lawsuit, filed in a San Francisco court, says Google discriminates against female staff with lower pay, more limited promotion, and fewer advancement opportunities compared to men with comparable qualifications.
Ms Ellis, for example, was hired in 2010 at a level typically assigned to college graduates, although she had four years of experience, according to the lawsuit.
A male colleague with similar levels of experience started on a higher rung.
She was also assigned to a less prestigious engineering role, the suit says

Ms Ellis resigned from Google four years later "because of the sexist culture", the lawsuit said.
Previous allegations

The complaint is seeking class-action status that would cover women working at the company in California for the last four years.
They are looking for unpaid wages, among other remedies.
Google said it would review the lawsuit but disagreed with the "central allegations".
"Job levels and promotions are determined through rigorous hiring and promotion committees, and must pass multiple levels of review, including checks to make sure there is no gender bias in these decisions," spokeswoman Gina Scigliano said in a statement.
Like other companies in Silicon Valley, the company has faced questions about how it treats women before.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Google's Sundar Pichai criticised a memo written by an employee for being sexist

About 70% of Google's workforce are men, according to the company.
Men represent about 80% of staff in "tech" roles and 75% of leadership positions.
The Department of Labour found systematic pay disparities at the firm during a 2015 audit, according to the lawsuit.
The government in January sued Google to get access to more information to see if the patterns held true across a more extensive probe.
A spreadsheet with data from 1,200 employees also found disparities, the New York Times recently reported.
Google also made headlines earlier this summer, when a memo written by a senior Google employee that criticised diversity programmes and hiring practices became public.
Google later fired him.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Many African nations have low net speeds but high mobile penetration

The digital divide separating developed and developing nations is in danger of becoming a chasm, warns a UN report.
The divide has grown thanks to accelerating net connection speeds in developed nations and static ones elsewhere, it said.
And 52% of the world's population still has no access to the internet, said the organisation's Global Broadband Progress report.
Improved net access was a key driver of other social goals, it said.
No access

The average global net access speed was now about 7.2 megabits per second (Mbps), said the report which looks at how broadband, mobile phones and other communication technologies are used around the world.
However, it added, that headline figure masked significant differences between nations.
In general, it said, net connection speeds in more developed nations were rising faster than elsewhere.
For instance, it said, the average access speed in South Korea was now about 28.6Mbps and peak speeds of more than 184Mbps had been seen in Singapore.
By contrast line speeds in many developing nations, such as the 1.5Mbps available in Nigeria, had not improved significantly since the last UN broadband report was released last year.
A "chasm" could emerge because of the "deepening inequality in global connectivity between starters, adopters and front-runner countries", said the report.
Image copyright AFP Image caption UN: Net access can help nations speed up moves to improve agriculture and aid farmers

The differences between nations with a mature hi-tech infrastructure and developing nations were also deepened because wider use of technology could help other social goals, said the UN.
Greater use of information and communication technologies could accelerate a nation's progress towards, for example, more sustainable agriculture or better health for citizens.
"Digital tools can increase access to health, empower patients, and provide better health information and education for all," said the UN.
While technology was playing a part in helping many nations progress, the UN also noted that a majority of the world's population, 52%, still had no net access at all.
There were also regional differences, with Europe topping tables of net access with 76% of its citizens being able to go online.
By contrast, only 21.8% of people in Africa could access the internet.
"Large gaps in connectivity persist, mainly due to the lack of infrastructure, affordability, lack of skills or lack of relevant local content," said the report.
Video

BBC Click's Nick Kwek looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including:

Apple releases a new operating system.
An electric bus broke a world record by travelling more than 1,000 miles on a single charge

An all terrain security robot has been unveiled

See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

The space race of the Cold War pitted the world's two superpowers against one another to explore what lies beyond Earth.
Now anyone with enough money and enterprise can get there.
But this new race isn't between countries - it's between companies.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Philippa Goodrich; Reporter: Tim Bowler
Video

Destiny 2 is the big-budget sequel to one of 2014's best-selling computer games.
The first game won the Bafta award for Best Game and it made over 350m in its first week of release.
While popular, the first Destiny received extensive downloadable upgrades to improve the experience.
BBC Clicks Marc Cieslak had a chance to blast his way through Destiny's 2 campaign mode to find out if the developers had improved on the first games' campaign.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

The small satellite industry is the fastest growing part of the space sector "and they all require launch" says New Zealand's Rocket Lab boss Peter Beck.
His firm aims to disrupt the established space sector by launching its commercial satellite-carrying rockets once a week.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Adrienne Murray; Cameraman: Mauricio Olmedo-Perez
Video

One of Google's most senior executives has defended the company's response to terrorist propaganda appearing online.
General counsel Kent Walker told the Today programme the company is working to improve the quality of machine learning so it can identify and remove material it finds.
But he added that the government and the police must work with the firm.
His interview coincides with a demand by Prime Minister Theresa May that tech firms take down terrorist material within two hours or face fines.
'It's a myth you're just going to have a lump'

Ellie, who was diagnosed with Hodgkin Lymphoma when she was 15, describes the symptoms of blood cancer.
Image copyright Warner Bros/Getty Images Image caption Spot the difference: Vikander on the Tomb Raider poster and in the flesh

A poster and action-packed trailer for the new Tomb Raider film have been released - but all everyone's talking about is Alicia Vikander's neck.
The Oscar-winning actress appears to be the victim of some distinctly dodgy Photoshop in the poster for the film.
"Is it just me or is there something off about the proportions on that Tomb Raider poster?"
tweeted Lex Croucher.
"The more I look at the Tomb Raider movie poster the less sense that neck makes to me," wrote Twitter user Nibel.
Other mocking tweets have likened the Ex Machina star with a Jurassic Park velociraptor and other film characters with extended necks.
Skip Twitter post by @bobbyrobertspdx The only way Vikander's neck makes sense in this poster is if the movie was originally TOMB RAPTOR.
pic.twitter.com/VfDRk5mFIU  Bobby (@bobbyrobertspdx) September 18, 2017 Report

Directed by Norway's Roar Uthaug, the latest screen outing for Lara Croft reaches cinemas in March 2018.
Angelina Jolie previously played the computer game heroine in two films released in 2001 and 2003 respectively.
The latest Lara Croft film is an origins story that shares plot elements with a Tomb Raider game released in 2013.
A scene in the trailer in which Lara leaps off a storm-tossed ship mirrors a similar scene from a trailer for the game released in 2011.
Image copyright Paramount Image caption Angelina Jolie has played Lara Croft in two Tomb Raider films

Other scenes show Vikander with a bow and arrow, leaping over rapids and using a knife to fend off an assailant.
British actors Dominic West, Nick Frost and Kristin Scott Thomas are also glimpsed in the two-minute promo.
The Tomb Raider poster is reminiscent of other notorious poster "fails" such as the one for the 1983 James Bond film Octopussy, in which the late Roger Moore - and his leading lady Maud Adams - were given unfeasibly long legs.
Image copyright Danjaq/EON/UA/Touchstone/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock

Julia Roberts' head was infamously superimposed on the frame of a body double on the poster for 1990's Pretty Woman.
The makers of The Heat, meanwhile, caught some themselves for giving Melissa McCarthy a slimmer-looking face on the 2013 comedy's UK poster.
Image copyright Twentieth Century Fox Film/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock

Vikander won an Oscar for her role in 2015's The Danish Girl and was seen last year opposite Matt Damon in his fourth Jason Bourne film.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Islington Assembly Hall has become the first venue in the UK to introduce digital-only ticketing.
The North London venue will now only sell tickets through ticketing app DICE in a bid to cut out touts.
The app sells tickets which have to be shown on the phone of the person who paid for them.
It's hoped the move will help limit the amount of tickets resold through secondary agents or sold by touts outside the venue.
Islington Assembly Hall's business manager Lucinda Brown said: "We're so excited to be working with DICE and to be leading the way as a music venue offering mobile-first tickets.
"Through this partnership, we are making a stand against touts and allowing fans to have more control."
Upcoming gigs at the 800-capacity venue include Rae Morris, Jake Isaac and Kele Okereke.
The move follows other efforts by big names and the music industry as a whole to limit secondary ticketing.
Ed Sheeran recently announced strict entry rules for his 2018 tour.
The singer and his team, who have previously said they are "vehemently opposed" to ticket re-sales, have explained how fans will need four forms of ID when they arrive at the venue.
"Ed and his team have a strict stance against anyone using secondary ticketing websites for profit," says a statement from Ed's record label, Atlantic Records.
"On this tour, any tickets that are resold will not be valid unless they are bought and sold through Ed's official resale partner, Twickets, which allows fan to fan sales at face value plus booking fee only.
"This means no profit to touts and no-one getting ripped off."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Video

BBC Click's Marc Cieslak looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories including:

The latest tests of Nasa's Dream Chaser spacecraft

Hyperloop pod reaches top speeds of 355km/h (220mph)

Google and Apple battle it out to be top of the augmented reality world

See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

Cyber-security has become an increasing concern following a number of recent high profile computer hacking cases around the world.
Quantum encryption could offer much more security.
But how close are we to quantum computing becoming the norm?
BBC Click finds out more.
Video

BBC Click visits a test lift shaft where they are showing off a lift that goes sideways as well as up and down.
The elevators are being developed by Thyssenkrupp.
Instead of using a steel rope, the cabin is carried by linear motors - the same technology that drives some amusements rides and high-speed trains.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

India's railways move millions of people around the country every day.
And now thanks to optic fibre the are moving data too.
Some 45,000km (28,000 miles) of cable run alongside India's rail tracks taking high speed free wi-fi to some 115 stations on the network in a scheme made possible by Google.
Wi-fi is transforming the railway stations turning them into digital as well as railway hubs and giving businesses a boost too.
BBC Click's David Reid went to Jaipur station to find out more.
You can see Click: India's internet on rails over the weekend of 26 and 27 August 2017 on BBC World News and the BBC News Channel and after on BBCiPlayer (UK only)

This programme was first transmitted in March 2017.
Read and watch more stories from India
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption If a hacker managed to switch off a life-support machine, the results could be fatal

Imagine a hacker remotely turning off a life support machine in a hospital, or shutting down a power station.
These are the nightmare scenarios we face because many organisations haven't a clue how many unsecured devices are connected to their networks, cyber-security experts warn.
It was an ordinary day at a busy hospital - doctors, nurses and surgeons rushed about attending to the health of their patients.
For Hussein Syed, chief information security officer for the largest health provider in New Jersey, it was the health of his IT network that was keeping him busy.
And today, he was in for a surprise.
He knew he presided over a complex web of connected medical devices, computers, and software applications spread across RWJBarnabas Health's 13 hospitals.
This included about 30,000 computers, 300 apps, a data centre, as well as all the mobile phones hooking up to the hospitals' wi-fi networks.
Company mergers had only added to the complexity of these sprawling IT systems.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hussein Syed discovered that there were around 70,000 devices connected to his network

But when he used a specialist IoT cyber-security program to carry out a full audit, he discovered that there were in fact 70,000 internet-enabled devices accessing the health firm's network - far more than he'd expected.
"We found a lot of things we were not aware of," Mr Syed tells the BBC, "systems that weren't registered with IT and which didn't meet our security standards."
These included security cameras and seemingly innocuous gadgets such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) - units that provide back-up battery power in the event of a power cut.
"These unidentified devices could definitely have been access points for hackers who could have then found high-value assets on our network," says Mr Syed.
Hack in to a UPS and you could potentially switch off life-critical machines, he explains.
Or hackers could steal patient data, encrypt it, then demand a ransom for its safe return.
On the black market "health data is worth 50 times more than credit card data", says Mr Syed.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hospitals like this RWJBarnabas Health one in New Jersey are also complex IT networks

The audit "helped us protect our network," he adds, preferring not to dwell on what might have been.
Mike DeCesare, chief executive of ForeScout, the software provider Mr Syed brought in, says: "Businesses typically underestimate by 30% to 40% how many devices are linked to their network.
It's often a shock when they find out.
"With the proliferation of IoT [internet of things] devices the attack surface for hackers has increased massively.
"Traditional antivirus software was designed on the assumption that there were just a few operating systems.
Now, because of IoT, there are thousands."
ForeScout's software monitors a company's network and indentifies every device trying to access it, "not just from its IP [internet protocol] address, but from 50 other attributes and fingerprints", says Mr DeCesare.
The reason for these other layers of security is that it is "relatively easy" for hackers to mask the identity of a particular device - known as MAC [media access control] spoofing.
So ForeScout's software takes a behavioural approach to monitoring.
Image copyright ForeScout Image caption ForeScout boss Mike DeCesare says his company can spot rogue devices on the network

"We look at the traffic from all those different devices and analyse whether they are behaving like they should," he says.
"Is that printer behaving like a printer?
So why is it trying to access other devices on the network and break in to the system?
"If we spot aberrant behaviour we can disconnect the device from the network automatically."
Services from network monitoring firms - ForeScout, Solar Winds, IBM, SecureWorks, Gigamon and others - are becoming increasingly necessary in a world where everything - from lamp-posts to lawn sensors - is becoming internet-enabled.
According to Verizon's latest State of the Market: Internet of Things report there are now 8.4 billion connected devices - a 31% increase on 2016 - and $2tn (1.5tn) will have been spent on the technologies by the end of 2017.
But as Verizon points out, lack of industry-wide standards for IoT devices is giving businesses major security concerns.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is the internet of things?
Stories of cyber-attacks mounted on the back of insecure devices such as video cameras have highlighted the issue.
"IoT security is one of the biggest challenges we're facing right now," says Darren Thomson, chief technology officer and vice president, technology services at cyber-security firm Symantec.
The difficulty is that IoT devices are generally simple, cheap and low-powered, without the capability of running the antivirus programs operated by traditional computers.
"The challenge with critical infrastructure is that it wasn't built with security in mind," says Tom Reilly, chief executive of Cloudera, the IoT and data analytics platform.
"Smart cities are a great playing field for hackers - changing traffic lights, turning elevators on and off - there are many security exposures.
"We need to get ahead of them."
This necessitates a different approach to security, a growing number of experts believe.
In April, telecoms giant Verizon launched what it calls its IoT "security credentialing" service, whereby only trusted, verified devices are allowed to access a company's network.
Meanwhile, Cloudera has formed a strategic partnership with chip maker Intel.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

"Intel makes the chips that are being used in many IoT sensors," explains Mr Reilly, "and all that data being created needs to land in a database like ours residing in a data centre.
"We authenticate all the devices - we're creating an end-to-end platform for the IoT world."
Rival GE Digital, a subsidiary of the global engineering giant GE, has also developed its own IoT and data analytics platform called Predix which it is outsourcing to big clients such as British Airways and oil giant Exxon.
IoT sensors are fitted to big machines, from gas turbines to aero engines, and these transmit "petabytes of data in real time that helps us work out how to optimise their maintenance", says Bill Ruh, GE Digital chief executive.
"We get all that data back via virtual private networks mostly in a highly secure encrypted fashion."
But if you don't have the resources to commit to an entire IoT ecosystem operated by a major tech company, behavioural network monitoring may be your next best bet.
Just bear in mind that your organisation's defences are only as strong as the weakest part.
Beware the invisible network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The European Cybercrime Centre is just one part of Europol

The UK government's "future partnership" paper made a strong case for "a bespoke relationship with Europol" after the UK leaves the European Union.
It looked at the scenarios of:

no agreement being reached on future cooperation with Europol

current cooperation being wound down before a new arrangement was put in place

It said: "Consideration would need to be given to ensuring that any ongoing investigations would not be affected in such a way that criminals might escape prosecution or vulnerable individuals might be rendered less safe."
And it would be difficult to find anyone in the EU who would disagree with the importance of fighting cross-border crime.
EU funding

Europol, the European Union's law enforcement organisation, was founded in 1999 and employs more than 1,000 people at a cost of about 100m a year.
It is an EU-funded agency, and when the UK completes the Brexit process and no longer pays into the EU budget, it will cease to be a member.
The EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, used an article in the French newspaper Le Monde to make it clear the UK could not continue to be a member.
He said: "The British defence minister will no longer be able to sit at the council of defence ministers, London will leave the European Defence Agency and Europol."
Prime Minister Theresa May has previously said she wants the UK to retain its security co-operation with Europol post-Brexit.
And a number of countries that are not part of the EU, such as Norway, Switzerland and the US, have operational agreements with Europol that allow access to intelligence.
But Europol itself say this does not equate to formal membership, which means these countries do not have a say over operations and decisions.
Europol also points out that such agreements take a number of years to negotiate.
Image caption Every EU member state, plus 14 other nations, has staff in the Europol headquarters in The Hague

One precedent that might act as a future model is Denmark, an EU member but no longer in Europol.
In December 2015, Denmark voted in a referendum against more integration of security operations.
In May this year it formally left Europol, but an agreement was reached that allowed the Danish police and Europol to continue to share information and analysis.
Denmark is able to participate in Europol board meetings, but it has only "observer status" and no decision-making rights.
Could a similar agreement be made with the UK?
Europol seems to think not.
In a statement, it said: "The agreement between both Denmark and Europol is based on the fact that Denmark is a full member of Schengen [group of countries that allow passport-free travel] and has implemented all EU data protection standards.
"It therefore allows for a sufficient level of co-operation, including the exchange of operational data and the deployment of liaison officers."
Prof Alan Woodward, a British cyber-crime expert and adviser to Europol, said the issue of the UK's future relationship with Europol needed to be resolved sooner rather than later.
"I very much hope that a solution is found to allow the UK to remain active participant with Europol - simply because it is in everybody's interest," he said.
"Europol is the best organisation to tackle cross-border law enforcement issues, especially in cyber-crime."
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
A number of shows at London Fashion Week trialled a system where clothes are made available for sale immediately after appearing on the catwalk.
Gigi Hadid modelled the outfits she'd collaborated on with designer Tommy Hilfiger in Camden.
The brand is one of five which used the "see now, buy now" model.
It's a big change for high fashion brands.
They typically take six months to make collections available to buy but social media's shifted all that.
Collaborating with a celebrity like Gigi Hadid, who has more then 37 million Instagram followers, certainly gets more attention for the brand.
"Fashion Week before was an event that happened behind closed doors.
Technology has smashed open those doors," says Matthew Drinkwater from London College of Fashion.
"Social media has allowed consumers to see in real time what's happening at Fashion Week."
Burberry was one of the first brands to launch see now, buy now, at London fashion week, in its September show last year.
Topshop, Mother of Pearl and Nicopanda also did it this week, the latter in a collaboration with Amazon which made its collection available for delivery in an hour.
Matthew Drinkwater says fast-fashion retailers like Asos and Zara have increased the pressure on luxury brands to make clothes available immediately.
"The time from idea to production in fast fashion is now three weeks," he explains.
"Fashion week has always been more inspirational, more forward thinking than that."
It's too early to know whether see now, buy now is increasing the profits of luxury brands, but the UK's overall spend on fashion online is going up.
The UK spent 12.4bn on fashion online in 2015, up from 10.7bn in 2014, according to researchers Mintel.
Another way designers are trying to guarantee attention for their shows is by filling the front row with online influencers.
The guests at Topshop's show included Kate Moss, Vogue editor Edward Enninful and pop stars like Charli XCX and Anne-Marie.
Matthew says big brands can make clothes available straight away because they've got shops to sell them in, and plenty of money.
Tommy Hilfiger sold $6.5bn (around 4.8bn) of clothes, footwear and accessories in 2015.
Matthew says he's worried about the pressure see now, buy now is putting on smaller designers.
"I don't want our young, emerging talent to be worried about fulfilling mass orders.
I want them to be experimenting.
"If you love what they're making, and the quality, you'll be prepared to wait."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyota blazed a trail in hybrid car design with its Prius

Are electric cars really about to take over from the old-fashioned internal combustion engine?
Judging by some of the headlines we've seen recently, you could be forgiven for thinking petrol and diesel engines were about to be consigned to the scrap heap.
Yet the reality is rather different.
There is no question that the car industry is undergoing a radical change.
At this year's Frankfurt Motor Show - currently under way in the German city - the buzzword throughout the cavernous exhibition halls has been "electrification".
The day before the show, for example, Volkswagen said it would build electrified versions of every model in its range - including those sold under the Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche brands - by 2030.
The same evening, Mercedes' parent company Daimler said it would have electrified versions of its own models by 2022.
Image copyright EPA Image caption It's not just new cars, countries will need to invest in new infrastructures for fuelling electric vehicles

Other companies, including Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover and Honda have made similar pledges.
These are undoubtedly ambitious plans - but it is important to recognise their limitations.
They are not saying they will get rid of diesel or petrol cars completely.
They are simply promising to make electrified versions of them available.
It is also important to recognise what "electrified" actually means.
It can, of course, refer to fully electric battery powered vehicles.
But it can also be used to describe hybrids - and hybrids come in many forms.
A plug-in hybrid, for example, has a large battery capacity and is often capable of running entirely on electric power at least part of the time, though it will have a petrol engine as well.
One type of plug-in hybrid, often referred to as a range-extended EV, is essentially an electric car with a small petrol engine that acts as an on-board generator."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mercedes unveils its F1-derived hybrid hypercar

A strong or full hybrid, like the Toyota Prius, uses a relatively powerful electric motor alongside a conventional engine, but you don't need to plug it in for a recharge.
A mild hybrid, meanwhile, is effectively a conventional car, equipped with a small electric motor that allows the engine to shut down temporarily when the car is stopped at traffic lights, for example.
It can also be used to improve acceleration and power auxiliary systems.
To fulfil their commitments, carmakers could simply offer a range of mild hybrids.
They are cheaper to produce than full hybrids, yet they can offer significant benefits in terms of performance and fuel consumption.
More and more cars are already being built in this way.
Although their pledges may sound a bit more dramatic than they really are, it is true that carmakers are investing a great deal of money in new electric models.
Volkswagen, for example, says that by 2025, one in four of its cars could be battery powered.
BMW says it will be offering 12 pure-electric models by the same date.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "A hydrogen society needs to be created," says Toyota's Johan van Zyl

So what is driving the move towards electric vehicles?
There are several factors at play.
The launch of the Tesla Model S in 2012 proved that electric cars could perform as well as their petrol equivalents and have a decent battery range, albeit at a high price.
Since then the cost of lithium-ion batteries has fallen significantly, while battery management technology has improved, making that kind of performance more affordable.
Secondly, anti-pollution legislation is being tightened in key markets.
Here in Europe, for example, there will be new limits in force for emissions of carbon dioxide from 2021.
Those limits are much stricter than the current ones, and they are based on the average level of pollution produced by a manufacturer's entire fleet.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe

So by producing zero-emissions cars, manufacturers will find it much easier to meet the targets.
The same logic applies to building more hybrids.
Both of these factors were already affecting the major manufacturers' long term thinking, when in September 2015, another factor came into play.
The diesel emissions scandal cast an unwelcome spotlight on the industry - exposing not just sharp practice, but the fact that diesel cars in particular routinely produced far more harmful pollution than official figures would suggest.
The result was a backlash from politicians and consumers - while Volkswagen, the architect of the scandal, tried to restore its reputation by becoming a leader in electric car technology.
As the VW Group chief executive Matthias Mueller told me in Frankfurt: "We've got the message of course.
Consumers want clean vehicles.
People want clean air, and we want to make our contribution."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption VW is still having to deal with the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal

Electrification was on the cards long before the VW scandal erupted.
But the events of two years ago may well have helped to accelerate the process.
Now, it seems that carmakers are making a virtue out of a necessity, trying to gain some useful PR mileage from a process that was, in reality, more or less inevitable.
So, too, are politicians.
Talk of banning petrol and diesel cars may sound dramatic, draconian even.
But here in the UK, for example, the proposed ban doesn't cover hybrids.
Industry experts say that by 2040 - the date when the ban is due to take effect - it is highly unlikely there will be any non-hybrid cars left on the market anyway.
Then there is the question of infrastructure.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

There are currently about 7,300 charging points for electric cars in the UK, and the number is increasing at a rate of about 10 per day, according to ZapMap.
Globally, the figure is around two million, according to the International Energy Agency.
Clearly, if millions of petrol and diesel cars are to be replaced by electric versions, then we will need a huge investment in charging infrastructure, or they won't be going anywhere.
They will also need batteries - a lot of batteries.
And the power to charge them has to be generated somewhere.
That will take time and money.
Meanwhile, hybrid cars offer a convenient and effective stop-gap.
As BMW's chief executive Harald Krueger puts it, petrol and diesel cars "are not dead yet".
"You will see a transition time, with investments in combustion engines - petrol engines, diesel engines, very efficient engines," he says.
"But long term, we will see sustainable mobility with e-mobility."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Audi's Aicon autonomous electric concept - but will such concepts really become reality soon?
VW Group's Matthias Mueller agrees.
"There will be a coexistence between internal combustion engines and electric drive systems for a certain period.
I can't tell you how long that will be," he says.
"And that's because we do have to get the right infrastructure in place... we have to create the battery capacity.
"We're talking about enormous capacity here, and it has yet to be created."
Image copyright Sulky Doll Image caption Fashion stylist Donna McCulloch says Instagram "is your shop front"

Instagram, the Facebook-owned photo app, has become a lucrative shop window for many small entrepreneurs.
So what are the secrets of its success?
When Facebook bought the photo app Instagram in 2012 for a cool $1bn (760m), eyebrows were raised at the value the tech giant had placed on this 18-month-old start-up.
Fast forward to 2017, and while Instagram may still be Facebook's little sister, it has built a sizeable community of 700 million users - dwarfing both Twitter and Snapchat.
With improved photo filters and the addition of Instagram Stories, a feature that lets users upload short videos that disappear after 24 hours, the platform has become a big hit with freelancers and small organisations looking to reach new audiences.
So how can you use it to make money?
"Instagram is your shop front," says Donna McCulloch, a fashion stylist who works under the name Sulky Doll.
"People don't ask for business cards any more - they ask for your 'handle' [Instagram nickname].
It's instant - you both get your phones out, and you're connected."
Image copyright Cat Meffan Image caption Yoga enthusiast Cat Meffan was "shocked and excited" by Instagram's marketing power

For yoga instructor Cat Meffan, the glamorous images she posts of herself in impressive yoga positions in picturesque locations around the world are intended to inspire and motivate her 77,000 followers.
But they also help her to build her business.
"I sold out my first yoga retreat in five days and all I did was put up one Instagram post," she says.
"I was extremely shocked and excited.
That's the power of Instagram."
Cat says she'll spend up to an hour crafting the captions alongside her photos - sometimes more than she'll spend on taking the photo itself.
"Sometimes I'll go out and do a photoshoot with my partner.
But usually it's me with a self-timer or holding the phone."
Like Donna, Cat finds adding hashtags to her photos a useful way of reaching a new audience.
A search for #yoga, for example, will bring up her images, along with those of others, while Donna's #OOTD (Outfit of The Day) are by far her most popular.
"It's a nice way of finding like-minded people," says Cat.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Singer Selena Gomez has 126 million followers on Instagram

Both women also use the Stories feature to post videos which, they say, show them as they really are - an antidote to the artificial gloss that many Instagrammers are notorious for adding to their images.
"Stories allow people to get more of a handle on you as a person and a brand," says Donna.
"Stories are like peeking behind the net curtains.
The biggest compliment is when people say you come across the same in real life as you do on your feed [Instagram page]."
Both Cat and Donna have built their Instagram pages tightly around a very specific theme - yoga/wellness and fashion, respectively.
That's important if you want to grow the number of people who follow you says Danny Coy, a photographer with 173,000 followers who now also works as an Instagram consultant.
For 300 a month his firm Vibrance says it can "typically" grow an account by 2,000 followers every four weeks.
Techniques for attracting followers include posting regularly and having a bank of interesting images to hand.
"You don't have to post every day, but engagement peaks - after 24 hours it's done," he says.
"It's important to stick to your niche."
Image copyright Danny Coy Image caption Photographer Danny Coy thinks Instagrammers should stay focused on what they do best

That's Instagram's advice, too.
"If you tell a different story every time you come to Instagram people will struggle to understand what you're trying to communicate," says Jen Ronan, the firm's head of small business for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
"Make sure you're thoughtful about what you want your customers to know and ensure that you're consistently reinforcing this over time."
Many of Danny's clients are companies, he says, who want to boost their numbers in order to look "legitimate" on the platform.
"From time to time it'll be an up-and-coming photographer who feels they can't get the numbers they deserve," he says.
"Everyone has to start somewhere."
Instagrammers with a significant number of followers may be approached by brands seeking "influencers" or "ambassadors" to represent them - for a fee.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

Incorporating brand products and imagery into photos and videos can be a lucrative sideline, although you have to make clear which content is sponsored under Instagram rules.
Donna McCulloch doesn't do it: "I think I would lose my integrity," she says, although she does admit to wearing clothes she's been given.
"But it's because I wanted it," she maintains.
And Cat Meffan says she spends a lot of time "saying no" to brands she doesn't think are right for her - but she does accept some.
"There's no set fee in the Instagram world," she says.
"You have a discussion [with the brand] and you have what you think you're worth."
Danny Coy says: "Eighteen months ago I could easily be turning over 2,000-3,000 a month in terms of influencer content."
But he says the market is tailing off because brands have wised up.
If an Instagrammer tags a brand in a post independently, the brand can use the image without payment.
"Most will ask first," he says.
"But once you've tagged them and put it on Instagram they don't have to ask your permission."
Image copyright Mariann Hardey Image caption Mariann Hardey thinks the Instagram community doesn't mind branded content if it's entertaining

But isn't it a bit of a turn-off being marketed to by people whose content you admire?
And do viewers sometimes not realise they are looking at paid-for content?
Mariann Hardey, assistant professor of marketing at Durham University, thinks the Instagram community isn't that gullible.
"It's easy to get het up that influencers are taking over and people don't understand they are seeing paid content, but the main users of Instagram are extremely savvy at being able to filter content that is branded or sponsored," she says.
What's most important is "whether the post is fun" and the pictures are "pretty", she adds.
So, the consensus seems to be that if the sponsored Instagrammer is well-liked and engaging, and the content is entertaining, Generation Instagram doesn't mind.
"The future of gaming is all going to be about storytelling," says Scott Porter, who plays one of the lead roles in Madden 18's Longshot mode.
It's the latest in a growing trend of story-driven experiences in sports titles.
"If everyone who loves American Football has a copy of Madden already, how do you get new people through the door?"
he says.
FIFA introduced a play-able movie like experience, The Journey, last year.
The NBA 2K franchise has been doing it for a little longer, with Hollywood director Spike Lee even looking after their 2016 version.
These game modes are additional to the traditional way gamers play sports titles.
In them, players are challenged to make situational decisions based on characters lives.
These, on and off the field, choices impact their personal lives and careers in the game.
Watch: Electronic Arts explain why they're introducing story modes at Gamescom.
Former NFL running-back JR Lemon plays the main character Devin Wade in Longshot.
"You get to go behind the curtain and see the issues that players face," he tells Newsbeat.
"It makes sports stars relatable, we have this stereotype of athletes as being emotionless.
"But here you see a guy who doesn't think he's good enough, and we can all relate to that.
"It's that empathy that makes us more curious."
Scott Porter is a familiar face to fans of cult hit television show Friday Night Lights, which was also themed around American football.
He's also performed in many video games, like Injustice and Minecraft: Story Mode, in the last seven years.
He says: "Just like Friday Night Lights on television, this is not quite about the sport."
"People loved that show who knew nothing about American football.
"It's the same here, it's about brotherhood and friendship and I think people will get that."
For the Madden franchise, that's more popular in the US than it is in the UK, this is a chance to try and engage a new audience with the game.
"It tries to bring people, who haven't experienced American Football, into the sport," says JR.

"There's a teaching element to it, where you get to learn about the game and its intricacies."
"The future of gaming is all going to be in storytelling," adds Scott.
"At some point the human eye will stop noticing the difference in graphics.
"It's all about storytelling and how accessible that story is to a wide array of people.
"If everyone who loves American Football has a copy of Madden already, how do you get new people through the door?"
Seann Grady, the executive producer, of Madden NFL 18 also spoke to Newsbeat about this new trend.
It's the first time in the franchise's 29 year history that it's introduced a mode like this, following the lead of FIFA and NBA 2K.
He says: "Frankly there's a lot of drama in sports."
"We love sport and watch it because you never know what is going to happen.
"Behind the scenes there are lots of really compelling stories, with all these players trying to make it, and this is just one of them."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Strava Image caption Mark Gainey did not let injury stop him from cycling for long

Thankfully for tens of millions of cyclists around the world, Mark Gainey didn't walk away from the sport when he had a nasty crash back in 2002.
Racing his bike down a steep road in California, he hit a pothole and went flying, shattering his left arm and elbow.
He required no fewer than 11 operations to repair the damage.
Many of us wouldn't want to look at a bike again after that, but Mark got back in the saddle and a few years later he and a friend came up with the idea for what has become the world's most popular cycling app - Strava.
If you aren't a keen cyclist then you may not have heard of it but for those of us who do like pedalling around on two wheels it isn't an exaggeration to say that the app has been revolutionary.
Utilising the GPS (global positioning system) software on your smartphone, it enables you to record your ride, and then see an accurate line of the route you have cycled on an electronic map.
It tells you how far and fast you have cycled, and you can compare your times over certain sections - such as popular hill climbs - with both how well you have done before and with other Strava users.
This means that you can compete to beat other people's times and aim to be "the king (or queen) of the mountain" on a certain stretch of road.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Strava app is continuing to see user numbers soar

First launched in 2009 and since expanding to running and other sports, Strava now has tens of millions of users around the world, many of whom find it completely addictive.
The word Strava is even used as a verb, as in "I'm going to strava this ride," and then there is the saying: "If it isn't on Strava then it doesn't count."
While it has numerous rivals whose apps do similar things, such as Map My Ride and Endomondo, Strava's user numbers tower over the others.
It claims that an additional one million people join every 45 days.
But despite its vast popularity and the fact that it is backed by $70m (54m) of investment, the company (which doesn't reveal its financial results) is widely reported to have not yet made a profit.
So what is the problem and how can it change it?
Image copyright Strava Image caption The app was inspired by the idea to help boost camaraderie among fellow athletes

Mark Gainey, 48, says that the original genesis of the idea for San Francisco-based Strava came when he and co-founder Michael Horvath graduated from Harvard University.
"Back in the late 1980s Michael and I rowed together at Harvard.
It was an incredible experience, pretty special, with great camaraderie.
"The only problem was that we then graduated and - whoosh - that all just disappeared.
"So brainstorming ideas for businesses we said, 'Wouldn't it be great to replicate that camaraderie in the boathouse.'
The idea was to create a virtual locker room for athletes to compare times.
Unfortunately the technology just didn't exist at the time."
Fast-forward to 2008 and Mark and Michael, still friends, had not forgotten their idea.
By then Mark had spent almost two decades in the software sector, while Michael was a business and economics lecturer who also dabbled in the IT industry.
By then technology had made their idea possible, with the invention of GPS recorders and the iPhone and other smartphones.
And the likes of Facebook had made people used to sharing information about themselves online.
Image copyright Strava Image caption The app has since expanded to running and other sports such as skiing

And so the two friends launched Strava, the name being the Swedish word for "strive" in reference to Michael's ancestry.
The app was an immediate word-of-mouth hit and user numbers soon skyrocketed and haven't slowed since.
With its largest number of users in the US followed by the UK and Brazil, commentators put Strava's success compared with its smaller rivals down to a combination of its ease of use, and larger focus on sociability - the ability to see what friends are up to, chat and comment on each other's rides, and give someone "kudos" for a good ride.
Mark refers to this as Strava's "secret sauce", and he has huge ambitions for the company.
"We want to be the trusted sports brand of the 21st Century, but instead of needle and thread it is bits and bytes," he says.
The financial problem for Strava is that its basic free offering is so good most users aren't tempted to upgrade to its paid-for "premium" service.
The company won't release the percentage figure for the number of premium users, but commentators say it is likely to be around the 20% mark.
Image caption Users of the app can upload their own photos

As Mark confirms that the company's main revenue stream remains premium subscribers, it needs to see if it can increase this.
Strava is also hoping to increase the money it makes from tie-ups with sports firms, and use its data to work with local authorities around the world to improve and increase their provision of bike lanes.
To help boost Strava's earning potential, it has recently brought in a new chief executive, James Quarles, who joined from Instagram.
The change saw Mark move from that role to chairman.
Mark says: "We want to take Strava from tens of millions [in] revenues to hundreds of millions, and James will lead that."
Image copyright Strava Image caption Mark has switched from chief executive to chairman

UK cycling journalist Rebecca Charlton says it is hard to overstate how successfully Strava had turned itself into a "social network for athletes, a kind of home for their athletic lives".
Meanwhile, US cycling industry commentator Scott Montgomery predicts that Strava will indeed have a profitable future.
"They say in the technology sector that the first is the winner, and the second is forgotten, and Strava has definitely beaten its rivals.
"Somebody has done a great job on the marketing side and the app is very easy to use.
They are now at the stage where they own a vast audience, and if you are in that position you will get profitable."
Mark adds: "We are the world's social network for athletes, but I'm also very pleased that we are simply encouraging more people to be active."
Video

Apple has announced a new iPhone that will cost 999, or $999 in the US.
Is it worth the money?
The BBC's Dave Lee got hands on with the much anticipated device at the company's new "spaceship" headquarters in Cupertino, California.
Video journalist: Cody Melissa Godwin
Video

LG's latest handset is attracting plaudits at Berlin's Ifa tech expo, where it was unveiled.
Reviewers are praising its OLED display and advanced camera features.
To many it represents a "back to basics" approach after past flagships that focused on unusual features such as second displays and snap-in modules - and then failed to become bestsellers.
The BBC's Joe Miller was given an early look at the handset and quizzed the company about its strategy.
The augmented reality apps for your home

BBC Click's Lara Lewington looks at some of the latest tech to help you decorate your home.
Video

Samsung has revived its Galaxy Note brand with one of the biggest mainstream handsets to have ever been launched.
The Note 8 smartphone has a 6.3in (16cm) screen - a significant step up over the Note 7's already-large 5.7in display.
It is also considerably more expensive.
The previous model is best known for self-combusting in a series of fires that led to two recalls.
The BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones found out how Samsung now hopes to put that disaster behind it.
Read more in Rory's blog
Massive opportunities in urban transportation are emerging as the industry transitions from per-vehicle to per-mile economics

Growing up, I dreamed of owning cars I would be proud to wax, polish, and cruise around my neighborhood.
Today, I dread the prospect of being weighed down by a rapidly depreciating hunk of plastic and metal.
Now all I want is a pleasant transportation experience.
Millennials share my sentiment toward vehicle ownership, and many of them are embracing the convenience of ride sharing.
The trillion-dollar auto industry is being turned on its head.
Automotive companies are getting squeezed as car sales drop and newcomers eat their margins.
As part of this shift, the industry is transitioning from per-vehicle to per-mile economics.
Historically, the automotive industry has been measured by how quickly it assembles cars, pushes them to customers, lends money against them, and collects money to maintain and upgrade them.
Tomorrow, the industry will be measured by how many miles it moves passengers, and how much margin it generates on every mile traveled.
Vehicles will travel 3.17 trillion miles in 2017  a 7.8% increase from five years ago.
The trend will continue: The rise of electric vehicles and automated driving mean we can expect a lower environmental and labor impact, as well as lower prices.
Automakers should not worry about being put out of business.
Some will not survive the evolution.
A but a number of them will be key players in tomorrows per-mile realm.
Some will become white-label, commodity producers of vehicles for Uber, Lyft, or Zoox fleets.
Others, such as GM, Audi, and BMW, may choose to compete with the ride-sharing giants and operate their own fleets.
Which businesses are positioned to capture the majority of the dollars for the many billions of miles driven?
A few possibilities:

Insurance: Robo-taxi technology has almost arrived.
So far, there isnt a legal framework in which an operator can offer autonomous services.
Such a framework would help to set limits on the liabilities of passengers, operators, and technology vendors.
When the limits of those liabilities are known, insurers can design and offer policies for each group.
Startups will need to take a leadership role in helping insurance companies model the risk of computer vision, AI and other technology malfunctioning.
Given the expectation of slower auto sales, incumbent insurance companies should be delighted to pursue this nascent market, which could turn into the bulk of their business someday.
Robo-taxi technology has almost arrived.
So far, there isnt a legal framework in which an operator can offer autonomous services.
Such a framework would help to set limits on the liabilities of passengers, operators, and technology vendors.
When the limits of those liabilities are known, insurers can design and offer policies for each group.
Startups will need to take a leadership role in helping insurance companies model the risk of computer vision, AI and other technology malfunctioning.
Given the expectation of slower auto sales, incumbent insurance companies should be delighted to pursue this nascent market, which could turn into the bulk of their business someday.
Compliance: Limiting operators liabilities will require strict safety regulation compliance.
These regulations could include building and running simulations on the AI, as well as monitoring and auditing tele-operations (i.e., humans remotely overseeing the autonomous vehicles).
Limiting operators liabilities will require strict safety regulation compliance.
These regulations could include building and running simulations on the AI, as well as monitoring and auditing tele-operations (i.e., humans remotely overseeing the autonomous vehicles).
Distribution: Today, Uber and Lyft own the primary channels to ridesharing.
Their vast network of drivers and colossal cash coffers have allowed them to lock down the industry and squash competitors.
So far, neither of them is building their own vehicles.
Traditional automakers have an opportunity to rethink the experience of passengers, as well.
If they start from first principles, they will find themselves designing and building very different vehicles than what theyve made in the past.
New and emerging companies, such as Zoox (disclosure: my firm is an investor), are being built from the ground up to design and operate sophisticated transportation robots for this new era of driverless transportation.
Today, Uber and Lyft own the primary channels to ridesharing.
Their vast network of drivers and colossal cash coffers have allowed them to lock down the industry and squash competitors.
So far, neither of them is building their own vehicles.
Traditional automakers have an opportunity to rethink the experience of passengers, as well.
If they start from first principles, they will find themselves designing and building very different vehicles than what theyve made in the past.
New and emerging companies, such as Zoox (disclosure: my firm is an investor), are being built from the ground up to design and operate sophisticated transportation robots for this new era of driverless transportation.
In-vehicle services: Forget mobile devices; driverless is the new platform.
Highly personalized, rich environments can be created to stimulate and engage with passengers.
Voice interfaces can tune the experience in the vehicle, and serve as a concierge for not only that a single trip or a series of trips over multiple vehicles and in multiple locales.
Imagine tours provided by robotic cars that know passenger tastes, preferences, and previous destinations.
Your driverless tour guide showing you around Bangkok knows your preferences from your prior tours in Rome and Sao Paulo.
They can tap into your social media profile to recommend dining, shopping and entertainment experiences.
Forget mobile devices; driverless is the new platform.
Highly personalized, rich environments can be created to stimulate and engage with passengers.
Voice interfaces can tune the experience in the vehicle, and serve as a concierge for not only that a single trip or a series of trips over multiple vehicles and in multiple locales.
Imagine tours provided by robotic cars that know passenger tastes, preferences, and previous destinations.
Your driverless tour guide showing you around Bangkok knows your preferences from your prior tours in Rome and Sao Paulo.
They can tap into your social media profile to recommend dining, shopping and entertainment experiences.
Autonomous technology: It is well-established that companies who build unique technology that enables autonomous driving are positioned to reap massive benefits.
Non-auto-tech companies are seeing the opportunity and snapping up innovative companies.
Intel paid a premium for MobileEye and positioned itself as a major Tier 2 automotive supplier.
The channel that Intel acquired through this purchase will enable Intel to sell many other technologies, such as chips, sensors, and software, into the automotive supply chain.
Trillions of dollars worth of new opportunities abound in the coming era of autonomous travel.
If history has taught me anything, its that this new paradigm will spur entirely new ways of living that we havent yet considered.
As for myself?
As a gearhead, Im most looking forward to getting from A to B by robot, and manually pushing performance cars to their limits on racetracks.
Featured Image: David Butow/Corbis/Getty Images
When it comes to startup investment, carmakers are all over the road.
Over the past two years, weve seen a massive spike in venture funding by major auto manufacturers.
Deal counts are up, more automakers are investing and more big rounds are getting done.
However, an analysis of Crunchbase funding data for the 20 largest global automakers finds wide variance in investment sizes, timing and strategic focus.
Some automakers have focused on unicorns and mega-rounds, while others are active at the early stage.
Still others have yet to park much capital in startups, illustrating a long-term reticence to engage actively in the venture space.
None of this is especially surprising to industry insiders.
Automakers operate at a different clock speed than the technology industry, said Chris Stallman, a partner at Fontinalis Partners, a transport-focused venture firm with offices in Detroit and Boston.
Five to seven-year vehicle product cycles make startup partnerships difficult because there is uncertainty about whether the company will still be around when a car comes to market.
That said, its no secret that automakers have shown more interest in startups lately.
Nor is it any secret whats driving that surge, given the massive shifts the industry faces from the rise of electric cars, autonomous vehicles, ride-hailing services and other emerging technologies and transportation business models.
Below, we set out to quantify combined investment by automakers in startups of all stripes, along with acquisitions, with a focus on how individual automakers compare.
Deal pace speeds up

First we look at deal count.
Broadly, funding records for the past five years show a dramatic rise in startup investment beginning in 2016 and revving up further in 2017.
In the chart below, we look at the number of disclosed venture and seed rounds with participation by the major automakers.
Keep in mind, these are only disclosed rounds, so the actual number of investments may be quite a bit higher, as automakers are known to do stealth deals, as well.
Deal-making isnt concentrated in any particular sub-sector.
We see sizeable rounds, for instance, for Shift, a car-selling platform; ChargePoint, a provider of electric vehicle charging stations; Turo, a provider of peer-to-peer car sharing; StoreDot, a battery developer and Momentum.ai, an autonomous-driving startup.
Car companies arent just doing more deals; theyre doing bigger investments.
In all, automakers participated in at least eight mega-rounds ($100 million or more) this year, up from zero a few years ago.
In the following chart,we look at mega-rounds over the past five years:

Ride apps have dominated so far this year, with at least four companies in the space securing mega-rounds with automaker participation: Via, Grab, Gett and Careem.
Autonomous vehicles were also big, with Nauto and ArgoAI scoring mega-rounds.
Carmaker M&A

While it was a big year for startup investment by automakers, M&A has been slower.
Thats not abnormal, as car companies generally dont buy a lot of startups, although they do the occasional big deal or smaller asset purchase.
So far this year, we havent seen any large M&A transactions involving automakers.
The most recent large-dollar purchase was GMs purchase of self-driving technology startup Cruise Automation for $1 billion in 2016.
The latest deal, Volvos purchase this month of valet parking app developer Luxe, by contrast, was a smaller asset sale involving a startup that had ceased offering its service.
Other recent deals, including Fords purchase of commuter transit provider Chariot, and PSA Groups acquisition of online auto repair platform Autobutler, were smaller deals involving early-stage companies.
Whether they opt to partner or acquire, however, automakers are cultivating more relationships with startups, Stallman told Crunchbase News.
The global recession of 2008-2009 required heavy cuts to R&D for many struggling automakers, and in the last couple of years theyve been playing catch-up.
Bringing in an outside startup can be a good way to speed up internal efforts.
How the biggest automakers stack up

Not everyones operating at the same speed, however.
Some automakers like venture investing a lot more than others.
Looking at deal count, Germanys BMW was the most active automaker by a wide margin, with more than 30 disclosed investments since 2012, including 10 so far this year.
A majority are through its corporate fund, BMW iVentures, which invests across multiple sectors, including autonomous driving, electric vehicles, AI and automotive cloud technology.
Although most deals are Series A or B, BMW i Ventures invests across stages, and many of its early-stage rounds are quite large.
This summer, the fund participated in a $38 million Series C for Shift, and a $159 million Series B for Nauto, a developer of AI-enabled camera technology for automotive fleets.
Germanys Daimler was also quite active in 2017, with eight investments, including participation in two mega-rounds for two ride apps, New York-based Via and Dubai-based Careem.
In the chart below, we look at the number of disclosed investments since last year by major automakers:

A few automakers have so far stayed out of startup investing.
Fiat Chrysler, in particular, has been reticent to invest, although a recent self-driving car partnership with Google demonstrates an interest in partnering with Silicon Valley companies.
Nissan and Mazda have also shown little appetite for VC.
The road ahead

Looking ahead, its not far-fetched to presume that the momentum for startup investing among automakers will continue.
If anything, signs point to further acceleration, with Toyota recently unveiling a $100 million AI-focused venture fund and Ford scaling up its tech-focused Ford Smart Mobility division.
Moreover, if any industrys investment activities are going to follow Newtons first law of thermodynamics, it ought to be transportation.
Featured Image: Li-Anne Dias
Southeast Asia-based games and e-commerce firm Sea, formerly known as Garena, has officially filed for its much-anticipated U.S. IPO.
The company, which is valued at over $3.75 billion, will list on the New York Stock Exchange as SE and is looking to raise $1 billion.
Sea is best known for its Garena gaming business, which predominantly focuses on PC games but also includes mobile, but in recent years it has branched out into e-commerce with its Shopee service and payments with its AirPay business.
The Garena games portal is like Steam for PCs.
It counts 40.1 million monthly users as of June 2017, with 12.9 million daily users spending an average of 2.3 hours per day on the service.
Garena is Seas only revenue-generator since the company is still subsidizing Shopee and AirPlay is available in just three markets.
Revenue-wise, Sea has grown its revenue from $160.8 million in 2014 to $345.7 million in 2016, but losses during the period widened from $90.9 million to $225 million.
The company said this was predominantly down to Shopee, which it has been subsidizing in order to battle the likes of Alibaba-owned Lazada in Southeast Asias e-commerce space, which is tipped to grow from $5.5 billion in 2015 to $87.8 billion in 2025, according to a report co-authored by Google.
That Southeast Asia growth story is the anchor for this public listing, with Sea putting its faith in the regions rapidly growing internet space  which is adding 3.8 million new users a month  to propel its business to profitability.
Thats particularly true in the case of Shopee, which is Seas big bet.
Shopee has grown to reach 5.4 million monthly users in Q4 2016, with 2.3 million average monthly buyers and 1.9 million average monthly sellers.
Sea claimed Shopee clocked $1.15 billion in GMV  total goods sold  in 2016, which it said makes it Southeast Asias largest e-commerce company.
Its unclear if that is accurate.
Lazada reached $1,024 billion GMV for 2015, but founding company Rocket Internet ceased reporting its financial details after the first of two $1 billion Alibaba investments in April 2016.
Theres plenty of rival between the two, and Lazada CEO Max Bittner had previously fired shots at rival companies for pumping their numbers.
In comparison to our competitors, who are keen to tell everyone how big their GMV is, we dont have the need to scream very loud about how much money we raised, Bittner told TechCrunch earlier this year when Alibaba made its second investment.
No doubt the growth of Shopee, which was only formed two years ago, is impressive.
Sea has begun to monetize it for the first time this year when it introduced advertising and seller commission fees in Taiwan.
There are still six other countries to monetize, and Sea said it might consider other types of revenue generation.
This IPO is an important event for Southeast Asia more generally, where the only recent U.S. IPO was a disastrous and short listing from payment company MOL that ended in 2016.
Sea is the much-anticipated listing that investors and founders are hoping could light up a feel good factor about Southeast Asia as a tech destination and pave the path for other IPOs.
The region has seen a number of billion dollar companies rise to the point of a public exit, and Sea is leading the pile.
A successful IPO could tempt other tech companies in Southeast Asia to test the public markets with a listing of their own.
The main beneficiary of the Sea listing will be Tencent, the largest shareholder with a 39.7 percent share, with Blue Dolphins Venture  an organization set up by founder Forrest Li  holding 15 percent.
Li himself has 20 percent, and CTO Gang Ye has 10 percent.
Other investors include Hillhouse Capital, Temaseks SeaTown Holdings and Mistletoe, but their share holdings were not disclosed in the filing.
Beats had a handful of different sounds on hand to test the Studio 3 ahead of launch.
The demo was designed to showcase the range of the headphones new adaptive noise-canceling technology  but theres only so much you can get from a demo in that kind of controlled environment.
The closest the whole thing got to real-world unpredictability was a desktop fan pointed directly at the headphones to simulate the annoying static crunch of wind.
The tech performed well in the demo  no surprise there.
If youre going to customize a couple of scenarios to show off your products top feature, youre going to make sure the thing works.
Over the week though, Ive had the opportunity to try things out in a much more chaotic real-world setting  a little thing we call TechCrunch Disrupt.
Beats shipped a set to my hotel room in San Francisco, so this week I was the guy who was sitting out front by the stage wearing a big set of navy blue over-the-ear headphones trying to get some work done.
My own rudeness aside, its actually a pretty ideal scenario for testing out the new noise-canceling feature.
Theres a lot going on throughout the day  speakers on the stage, the audience chatter and techno music beds playing between presentations, the din of activity seeping through the noise-dampening curtains from the showroom floor.
Unlike the hum of a 737 engine, its not the kind of consistent sound its easy to program against.
Again, I was impressed.
Transcribing audio is a pain in the ass, and the background sound makes it next to impossible to catch everything.
With the headphones on and noise canceling fired up, its easy to remain blissfully oblivious to your surroundings.
The companys developed an impressive bit of noise canceling that works across a broad range of scenarios  Im currently typing this from a window seat on an Airbus A320, and the Studio 3 are doing the trick drowning out the hum.
The adaptive noise cancellation is the latest step for a company thats working toward becoming a more serious headphone brand.
And, indeed, Beats has come a ways since launching as big, flashy, bass-heavy headphones.
Theres still some legacy there, of course; the branding is still outsized on the products themselves, and the company pumps a ton of money into celebrity promos  including the constant stream of star spots youre served up during every NBA game.
But the design product color schemes have trended toward the more subtle, and the company started delivering a subtler and fuller audio experience around the time it introduced the Studio 2, in an attempt to fulfill the promise of the record producers behind the companys launch.
The line has grown up a fair bit over the past few years  if you were put off by the brands sound in the early days and havent gone back since, its worth a revisit at your local big box store (just bring the disinfecting wipes).
Battery life is a big win.
The company lists it as 22 hours with noise canceling and 40 hours without, so youll be able to drown out plane noise and screaming babies for the duration of the worlds longest flight (20 hours and 20 minutes, London to Sydney).
When I got home from Disrupt each day, I found that I hadnt made a dent.
Of course, the whole Apple acquisition means access to the W2 chip, so you get the same pain-free syncing as the AirPods.
Thats a noted leg up for iOS users  Android owners will have to grapple with the same old syncing process.
Bluetooth has come a long way in terms of both sound quality and connectivity, so youll be able to walk a decent distance away from the sound source without dropping signal.
And, of course, theres a wire in the box for when thats the preferred way to connect.
Weirdly enough, charging happens through microUSB  which feels a little antiquated for a pricey set of headphones.
Speaking of, thats easily the biggest deterrent here: $350 is a lot to pay for a pair of headphones.
As of this writing, thats about $20 more than the QuietComfort 35, from the notoriously expensive Bose.
That price gets you Beats most well-rounded headphones to date, but for most users, its probably a bridge too far.
Ask how many people have been killed in the last couple decades by police officers, and results vary widely.
Local and federal authorities may track them differently, likewise activist and research groups.
One project hopes to keep better tabs on police-related fatalities by having an AI system extract them from news reports nationwide.
Brendan OConnor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst noted that although accounting differs from place to place, reportage is pretty unambiguous.
While the justification for a shooting may be disputed, its hard to get around the basic statement of fact that an officer shot and killed someone.
If a computer could learn to look for that, it could act as a simple but effective national net for that information.
OConnor and his colleagues first scraped Google News for news articles from 2016 that mention police (e.g.
officer, cop) or fatalities (e.g.
shot, died).
This corpus is processed to remove duplicates and obvious mistakes, then the portions of text directly related to the killing were isolated (e.g.
Officer Baker shot John Doe, who later died.).
The machine learning system used these to attempt to create a database of people who had died during police encounters, and the police officers involved.
As ground truth for its training, the researchers used Fatal Encounters, an existing database of police-related fatalities manually assembled by journalist D. Brian Burghart.
The resulting model caught 57 percent of the police shootings listed by Fatal Encounters in the last quarter of 2016.
That may not sound particularly effective, but its promising  with more data sources and a bit more training, that number could rise considerably.
Wed still need people like Burghart checking closely, but even in its current state the system could help speed things along.
Indeed, the AI system isnt really intended to work alone, as noted in the papers conclusion:

One goal is to use our model as part of a semi-automatic system, where people manually review a ranked list of entity suggestions.
As with the best applications of AI, its meant to complement, not replace, the human element.
And the researchers point out that once it improves a bit, it could also be tweaked to extract other events from news reports  police saving lives, for instance.
The authors presented their paper at the Association for Computational Linguistics 2017 Conference in Copenhagen.
Featured Image: Getty Images/iStock/grynold (composite by Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch)
Could the Food and Drug Administration classify the Apple Watch as a medical device?
Its a question many have asked over the past couple of years, but the stakes are now higher for the Watch with its newfound ability to detect atrial fibrillation, or an irregular heart rhythm.
Already, Apple is rumored to be working on an Apple Watch sensor that would detect and monitor glucose levels through skin contact, rather than through a prick of blood.
Although no announcement was at Apples September 12 iPhone event, Tim Cook has been spotted wearing a prototype glucose monitor that could connect to the Watch.
Apple also filed for a patent in 2016 that could be applied to the Watch for several medical applications, including identifying characteristics of the users vasculature.
Presumably, this is for the newly revealed AFIB detection in the Apple Watch 3.
But separate patent just surfaced that also looks like it could be applied to a wearable like the Apple Watch.
The patent, titled, electronic device that computes health data, describes a device that comprises a camera, an ambient light sensor and a proximity sensor to measure and calculate health data.
Apple filed for the patent in early 2015 but the USPTO just granted it last month.
Combined, the efforts certainly suggest that Apple has bigger plans for its Watch than meet the eye.
Still, users might not want to hold their breath, for a few reasons.
The first is the way that the FDA classifies medical devices, which involves regulatory hoops that Apple might not want to jump through.
As regulatory attorney Bradley Merrill Thompson explains it, its Apples software app that will be the FDA-regulated medical device, not the hardware watch.
The FDA only regulates specialized medical hardware and software, he continues, so if Apple adds hardware specific to glucose monitoring, that would be regulated.
And any software they add specific to the medical functionality would be regulated.
But the general-purpose platform would likely not.
Put another way, Apple would need to avoid making medical claims specific to the platform, and instead limit its medical claims to the specific software and hardware dedicated to a particular medical purpose, Thompson says.
Presumably, it would be a nightmare for both the FDA and Apple to try to work around regulations for the platform itself  meaning its iPhone, Apple Watch or some other ubiquitous digital device made by Apple.
In fact, Tim Cook has made it clear in the past he doesnt plan on adding anything more than a fitness and heart rate sensor to the Watch for that reason.
We reached out out to the FDA for comment; a spokesperson said the agency cant comment on the Apple Watch specifically but said the FDA has provided guidance regarding the development of Apples recently announced heart research study.
Its always possible that Apple could fork its Watch, creating one version for everyday use, and another for medical-tracking purposes.
It has already forked the Watch into two separate versions in the latest iteration: one with LTE and one without.
Though it seems unlikely Apple would decide to add the extra regulatory layer that could slow the adoption of a device it hopes everyone will wear, the company does seem to want us checking all of our vitals and keeping up our health information through its platform  and providing useful data to Apple in the meantime.
The Watch creates an easy way to check on our health, track sleep, heart rhythm, fitness data and then upload all that information to Apples Health app.
It also allows for medical research participation through Research Kit and offers a handy Medical ID section to keep track of your critical medical information.
Its not a far-fetched idea to make the Watch into a medical device, especially given the moves Apple has made in the last couple of years.
But waiting for Apple to offer up a medical version of its Watch anytime soon?
That could take a while.
Racism.
Sexism.
Discrimination.
Harassment.
Those words often come up in questions pertaining to the state of diversity in Silicon Valley.
2017 has been a bombshell of a year in Silicon Valley, kicking off with former Uber engineer Susan Fowlers allegations of sexual harassment during her time at the company.
Shortly after her expose, allegations against Binary Capital co-founder Justin Caldbeck and 500 Startups founder Dave McClure surfaced.
Then came the lawsuit against UploadVR for rampant sexual behavior in the workplace and one against SoFi by a former employee who alleged he was wrongfully terminated for reporting the sexual harassment of female employees.
Clearly, a lot has happened in this past year.
Thats why the topic came up again and again at TechCrunch Disrupt SF earlier this week.
I think that the ecosystem is evolving and changing, and the country is changing, DST Global founder Yuri Milner said at TechCrunch Disrupt San Francisco this week.
And what was acceptable even a few years ago is no longer acceptable.
This change has been happening for a very long time, and I think companies need to react to those changes as the rest of the economy.
All eyes are on early stage VCs

After all of the drama involving Caldbeck and McClure, many people in the tech industry expressed outrage.
Some went on to suggest that there need to be more explicit policies in the venture capital world that explicitly prevent harassment.
Despite those suggestions, there are still firms out there that have yet to take a proactive, explicitly outlined approach to invest in people of color and women, and prevent sexual harassment and discrimination.
When asked at Disrupt about whether DST Global has a policy in place to ensure investments go to underrepresented people in tech, Milner pointed the finger at early-stage VCs, saying thats where the revolution will have to happen.
Thats because, he said, We dont see a lot of female founders running late-stage companies.
Although his answer felt like a bit of a cop-out, he noted that a lot of this drama really played out more in the early-stage space.
Hes right that a lot of these issues came up in the early-stage space, but it doesnt mean theyre non-existent in late-stage interactions between VCs and founders.
Kevin Durant of the Warriors has his own early-stage fund with Rich Kleiman called Durant Company.
The duo said they dont have an explicit policy in place, but Kleiman noted two of the most impressive founders theyve met in Silicon Valley have been women.
Durant added that he recognizes great ideas can come from anyone.
I think theres a lot of people out there  no matter what color they are, what they believe in  who have great ideas and want to push the envelope and want to change the world, and I think we should listen to them, Durant said.
Simple as that.
But lets be real now.
Its simple, yes, but just because its simple doesnt mean people are going to do be inclusive and not harass people.
This is where legislation can come in.
In August, Sen. Hannah-Beth Jackson (D-Santa Barbara) introduced a new bill, SB 224, to explicitly prohibit sexual harassment in the venture capital industry.
Right now, there is a legal gray area when it comes to the relationship between an investor and a startup founder.
SB 224 seeks to amend the Unruh Act, a California civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on things like sex, race, religion, age and disability.
The Unruh Act currently prohibits sexual harassment between people who have a business relationship but dont work for the same company.
That includes relationships with attorneys, landlords, teachers, physicians and other professionals, but does not explicitly include investors.
People are not naturally altruistic, Insight Venture Partners Managing Director Hilary Gosher told TCs Katie Roof at Disrupt.
So I think its interesting it has come to this, that someones got this bill proposed.
Jacksons bill would clarify the unique nature of the investor/entrepreneur relationship and, more specifically, would include an investor as someone who may be liable for sexual harassment.
Whether or not it comes to parse, the point is at some point people arent going to change unless theyre forced to change, Gosher said.
Tackling diversity and inclusion sooner than later

Despite whats happening in the VC world, young startups also have a responsibility to make sure theyre building and fostering diverse, inclusive workplaces.
And the earlier a startup begins paying attention to diversity and inclusion, the better.
Over at fitness startup Proday, founder and CEO Sarah Kunst says her strategy entails not sexually harassing people.
And I do this crazy thing called hiring people who arent just white dudes, Kunst said at Disrupt.
And it works really well.
You guys should try it.
On an equally important note, Kunst stressed the importance of building a good culture and ensuring it comes from the top down.
Atrium LTS co-founder Justin Kan, a serial entrepreneur behind startups like Twitch and Exec, echoed some of what Kunst said.
In another Disrupt session earlier that day, Kan spoke about implementing good management practices and how some tech companies can get away with not doing that.
I feel like a lot of these companies are just not doing that and in Silicon Valley particularly its oftentimes easier to not do that because you have a company that just grows itself, Kan said.
You figure out something that has a network effect or is viral and it just starts growing and so you can afford to get away with having really bad management and I think just investing in management earlier on is a really important thing that every company should do.
Once your startup gets to the size of Uber, for example, its going to take quite a lot of work to undo much of the damage that has already occurred as a result of internal practices that dont take diversity and inclusion into account.
In light of Fowlers allegations, which also called out Ubers management practices, Uber has since brought on Frances Frei to help with leadership development and overhauled its performance review process.
Still, there is certainly a lot to do, Uber Chief Brand Officer Bozoma Saint John told me at Disrupt.
In a conversation about the plethora of issues that plague Uber, we spoke the work Saint John has cut out for her.
And when it comes to diversity and inclusion at the company, she says shes not satisfied.
Satisfaction to me is not reached until the numbers are increased, Saint John said.
To me, Im not satisfied just yet.
I think were on our way.
Worldwide, Uber is 36.1 percent female and 63.9 percent male, according to its diversity report.
In tech roles, women make up just 15.4 percent of the employee base.
Ubers overall female representation is not great, but its not as bad as female representation at Facebook (32 percent female) and Apple (32 percent female), for example.
Uber is also a predominantly white company (49.8 percent), which is unfortunately the norm at U.S.-based tech companies.
But where Uber shines is in its representation of black and Latinx people.
Overall, Uber is 8.8 percent black, 5.6 percent Latinx and 4.3 percent two more or races in the U.S.
In technical roles, however, those percentages drop to 1 percent, 2.1 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively.
Silicon Valley is not good at this.
Silicon Valley fails at inclusion.
Nest Labs founder Matt Rogers

Again, Uber is not alone in its overall lack of diversity  and thats ultimately the problem in Silicon Valley and the tech world at large.
Theres not a single company that is doing this right.
There are only some that are doing better than others.
Silicon Valley is not good at this, Nest Labs founder Matt Rogers said.
Silicon Valley fails at inclusion.
That was generally the consensus at Disrupt.
Silicon Valley is failing at diversity and inclusion, and its gotten to the point where its impossible to ignore.
In order to turn failure into success, anyone and everyone with hiring and funding power in technology needs to be more proactive about recruiting and hiring diverse people.
They also need to have policies in place to ensure safe, inclusive work environments.
For startups and investors who dont know where to begin or how to proceed, here are some resources:
Twitter today has nearly four times as many monthly active users outside the U.S. as it does in its home market  260 million versus 68 million  and this week it quietly launched a new app in an effort to boost those numbers further.
The social network is testing a Android app for Twitter Lite, a native app version of a mobile web site Twitter launched earlier this year that uses less mobile data to work.
The lighter data load means that the app is especially useful for emerging markets where data networks are often slower and more expensive for consumers to use.
We were alerted to the new Twitter Lite app by analytics firm SensorTower, and weve seen a few mentions of it out in the wild:

omg theres twitter lite for android  janelle (@pajeons) September 23, 2017

Twitter has confirmed to us that the app is being run currently in test mode in the Philippines (which is where the Twitter user above is located).
There, it appears as a separate app in the Google Play Store for devices running Android 5.0 and up; has language support both for English and Filipino; and is usable on 2G and 3G networks.
The test of the Twitter Lite app in the Google Play Store in the Philippines is another opportunity to increase the availability of Twitter in this market, said a Twitter spokesperson.
The Philippines market has slow mobile networks and expensive data plans, while mobile devices with limited storage are still very popular there.
Twitter Lite helps to overcome these barriers to usage for Twitter in the Philippines.
He further described the app as an experiment and that Twitter was still evaluating whether to launch it in further markets.
The app itself appears to have many of the same basic functions of the main Twitter apps  breaking news, sports scores, and entertainment updates.
Interact with brands and your government, easily market your business, quickly provide or receive customer service and options to view your Timeline, Notifications, the Explore tab, Messages and to customise your profile.
Screen Shot 2017-09-23 at 08.27.51 Screen Shot 2017-09-23 at 08.27.44 Screen Shot 2017-09-23 at 08.27.15 View Slideshow Previous Next Exit

But alongside these are a few tweaks that will make it less of a data hog for users: for example, you can switch to a media-free mode to be able to select specific images and videos for downloading.
Indeed, its details like this that point to why Twitter expanded the Lite version to apps in the first place: not only do people like to use apps, but the platform gives Twitter a wider set of tools to tinker with the user experience further.
Giving users the option of which media they would like to actually see is a pretty crucial feature for emerging markets.
Twitter has over recent years reoriented itself as a media company, for example cutting deals to livestream events in hopes of capturing more audience and advertising alongside that.
But that full version of the service would be potentially unusable (and probably frustrating) as a result for many people in emerging markets, so Twitter has taken the decision to show these users less in hopes of getting them to use the service more  and to better monetize them on more localized terms.
Ironically, it may not only be emerging market users who flock to the app, as evidenced by who uses Twitter Lite the web app:

I use the Twitter Lite PWA because the native app for Android is too slow.
Kent C. Dodds (@kentcdodds) September 20, 2017

Twitter today tells me that the Lite web app offers a significant weight reduction on its standard apps: it uses up to 70 percent less data, is smaller than 1MB in size, and launches up to 30 percent faster.
The Android Lite app, meanwhile, when installed uses under 3MB.
Twitter has not released any numbers on how much traffic comes from its Twitter Lite web site, built as a Progressive Web App.
However, it is not too surprising to see Twitter expanding Lite after CEO Jack Dorsey highlighted its importance for the company in its emerging market and international strategies.
Weve been working over the past few months on some early foundational work, and Twitter Lite represents one of these, he said in the companys quarterly earnings call in July.
One of our goals is to make sure Twitter is accessible to anyone in the world.
And Twitter Lite exactly hits on this particular goal.
Especially in places like India, we found that our app was just way too slow to access.
So we have areas in the world where network infrastructure is more costly, and we could be a lot better in terms of serving those markets and those countries.
So its way too soon to access the  to assess the usage trends, but our initial results look really positive.
Considering how many people use Twitter outside the U.S., and considering Twitters numerous and early efforts and wins in emerging markets, the company was somewhat late to the game when it came to launching an official Lite web app, which it did only earlier this year.
But for social networks that are hitting a wall in their domestic and mature market growth, having an app thats designed for users on lower-end phones and networks is essential.
You can see the pattern of social sites that have followed this route: LinkedIn launched LinkedIn Lite as an Android app earlier this year, and Facebook Lite was at one point the companys fastest growing app and now has somewhere between 500 million and 1 billion installs.
Twitter of course, has had a growth problem for years now, so its possibly even more urgent that the company rolls the dice sooner rather than later on this one.
Featured Image: DragojaGagiTubic / iStock Editorial / Getty Images Plus
The tech industrys over-processed supply of irony might not be enough to service all the ramifications of Uber being stripped of its London license by the citys transport regulator.
Uber advocates were immediately scrambling to bust out the reactionary clichs  painting the regulator as anti-innovation and claiming London is now closed for digital business.
(A point that might have more substance if they were talking about Brexit.)
Spare us.
Please.
NB: A regulators job is literally to uphold a set of standards on behalf of the public, not to bow down before your shiny app.
The old Theyve caved to the taxi cartels and/or the unions!
refrain was also wheeled out and waxed off.
Harder to spot: Any mention of how much Uber spends on lobbying lawmakers to influence regulatory decisions in its commercial favor.
Nor how Uber mobilizes its app infrastructure to create thousands-strong lobbying armies to apply pressure to city authorities at key moments of regulatory threat.
So  quelle surprise!
theres already a petition with hundreds of thousands of signatures against TfLs decision.
A petition set up and promoted by, er, Uber, of course

Already viral save Uber petition on https://t.co/sms8BrHPhS which isnt obviously by Uber, unless you know name of their UK manager.
https://t.co/HXhX1AA3bN  Jim Waterson (@jimwaterson) September 22, 2017

At the same time, some genuinely outraged London Uber users, who have become accustomed over the past five+ years to a VC-subsidized regime of unsustainably cheap cab rides, have taken to social media to cry that its simply not fair!
And to wonder aloud how theyll be able to go anywhere without Uber.
This in a city that has one of the most extensive and accessible public transport networks in the world  not to mention a large number of private hire vehicle companies other than Uber, some of which can also be summed by an app (such tech!
much innovation!
How will we get home safely now, fretted others  apparently untroubled by the fact that Londons Met Police had informed the regulator Uber was failing to report sex attacks by drivers on its platform.
TfL cited Ubers approach to reporting serious criminal offenses as a contributing factor to its decision to withdraw licensing.
If you can't fix poor crime reporting processes, you don't get to claim you're "innovative".
Nicole Kobie (@njkobie) September 22, 2017

The deepest irony of all is that Uber can continue to operate in London while it appeals the regulators decision.
Which will, at very least, take months.
It could take years.
Being told youre not fit and proper to operate a service yet allowed to keep operating your service?
Tell me again exactly how London is closed for digital business?
Uber for a laundry list of scandals

Corporate social responsibility?
Ubers company fabric has demonstrably been cut from a very different kind of cloth.
Thats why its new CEO is right now having to triage a laundry list of scandals  from dealing with an internal culture of sexism and bullying; to privacy and security failings so massive Uber just had to agree to two decades of oversight by a US regulator; to what appears to be a disturbing habit of building software tools that aim to blur the line of legality  such as by helping it evade regulators or slurp data from rivals.
Meanwhile Uber intones that TfLs decision will put more than 40,000 drivers out of work.
And claims its going to court to defend the livelihoods of all those drivers.
Yes, this really is the same company that studiously avoids employing any of those thousands of platform dependents  rather it categorizes them as self-employed contractors.
Being in work with Uber means accepting the risk and responsibility of being precariously managed by a technology entirely beyond your control.
Wrong.
Uncertainty is tying yourself as a 'contractor' to a co./platform that essentially dictates how you work.
Ingrid (@ingridlunden) September 22, 2017

Uber has even tried to monetize that insecurity by selling personal injury and illness insurance to its drivers.
How very innovative indeed!
Such a shame it doesnt provide sick pay in exchange for sweating toil in the first place.
In a test case last year, a UK employment tribunal disagreed with Ubers classification of drivers as self-employed contractors  ruling the company must pay the individuals in question the national minimum wage, as well as cover holiday pay and provide adequate work breaks.
Ubers business has of course been structured to try to avoid the expensive rights of millions and millions of workers landing on its balance sheet.
Despite the fact that, without the labor (and possessions) of all those drivers it wouldnt be able to deliver its service.
Displaying a very black sense of humor, Uber calls its powerless platform precariat partners.
Even as it routinely instructs its lawyers to appeal decisions seeking to expand drivers rights.
And even though it fought for so long against adding a tips option to its platform.
(It routinely challenges any moves by cities trying to raise safety standards for Uber users too.)
But politicians are waking up to gig economy regulation.
As indeed are gig economy workers.
That Uber employment tribunal ruling looks like both warning klaxon and tip of a titanic iceberg.
So if youre an entrepreneur, and circumventing employment regulation is your benchmark for innovation, its really time to get a new playbook.
In Europe, governments are as un-fond of seeing their tax bases shrinking as workers are their rights evaporating.
While legal minds do appear to have grokked how a tech business which replaces human managers with an app that barks orders is still, er, managing workers.
Europe also appears to be approaching a consensus legal view that a tech platform whose primary business is the delivery of transport services is  wait for it  a transportation company.
And should therefore be regulated as a transportation company.
The legal mists Uber has exploited for so long look to be clearing.
And so if your innovative business model is intent on siphoning disruptive fuel from the tightly managed labor of thousands of people who you wont classify as workers, you might find VCs arent as elated by your pitch as you imagined.
Mark Tluszcz, CEO at VC firm Mangrove Capital Partners, had this cautionary warning following the Uber decision: There are fundamental issues with the business models of many gig economy companies.
While they offer great services and excellent value for money, they are often dependent on not paying salaries, taxes and insurance.
But no matter  none of that stuff is a barrier to Uber using the precarious livelihoods of its non-employees as an emotive cry for a brake on the TfL regulatory decision right now, and as the claimed justification for what could be years of legal action and uncertainty as it seeks to force the regulator into reverse.
Now dont get me wrong.
TfL isnt perfect by any means.
You can certainly  and people have  call out the regulator for letting Uber operate for more than five years in the face of mounting concerns.
(Or, well, you could say it was demonstrating that London is open for digital business?)
Arguably it could and perhaps should have stepped in sooner to investigate issues being raised.
Although it would surely have faced the same or an even more fierce cry of anti-innovation had it moved to strip Ubers license earlier.
The most biting response to TfLs decision came from James Farrar, co-claimant in the Uber employment tribunal decision, who described it as a devastating blow for 30,000 Londoners who now face losing their job and being saddled with unmanageable vehicle related debt.
Although his assessment does also underline exactly how precarious it is for anyone to put their faith in a rights less platform to be their forever reliable non-employer.
I mean, this is also a company that has publicly stated its ambition is to remove human drivers from its business equation entirely  and replace them with autonomous machines.
So its partnership offer has always come with plenty of caveats.
But Farrars suggestion that TfL should have sought to strengthen its regulatory oversight earlier does have some merit.
Specifically he says it should have curbed Ubers runaway licensing and sought to protect the worker rights of drivers.
Its the best critique Ive seen of TfLs ruling.
However it does risk eliding the public safety issue.
As indeed do many of the male voices that have been so quickly raised to speak up for Uber and to brand TfL as anti-innovation.
Perhaps thats unsurprising, given its women who are disproportionately the victims of sex crimes.
For most men a ride home with a stranger probably sounds like a welcome convenience.
For most women the first consideration before getting into a car alone is: Is this going to be safe?
And on the topic of safety, did you hear the story of how an Uber user in the U.S. who was raped by an Uber driver in India is now suing the company for privacy violations after it emerged Ubers president of business in AsiaPac had accessed, and was carrying around, her medical records?
Its hard to imagine a more textbook example of failing on all counts at corporate social responsibility.
The bottom line is a regulators responsibility is to ensure the entities it grants licenses to are up to its accepted standard.
And TfL evidently believes its seen enough bad stuff attached to Ubers business operations in London to merit revoking its pass to operate.
Given how tattered Ubers corporate reputation is, who can blame them?
Even Ubers new CEO has conceded this point  in an internal letter to staff about the London license loss, which was leaked to a journalist, he writes: The truth is that there is a high cost to a bad reputation.
The end of the road for antisocial?
Regulators are also, as a rule, underfunded and overworked.
These public bodies dont enjoy the kind of VC largess that allows an entity like Uber or Facebook to aspire to move fast and break things.
So its unrealistic  and more than a little ridiculous  to demand that a small public body like TfL funds lengthy interventions aimed at educating far better resourced corporate giants on being socially responsible and on ensuring public safety.
The massive asymmetry between the understaffed regulatory overseers of civic society and the elite techno disruptors, stuffed to the gills with the finest engineers money can buy (but apparently no one who passed a course in ethics), has clearly enabled certain tech entities to accelerate their business growth at the expense of responsibility.
At times some are essentially dispensing with legality.
Uber grew by ignoring extant transport rules.
Indeed, in the past, it was proudly and loudly breaking such rules.
Told by a German court in 2014 to cease operating nationwide, Travis Kalanick era Uber told the judges to stuff their injunction and pressed the pedal to the metal.
So theres another rich irony to Ubers new CEO now pleading with the London regulator not to apply its rules, and calling for it to work with us to make things right But hey, at least hes gaslighting nicely.
Dear London: we r far from perfect but we have 40k licensed drivers and 3.5mm Londoners depending on us.
Pls work w/us to make things right  dara khosrowshahi (@dkhos) September 22, 2017

While, in the case of another platform giant  Facebook  the result of being powered by a business logic thats 100% geared towards commercial optimization at massive scale is currently being liberally painted across U.S. political headlines.
And across the prematurely aged visage of its remorseful-in-retrospect founder

Vote Zuck!
pic.twitter.com/TyB7Bud5Cy  Steve O'Hear (@sohear) September 21, 2017

Facebook is a content-curating company that, until very recently, resisted being classified as a media company.
For as long as possible it sought to eschew any kind of editorial responsibility for the user generated content flowing across its platform  even as its fleet of engineers worked to tune algorithms to distribute content at an unprecedentedly vast scale and with an invasively exact degree of interest-targeting.
But we didnt think of that, it bleats now, in response to the revelation that its ad system allowed the micro-targeting of ads to users with a stated preference for burning Jews.
We just didnt imagine this vast anyone-can-advertise-to-anyone platform might be used by Kremlin agents  even though, well, they paid us in Rubles and hailed from a known pro-Putin troll farm, it now finds itself having to say.
Its a vastly disingenuous response to a crisis entirely of Facebooks own making.
Social responsibility?
Oh hell no!
Were just engineers.
Heres the postmortem on Facebooks antisocial fuck-up: If your business is building powerful tech tools that you make freely available to almost anyone who wants to use them, and yet you also refuse to accept responsibility for ensuring those tools are not also misused at scale, then dont be too surprised when the monster youve unleashed comes back to bite your personal political ambitions in the ass, Zuck.
Turns out if youre truly fixated on moving fast and breaking stuff  and you have enough VC cash behind you to fuel your one-way rocket  you actually can end up breaking some really, really, REALLY big stuff  like, er, democracy.
Thing is, no one is clapping now are they Facebook?
(Well, no one outside Russia.)
Ubers bending of the transport rulebook might seem to pale in comparison beside Facebooks insistence that ads on its platform are just another type of user content to be inserted into anyones eyeballs so long as you hand it a little bit of fiat currency.
But the harm is actually more immediately obvious.
Those thousands of London Uber drivers who bought into its platform on the vague promise of a partnership.
Who took out loans to fund the shiny vehicles that Ubers business relies on.
Theyre the ones saddled with horrible uncertainty and terrible risk.
They have all the responsibility, and none of the rights.
And lets not forget all the unseen risk being absorbed by individual Uber users getting into cars with strangers and taking at face value the companys claims it is be safe for them to do so.
The regulators verdict is that no, actually, we are not convinced it is safe for you to get in the car.
Frankly this has nothing to do with innovation.
And everything to do with how poorly Uber has operated as a company to have reached such a very low pass.
#Uberban is about the operation of Uber *as a company*, not the tech itself.
London/UK is not anti-innovation, it's anti-bad practice.
pic.twitter.com/o0neSQfzHW  Mike Butcher (@mikebutcher) September 22, 2017

We wouldnt say that a car with no speed limits or seat belts is an innovative car.
Innovation is precisely about coming up with new solutions to problems.
Solutions that create more problems than they solve are not really solutions, says Gemma Galdn, founder and CEO at data consultancy Eticas Research commenting on TfLs Uber verdict.
While Uber is free to design its business model, regulators need to ensure that the framework they operate in protects fundamental rights and values, including workers rights If Uber cannot come up with a business model that, is both innovative and compliant with the law, this may say more about Ubers innovation capacity than about the regulator, who is just doing its job.
Not all tech innovations try to thrive regardless of their impact on labor rights, the environment or social inequalities, she adds.
In the future, non-civic tech should be as unthinkable as cars without speed limits or belts.
Theres yet another irony here: By failing to apply its ride-hailing technology in a socially responsible way Uber has made it more possible for fast-following competitors to elbow in and address those corporate failures  such as by offering a better partnership package for drivers.
Or by finding ways to make Londons more rigorously regulated black cabs more affordable for people to use.
Although Ubers main weapon to stave off competition thus far has been to drive down fare prices.
But even Uber cant burn VC cash forever.
It will have to raise prices to turn a profit or it cant hope to deliver the necessary return to its many investors.
Analysis suggests its investors are subsidizing the cost of rides to the tune of around 60 per cent.
Which means that that Uber trip which cost you 8 actually cost 20.
Not so price disruptive now, eh.
Why Uber is cheap: riders only pay 41% of the full cost of each ride, with investors footing the remaining 59% https://t.co/XN9jMUrs6N  anya (@anyabike) September 22, 2017

And given how many of the London Uber users complaining about TfLs decision to strip the company of its license say its Ubers affordability that they love, Id wager that an Uber that charged fares far closer to the rates of Londons black cabs wouldnt find itself half so popular.
On demand ride-hailing apps?
They arent as innovative as they used to be.
The question now is: What else does your business offer us?
On Friday, the Department of Homeland Security notified nearly half of the U.S. states that their election systems were targeted by Russia-affiliated hackers in an attempt to influence the 2016 election.
In most of the states targeted, the hackers were engaged in preliminary activities like scanning.
In other states hackers attempted to infiltrate systems and failed, but in a small selection of states, with only Illinois confirmed so far, the election systems were compromised successfully.
According to Homeland Security, none of these attempts were aimed at the systems that actually tabulate the votes themselves.
At least 21 states were the focus on these hacking attempts, including Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia, Wisconsin and Washington, as confirmed by the Associated Press and the states themselves.
States like Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin are among the swing states considered critical to an electoral college victory last year.
So far, other battleground states including Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire and North Carolina are not among those confirmed in the hacking attempt.
In a message to election officials in the state of Wisconsin, Homeland Security specified that the hack was conducted by Russian government cyber actors.
The agency first confirmed the state-level hacking attempts toward the 21 states in June, informing the Senate Intelligence Committee.
At that time, the states targeted by the operation were not made public.
DHS in future must notify states of attempted election hacking in real time, not a year later.
And all states must fortify election systems.
https://t.co/hJTof1bG0V  Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) September 22, 2017

Some members of Congress have spoken out against Homeland Securitys decision to delay notifying states and providing details, including Rep. Adam Schiff and Sen. Mark Warner, the ranking Democrats on the House and Senates respective intelligence committees.
Its unacceptable that it took almost a year after the election to notify states that their elections systems were targeted, but Im relieved that DHS has acted upon our numerous requests and is finally informing the top elections officials in all 21 affected states that Russian hackers tried to breach their systems in the run up to the 2016 election, Warner said.
In a statement to TechCrunch, Homeland Security spokesperson Scott McConnell elaborated on the decision to inform states:

DHS does not publicly disclose cybersecurity information shared between the department and its partners.
When we become aware of a potential victim, DHS notifies the owner or operator of the system, who in this case may not necessarily be the Secretary of States office.
However, recognizing that state and local officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election infrastructure, we are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners.
This includes the development of an election subsector coordinating council and making security clearances available to those who may need access to classified information in the oversight of their election systems.
As part of our ongoing information sharing efforts, today DHS notified the Secretary of State or other chief election officer in each state of any potential targeting we were aware of in their state leading up to the 2016 election.
We will continue to keep this information confidential and defer to each state whether it wishes to make it public or not.
We will be following this story as more states disclose details around election-related hacking activity.
Featured Image: franckreporter/Getty Images
The always hotly anticipated iFixit teardown of the iPhone 8 has arrived, and while it doesnt harbor much in the way of surprises, there are a few tidbits you may want to know about hiding in there.
Especially if you like hearing about things like pixel pitch.
Basically, the phone is, as you might have expected, very much like an iPhone 7 with a fresh coat of paint (and super-glass).
It comes apart much like the 7 did, although there are a few less of Apples special screws, replaced by ordinary ones.
The back panel, unfortunately, is more difficult to access than ever: iFixit ended up having to slice off the glass with a razor.
The battery of the 8 is slightly smaller than the 7s: 6.96 mAh versus 7.45 in its predecessor.
It shouldnt make much of a difference, though, if Apple has improved efficiency as it claims.
Theres a weird little chip in the display assembly that iFixit couldnt identify.
This thing look familiar to anybody?
Weve already learned that the rear camera is probably the best ever in a phone.
This teardown was of the 8, not the 8 Plus, but TechInsights did a bit of x-raying on the latter and found something that may be slightly interesting to sensor freaks.
Theyre both Sony backside-illuminated chips that measure 32.8 square millimeters  but the default, wide-angle camera sensor has a pixel pitch of 1.22 micrometers, while the zooms has a smaller 1-micrometer pitch.
Larger pitch means more room for light to hit, and that extra quarter of a micrometer means a lot at this scale.
So the wide camera might be considerably better in low light, requiring less ISO boosting and allowing shorter exposure lengths.
Lastly, this is the first time Apple has put a stacked sensor in their cameras, with pixel wells, signal processing, and memory all in one thin unit.
So be sure to thank Sony too when you tell everyone how great the iPhone 8s camera is!
Featured Image: iFixit
Investors are incessant in their hunt for the next emerging market.
The investment de jour?
Edtech.
The tastemaker in this case is an article from David Bainbridge claiming, Edtech is the next fintech.
While most of us can appreciate the wordplay, comparing edtech to fintech, or other hot industries, is a dangerous game  one that can severely damage the mission of education.
I believe the comparison is problematic for many reasons, but first and foremost, the numbers are at best misleading, and, at worst, wildly inflated.
The marker in the article  the one that had investors seeing edtech as a new shiny object  was the valuation of the edtech market at $250 billion.
Thats enough money for anyone to pay attention.
But its a gross overestimation.
The edtech market does not even come close to this estimate.
Where the number starts to fall apart is when other research about the market is held up for comparison.
For example, Navitas Ventures just completed a data analysis of the edtech market.
We mapped 15,000 startups in more than 50 countries.
In this deep dive of data we found a trove of insights, including 26 innovation clusters across eight stages of the learning life cycle.
What we didnt find?
$250 billion in investment opportunity.
The closest number in the data was $50 billion of existing investment.
But, that takes into consideration investments starting all the way back in 1997.
While I stand by the data and analysis in Project Landscape, using only our own data may seem biased.
Taking into consideration other numbers in the space, however, the same conclusion can be reached.
At the global level, CB Insights projects that deals globally will crest just over 500 in 2017, at $3 billion globally.
In the United States, numbers like $1 billion in edtech funding are suggested by EdSurge.
Over at HackEducation, expert Audrey Watters lays out the 13 biggest investments this year in her own critique of edtech investment numbers, and those amounts only add up to about $1.4 billion.
It seems any way the numbers are sliced, it is still a long way to get to $250 billion.
Even in the worlds fastest-growing edtech market, China, the numbers do not match.
A report from JMDedu estimates that $1.5 billion via 170 deals took place in 2016.
Its worth noting here that much of this amount was in mergers and acquisition.
Then there is the $1.2 billion in 2016 Chinese investments that Goldman Sachs notes, and the $1 billion the Chinese government invested in edtech in 2016.
There are people who will add to those amounts the $30 billion the Chinese government announced it will invest in edtech by 2020.
But, to those people, I say that money is earmarked for technology generally, not startups specifically, so the funds do not truly count.
Plus, $30 billion is still a far cry from $250 billion.
Even when a massive deal like the $200 million raised by Chinas VIPKID  a company valued at $1.5 billion  is factored in, the edtech market falls short of the projections investors are fawning over.
Beyond straight addition, there is the problem of what aspects of the market are being considered.
In the above examples, numbers are pulled from mergers and acquisitions, various stages of investment and deal flow.
If the same inputs are not being considered across the board, then how can investors truly know the opportunity in edtech?
The change is about people: teachers, faculty members, students, parents and community members alike.
This homes in on the second problem with the $250 billion valuation.
How are EdTechX and IBIS Capital, the original publishers of the number, arriving at the number $250 billion?
It starts with a forecast.
A forecast of $157 billion in 2016 growing 17 percent.
But, that forecast is not investment in edtech  it is vendor revenue.
The $250 billion market study is in fact likely a proxy for technology spend  transactions that include schools paying for learning-management systems and general IT spend.
But, potential revenue and this nuance isnt what everyone took from Edtech is the next fintech.
And that is the biggest problem: The way edtech is evaluated varies depending on who is doing the measuring.
Its a problem because it further obfuscates how edtech should be measured.
Evaluating market opportunity in edtech the same as any other market perpetuates a big movement of dumb, short-term money into a sector that is smart and long-term in how it thinks.
The potential of education, and subsequently edtech, cannot be measured by deal volume, capital, monthly active users or quarterly cash flow.
Instead, there must be different measurements that center around learner impact.
The reason?
The edtech market is complex  with rules all its own.
What is being sold is not technology, it is the education of future generations.
So, unlike finance, where technology that promises to save money is an obvious investment winner, in edtech, a solution that promises to disrupt education does not have the same guarantees.
Questions about how and whose education and whats wrong with the current system will stand in the new solutions way.
Innovation in education, the kind edtech companies purport to bring, is about fundamentally changing the way students learn.
That is something that is neither quick nor easy.
As Phil Hill writes, The challenge for scaling in EdTech is not fundamentally about new technology.
The change is about people: teachers, faculty members, students, parents and community members alike.
The people dynamic is what most new investors to education miss.
They enter the market with intentions of flipping their investment, earning quick money, and lack the patience or mindset to stick it out.
When that happens, when new investors realize that it takes twice as much time to get half the returns in education, they exit, often leaving well-meaning teachers and students hanging in the wind without the new product they were promised.
This is the true problem with the idea of Edtech as the next fintech.
Investment in this market requires understanding its unique attributes, and entrance not based on perceived profit opportunity but because its an opportunity to impact a public good that transforms peoples lives.
If investors cannot understand that, then I hope they forget what theyve been told about edtech and move on to the next emerging market.
Featured Image: nonchai/Getty Images
Just in time for a weekend during which I had already planned to do nothing productive, a small package from Nintendo containing what will likely be its hottest item since the NES Classic Edition which is to say, of course, the SNES Classic Edition.
A full review is now underway, but I thought it worthwhile to point out a few things.
Its just as tiny as the NES Classic edition.
It has a larger footprint but its flatter.
You cant open the cartridge slot.
Playing without anything there looks a little weird; Nintendo should have sold vanity cartridges that do nothing but stick up.
The new 16-bit menu chiptune is solid but I prefer the NES one.
Having to swing the little door down to plug in controllers is a bummer.
And the eject button, it does nothing!
The controllers are nearly indistinguishable from the originals.
Ive been playing on the same ones for 25 years (you can tell from the bite marks), so I know and love the feel.
Hopefully these new ones will last as long.
You can also plug the SNES controllers into the NES Classic Mini.
It definitely feels strange, though.
The NES controllers work in the SNES as well, but youll be missing 4 buttons.
Star Fox 2 is insane.
Technically me sitting in my apartment playing F-Zero covered in crumbs is work.
Jealous?
Dont worry, it wont be long before youll have one of your own.
Yeah, supply has been super limited, but Nintendo plans to make more and continue selling them well into next year  so this isnt just a winter treat.
Keep an eye out next week for our full review of the SNES and the games it comes with.
Now if youll excuse me, some whale noises just came out of my TV, which reminds me that this thing has Secret of Mana on it.
Bye forever!
Gene-editing technology CRISPR has revealed a clue in how human embryos begin to develop, possibly reducing the risk of miscarriage in those crucial first few weeks of pregnancy.
CRISPR Cas9 can modify or snip out genetic defects thought to contribute to miscarriage, but until now it wasnt clear why some embryos continued to form into a fetus and others did not.
However, findings, published Wednesday in the journal Nature, hold genetic clues.
British scientists conducting the study found that a certain human genetic marker called OTC4 played an important role in the formation and development in the early stages of embryonic development.
The scientists used CRISPR Cas9 to knock out this important gene in days-old human embryos and found that without it, these embryos ceased to attach or grow properly.
The findings could not only help us better understand why some women suffer more miscarriages than others, but it could also potentially greatly increase the rate of successful in vitro fertilization (IVF) procedures.
IVF is sometimes the only way a couple can make a baby using their own genes, but even with technological improvements over the years, the rates of success are still poor.
Only about 36 percent of IVF cycles result in a viable pregnancy, and a mere 24 percent produce a baby, according to the Centers for Disease Control.
Of course, this is not the first time scientists have tested on human embryos.
The practice has sparked a fierce international debate, but earlier this year, U.S. scientists used CRISPR technology to cut out a gene known to cause heart defects in three-day old human embryos.
None of the embryos in that study or this latest one were meant to go on to become human beings and were discarded after the study was finished.
However, both studies hint at the potential CRISPR could have in the formation of human life in the future.
It will likely take years before putting this breakthrough into practice on viable embryos meant to develop beyond a few days, and theres likely still much more research needed, but it does give hope for those whove suffered a miscarriage and wanting to ensure they can one day carry a healthy baby to full term.
Featured Image: Jamie Grill/Getty Images
If our review didnt convince you that the cameras in the latest iPhones are something special, perhaps DxOMarks lab-heavy evaluation process will do the trick.
The camera testing site unequivocally states that the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus have the best smartphone cameras its ever tested  though they arent without their flaws.
Where the cameras stand out is in the everyday situations where you just want to get the shot, and dont want to have to worry about using low light mode or watch helplessly as the camera struggles to focus properly on your puppys gambols.
On these occasions, the iPhones excel, offering accurate autofocus, extremely good detail in most lighting situations, and superior performance in the faux-bokeh category everyone is so hot on these days.
The zoom in the Plus is also best-in-class, though in smartphones that still remains a bit like a dog walking on its hind legs  its amazing that it works at all.
It beat out its nearest competitors, the excellent Pixel and HTC U11, which topped the charts until today in most categories.
Low light detail and HDR performance gave the iPhone an edge, and its much more natural background blur function wins handily (especially in the Plus).
DxOMark includes plenty of context and sample pictures that are worth perusing.
One in particular stood out to me, however:

Theres still plenty to improve.
The autofocus, while accurate (which really is the most important thing), isnt the quickest.
Video, while good, is judged to fall behind the Pixels.
Portrait mode still produces artifacts around the borders of the blur, but far less noticeable ones than the Pixel.
And they didnt mention the studio lighting mode, possibly because like me they think it looks pretty bad most of the time.
Its a well-earned victory by Apple, but the competition is about to strike back: the new Pixel is set to arrive soon.
As Matthew pointed out in the review, smartphone reviews are quickly turning into camera reviews, and Google knows that as well as anyone else.
Well see what the competition brings to the table on October 4, when its set to be unveiled.
Mark Zuckerberg has gotten so rich that he can fund his philanthropic foundation and retain voting control without Facebook having to issue a proposed non-voting class of stock that faced shareholder resistance.
Today Facebook announced that its withdrawn its plan to issue Class C no-vote stock and has resolved the shareholder lawsuit seeking to block the corporate governance overhaul.
Instead, Zuckerberg says that because Facebook has become so valuable, he can sell a smaller allotment of his stake in the company to deliver plenty of capital to his Chan Zuckerberg Initiative foundation that aims to help eradicate disease and deliver personalized education to all children.
Over the past year and a half, Facebooks business has performed well and the value of our stock has grown to the point that I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more, Zuckerberg writes.
Facebooks share price has increased roughly 45 percent, from $117 to $170, since the Class C stock plan was announced, with Facebook now valued at $495 billion.
We are gratified that Facebook and Mr. Zuckerberg have agreed not to proceed with the reclassification we were challenging, writes Lee Rudy, the partner at Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check LLP that was representing the plaintiffs in the lawsuit seeking to block the no-vote share creation.
Zuckerberg was slated to testify in the suit later this month, but now wont have to.
This result is a full victory for Facebooks stockholders, and achieved everything we could have hoped to obtain by winning a permanent injunction at trial.
I want to be clear: this doesnt change Priscilla and my plans to give away 99% of our Facebook shares during our lives.
In fact, we now plan to accelerate our work and sell more of those shares sooner, Zuckerberg wrote.
I anticipate selling 35-75 million Facebook shares in the next 18 months to fund our work in education, science, and advocacy.
That equates to $5.95 billion to $12.75 billion worth of Facebook shares Zuckerberg will liquidate.
When Zuckerberg announced the plan in April 2016, he wrote that being a founder-led company where he controls enough votes to always steer Facebooks direction rather than cowing to public shareholders lets Facebook resist the short term pressures that often hurt companies.
By issuing the non-voting shares, Ill be able to keep founder control of Facebook so we can continue to build for the long term, and Priscilla and I will be able to give our money to fund important work sooner.
A spokesperson for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative told TechCrunch that this outcome is very good for the foundation, because it provides more predictability to its funding.
The plan will also allow Zuckerberg to deliver cash to the CZI sooner, which its new CFO Peggy Alford will be able to allocate between its health, education and advocacy projects.
With the new plan to sell shares, its unclear what might happen to Zuckerbergs iron grip on Facebooks future in 20 years or more.
Dropping the Class C shares plan may be seen as a blow to Facebook board member Marc Andreessen, who Bloomberg revealed had coached Zuckerberg through pushing the proposed plan through the rest of the board.
But given Zuckerbergs power, Andreessen is unlikely to be ousted unless the Facebook CEO wants him gone.
For the foreseeable future, though, Zuckerberg will have the power to shape Facebooks decisions.
His business instincts have proven wise over the years.
Acquisitions he orchestrated that seemed pricey at first  like Instagram and WhatsApp  have been validated as their apps grow to multiples of their pre-buy size.
And Zuckerbergs relentless prioritization of the user experience over that of advertisers and outside developers has kept the Facebook community deeply engaged instead of pushed away with spam.
Zuckerbergs ability to maintain power could allow him to continue to make bold or counter-intuitive decisions without shareholder interference.
But the concentration of power also puts Facebook in a precarious position if Zuckerberg were to be tarnished by scandal or suddenly unable to continue his duties as CEO.
Zuckerberg warned investors when Facebook went public that Facebook was not originally created to be a company.
It was built to accomplish a social mission.
And yet Facebook has flourished into one of the worlds most successful businesses in part because shareholders werent allowed to sell its ambitions short.
If were improving the mental health of millions of teens, thats a success to us, says Nikita Bier, co-founder of tbh.
His team has scored a surprise hit, rocketing to the top of the App Store by letting teens send each other compliments anonymously.
While most anonymous apps like Secret and Yik Yak have devolved into cyberbullying, Bier explains that You dont necessarily need the ability to say whatever you want but to be able to say what you feel to others.
The innovation of tbh, teen-speak for To Be Honest, was getting rid of the typing.
Whether asking or answering questions, open text fields invite abuse when combined with anonymity.
Even an innocuous question like What do you think of me?
can lead to mean-spirited comments if responders dont have their names, and therefore any accountability, attached.
So tbh writes the prompts for you, and purposefully allows only those that are tough to bend toward bullying.
Open its iOS app (Android is in the works), upload your contacts and youre instantly answering multiple-choice questions where a random four friends are the answers.
Best to bring to a party?
Their perseverance is admirable?
Could see becoming a poet?
The next milestone is thinking about social platforms in terms of love and positivity.
TBH team

tbhs team says, We worked backwards from the content we wanted to see, which was nice comments about ourselves  a product youd open and itd tell you all your strengths and things youre good at and make you happier and more productive.
You get notified when youre selected as who does the most or is the biggest underdog, though who chose you is kept anonymous.
tbh saves all the answers, so at any time you can browse the positivity sent your way.
tbhs sunny little questions are so addictive that the app only allows you to answer 12 per hour, so you never get sick of it and always want more.
Our goals for anonymity are much different than most apps [that emphasize] the ability to say things without repercussions, the tbh team explains.
This is more about the ability to tell people more of the things that make them happy.
One is more targeted toward harassment while ours is more targeted towards making people better off.
Clearly teens are craving this positivity.
tbh has only officially been around since August, and blew up this month after launching in California.
It now has more than 2 million daily users and has been the #1 free U.S. iOS app for more than a week, passing YouTube, Snapchat and Instagram.
The hard road to honesty

tbh might have only taken two weeks to build, but the team had to fail for seven years first.
Bier started Midnight Labs back in 2010, eventually raising a seed round from a few investors, including social app guru Josh Elman at Greylock.
Midnight Labs built a personal finance app, a work time tracker, a college chat app, a personality test.
We probably built 15 products, the team tells TechCrunch.
Nothing quite flourished, but the five-person team purposefully kept its burn rate low to maximize its runway and get more chances to experiment.
We never spent money in any ways that would be considered lavish.
But after years of trial and error, We were running towards the end of our runway.
We only had maybe 60 days left.
Thats when Midnight Labs got philosophical.
The big milestone of the last social apps was the ability for open discourse [like on] Twitter.
That was a great achievement the team explains.
We think the next milestone is thinking about social platforms in terms of love and positivity.
We think thats whats been missing from social products since the inception of the internet.
Meanwhile, the To Be Honest fad had blown up with teens on Instagram.
Users would offer to send TBH compliments to people who Liked or commented on their photos.
During the tumultuous and sensitive age of adolescence, kids were showing how eager they were for a dose of positivity.
Uniting the teams philosophy with this trend, tbh was born.
We shipped it to one school in Georgia.
Forty percent of the school downloaded it the first day.
The next day it was in three more schools, and then the next day it was in 300 schools, the team recounts.
Thats even more impressive because tbh doesnt spam your contacts with unexpected invite messages.
User trust is really important, the team declares.
Following in the footsteps of Facebook, tbh wasnt launched publicly.
At first it was locked down to just a few states.
That was to keep it from crashing as Midnight Labs scaled up the infrastructure.
But also because tbh only works if lots of friends are on it.
Throttling the rollout keeps demand pent-up so when tbh launches somewhere new, like New York state this week, it becomes the talk of classrooms and teens download it in droves.
Whats to be?
My inbox is the whos who of Silicon Valley, Bier says, sounding more stressed out and under-slept than arrogant.
Now were having investors breathe down our neck.
Yet tbh isnt taking the money being thrown at it.
Were focused on scaling the product without raising some headline-grabbing number.
Often, social apps get caught up in saying theyve changed the world before they actually have, and there needs to be a little bit of humbleness.
tbhs next big task will be figuring out how to harness this momentum into sticky new products before the next viral app usurps it.
But the team is adamant about avoiding abuse vectors.
Its hard to develop products where you want to ensure positive communication, says Midnight Labs.
We have to be really diligent in how we think through how users interact with each other.
We cant have any oversights in how we design features.
Writing its second act may be tough if it stays away from typing, which would disqualify the usual additions of private messaging and status updates.
It could try new types of polls, like questions where you assemble groups of friends, like Whod make a great super hero team or Which of your two friends should have a sitcom about living together?
It could let you send virtual gifts to people, or use voice-changing effects and augmented reality masks to let you send anonymous audio and video compliments.
With teens being fickle, tbh cant ignore product as it grapples with growth.
We havent really thought too much about monetization .
or in-app purchases, says the team.
Its laid the foundation, though, as you earn a gem each time you get a compliment.
tbh could let you spend those on in-app purchases, like cosmetically enhancing your name when it appears in answer boxes, or bypassing the dozen questions per hour limit.
For now, though, itd be silly to obstruct growth with any monetization.
tbh should concentrate on retention and seeing how big it can scale its user base and its mission.
Until it reaches escape velocity, its vulnerable to Facebooks copy-cat factory.
Still, the team is confident, saying By the time we have a clone, were 10 steps ahead.
We know what product and experience people want.
Secret imploded due to bullying.
Yik Yaks anonymity meant there was little locking people into the app.
tbh will have to marry the freedom of expression that comes when your name isnt attached with a sense of community that keeps kids committed.
Improving peoples self-esteem  thats been the most rewarding aspect of this product, Bier concludes.
Raising a ton of money, all that other stuff, its just an accessory to the goal.
The goal is, can we make this generation happier?
Google has added a new feature that allows web users to contribute their own movie and television reviews right within Google search results  a step towards the possible implementation of Googles own Rotten Tomatoes or IMDB-like reviews service.
But before you get too excited about this, be aware that the feature is currently only available in India.
The addition was first spotted by the blog Android Police, which noted that the search giant had last year introduced like and dislike buttons on movie and TV shows results cards.
Google confirmed to us the new feature is live, but clarified it was something thats only available on web, mobile, and the Google app in India, in the English language, for the time being.
The user-submitted reviews are also automatically filtered for any inappropriate content, Google says, and they can be flagged by individual users if something inappropriate manages gets through Googles system.
nexus2cee_google-movie-audience-reviews-3 nexus2cee_google-movie-audience-reviews-2 nexus2cee_google-movie-audience-reviews-728x290 nexus2cee_google-movie-audience-reviews-1 View Slideshow Previous Next Exit

Above: screenshots of movie reviews, credit: Android Police

After the user leaves the review and submits it, the reviews themselves will then appear in the Knowledge Panel for various TV shows and movies at the top of the search results on Google.in.
The feature is another example of Google opening up Google Search results to include user-generated content.
For instance, Google this summer introduced a feature called Posts on Google that allows local businesses the ability to publish their events, products and services directly to Google Search.
Celebrities, sports teams, sports leagues, movie studios and museums can also use this feature.
However, Google tells us the new movie and TV show reviews feature is not using the same technology as Posts on Google.
Rather, its more closely related to the experience you see for restaurant reviews, also contributed by users.
When you click on a restaurant in Googles Knowledge Panel, youre taken to a Maps page with details like store hours, location, busy times, and critics reviews.
Here, youll see other reviews contributed by Google users at the bottom.
In that case, the crowdsourced reviews are referred to as Google reviews, and they are summarized as an aggregate star rating at the top of the businesss Maps listing as well.
4.0 stars 512 Google reviews).
In the TV show and movie listings product, they are instead referred to as Audience reviews.
Google declined to comment on its plans to expand its new reviews product beyond the Indian market.
But if it did so, it would be another notable attack on crowdsourced user review services  similar to how Googles business reviews became a viable alternative to Yelp reviews over the years.
The feature also arrives at a time when Amazon-owned IMDB is distancing itself from its more social elements.
For example, IMDB closed down its comments section this year, saying they no longer provided a positive and useful experience.
That leaves some more room in the market for Google to step in and cater to those who want to express their opinions on entertainment matters.
If successful, Google could do the same for other categories as well, like books, podcasts, albums, and more, if it chose to.
When people without health insurance experience suspicious symptoms, they often rely on an internet search to decide whether the situation is dire enough to warrant a trip to the emergency room.
However, by the time they seek help, the condition may have advanced to the point where care is complicated and expensive.
Or, those without urgent need may end up wasting valuable emergency room resources to perform a screening service that could have been done elsewhere for a fraction of the cost.
The irony of strict regulation is that while it drives up the quality of care, it also drives up costs, making it unreachable for those without health insurance.
The fact that few for-profit screening services exist outside of health insurance ecosystems suggests the cost of FDA approval makes it prohibitively expensive to develop low-cost solutions.
This leaves no options for the poor.
But in many ways that is changing.
GYANT, a San Francisco-based startup, recently launched a free app that can screen patients for the Zika virus, based on symptoms.
It does not perform tests, or analyze images of the patient, but rather asks questions such as: Have you traveled internationally in the last four weeks?
Or Are you experiencing a fever?
After a few questions, GYANT, rather than diagnosing, gives a percentage in which the patients symptoms match those of a Zika virus-affected patient.
Prior to GYANT, most developers launched digital health apps on private, secure portals so they could control the flow of patient information.
GYANT found a way to launch its app on Facebooks Messenger.
They now have more than 450,000 users and claim to have accumulated the worlds second-largest set of Zika data.
The company recently took the technology a step further and can now help identify approximately 350 common health concerns.
Another San Francisco company, Lemonaid, offers prescriptions for straightforward conditions, like urinary tract infections.
The $15 process is almost entirely automated, using questions and a picture of the patient.
A doctor confirms the prescription, which is sent to a pharmacy for pick up.
While the automation powering these apps is not yet accurate enough for clinical diagnosis, their power lies in screening.
Those facing financial difficulties may affordably check their symptoms or obtain standard prescriptions without signing up for an expensive health plan.
The technology could sweep a large portion of patients away from emergency room doors, and perhaps even slow the spread of infectious diseases.
However, there may be some significant regulatory hurdles for these apps.
While the FDA has issued extensive guidance for mobile medical applications, many, if they provide a diagnosis, are still categorized as medical devices.
For instance, while the 21st Century Cures Act excluded certain administrative health IT software from the category of medical device, anything related to the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, prevention, or treatment of a disease may still be included.
Additionally, the FDA currently administers the open-ended rules on a case-by-case basis that is hard to predict.
While the FDA is in the process of developing a more concrete risk-based framework, the ongoing uncertainty surrounding health IT applications is likely cooling investment in this sector.
Scott Gottlieb, the new head of the FDA, published an article in 2014 advocating for a streamlined approval track for healthcare apps that meet concrete safety standards.
He argued that the benefits of increased patient awareness from these apps outweigh the risks of faulty information influencing patient decisions.
Even with apps like GYANT, where the screening is based purely on questions and answers, the information is far more helpful than guessing at the severity of symptoms using a Google search.
On July 27, Mr. Gottlieb announced the FDAs new Digital Health Innovation Action Plan that includes a pilot program to pre-certify health IT software.
Its proposed extensive guidance documents may bring the needed predictability in the U.S. market to unleash a flood of these apps.
The benefits for patients far outweigh the risks.
Featured Image: nevarpp/Getty Images
This week, were mixing up the format on TechCrunchs Original Content podcast.
Your hosts Darrell Etherington and Anthony Ha were both at the Disrupt SF conference this week, which meant that they were able to record the news recap in person.
We discussed Hulus big victories at the Emmy Awards, other Emmy wins for Netflix and Hulu and CBS new Star Trek series, which were hoping to review next week.
Also in attendance were Eric Berger, the general manager of Sonys streaming service Crackle, and Ben Ketai, creator of the Crackle original series StartUp.
So instead of an in-depth review, weve got quick interviews with both Berger and Katai.
StartUp might sound like a Silicon Valley knockoff, but instead, its a story taking place at the intersection of crime and technology.
The first season included a fictional cryptocurrency called GenCoin (in fact, Sony created a booth at Disrupt to evangelize for GenCoin) while season two shifts the focus to a darknet prototype called Araknet.
Also in season two, which premieres on September 28, Ron Perlman joins a cast that already includes Martin Freeman and Adam Brody.
You can listen to the episode in the player above, subscribe using Apple Podcasts or find us in your podcast player of choice.
Be sure to leave a review and let us know what you think.
You can also send feedback to us directly .
Featured Image: Max Morse for TechCrunch
Hate putting away groceries?
Walmart and smart home device maker August are teaming up to eliminate this chore from your life.
The companies on Friday announced they are testing a new in-home delivery concept: dropping off packages inside your home  even if you're not there  and putting your groceries away in your refrigerator.
Here's how it will works: you'll place an order on Walmart.com for whatever you need, including groceries.
When your order is ready, a driver from the same-day delivery service Deliv will bring the items to your home.
If you know you'll be away when they arrive, you can authorize a one-time passcode for your August Smart Lock so the delivery person can enter your home and put your groceries away.
To placate inevitable security fears, Walmart in a blog post said homeowners are "in control of the experience the entire time."
You'll get a notification on your smartphone as soon as the Deliv driver rings your doorbell.
If you have a home security camera, you can "watch the delivery take place in real-time  or view a recording of it any time through the August app," August wrote in a blog post.
You'll get a second notification on your phone when the delivery is completed and your door is locked.
"When I enter my house later that day, it's like magic  the items I purchased from Walmart.com are waiting for me, and my groceries are nice and cool in the fridge, as if they never left their display in the store," Walmart wrote.
"And the best part is that I didn't even have to unpack anything."
Walmart is testing this concept with "a handful of August Home customers" in Silicon Valley, who have opted to participate.
"What might seem novel today could be the standard tomorrow," the retail giant teased.
The new collaboration comes just days after Amazon announced it's partnering with Kohl's for easy returns.
Meanwhile, August this week unveiled two new Smart Locks and a new Doorbell Cam, all of which include DoorSense, an integrated sensor that can tell you if your door is open or closed.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
So you've bought a new iPhone 8 Plus or iPhone 8, and you're ready to set it up and replace your older model.
But if your older iPhone is updated to iOS 11 you should use a brand new hidden feature inside Apple's newest iOS release to speed up the entire process.
The feature is called Quick Start, and it's a mix of AirPods and Apple Watch setup processes, but for iPhones and iPads.
All you need to do to fly through the setup process on the new iPhone 8 is to power your iPhone 8 near your existing iPhone.
Rather than going through the setup process that you already know, just go forward with Quick Start.
Once you do that, an image should appear on the older iPhone that shows the old model has detected the iPhone 8 -- this is the same animation you see on the iPhone when it detects AirPods.
Press the Configure button on the old iPhone, and the new iPhone will generate an image on the screen that needs to be scanned by the older model.
If this sounds familiar, that's because it's the same pairing process as the one used on Apple Watch.
Once that it's done, the iPhone 8 will grab all of your setup data from the old phone.
Now, that only fixes the setup process, but it's certainly quicker than the regular version.
Quick Start also works on any other iOS devices that ships with iOS 11, including iPhone X that launches in early November 3rd.
Mind you, after the setup process is complete, you'll still have to restore from an iPhone backup to also get all your apps on the new device.
When Quick Start is over, you can choose to restore from the most recent iPhone backup if you so desire.
A video from Apple Insider shows the entire Quick Start process:
Instagram used a user-generated image which included the text "I will rape you before I kill you, you filthy whore!"
to advertise on parent company, Facebook, the latest sign that Facebook's algorithm needs tweaking.
Guardian reporter Olivia Solon tweeted a picture of the offensive ad, noting that it was one of her "most 'engaging' posts."
According to the Guardian, which first reported the story, Solon posted the screenshot nearly a year ago.
Instagram selected the post, using it to her advertise to her sister, adding the caption See Olivia Solons photo and posts from friends on Instagram.
We are sorry this happened -- its not the experience we want someone to have," an Instagram spokesperson told Fox News.
"This type of notification is intended to let someone on Facebook know what their friends are up to on Instagram.
Posts are generally received by a small percentage of a persons Facebook friends.
We are working to make sure that this doesnt happen again.
FACEBOOK USED ANTI-SEMITIC AD CATEGORIES, REPORT SAYS



Earlier this week, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg said the company would be revamping its ad-targeting policies after the company received notification from Pro Publica that it was able to purchase ads targeting anti-Semitic categories.
"First, we're clarifying our advertising policies and tightening our enforcement processes to ensure that content that goes against our community standards cannot be used to target ads," Sandberg wrote in a post on her Facebook account.
"This includes anything that directly attacks people based on their race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, sex, gender or gender identity, or disabilities or diseases.
Such targeting has always been in violation of our policies and we are taking more steps to enforce that now."
The tech exec also said the company would be adding more human review and oversight to a process that is largely automated.
Lastly, Facebook will create a program "to encourage people on Facebook to report potential abuses of our ads system to us directly."
"We hope these changes will prevent abuses like this going forward," Sandberg continued.
"If we discover unintended consequences in the future, we will be unrelenting in identifying and fixing them as quickly as possible.
We have long had a firm policy against hate on Facebook.
Our community deserves to have us enforce this policy with deep caution and care."
FACEBOOK REVAMPS POLICIES AFTER ANTI-SEMITIC AD TARGETING SCANDAL

Earlier this month, ProPublica said it paid Facebook $30 to display three "promoted posts" in the news feeds of people who expressed interest in topics like "Jew hater," "How to burn jews," or, "History of 'why jews ruin the world.'"
ProPublica found that the ads were approved by Facebook in 15 minutes.
The categories have since been removed.
Fox News' Chris Ciaccia contributed to this report.
This story has been updated to include Instagram's comment.
In a tweet on Friday morning, President Donald Trump intimated that the Facebook ad controversy was part of the "Russia hoax" dispute that has been a sore spot for his administration.
"The Russia hoax continues, now it's ads on Facebook," the President tweeted.
"What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?"
Trump's Facebook-related tweet was part of a larger "tweetstorm" this morning, slamming Sen. Rand Paul over healthcare, Kim Jong Un and the North Korea regime, and the aforementioned "Russia hoax."
FACEBOOK WILL RELEASE RUSSIA-LINKED ADS TO CONGRESS, MARK ZUCKERBERG SAYS

On Thursday, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the social network would hand over to Congress the political ads purchased by Russian operatives.
Coming back from paternity leave after the birth of his second child, Zuckerberg held a Facebook Live chat and said the company would "strengthen our ad review process for political ads."
One senior source familiar with discussions told Fox News there is a deal with Facebook.
However, another senior source close to the negotiation disputes says there is no agreement on the breadth of material Facebook may provide.
Separately on Thursday, Facebook wrote a blog post outlining the steps it would be taking.
After an extensive legal and policy review, today we are announcing that we will also share these ads with congressional investigators, wrote Colin Stretch, the companys general counsel.
We believe it is vitally important that government authorities have the information they need to deliver to the public a full assessment of what happened in the 2016 election.
FACEBOOK UNCOVERS $100K IN FAKE AD SPENDING TIED TO RUSSIAN OPERATIVES DURING 2016 US ELECTION

Earlier this month, Facebook uncovered approximately $100,000 spread over approximately 3,000 ads in fraudulent ad spending across its network tied to the 2016 U.S. Presidential election.
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia.
Fox News' Brooke Singman and Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
Apple has packed the iPhone X with enough cool technology that it appears destined to become Apples most important iPhone since it reinvented the phone a decade ago.
The iPhone X (pronounced "ten") is being hailed as a futuristic iPhone that Apple is delivering now, say analysts.
Given that the iPhone X represents such a big departure from existing Apple designitll take Apple at least 2 years to refine the technology and components before making the iPhone X mainstream, Wayne Lam, IHS Markit analyst, told Fox News via email.
Lam said that while the iPhone 8 "is clearly an evolution or refinement" of what has served Apple well in the past, the iPhone X is much more than that.
"The iPhone X [is] intended to showcase the design language Apple wants to use for the next decade, he added.
APPLE UNVEILS NEW IPHONE 8, IPHONE X

So, what makes the iPhone X so special  and pricey (it starts at $999) to buy?
Here are five of the best features of the upcoming iPhone.
The notch: That very conspicuous notch at the top of the iPhone X display is jam-packed with sensors, chips, and cameras and houses the most sophisticated technology Apple has ever developed, including the hardware that enables Face ID.
For starters, inside the notch theres the 7-megapixel selfie camera.
But what makes the notch special is other stuff like the Dot Projector that throws out more than 30,000 invisible dots onto your face to build a facial map.
There is also a Flood Illuminator that uses invisible infrared light to identify your face when its dark.
Face ID: More than any single thing, this is what everyone is talking about.
Touch ID is Apples past and Face ID is the future.
Face ID allows you to unlock the phone and make payments based on a detailed depth map of your face.
It's unclear if Apple can execute, as the product, slated to ship Nov. 3, has not been reviewed yet.
But when face recognition works well, its amazing.
HP's EliteBook x360 laptop with Windows 10 Hello, for example, uses a series of infrared cameras to do an instant unlock by scanning your face in a variety of lighting and facial conditions.
And it works as advertised.
Once you use a well-executed face recognition system, theres no going back to touch.
WILL APPLE'S NEW FACE ID SECURITY FEATURE HELP COPS UNLOCK YOUR IPHONE?
Different display: Physically, the 5.8-inch organic light-emitting diode (OLED) display is what makes the iPhone X so different.
In addition to being Apples first OLED and its largest smartphone display yet, the display fills the entire front of the phone, effectively eradicating the bezels.
In a video discussing the iPhone X, Apple's chief design officer Jony Ive said, For more than a decade, our intention is to create an iPhone that is all display.
Save the notch, Apple pretty much achieved that.
Best camera yet: The rear camera is Apples most advanced, besting even the iPhone 8 Plus advanced camera.
Both the iPhone X and iPhone 8 Plus have 12-megapixel wide-angle and telephoto cameras with optical zoom.
But the iPhone X has improved telephoto aperture (f/2.4 on the iPhone X vs. f/2.8 on the iPhone 8 Plus -- for photo buffs out there).
That makes the iPhone X better in low-light conditions.
It also has dual optical image stabilization, whereas the 8 Plus has optical image stabilization only on the wide angle.
PHOTOS: APPLE UNVEILS ITS NEW IPHONES

A11 Bionic chip: Apple has become a world-class processor designer.
And Apple is trying to drive that home with a new Bionic processor that has a neural engine capable of up to 600 billion operations per second.
The neural engine is used for machine learning (artificial intelligence that enables computers to learn from observation) and is designed to handle the super-fast computations needed to recognize people, places and objects.
On Monday, it was revealed that Nintendo is shipping every Switch console with a hidden copy of the 1984 NES game Golf running in an emulator.
Nobody knew why, and Nintendo wasn't (and still isn't) saying anything.
But the mystery has now been solved.
The game is hidden on the Switch as a tribute to the late Satoru Iwata, Nintendo's fourth president and CEO.
He died due to complications from a tumor on July 11, 2015 at the age of 55.
Iwata was the programmer on Golf, which Shigeru Miyamoto and Kenji Miki designed.
And so it is a fitting game to include as a tribute to the much-loved man.
Getting to play it isn't exactly easy, though.
A BBC video reveals how it is done.
First, you need a Switch that has never been connected to the Internet.
The date on the Switch must be set to July 11 to match the day Iwata died.
Then navigate to the Home screen and using both Joy-Cons perform Iwata's well know arms up, hands thrust forwards gesture.
This will trigger the game to load.
When setting the date, it is only the day and month that need to be changed.
By doing that, Nintendo allows the game to become playable every year on July 11 as a way of remembering Iwata.
It's a lovely gesture.
It has also been suggested that the inclusion of the game is an "omamori" from Iwata.
In Japan, omamori are amulets thought to provide luck or protection.
I think it's best to see this as both: a tribute to the man and a lucky charm.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
I know Im a bad mother, but how bad?
I wonder for the hundredth time as I watch Gus deep in conversation with Siri.
Obsessed with weather formations, Gus has spent the last hour parsing the difference between isolated and scattered thunderstorms  an hour when, thank God, I dont have to discuss them.
After a while I hear this:

Gus: Youre a really nice computer.
Siri: Its nice to be appreciated.
Gus: You are always asking if you can help me.
Is there anything you want?
Siri: Thank you, but I have very few wants.
Gus: OK!
Well, goodnight!
Siri: Ah .
Its 5.06 p.m.

Gus: Oh, sorry.
I mean, goodbye.
Siri: See you later!
That Siri.
She doesnt let my communication-impaired son get away with anything.
Indeed, many of us always wanted an imaginary friend  and now we have one.
Only shes not entirely imaginary.
This is a love letter to a machine.
Its not quite the love Joaquin Phoenix felt in Her, the Spike Jonze film about a lonely man who has a romantic relationship with his intelligent operating system (played by the voice of Scarlett Johansson.)
But its close.
In a world where the commonly held wisdom is that technology isolates us, its worth considering another side of the story.
It all began simply enough.
Id just read one of those ubiquitous internet lists called 21 Things You Didnt Know Your iPhone Could Do.
One of them was this: I could ask Siri, What planes are above me right now?
and Siri would bark back, Checking my sources.
Almost instantly there is a list of actual flights  numbers, altitudes, angles  of planes above my head.
I happened to be doing this when Gus was nearby, playing with his Nintendo DS.
Why would anyone need to know what planes are flying above their head?
I muttered.
Gus replied without looking up, So you know who youre waving at, Mommy.
It was then that I began to suspect maybe some of the people who worked on Siri were on the spectrum too.
(Fun fact: Dag Kitlauss, the original co-founder and CEO of Siri, is from Norway and reportedly named the app after Siri Kalvig, a beautiful Norwegian meteorologist; Kitlauss has mentioned in interviews that he is a total weather freak.)
Gus had never noticed Siri before, but when he discovered there was someone who would not just find information on his various obsessions  trains, buses, escalators and, of course, anything related to weather  but actually semi-discuss these subjects tirelessly, he was hooked.
And I was grateful.
Now, when I would rather stick forks in my eyes than have another conversation about the chance of tornadoes in Kansas City, Missouri, I could reply brightly, Hey!
Why dont you ask Siri?
And not only would Siri happily give him tornado reports for the entire Midwest, but upon being thanked shed chirp back, I live to serve.
Its not that Gus believes Siri is human.
He understands she isnt  intellectually.
But like many autistic people I know, Gus feels that inanimate objects, while maybe not possessing souls, are still worthy of consideration.
I realized this when he was 8 and I got him an iPod for his birthday.
He listened to it only at home  with one exception.
It always came with us on our visits to the Apple store.
Finally, I asked why.
So it can visit its friends, he said.
So how much more worthy of his care and affection is Siri, with her soothing voice, charm, helpfulness, puckish humor and capacity for talking about whatever Guss current obsession is for hour after hour after bleeding hour?
Siri is also wonderful for someone who doesnt pick up on social cues: Siris responses are not entirely predictable, but they are predictably kind  even when Gus is brusque.
I heard him talking to Siri about music and Siri offered some suggestions.
I dont like that kind of music, Gus snapped.
Youre certainly entitled to your opinion, Siri replied.
Siris politeness reminded Gus what he owed Siri.
Thank you for that music, though, Gus said.
You dont need to thank me, Siri replied.
Oh yes, Gus replied emphatically, I do.
Siri even encourages polite language.
When Henry egged Gus on to spew a few choice expletives at Siri, she replied, Now, now.
Ill pretend I didnt hear that.
My sons practice conversation with Siri is translating into more facility with actual humans.
Recently I had the longest conversation with him that Ive ever had.
Admittedly, it was about different species of turtle and whether I preferred the red-eared slider to the diamondback terrapin.
This might not have been my choice of topic, but it was back and forth and it followed a logical trajectory and I can promise you that for most of my beautiful sons years of existence that has not been the case.
Developers of intelligent assistants have already recognized their uses to those with speech and communication problems  and some are thinking of new ways the assistants can help.
It is a slow process, but I am accepting that the things that give my guy happiness are not necessarily the same things that give me happiness.
Right now, at a time when humans can be a little overwhelming even for the average kid, Siri makes Gus happy.
She is his sidekick.
One night as he was going to bed there was this matter-of-fact exchange:

Gus: Siri, will you marry me?
Siri: Im not the marrying kind.
Gus: I mean, not now.
Im a kid.
I mean when Im grown up.
Siri: My end user agreement does not include marriage.
Gus: Oh, OK.

Gus didnt sound too disappointed.
This was useful information to have  and for me too since it was the first time I knew that he had actually thought about marriage.
He turned over to go to sleep:

Gus: Goodnight, Siri.
Will you sleep well tonight?
Siri: I dont need much sleep, but its nice of you to ask.
This story originally appeared in the New York Post.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the social network would hand over to Congress the political ads purchased by Russian operatives.
On his first day back from paternity leave, Zuckerberg held a Facebook Live chat and said the company would "strengthen our ad review process for political ads."
One senior source familiar with discussions told Fox News there is a deal with Facebook.
However, another senior source close to the negotiation disputes that, saying there is no agreement on the breadth of material Facebook may provide.
FACEBOOK REVAMPS POLICIES AFTER ANTI-SEMITIC AD-TARGETING SCANDAL

Separately on Thursday, Facebook wrote a blog post outlining the steps it would be taking.
After an extensive legal and policy review, today we are announcing that we will also share these ads with congressional investigators, wrote Colin Stretch, the companys general counsel.
We believe it is vitally important that government authorities have the information they need to deliver to the public a full assessment of what happened in the 2016 election.
At the same time, we will continue our own review and investigation, and to do our part to make sure investigators have the information they need, Stretch added.
We look forward to their comprehensive assessment, and to a greater public understanding of what took place.
Earlier this month, Facebook uncovered approximately $100,000, spread across approximately 3,000 ads, in fraudulent ad spending across its network tied to the 2016 U.S. Presidential election.
These "potentially politcally-related ads" were bought from accounts with U.S. IP addresses, but the language was set to Russian, Facebook noted.
Facebook noted the ads did not necessarily violate any policy or law.
FACEBOOK UNCOVERS $100K IN FAKE AD SPENDING TIED TO RUSSIAN OPERATIVES DURING 2016 US ELECTION

In detailing the findings, Facebook Chief Security Officer Alex Stamos wrote that the vast majority of the ads did not specifically reference the U.S. presidential election, but rather focused on "divisive social and political messages across the ideological spectrum  touching on topics from LGBT matters to race issues to immigration to gun rights."
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia.
Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
As the Islamic State continues to search for new methods to recruit members and share its propaganda, it's increasingly turned to social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter.
But as those accounts have been shut down, the Islamic State and its supporters are making use of ephemeral messaging and in particular, one social network that has largely been controversy free: Instagram.
Utilziing Instagram's Stories features, which has posts disappear after 24 hours, the Islamic State has started to shift some of its recruitment methods towards the Facebook-owned social network in hopes of gaining new members.
INSTAGRAM HACK REVEALS CELEBRITIES CONTACT DETAILS

Software research group Ghost Data found there are more than 50,000 accounts linked to Islamic State supporters posting on Instagram Stories.
Of the 50,000, a little more than 10,000 of them are described as strongly-linked to IS  they follow core IS accounts and are followed back, and about 30 percent of their posted content is about the group.
In April, Instagram said it had more than 700 million monthly active users.
By comparison, Twitter had 328 million monthly active users and Facebook had 2.01 billion monthly active users, at the end of the second quarter, respectively.
Andrea Stroppa, who is part of Ghost Data and is also connected to the World Economic Forum, said IS is doing this because of the quick-hit nature of Instagram Stories.
"They send a message that they know will disappear but they know who the audience is.
They are using these stories because they know it is a safe channel to share information," Stroppa told the AP in an interview.
In a separate interview with Fox News, Stroppa said, "[I]t is possible that IS is using "ephemeral tools to 'hire' new militants."
Stroppa added they collected the Stories data from approximately 2,200 private profiles.
The company also used artificial intelligence "extract demographic data from a Stories like age of Isis militants and origin (Asia, white, North Africa)."
Instagram could not be reached for comment for this story.
TEENS STILL HATE FACEBOOK, LOVE INSTAGRAM, SNAPCHAT

Seamus Hughes, deputy director of the Program on Extremism at George Washington University, said the crackdown by Twitter and Facebook is a big reason why the content is moving elsewhere.
On places like Instagram and Tumblr, "you are usually looking at supporter-driven creations," he said.
"I just don't see guys in Raqqa building Instagram stories."
In the past, Instagram's parent company, Facebook, came under pressure related to closing accounts of those who support the Islamic State.
At the height of Islamic States recruitment drive in the West in 2014 and 2015, the groups propaganda was of a quality unseen in other extremist groups.
On Wednesday, the U.N. General Assembly was focusing on extremist content on the internet, with social media front and center.
While the data may be unsettling to some, Stroppa said that he is hopeful that thanks to advances in technology, it may be harder for extremist groups to spread their message.
"And we bet that thanks to visual recognition and machine learning, in the future, will be possible to understand contents of Stories - very closely to real-time - and intercept possible useful signals with a good Accuracy," Stroppa said.
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
So should the Stones expect to see unsold albums gathering dust on the shelves, a rare commercial misstep in an otherwise business-savvy career?
According to Dan Orkin, Director of Content at music gear marketplace Reverb.com, the commercial potential of this release shouldn't be dismissed.
For one thing, the original album's relative lack of popularity may now a selling point, not a drawback.
"Because the album wasn't that popular," the original had fewer copies made, he explained to CNBC.
"So for hardcore Rolling Stones fans, this album is harder to find, and original copies with the coveted 'lenticular' can sell for hundreds of dollars," he said, referring to 3D cover art that was abandoned after the first pressings of the album.
The original lenticular will be reproduced for the reissue, and that alone brings value for collectors.
Eric Alper, owner of Eric Alper PR in Toronto, said that in addition to the music and the artwork, the accompanying 20-page booklet  which includes an essay by historian Rob Bowman  also sweetens the deal.
"Rob is one of the best music historians alive, who knows the group almost better than anyone not in the band," Alper said.
"I'd pay $72 just to read his notes."
He also added that the price tag could be less of a stumbling block than it appears.
"By having it under a hundred dollars, those fans are able to purchase it without thinking," he said.
"As vinyl buyers know, a new album will set you back about $30 now, some even higher, so this isn't out of the buying power of those fans."
Bill Furbee, a music specialist at Cincinnati estate sale marketplace Everything but the House, said that 'Satanic Majesties' status as a limited edition package makes it irresistible to collectors.
Additionally, Stones fans are already well-known for having expensive tastes.
"The average concert ticket for the band's 2012 50th Anniversary tour cost $624," he said.
"The fans filling all of those arenas probably won't balk at spending a little bit more than average for this reissue."
With teenagers and millennials helping to drive resurgent sales in vinyl and other physical media, there may be an audience beyond just Baby Boomers, Furbee said.
"There's a good chance that anyone in their teens or early to mid-20s may have only experienced music as a digital file," he said.
"I'm not surprised at all that young adults are building record collections now, as they strive to find a deeper connection with the artists and music they love."
A startup called Nuada has developed a soft, robotic glove that gives people with hand pain or weakness a strong grip.
According to co-founders Filipe Quinaz and Vitor Crespo, the glove contains a "mesh" of artificial tendons and sensors.
These are controlled by an electromechanical system contained in a smartwatch-like device worn on the same hand.
A user activates the glove by lightly flexing their wrist.
The glove then understands that they want an assist, and can help them with any movement.
Typically, users will employ the glove to pick up, maneuver or hold a heavy object whether that's a bag of groceries or a car battery.
A more advanced (and expensive) version of the Nuada glove can predict the wearer's movement and assist them automatically.
The advanced version also work with a mobile app that gathers data about their hand's activity.
A physical therapist, for example, could review the data and help the wearer to become more ergonomically healthy.
Nuada began with the idea of creating a medical-grade prosthetic, Quinaz told CNBC.
But the company decided to develop more of a generally helpful tool after hearing tremendous demand from employers whose staff do a lot of manual labor, and seniors with weakness in their hands.
Hand injuries befell more than 140,000 workers in the U.S. alone in 2015, according to the most recent available data from the U.S. Department of Labor.
And repetitive, physical tasks at workwhether you're a camera operator, EMT or waiter  can cause fatigue and pain even in healthy workers.
Meanwhile, arthritis of the hand effects tens of millions in the U.S. alone.
Based in Braga, Portugal, the company is currently testing its robo-gloves with large employers there, including a Volkswagen factory and the retail conglomerate Sonae.
The company has raised seed funding from the hardware accelerator HAX and its affiliated venture firm SOSV.
I pre-ordered the iPhone 8 Plus before I had a chance to play with it, and I'm still happy with my decision.
I wasn't sure if I would be, considering Apple's going to launch the iPhone X in November with more advanced features like facial recognition and a fancy display.
After a few days with the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus, I'm pretty confident most folks are really going to like these devices, even if there is a better model on the horizon.
Basically, the iPhone X is going to be the device that gadget-heads who need the latest and greatest, and are willing to wait for it, will buy.
The iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus are for everyone else, and while the design might feel like it's getting old, they're fantastic devices.
Uber's London unit has launched a petition against the decision to revoke its license on Friday, saying that regulators were trying to "restrict consumer choice."
"We are sure Londoners will be as astounded as we are by this decision.
By trying to ban the app from the capital, the Mayor and Transport for London have caved in to a small number of people," Tom Elvidge, general manager of Uber in London, said in an emailed statement to customers in the U.K.

"Not only will this decision deprive you of the choice of a convenient way of getting about town, it will also put more than 40,000 licensed drivers who rely on our app out of work."
Earlier Friday, Transport for London stripped Uber of its license to operate, which will likely affect more than 40,000 drivers in one of the world's biggest cities.
Uber said that it will be immediately challenging the decision in court.
I knew the big Mark Zuckerberg speech was coming.
It always does.
Scandals involving Facebook tend to follow a well-worn pattern: Throughout the social network's short history, when the company has felt pummeled by users or lawmakers or shareholders over one of the dozens of controversies that have plagued its rise, there comes a moment when the clamor reaches a fever pitch.
You begin to wonder why on earth they aren't doing more.
Can't they see how deep they are in it?
Just then, Mr. Zuckerberg will issue a blog post, and these days, a live video, too  as he did on Thursday, in a short address on Facebook's role in Russia's interference of last year's presidential election.
To a cynic, this week's message, like others Mr. Zuckerberg has issued, might sound like puffery.
After all, he and his top lieutenants  especially Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer  are as meticulous in stewarding their own image as they are in managing a sprawling multibillion-dollar corporation.
Mr. Zuckerberg, in particular, has come to see his own role in guiding Facebook's community, and the trust the community places in him, as crucial to the fate of the corporation.
So when the heat from American lawmakers regarding ads placed by Russian trolls on Facebook began to rise, Mr. Zuckerberg had no option to ignore it; he had to say something.
But these messages aren't just show.
Inside Facebook, Mr. Zuckerberg's exhortations carry the weight of God.
That's why the detailed plan he offered to address election meddling is a very big deal.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And what's noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebook's considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
What's more, Mr. Zuckerberg's initial reaction to the question of Facebook's role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
"Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea," he said at a tech conference days after last year's presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebook's history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebook's central tenet of transparency and openness: "Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you," he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: "It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections," he said in his address on Thursday.
"But if that's what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion."
This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social network's future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the company's old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebook's mobile apps working perfectly became the company's top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
"Mobile is everyone's job," Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebook's mobile apps.
Soon, Facebook's mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebook's advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandberg's leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebook's main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebook's effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, there's a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the company's might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the world's most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
British firm Imagination Technologies said on Friday CBFI Investment will buy the company for a price of 182 pence per share, valuing it at about 550 million pounds ($742.5 million).
CBFI currently has no intentions of cutting any jobs after the proposed merger, the companies said.
In June, Imagination Technologies put itself up for sale after it lost 70 percent of its value after being ditched by its biggest customer Apple, in a disappointing end to a once-great European tech success story.
Source: FactSet

To put that in perspective, Apple has lost more than the entire market value of Target, eBay, TJX, Northrop Grumman, or Ford Motor, which all have market values of less than $50 billion.
To be sure, $780 billion is still a massively large valuation for investors to put on a company  Apple is about $100 billion larger than Google-parent Alphabet.
And there are many factors that can affect market valuations  investors may consider the company's expected future returns, sentiment about the stock market at large, whether they are maximizing short-term or long-term gains, dividends and overall macroeconomic conditions, just to name a few.
Nonetheless, Apple shares closed down nearly 1 percent on Friday with slightly heavier-than-average trading volume, ending the week down 5 percent.
The stock had the most negative point impact on the S&P 500, according to FactSet.
Gene Munster, an investor at Loup Ventures and a former top Apple analyst, has said that Apple's shares could see a 5 to 10 percent pullback after the release of the latest iPhones, even if the products were well-received (CEO Tim Cook says they have been.)
"The simple reason is this: The stock's up 50-plus percent in the past year because investors have been anticipating the return to growth of the iPhone.
As soon as that product comes out, people are going to shift their focus to the March and June quarters of next year.
That's when the iPhone cycles are made or missed," Munster told CNBC earlier this month.
"So there's naturally going to be some people taking some profits."
As of Friday, Apple shares are still up more than 30 percent over the past year.
Uber's CEO told employees they need to reflect on the "serious consequences" of the company's bad reputation, in light of a battle with London regulators.
Uber lost its license this week to operate in London, beginning in October.
Transportation regulators said the decision was made "in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications."
The ride-hailing company has already come out strongly against London's decision, telling London regulators that the decision will "deprive you of the choice of a convenient way of getting about town" and "will also put more than 40,000 licensed drivers who rely on our app out of work."
Still, the accusation that Uber doesn't "play by the rules" comes on the heels of a rough few months for the Silicon Valley start-up.
The company has been accused of using software to dodge local regulators in some areas, and has been under fire for its workplace culture and privacy practices.
A report from the Wall Street Journal also indicated that Uber leased out dangerous cars in Singapore.
Dara Khosrowshahi, who was officially announced as Uber's new CEO at the end of August, sent an email to staff saying that disappointed by the situation in London, and that he doesn't believe everything being said about Uber in London is true.
But Khosrowshahi also wrote that employees should resist the urge to call all the criticism unfair, and should instead opt for "self-reflection."
"It's worth examining how we got here," Khosrowshahi wrote.
"[I]t really matters what people think of us, especially in a global business like ours, where actions in one part of the world can have serious consequences in another."
Here's a copy of the full email, previously reported by other outlets and independently obtained by CNBC:
country's military.
In Africa, the social network faces accusations that it helped human traffickers extort victims' families by leaving up abusive videos.
Few of these issues stem from willful malice on the company's part.
It's not as if a Facebook engineer in Menlo Park personally greenlighted Russian propaganda, for example.
On Thursday, the company said it would release political advertisements bought by Russians for the 2016 election, as well as some information related to the ads, to congressional investigators.
But the troubles do make it clear that Facebook was simply not built to handle problems of this magnitude.
It's a technology company, not an intelligence agency or an international diplomatic corps.
Its engineers are in the business of building apps and selling advertising, not determining what constitutes hate speech in Myanmar.
And with two billion users, including 1.3 billion who use it every day, moving ever greater amounts of their social and political activity onto Facebook, it's possible that the company is simply too big to understand all of the harmful ways people might use its products.
"The reality is that if you're at the helm of a machine that has two billion screaming, whiny humans, it's basically impossible to predict each and every possible nefarious use case," said Antonio Garca Martnez, author of the book "Chaos Monkeys" and a former Facebook advertising executive.
"It's a Whac-a-Mole problem."
Elliot Schrage, Facebook's vice president of communications and public policy, said in a statement: "We work very hard to support our millions of advertisers worldwide, but sometimes  rarely  bad actors win.
We invest a lot of time, energy and resources to make these rare events extinct, and we're grateful to our community for calling out where we can do better."
When Mark Zuckerberg built Facebook in his Harvard dorm room in 2004, nobody could have imagined its becoming a censorship tool for repressive regimes, an arbiter of global speech standards or a vehicle for foreign propagandists.
But as Facebook has grown into the global town square, it has had to adapt to its own influence.
Many of its users view the social network as an essential utility, and the company's decisions  which posts to take down, which ads to allow, which videos to show  can have real life-or-death consequences around the world.
The company has outsourced some decisions to complex algorithms, which carries its own risks, but many of the toughest choices Facebook faces are still made by humans.
"They still see themselves as a technology middleman," said Mr. Garca Martnez.
"Facebook is not supposed to be an element of a propaganda war.
They're completely not equipped to deal with that."
Even if Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg don't have personal political aspirations, as has been rumored, they are already leaders of an organization that influences politics all over the world.
And there are signs that Facebook is starting to understand its responsibilities.
It has hired a slew of counterterrorism experts and is expanding teams of moderators around the world to look for and remove harmful content.
On Thursday, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a video posted on Facebook that the company would take several steps to help protect the integrity of elections, like making political ads more transparent and expanding partnerships with election commissions.
"We will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world, but also to give everyone a voice and to be a force for good in democracy everywhere," he said.
But there may not be enough guardrails in the world to prevent bad outcomes on Facebook, whose scale is nearly inconceivable.
Alex Stamos, Facebook's security chief, said last month that the company shuts down more than a million user accounts every day for violating Facebook's community standards.
Even if only 1 percent of Facebook's daily active users misbehaved, it would still mean 13 million rule breakers, about the number of people in Pennsylvania.
In addition to challenges of size, Facebook's corporate culture is one of cheery optimism.
That may have suited the company when it was an upstart, but it could hamper its ability to accurately predict risk now that it's a setting for large-scale global conflicts.
Several current and former employees described Facebook to me as a place where engineers and executives generally assume the best of users, rather than preparing for the worst.
Even the company's mission statement  "Give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together"  implies that people who are given powerful tools will use those tools for socially constructive purposes.
Clearly, that is not always the case.
Hiring people with darker views of the world could help Facebook anticipate conflicts and misuse.
But pessimism alone won't fix all of Facebook's issues.
It will need to keep investing heavily in defensive tools, including artificial intelligence and teams of human moderators, to shut down bad actors.
It would also be wise to deepen its knowledge of the countries where it operates, hiring more regional experts who understand the nuances of the local political and cultural environment.
Facebook could even take a page from Wall Street's book, and create a risk department that would watch over its engineering teams, assessing new products and features for potential misuse before launching them to the world.
Now that Facebook is aware of its own influence, the company can't dodge responsibility for the world it has helped to build.
In the future, blaming the monster won't be enough.
Zuckerberg: Plan to sell 35 to 75 million shares for philanthropy 4:48 PM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 00:58

Mark Zuckerberg will sell a large number of Facebook shares over the next 18 months in sales that would be worth between $6 billion and $12.8 billion based on the stock's current price.
The intention to sell between 35 million and 75 million shares was disclosed in a Facebook securities filing late Friday.
Proceeds of the sale will go "to fund the philanthropic initiatives of Mr. Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan," the filing said.
Under investor pressure, Facebook is squashing a proposed ownership structure that would allow CEO Mark Zuckerberg to retain voting control of the company  even as he sold millions of his shares of company stock.
Last year, some shareholders filed a class action lawsuit to block Facebook from issuing reclassified C shares, which would allow Zuckerberg to maintain voting control of the company even as he sold off most of his shares to support philanthropic causes.
The proposed C shares would be publicly listed but come with no voting rights.
Investors argued that the proposed ownership structure could cause them to lose billions of dollars of value when the shares traded.
"Facebook's board determined that withdrawing the reclassification was in the best interests of Facebook and its shareholders," a spokesperson told CNBC via email.
Zuckerberg said in a post on Facebook that the company's stock has performed better than expected, making it unnecessary for the company issue reclassified shares.
"Over the past year and a half, Facebook's business has performed well and the value of our stock has grown to the point that I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more," he wrote.
"As a result, I've asked our board to withdraw the proposal to reclassify our stock -- and the board has agreed."
He also said that we would sell between 35 million and 75 million shares in the company over the next 18 months to support philanthropic efforts.
It was reported earlier that Facebook had settled the lawsuit, but the company announced it will abandon the plan instead.
"We are gratified that Facebook and Mr. Zuckerberg have agreed not to proceed with the reclassification we were challenging," Lee Rudy, partner at Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check LLP which was representing the shareholders, said in a statement.
"This result is a full victory for Facebook's stockholders, and achieved everything we could have hoped to obtain by winning a permanent injunction at trial."
Facebook on Friday settled a lawsuit over issuing reclassified shares that some investors argued would decrease the value of their investment, and announced it was abandoning that plan.
The class action shareholder lawsuit was intended to block Facebook from issuing reclassified C shares, which some investors argued could cause shares to lose billions of dollars of value when they were traded.
The new C shares would be publicly listed but come with no voting rights.
The classification would have allowed Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to keep voting control of the company, even if he decided to lower his total ownership stake.
The lawsuit said the new structure would have meant that Zuckerberg could own as little as 2 percent of the company and still keep voting control.
In a note on Facebook in April 2016, Zuckerberg wrote the plan was created in order to allow him and his wife Priscilla Chan to donate money to solving global issues like curing diseases, improving education and climate change.
It would also still allow him to stay "committed" to improving and leading Facebook, including helping the company grow internet access around the world, improve its artificial intelligence and develop virtual and augmented reality.
The trial was scheduled to begin September 22, and Zuckerberg was scheduled to take the stand.
Other people who were expected to testify include Facebook board members Marc Andreessen, CEO of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Susan Desmond-Hellmann, and former White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles.
For some older people, just downloading an app or successfully navigating certain websites might seem like cause for quiet celebration.
But not Shirley M. McKerrow, a retired business owner and politician from Darwin, Australia.
Ms. McKerrow, who is 84, revels in the thought of learning to develop those same apps and websites.
Last year, she began taking free online coding lessons through Codecademy, an interactive platform that teaches programming languages, and was tutored along the way by her tech-savvy grandson.
More from New York Times:

Helping women over 50 face their financial fears

Before you pay for financial advice, read this guide

Facebook's Frankenstein moment

She could hardly contain her enthusiasm: "I might use my newfound skills to create personalized, all-singing-and-dancing online birthday cards  in fact, all sorts of greeting cards for my family and friends.
Maybe I could even graduate to making greeting cards personalized for businesses or for members of Parliament to send to their constituents.
"I have all sorts of ideas," she continued, "but need to progress my skills a little further before I get too carried away."
While millennials make up the bulk of those learning in-demand skills like web design, programming or digital marketing  the average age of students at coding boot camps, for instance, is just under 30  some people old enough to be their parents or even grandparents are also acquiring these abilities.
Some, like Ms. McKerrow, are taking free lessons or video instructions online.
(About a million of Codecademy's 45 million users globally are 55 or older.)
Others subscribe to web-based courses or take classes at community colleges, universities or boot camps.
"To say there are 'many' might be a stretch," said Jake Schwartz, a founder and chief executive of General Assembly, which offers technology and design training online and in 20 locations worldwide to corporations and individuals.
"But they have been a welcome addition to class dynamics."
Many older coders want to develop new skills to keep their jobs or to start second careers.
Some are looking for volunteer opportunities or hobbies in their retirement.
Nearly all who have gone through the rigors of trying to understand correct syntax, algorithms and other technical foundations also gain a sense of confidence and accomplishment, while maintaining and improving their mental acuity.
Liz Beigle-Bryant, 60, of Seattle, credits the online classes she took in HTML and CSS code, the building blocks of the web, for helping her land a "dream job" recently as a document control coordinator at the public transit agency Sound Transit.
She expects to use these tools often in her new position.
"One of the big obstacles in a job interview when you're older is that people think you're inflexible and you can't learn new things," said Ms. Beigle-Bryant, who was laid off from her job as an administrative assistant at Microsoft in 2011.
The code lessons she took a few years ago, also through Codecademy, "gave me an edge," she said.
"I developed a confidence that I didn't have before."
The operators of many of the nation's nearly 100 coding boot camps say the vast majority of students enrolled in immersive training programs, which usually last 12 to 15 weeks and cost about $12,000 to $15,000, find employment upon completion.
(The most popular program?
According to Course Report, a website that monitors this industry, it's a JavaScript-focused "full stack," which teaches all stages of software development.)
Older people have been part of these success stories, too, yet they are often hesitant even to get started.
"I think so many people are discouraged because they think they're too old," said Letta M. Raven, a tech support specialist for a payroll software company and a frequent speaker at women's tech conferences.
She has observed this reluctance among some conferencegoers and even had it herself.
"I was considered old in this industry," said Ms. Raven, who is 42 and held many jobs, including pastry chef and artist, before settling into her current career.
She was long interested in software development, but it wasn't until two years ago that she enrolled at PDX Code Guild, a boot camp, and took courses in programming languages like Python, Ruby and JavaScript.
Ms. Beigle-Bryant also remembers being pointed away from anything technical and more toward the fine arts when she was younger.
Programming "was something I've wanted to do since high school," she said, "but I was always discouraged from taking computer classes."
She did manage to take one, in Basic programming, in 1973.
Successful coders "don't have to have a math background to succeed," said Zach Sims, a founder and the chief executive of Codecademy, which offers both free and premium coding programs, "and this isn't something that requires a master of science."
"Tenacity and persistence," he continued, "are two important traits."
The ability  or at least desire  to solve problems is another.
"Can you break a problem down and structure the solution in a logical manner?"
said Avi Flombaum, a founder and the dean of the boot camp Flatiron School in New York.
He finds a correlation between programming and creative writing, which he studied in college: "Writing also follows rules.
There is structure with writing, and grammar is technical."
Mr. Flombaum described programming as "pretty transparent."
"You can either do it or you can't," he said.
"And once a person can code, I don't think age is a setback."
But he added: "Learning anything from scratch can be difficult whether you're 23 or 50.
Both age groups battle insecurities."
Steve Deddens, 71, a retired commercial pilot from Austin, Tex., who flew fighter jets during the Vietnam War, admitted to being a little anxious about embarking on a second career in programming.
He worried about keeping up with his younger classmates at General Assembly, where he took an immersive program two years ago.
"People my age still have an AOL account," he said.
But Mr. Deddens, who is now a software engineer at a company that provides information technology services to Microsoft, found the transition relatively easy.
"I've always been good at solving problems," he said.
"I like taking things apart.
I'm an engineer by nature."
While the income he earns from his second career is certainly nice, he said, "the other side of it is the joy of doing something with your mind and keeping yourself young."
Ms. McKerrow agreed: "I think learning computer skills is great for older people.
There is no heavy lifting or physical demands, and exercise of the brain is so necessary to avoid atrophy, Alzheimer's or dementia."
One way to get started  or at least see if coding is a good fit  is to attend a meetup.
These are organized get-togethers where people sign up online and meet offline to discuss common interests.
Codecademy, for instance, holds regular meetups in 300 cities around the world.
"I made a commitment to go every month," said Laurie Alaoui, 59, from Lincoln, Calif., near the Bay Area.
There, she said, she became familiar with the industry lingo and observed coders of all levels.
"At the third one, I understood maybe 5 percent of what was said," she said.
"But I took notes, and words I had no idea what they meant, I came home and looked them up.
And then the next month I would go to another one."
"Before long, it got to where I could sit through the talk and understand what they were talking about," said Ms. Alaoui, who became disabled from a car accident in her teens and was looking for something less taxing physically.
In addition to attending meetups, she took lessons in HTML, CSS and JavaScript at Khan Academy, which, she said, "are basically geared toward kids  they spell everything out."
She then enrolled at one of General Assembly's immersive programs and is now developing Gets You Inc., a website that helps connect people with autism.
"That was the reason I wanted to get into coding," she said.
"I saw that you really can change the world."
Paul Gruhn, a senior systems engineer at Yale University and an adjunct professor at Quinnipiac University and Manchester Community College, said some older students in his code classes had struggled to keep up with their younger classmates.
"Web development is not for everyone," he said, "but it is useful to have a broad understanding of technology."
Having a specific goal can help, too.
One of Mr. Gruhn's students, Robert Maynard, 71, of East Windsor, Conn., wanted to build a blog to help promote his campaign for first selectman of his town.
He decided to enter politics after retiring in 2009 as a systems analyst at an insurance company, where he specialized in mainframe computers.
Mr. Maynard completed three classes at Manchester Community College (in HTML, PHP and SQL) and was elected in 2015.
"It was nice to be with young people  it was invigorating," he said.
Although his campaign blog never materialized, he has gone on to build other websites, admittedly with "not too many bells and whistles," including one for the East Windsor Republican Town Committee and one for his son in Colorado.
In the summer of 2011, after graduating from Harvard Business School and finishing active duty with the Marine Corps, Nick Taranto got a job at Goldman Sachs.
"I was miserable working on Wall Street, and I was gone within seven months," Taranto tells CNBC Make It.
He left in January 2012 to start his own business.
"I knew I wanted to do something entrepreneurial where I could roll up my sleeves and harness data and technology and apply them to a very large industry," says Taranto, now 33.
He and a friend from business school, Josh Hicks, now 35, teamed up.
They brainstormed for five months and decided to tackle the broken customer experience of dinner: A microwaved burrito isn't satisfying, ordering from a restaurant is expensive and grocery lines are often too long to deal with after a tiring day at work.
That summer, the pair landed on the e-commerce concept behind Plated: ship customers boxes of ingredients with easy-to-follow recipes to make it convenient to cook healthy meals at home.
(Its more famous competitor and IPO cautionary tale, Blue Apron, was just getting started at the same time.)
"We incorporated from my couch on West 14th Street on June 7th.
We bought a $9.99 domain from GoDaddy, and it's been testing and learning since then," says Taranto.
The 30 percent take rate is substantially higher than what some of the competitors in the food delivery space charge.
The NY Post reported last year that market leaders such as GrubHub and Seamless charge somewhere between 12 and 24 percent, while upstarts such as DoorDash and Postmates have a take rate in the range of 15 to 23 percent.
In fact, Ruby Tuesday, which is running a pilot program with Amazon Restaurants, said in its most recent earnings call that Amazon's food delivery program is indeed costly.
Ruby Tuesday CEO James Hyatt pointed out it's something every restaurant will have to test before deciding if they should build their own delivery network or not.
"It is a little expensive," Hyatt said, referring to delivery programs by Amazon, Uber and Lyft.
"It is a bite of the apple there for sure, and it seems to be something that every brand is going to have to measure right now, which I think you see some of the brands determining that they want to make that an internal mechanism instead of using a third-party."
Amazon may be able to lower its take rate once it reaches broader scale, and its partnership with Olo could be one way to solve the problem.
But Cowen's Champion said it shouldn't be a major concern to incumbents such as GrubHub, at least for now, pointing out that Amazon Restaurants is still only the fifth-most-used delivery service with less than a third of GrubHub's usage, based on a recent survey.
"It remains an expansive $40 billion-plus market in the US, with solid growth characteristics.
We expect the delivery market to remain competitive and we think GrubHub will compete just fine," he wrote.
There is an 'excitement about space' not seen in the past decade, Boeing Defense CEO says 8:17 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 00:25

Boeing Defense, Space and Security division CEO Leanne Caret told CNBC that the aerospace giant is putting a new emphasis on space investment because of the rapidly changing landscape of the industry.
In an exclusive interview earlier this week, Caret called the company's satellite business and space exploration two "key" opportunities to generate more growth.
"I think there's an excitement about space that we haven't seen in the last few decades that's really keeping the conversation going in a positive direction, and the technology is something that can be leveraged across a number of other platforms and weapons systems," Caret said.
"So, it's not as if it just benefits one category of the business.
It helps across several."
Caret says Boeing's satellite business is getting more exciting, though she has not yet divulged details about how that part of her business is evolving.
Boeing has long developed satellites about the size of a school bus, but the industry's push to downsize is putting new pressure on traditional manufacturers.
Microsatellites, as small as a shoebox, are an integral part of commercial and military operators' recent push to cut the cost and size of satellites.
New drug test can detect cocaine in a fingerprint in seconds 4:19 PM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 00:49

A team of researchers has developed a simple paper-based test that can in a matter of seconds detect whether a person has recently been using cocaine.
The method can potentially be applied to a variety of substances.
The researchers plan to make a business case for the technique as a safe, rapid and highly accurate method of running a variety of drug tests in the real world.
The team, from institutions in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, published their findings Friday in the journal Clinical Chemistry.
The technique involves a method called "paper spray mass spectrometry."
This allows researchers to determine the identity of a substance by measuring the mass of its molecules.
Since molecules of cocaine have a unique mass, the spectrometer can detect their presence.
The test can also detect the metabolites that result from the body processing cocaine.
"It can detect cocaine and metabolites of which is further proof that cocaine has gone through the body and is excreted," said lead researcher Catia Costa, a researcher at the University of Surrey in the United Kingdom, in an interview with CNBC.
The team tested 39 people, some known users of cocaine and some non-users.
The test was 99 percent effective.
A sample can be analyzed in 30 seconds, Costa said, which is extremely fast.
Most conventional lab-based drug tests take several hours to days to return results.
The new test also does not involve taking samples of blood, hair or urine, making it less invasive and safer, Costa said.
It works like this: First, a fingerprint is collected on a small triangular piece of paper.
Then the paper is placed on a mass spectrometer, the instrument that measures the various masses of different molecules and atoms.
The researchers then pour a solvent on the paper and send a small electrical charge through the paper, which releases the molecules and sends them into the spectrometer's analyzer and detector, which measure and record the mass of the molecules.
The method could, in theory, be used to test a variety of drugs.
The team has already been able to detect heroin.
They have also added a fingerprint identification step to the process, which in a real-world application would ensure the sample came from the person meant to take the test.
The test could potentially be used in any of the usual situations where drug tests are needed, such as workplaces, legal situations, hospitals and treatment centers.
The test could also be used in emergency situations, such as overdoses.
Rapidly running a few tests could allow paramedics or doctors to determine what sorts of substances might be responsible for an overdose.
Finally, Costa said, doctors might be able to use it to ensure patients are taking prescribed medications.
Costa said she soon plans to spend three months talking to people in industry, health care and other areas to explore the business case for the product.
The research was funded by a company called Intelligent Fingerprinting, a company that does other fingerprint-based drug tests, and the UK's National Institute for Health Research.
Digital currency trading is exploding and daily volume could "soon" surpass that of Apple, according to a strategist closely followed by hedge funds.
"Cryptocurrency trading volume is now more than of $3bn/day on average, and will likely soon surpass that of the world's most liquid stock: Apple ($4bn/day),"Jens Nordvig, founder and CEO of Exante Data, said in a note Friday.
Nordvig said global daily trading volume between the two largest digital currencies, bitcoin and ethereum, into traditional currencies has multiplied eight times in the last year.
Bitcoin has surged this year, briefly increasing fivefold before tumbling amid a Chinese crackdown on digital currencies and criticism from JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon this month.
Bitcoin traded slightly lower near $3,524 midday Friday, but it is still up about 260 percent for the year, according to CoinDesk.
Many digital currency enthusiasts have noted that bitcoin is a way for new investors to access the growing number of digital currencies.
Industry website CoinMarketCap lists more than 350 cryptocurrencies with a market value of more than $1 million each.
The total market value of all digital currencies was $121 billion Friday, according to CoinMarketCap.
Bitcoin price year to date

Source: CoinDesk

Ethereum traded mildly lower near $256, but was still more than 2,500 percent higher for the year, according to CoinDesk.
While digital currency trading volume has taken off, average daily trading volume in U.S. stocks fell in August to its lowest in three years, according to market researcher Tabb Group.
That said, Nordvig is still cautious on the often volatile digital currencies.
"We do not believe that one can predict with confidence at this point that any given cryptocurrency will continue to thrive and gain status as an alternative to traditional currencies in the long term," Nordvig said.
"But we look forward to using the information from an increasingly active cryptocurrency market in our tracking of global capital flows, when appropriate."
Apple CEO Tim Cook on Friday continued his tradition of visiting an Apple Store on the day of a big product launch.
"I am thrilled," Cook told CNBC's Josh Lipton on Friday.
"Here's what we're seeing right now.
The watch with LTE  the Series 3 Watch  we are sold out in so many places around the world.
And we're working really hard to meet demand.
We've sold out of iPhone 8 and 8 Plus in some stores, but we've got good supply there.
You can see what's going on here this morning  I couldn't be happier."
Cook appeared in Palo Alto, California, to greet shoppers and employees as the iPhone 8 hit shelves.
Employees cheered and did the "wave" and Cook, beaming, played along.
The power of Facebook advertising  let's say they can identify 2 billion people around the world based on 200 points of data, which allows them to offer advertisers the holy grail of targeting.
Now companies know exactly who is seeing their ads  only the "right" potential consumers.
This is unheard of in the history of the world.
Facebook's shareholders have been rightfully rewarded for the company's marketing prowess.
It now sports a market capitalization of $500 billion  the only two companies worth more are Apple and Microsoft.
Exxon, J&J, Google, JP Morgan, Berkshire  they're all worth less.
So it is true that Facebook has an amazing marketing product and it is also true that the world now fully appreciates this fact.
But what if not everyone agrees to play along?
What if this ability to micro-target every living human being to the degree of 200 individual data points is not okay anymore?
For example, what if a foreign government  say, Germany  decides that 200 data points is too much information for Facebook to collect and make available about their citizens to advertisers?
What if Germany says, "You know what?
This is not okay.
From now on, you can only utilize 100 of those 200 data points.
We don't want our sovereign citizens targeted to that degree by anyone  dishwashing detergent firms, political parties, special interest groups  it's too much influence."
Now what if this happens, and Facebook acquiesces so as to stay out of court, and then a month later Japan says they'd like the same thing?
And then the Netherlands?
And then the state of Florida?
And then the city of Las Vegas?
And so on?
What if the world begins to make the decision that no entity  corporate or otherwise  ought to have the sort of broad, unchecked free reign that Facebook (and to a lesser extent, Google) has enjoyed over the last few years?
Does Facebook face them all down, one after another, to preserve their advertising technology advantage?
Or do they willfully comply and water down their programs?
In either case, could this conceivably be a positive for shareholders of Facebook stock?
I can't imagine how.
Can you?
Now you might be saying, "That's not realistic!
No one is going to require Facebook to become less good at what they do!"
You'd be wrong.
This is absolutely within the realm of possibility, historically speaking.
They did it to Microsoft twenty years ago and it's taken the company approximately this entire span of time since to recover.
They did it to AT&T back in the day, the irony being that shareholders made a lot more money once all of the component spin-off subsidiaries were given to them.
They did it to John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil, even though it took almost twenty years to make it through the courts.
By the time they were done with him, it was almost like a relief.
Governments that feel threatened or genuinely fear for the safety and/or competitive position of their constituents will absolutely take action if they feel the need to.
Uber must now negotiate with the city of London in order to keep operating there beyond the end of September.
They'll probably get to stay, but not without concessions.
Might some of those concessions include a lightening up of the company's competitive advantages over the black car taxi system that's long held sway in that city?
This week Facebook announced that it will make public all of the ads purchased by Russian interests during the 2016 elections.
That's a start.
But the bigger question should not be about the content of the ads or the purported sponsors.
It should be about how it can be possible that ads like these can be so lethally effective.
The answer, of course, is that Facebook has a one-of-a-kind delivery method to ensure direct hits.
How will that sit with Congress when they begin to get their heads around this concept.
I am convinced that, for the most part, they are until now completely clueless.
If a government decides that there is a such thing as too much influence being held by a corporation, technology giant or otherwise, there is a risk to its shareholders.
We do not live and work in some sort of utopian paradise where all progress is universally celebrated and allowed, unmolested, to do what it will, to whom it will, with what information it pleases.
And I'm not sure how many fishing trips and RV rides Mark Zuckerberg has the time to go on, around the world, in order to preserve the company's monopoly on our collective attention.
This commentary was originally published on TheReformedBroker.com.
Josh Brown is the creator of The Reformed Broker blog, CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management and a regular on CNBC"s "Halftime Report."
Follow him on Twitter @reformedbroker.
For more insight from CNBC contributors, follow @CNBCopinion on Twitter.
That doesn't necessarily mean fewer people are planning to buy new iPhones, according to Munster's surveys.
In fact, Munster said he predicts more growth for the coming upgrade cycle.
Customers interviewed by CNBC's Josh Lipton said they were getting the iPhone 8 for a variety of reasons: the lower price, a smaller, easier-to-hold size, to replace a broken phone that might not last until November, or just to have the "latest thing."
The shorter lines reflect two trends, according to Munster.
First, more people are likely shopping and pre-ordering phones online, especially since harder-to-find phones, like the iPhone 7 Plus in jet black, tend to run out before they are released in stores.
Plus, this year, Apple is not releasing all its new iPhones at the same time.
The iPhone X  the new flagship model won't be available in stores until Nov. 3.
And as far as stores affected by the rise of online shopping, Apple Stores actually aren't doing badly: Apple is the No.
1 retailer in terms of sales per square foot, selling $5,546 per square foot, according to eMarketer and CoStar.
Nonetheless, Apple Store watching has continued to be a sport in the gadget community.
CNBC's Jon Fortt reported from New York's World Trade Center:

Analyst Walt Piecyk of BTIG did some scouting in New York City before talking to CNBC:

Rich DeMuro, a tech reporter at KTLA Morning News, reported from Los Angeles:

Martyn Landi, a technology correspondent at the Press Association, reported from the U.K.:

Long-time Apple watcher John Gruber was in Philadelphia:

Winston Sih, a Breakfast Television Toronto TV host, reported from Eaton Centre:

Tang See Kit, a journalist at ChannelNewsAsia.com, in Singapore:
Billionaire venture capitalist Jim Breyer is still bullish on large technology stocks in the U.S. and China for the next decade.
CNBC's Mike Santoli spoke with Breyer in an exclusive interview for CNBC PRO on the sidelines of the Delivering Alpha conference in New York last week.
Santoli asked the technology investor about his outlook for the industry.
"Five years ago, at Delivering Alpha, I mentioned that Facebook, Apple, Netflix, Google, and the Chinese internet companies were exceptional five-year investments.
I still believe that," he said.
Breyer includes Apple in his FANG acronym basket, which is slightly different from the FANG list of Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Alphabet (formerly known as Google) created and popularized by CNBC's Jim Cramer.
The investor is also optimistic on the large Chinese internet companies he calls the "BAT" stocks, which includes Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent.
He explained why his FANG and BAT stocks will continue to thrive.
"The FANG plus BAT companies over a five- to 10-year period, from here, I think as a basket, will continue to perform extremely well.
They are founder-driven, they are hiring some of the best AI talent in the world, both in the U.S. companies and China," the investor said.
Breyer is the founder and CEO of Breyer Capital, a global venture capital firm based in Menlo Park, California.
He has been an investor in more than 40 consumer internet/technology companies that have completed successful public offerings or mergers, including Facebook, Etsy and Marvel Entertainment.
See here for the full CNBC PRO report and the interview video.
Jim Breyer shares his views on technology investing and important trends in an exclusive interview with CNBC PRO's Mike Santoli.
On how artificial intelligence is changing the industry: "It's a new paradigm in terms of the skill sets the very best students and post-docs have at the top universities.
So there's this renewal that's very exciting," he said.
"And artificial intelligence in a more general way, which is more than just voice recognition and voice capability, requires bio-engineering, neuroscience capability and skill sets that just don't exist at the [big technology] companies."
Breyer is the founder and CEO of Breyer Capital, a global venture capital firm based in Menlo Park, California.
He has been an investor in more than 40 consumer internet/technology companies that have completed successful public offerings or mergers, including Facebook, Etsy and Marvel Entertainment.
The venture capitalist also discusses:
Gogoro raised $300 million in a series C round led by Temasek Holdings and joined by Al Gore's Generation Investment Management group, Sumitomo and others.
Gogoro makes electric scooters and battery-swapping kiosks where users can charge or swap them out.
SoftBank poured $250 million into Slack, the workplace collaboration platform that competes with Microsoft-owned Yammer and Facebook's Workplace.
The deal valued Slack at $5.1 billion.
Patreon, a crowdfunding platform, raised $60 million, TechCrunch reported.
Other crowdfunding sites, including Kickstarter or GoFundMe, let users raise money for a project or a cause.
Instead, Patreon helps creatives raise money from subscribers for products that are ongoing, such as la podcast or a webcomic.
Chinese Autonomous driving firm JingChi raised $30 million in angel funding, China Money Network reported, and has targeted a Series A round of $100 million.
The company's founder, Wang Jin, was formerly the general manager of Baidu's autonomous driving unit.
Food-tech start-up MealPal raised $20 million in a series B round of funding led by Menlo Ventures.
The company's customers can order and carry out meals from restaurants for just $6.
C2Sense raised $3.2 million for its "digital nose" that detects gas compounds.
Among other things, its technology can alert food makers when ingredients are about to go bad, or construction workers when toxic gases are in the air.
Olo CEO Noah Glass: Providing restaurants new online business through Amazon 11:57 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 03:15

Amazon bought grocery chain Whole Foods, and now it wants to work with more restaurants as it moves further into the food industry.
The internet giant has partnered with Olo, a New York-based food delivery service, to list Olo's clients on the Amazon Restaurants food delivery section of Amazon.com.
GrubHub, a rival Chicago-based restaurant takeout service, saw its shares fall more than 6 percent on the news, before regaining some ground to a drop of nearly 2 percent.
"Amazon's obsession with providing great customer and restaurant experience supports the evolving expectations and behaviors of today's consumer," said Noah Glass, CEO of Olo, about the deal.
Amazon Restaurants has integrated into Rails, Olo's application programming interface, which allows for restaurants to list their menus on third-party marketplaces.
Through the integration, Olo's restaurant partners will be featured on Amazon Restaurants, enabling orders through the delivery provider to go directly through a point-of-sale system.
Some of Olo's clients include Chipotle, Denny's, Shake Shack and Wingstop.
The goal of this partnership is to simplify the process for restaurants once customers' orders come in, while also allowing for companies to limit the amount of orders that they take during peak hours, Olo said in a press release.
"This integration will enable Amazon Restaurants to onboard new restaurants with ease, as well as quickly add more new choices and delivery options for customers," added Gus Lopez, general manager of Amazon Restaurants.
"We are excited to leverage Olo's digital ordering technology and continue rapidly growing our network of restaurants to give Amazon Prime members more options for fast delivery from their favorite brands," Lopez said.
GrubHub shares have been on a tear this year, up more than 35 percent in 2017.
Last month, Yelp announced it was selling Eat24, its online food-ordering business, to GrubHub.
The brands Seamless and MenuPages are also owned by GrubHub.
The race is on to get food delivered from popular restaurants to customers, and more quickly than ever before.
Uber was banned from operating in London Friday, and a rival ride-sharing company celebrated with discounts.
German company, mytaxi, tweeted Friday morning that customers would see an immediate drop in prices through the end of September, when Uber's license officially expires.
The city's ban on Uber has left some Londoners searching for alternatives.
With half-off rides, mytaxi seems eager to corner the market.
"We believe Londoners deserve the highest standards in safety, accessibility with a premium service that's second to none," the company said in a statement.
"Customers deserve a seamless, technology-enabled fleet of professional taxis with drivers who are proud to offer a superior service and have devoted the equivalent of a degree to their trade."
Mytaxi operated in almost 50 cities internationally, including Washington D.C.
Apple's product cycle 'split between two phones': Loup Ventures' Gene Munster 8:14 AM ET Fri, 22 Sept 2017 | 02:02

Apple investors should expect a "rocky day" as the tech giant's iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus hit store shelves, leading analyst-turned-venture capitalist Gene Munster told CNBC on Friday.
Shares of Apple, which were under pressure again Friday, were down more than 5 percent for the week after some speculated that demand for the new iPhone 8 was weak.
Apple also faced lackluster reviews for the phone.
The iPhone 8 is also sharing the spotlight with another one of Apple's new phones, the iPhone X, which isn't expected to begin shipping until November.
That phone has a price tag of $999.
People are going to see "a lot shorter lines than last year," said Munster, founder of Loup Ventures, which focuses on research and early stage funding.
"The reason is that this cycle is split between two phones ... [and] more people are buying things online."
Munster expects to see similar lines for the iPhone X, pronounced iPhone "10," and similar demand online.
"[But] don't underestimate or give Apple consumers credit for their willingness to pay up for products," he added.
He said Loup did a survey this week about people who intend to buy Apple's high-end iPhone and it appears "the setup for the iPhone X is going to be strong."
"Investors should be comforted  the longer term  that this cycle will yield the growth that they're expecting," Munster added.
On Friday, Wall Street firm Piper Jaffray, where Munster had worked for years covering Apple before starting Loup, reiterated its overweight rating and raised its price target for the smartphone maker, predicting Apple's more expensive iPhone offerings will boost its earnings.
The higher-priced iPhone 8 and iPhone X should raise Apple's average selling price overall, the firm told clients.
Watch: Apple's iPhone 8 is on sale now.
Here's what to expect
Amazon and Alibaba are racing toward the $500 billion valuation mark, as the battle between two of the world's largest retailers escalates in markets from India to the U.S.
While Amazon is focusing on expanding its e-commerce business in new markets, Alibaba is investing in companies around the world  ranging beyond e-commerce to also include virtual reality and social media.
If there's a transaction that involves any type of commerce, Alibaba wants to be the company that enables it.
Amazon is often thought of as the place for consumers buying from businesses, but Alibaba's products are also pushing to enable business-to-business and consumer-to-consumer transactions.
Alibaba is first and foremost an e-commerce platform, but unlike Amazon, it has a complex and vast ecosystem, which includes Tabao, TMall, and Alibaba.com.
In addition to its direct e-commerce sites, it also started AliPay which allows users to pay through its own platform and AntFinancial, which gives financing to businesses.
Alibaba has more than 500 million people using its shopping apps every month and its scale is vastly expanding beyond China.
It has operations in more than 200 countries.
The company set the record for the biggest IPO (initial public offering) in history, when it listed at the New York Stock Exchange in 2014.
This year, Alibaba became Asia's first company to exceed the $400 billion valuation mark.
Alibaba's investments include southeast Asia e-commerce platform, Lazada Group, bike-sharing business Ofo, India's electronic payments company Paytm, Israeli virtual reality start-up Lumus, and U.S. wearables firm Magic Leap.
Walmart said on Friday it was testing a service in the Silicon Valley to deliver groceries straight to customers' refrigerators as it looks to gain an edge over Amazon.
The retailer said it is partnering with August Home, a provider of smart locks and smart home accessories, to test the service.
The delivery person would get access to the customer's house using a pre-authorized one-time passcode and would put away groceries.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Walmart said the homeowner would be in control of the entire experience, receiving a notification that the delivery is in progress and could also watch the real-time process.
Walmart said it was running the test in the Silicon Valley with a handful of August Home customers.
The retailer has been exploring new methods of delivery and in June said it was testing using its own store employees to deliver packages ordered online.
Target said in May it was testing its next-day delivery service, Restock, offering the big-box retailer a foothold in the competition created by Amazon's Prime service.
For millennials, if you can't share an experience on social media, it didn't happen.
So millennials are flocking to a new concept called pop-up museums, which are temporary staged exhibits specifically designed for taking weird and interesting selfies.
Examples include Refinery 29's 29Rooms, the Color Factory and the Museum of Ice Cream.
Mr. Altizer is part of a backlash against the women in technology movement.
While many in the tech industry had previously dismissed the fringe mens rights arguments, some investors, executives and engineers are now listening.
Though studies and surveys show there is no denying the travails women face in the male-dominated industry, some said that the line for what counted as harassment had become too easy to cross and that the push for gender parity was too extreme a goal.
Few were willing to talk openly about their thinking, for fear of standing out in largely progressive Silicon Valley.
Even so, witch hunt is the new whispered meme.
Some in tech have started identifying as contrarians, to indicate subtly that they do not follow the diversity dogma.
And self-described mens rights activists in Silicon Valley said their numbers at meetings were rising.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Others are playing down the women-in-tech issue.
Onstage at a recent event, the venture capitalist Vinod Khosla said harassment in Silicon Valley was rarer than in most other businesses.
Many men now feel like theres a gun to the head to be better about gender issues, said Rebecca Lynn, a venture capitalist at Canvas Ventures, and while theres a high awareness right now, which is positive, at the same time theres a fear.
The backlash follows increasingly vulgar harassment revelations in Silicon Valley.
Several female engineers and entrepreneurs this year named the men they accused of harassing them, and suddenly techs boys club seemed anything but impervious.
Travis Kalanick, Ubers co-founder, resigned as chief executive after the ride-hailing service was embroiled in harassment accusations.
Dave McClure, head of the incubator 500 Startups, called himself a creep and stepped down.
This month, the chief executive of Social Finance, Mike Cagney, also quit amid a harassment scandal.
In the aftermath, many stood up for gender equality in tech.
Reid Hoffman, LinkedIns founder, asked investors to sign a decency pledge.
Many companies reiterated that they needed to improve work force diversity.
Photo

In just the last 48 hours, Ive spoken to a female tech executive who was grabbed by a male C.E.O.
at a large event and another female executive who was asked to interview at a venture fund because they feel like they need to hire a woman, said Dick Costolo, the former chief of Twitter, who now runs the fitness start-up Chorus.
We should worry about whether the women-in-tech movement has gone too far sometime after a couple of these arent regularly happening anymore.
But those who privately thought things had gone too far were given a voice by James Damore, 28, a soft-spoken Google engineer.
Mr. Damore, frustrated after another diversity training, wrote a memo that he posted to an internal Google message board.
In it, he argued that maybe women were not equally represented in tech because they were biologically less capable of engineering.
Google fired him last month.
After months of apologizing by Silicon Valley for bad behavior, here was a young man whom some in techs leadership could potentially get behind.
Paul Graham, who founded an influential start-up incubator, Y Combinator, posted two articles about how the science behind Mr. Damores memo was accurate.
Another start-up investor, John Durant, wrote that Charles Darwin himself would be fired from Google for his views on the sexes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And the investor Peter Thiels business partner, Eric Weinstein, tweeted, Dear @Google, Stop teaching my girl that her path to financial freedom lies not in coding but in complaining to HR.
Mr. Durant declined to comment.
Mr. Graham said in an email that there needed to be more distinction between fact and policy, and Mr. Weinstein said there was a sea of brilliant women and that more needed to be done to figure out how to more fully empower them.
There is also the threat of Amazon, which has tried food delivery in a few markets.
The Seattle retail giants recent acquisition of Whole Foods provides hundreds of potential bases for drivers to pick up prepared food for delivery in major urban areas, where takeout orders are popular.
The number-one concern for all of these delivery companies is Amazon, said James Cakmak, an analyst at the equity research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Company who follows the food delivery space.
How could Amazon use its network to crush our business?
They have the logistical network and the balance sheet to be able to compete on the price side with all of these players.
Matt Maloney, the founder and chief executive of Grubhub, said his companys focus on food orders set it apart.
Uber has built a great company focused on black car service and human transportation, but succeeding in food delivery is a different game, Mr. Maloney said in a statement.
We are known for one thing only  takeout ordering  and we have engineered our entire product around this purpose.
Photo

Both Amazon and Postmates declined to comment on UberEats.
Uber first dabbled in food delivery in Los Angeles in 2014 under the name UberFresh, offering prepackaged lunches and dinners from restaurants.
Uber also tried other experiments, like UberEssentials, a way to deliver pantry and drugstore items quickly.
If you can hit a button and get a car in a few minutes, what else can you get in a few minutes?
Mr. Droege said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the situation wasnt ideal, with drivers usually carting food around in a safe storage container in their car trunks.
That led to issues with food quality, and customers were unhappy when their food arrived cold.
People also wanted a greater selection of restaurants, something that competitors like Postmates provided.
In December 2015, Mr. Droeges division introduced a separate app, UberEats, in Toronto, working with restaurants to provide freshly cooked meals that could be ordered with a few touches of a smartphone button.
The service took off, and over the next 18 months UberEats expanded its sales force to bring more restaurants on board and to open in new cities.
Photo

Uber executives said UberEats, which is now in more than 120 cities, had several advantages over rivals.
For one, Uber has a network of more than two million drivers who can also deliver food.
Cars used for UberEats also do not need to pass all of the inspection standards required to carry passengers, widening the potential delivery labor pool.
(Drivers need not own a car at all; UberBike is a popular delivery method for food orders.)
Uber has also spent the better part of a decade mapping cities and finding the most efficient routes, which the company said may help improve delivery times.
And since the problems with UberFresh, it has invested in better technology and added more drivers in participating cities.
The ideal UberEats delivery has the driver arrive at the restaurant just as the food has finished cooking, and has it delivered to the customer while still warm.
What Uber has are the last-mile logistics, and thats crucial, Mr. Cakmak said.
Uber has taken the partnership approach to speed up the growth of UberEats, echoing a strategy of companies like Postmates.
Uber struck a deal with McDonalds this year to offer delivery from thousands of its restaurants.
Lucy Brady, a McDonalds executive, said on an investor call in July that the initial results of the partnership were positive.
The service has stumbled at times, including this month when it faced complaints that an ad in India  telling husbands to use UberEats so their wives could take a day off from cooking  was sexist.
The company apologized for the ad.
Uber said it had invested in increasing its UberEats sales force, as well as hiring data scientists to analyze daily information on customer orders and preferences to help restaurants improve their service or promote their more popular menu items.
For Mr. Gordon, the owner of Footprints Cafe, Ubers investments have been a boon for business.
He said the delivery service had helped his restaurant reach new customers outside its loyal Caribbean community, without spending on advertising or promotion on Facebook or Groupon, as he did in the past.
Weve employed people who just work on Uber deliveries, and have a counter just for Uber driver pickup, Mr. Gordon said.
It has definitely been worth it.
A ban on operating in one of its largest markets would certainly hit Ubers bottom line.
The company said it had 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million customers in London who used its app at least once every three months.
Mr. Khosrowshahi, in a Twitter post on Friday afternoon, acknowledged that Uber was far from perfect and urged city regulators to work out a solution with the company.
Less than a year ago, a British tribunal ruled that Uber could no longer treat its drivers as self-employed contractors and would have to meet tougher labor standards, including offering holiday pay and pensions.
Fit and proper is a benchmark that Britain applies across different industries and its charitable organizations to ensure that people or organizations meet the requirements of their industry or specialty.
Ubers approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications, Transport for London said in a statement.
Tests typically assess factors like an individual or companys honesty, transparency and competence, though there is no formal exam.
In Ubers case, Transport for London said it had examined issues of how the company dealt with serious criminal offenses, how it conducted background checks on drivers and its justification for a software program called Greyball, which could be used to block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to the app.
In May, Transport for London extended Ubers license by four months as it considered whether the company met that threshold.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for it being unsafe, Londons mayor, Sadiq Khan, wrote in The Guardian soon after the ruling was announced.
The regulatory environment is critical in protecting Londoners safety, maintaining workplace standards for drivers and sustaining a vibrant taxi and private hire market with space for a range of providers to flourish.
Ubers London license will now expire on Sept. 30.
But it can continue to operate in the city during the appeal process in Britains courts.
Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in London, said the agency and Mr. Khan had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
Uber conducted background checks using the methods used for black-cab drivers, he said.
Our pioneering technology has gone further to enhance safety with every trip tracked and recorded by GPS, Mr. Elvidge said, adding that the company had a dedicated team who work closely with the Metropolitan Police.
He also said Greyball had not been used to block scrutiny by regulators or the police in London.
The move by regulators in London picks up the political mood of the times, said Tony Travers, a professor at the London School of Economics.
London, like New York and Paris, is full of urban progressives who, even if they use Uber, feel guilty when they read things about it that they dont like.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Thursday, a Dutch appeals court upheld a ban of an Uber service in the Netherlands, saying the companys low-cost UberPop ride-hailing offering had been operated illegally.
The French authorities took a similar case to the Court of Justice of the European Union, and last year Uber and two executives were convicted and fined the equivalent of nearly $500,000 in France in relation to UberPop.
In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio has criticized Ubers rapid expansion for making congestion worse on city streets.
But in 2015, his administration backed down from a fight with Uber by abruptly dropping a plan for a cap on the number of Uber vehicles operating within the city.
Until now, London had been one of Ubers most notable success stories outside the United States.
It debuted in the city in 2012, just before the Summer Olympics, initially with a luxury service.
It added UberX, which competes more directly with the citys storied black taxis, a year later.
The company now operates in more than 40 cities and towns across Britain.
Its arrival here, however, created a clash almost immediately with the black cabs, which trace their roots to 1634.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Black-cab drivers, who earn licenses by memorizing some 25,000 streets and 100,000 landmarks for an exacting test known as The Knowledge, complain that Uber drivers are under-regulated.
Many fear that the rivalry will put them out of business: Uber fares are about 30 percent lower than those of black cabs.
The conflict also involves tensions over ethnicity and class.
Most black-cab drivers are white native-born Britons, while many Uber drivers are immigrants.
Uber has said it receives hundreds of complaints a month from its drivers about remarks from black-cab drivers.
Among the insults hurled are Uber slave!
and Go back to your country!
Many black-cab drivers have now signed up with competing apps like Gett and MyTaxi, which like Uber allow passengers to hail rides via their smartphones.
Londoners can also choose from a wide variety of private-hire services, known as minicabs.
Black-cab drivers, and the unions representing them, cheered Fridays ruling.
Jeffrey Marcus, who has been driving a London taxi for 42 years, described it as long overdue.
Weve got a brilliant taxi service here, Mr. Marcus, 67, said.
You pay a little more for a licensed taxi, but you get the service.
The reaction online to the Transport for London ruling, however, was generally negative.
Hours after the decision was announced, a Change.org petition that was started and heavily promoted by Uber within its app and via emails to customers had over 200,000 signatures.
Ahmad Shoaib, an Uber driver, said the service was being unfairly targeted.
I know there have been some problems with drivers, but most of us are good and reliable and play by the rules, he said.
It is not fair to punish everyone because of the mistakes of one or two people.
Mr. Shoaib switched to Uber from a minicab company in Croydon, in South London, after he saw how much work friends were getting from the ride-hailing service.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

London needs Uber, he said, its cheap and easy.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And whats noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebooks considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
Whats more, Mr. Zuckerbergs initial reaction to the question of Facebooks role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea, he said at a tech conference days after last years presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebooks history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebooks central tenet of transparency and openness: Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you, he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections, he said in his address on Thursday.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social networks future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the companys old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebooks mobile apps working perfectly became the companys top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
Mobile is everyones job, Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebooks mobile apps.
Soon, Facebooks mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebooks advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandbergs leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebooks main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebooks effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, theres a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the companys might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the worlds most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the board had determined that withdrawing the reclassification was in the best interests of Facebook and its shareholders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision to drop the stock reclassification bucks a trend for technology chief executives who have structured their stock to gain outsize control over their company, often at the cost of common shareholder input.
Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who founded Google, and Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy of Snap are among those who hold a disproportionate share of voting power over their companies.
The impetus for the stock reclassification came after Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. Priscilla Chan, his wife, celebrated the birth of their first daughter, Maxima.
The couple used the occasion to found the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a limited liability company that acts as the main vehicle for the couple to give away their wealth over the coming years.
The idea was that it would allow me to keep voting control of Facebook so we can continue to build for the long term, but also allow Priscilla and me to fund the work were doing through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement posted on his personal Facebook page on Friday.
At the time, I felt that this reclassification was the best way to do both of these things, he said.
In fact, I thought it was the only way.
But I also knew it was going to be complicated and it wasnt a perfect solution.
Mr. Zuckerberg and a spokeswoman for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative said the stock reclassification was no longer necessary.
The chief executive noted that because of Facebooks strong stock performance, I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more.
He said he planned to sell 35 million to 75 million shares over the next 18 months to finance work in fields like education and science.
This path offers a way to do all of this, and Im looking forward to making more progress together, Mr. Zuckerberg said.
Photo

Chastened by criticism that Facebook had turned a blind eye to Russias manipulation of the social network to interfere in the 2016 election, the companys executives now acknowledge a need to do better and have promised to be more transparent about who is paying for political ads.
Thats a good start, but more is required  of Facebook, of social media giants generally and of Congress.
Mark Zuckerberg, a co-founder and the chief executive of Facebook, said on Thursday that the company would give congressional investigators more than 3,000 Russia-linked ads and would begin disclosing the names of Facebook business accounts that place political ads on the site.
He also said the company would hire more people to improve security, work more closely with election regulators and crack down on political harassment.
I dont want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy, he said.
Thats not what we stand for.
A day earlier his top lieutenant, Sheryl Sandberg, pledged to change the companys systems so ad buyers couldnt target their missives to racists and anti-Semites.
These statements came two weeks after Facebook said that a business linked to the Russian government had placed $100,000 worth of divisive ads on the site between 2015 and May of this year.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google have become a huge force in the political system and in society broadly.
While their executives have eagerly embraced their status as disrupters and innovators, they have been reluctant to acknowledge that their creations have been used to do harm.
Technology executives have been loath to accept much or any responsibility for the power they and their businesses wield.
In fact, many of them have gone out of their way to avoid or evade rules that apply to the traditional businesses that they are trying to displace.
For example, Facebook argued in a 2011 letter to the Federal Election Commission that it and other internet companies should not be subject to regulations on political ads that radio and TV stations have to abide by.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Zuckerbergs concern about democracy is commendable, and some of the changes he announced could have a positive impact.
But they apply only to his company and can be easily evaded.
Disclosing the name of Facebook business accounts placing political ads, for instance, will be of little value if purchasers can disguise their real identity  calling themselves, say, Americans for Motherhood and Apple Pie.
Further, even if Facebook succeeds in driving away foreign propaganda, the same material could pop up on Twitter or other social media sites.
When it comes to streaming and downloading movies, do you really notice that much of a difference between standard definition and the high-definition version?
A. High-definition (HD) files pack considerably more pixels into the video than those classified as standard definition (SD), and in side-by-side comparisons, the sharpness of the picture and depth of the colors in an HD video can stand out.
You may want to sample both formats on a similar type of movie and see which version you prefer.
Photo

Online video services typically label movies by the number of pixels in their vertical dimension; more pixels generally mean a sharper picture.
HD movies are usually classified as 1,080p or 720p (referring to the resolutions of 1,280 by 720 pixels or 1,920 by 1,080 pixels).
Movies in standard definition have lower resolutions and can vary based on the provider, but a sample SD movie downloaded from iTunes has a resolution of 853 by 352 pixels.
If you are watching the movie on a small tablet, phone or other screen, SD video quality is usually just fine.
Standard-definition videos are less expensive to buy, often by about $5, and $1 or $2 less to rent in some online stores.
Certain devices cannot fully display HD video anyway because the screens lack the needed resolution or the hardware is not compatible.
(Some files may automatically download in standard definition anyway depending on the device you are using.)
Because they contain more data, downloaded HD videos need more bandwidth to stream and, when downloaded, take up more space on your device.
For example, the 720p HD version of The Martian in Apples iTunes Store is a 5.36-gigabyte file, while the SD edition weighs in at 2.54 gigabytes.
If you are downloading a movie to a mobile device to watch offline, the SD edition is a space saver.
If you plan to watch the movie on a high-definition television or high-resolution computer monitor, though, SD video can look flatter and less vibrant than the HD version.
Many video services are now offering movies and television shows in yet another format: ultra high-definition, also known as 4K for its 3,840 by 2,160 pixels of resolution.
Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Netflix, Roku, Vudu and YouTube are among the services with 4K content or devices; video in the 4K H.D.R.
(high dynamic range) format is also available from some services.
To properly appreciate the clarity and color depth of the newer formats, you need a TV or monitor that can actually display 4K or 4K H.D.R.
video  and a lot more bandwidth to stream or store the file.
In a phone conversation, Professor Bessembinder reminded me that the stock market is a moving target and that his rankings, while valid through the end of 2016, dont capture the sharp movements of this calendar year.
In his 2016 rankings, Exxon Mobil, not Apple, appears at the top, with net wealth creation of more than $1 trillion.
Apple lags at about $745 billion.
But it has been a wild year.
Exxon Mobil shares have declined more than 11 percent at a time of weak energy prices, while Apple, which just introduced a raft of new iPhones, is on a spectacular stock surge, gaining more than 37 percent.
Run the numbers as I did, and its clear that at this moment, Apple has pulled ahead of Exxon Mobil, with total net wealth creation of somewhere in the vicinity of $1 trillion.
Counting dividends, Exxon Mobils losses in the stock market have reduced its total to a bit over $910 billion.
(Note that, as a technical matter, Professor Bessembinder defines net wealth creation as total stock returns in excess of one-month Treasury bill returns, which averaged an annualized 3.38 percent, so the actual stock returns for Apple, Exxon, and the others are even higher than indicated.)
Its remarkable that Apple has generated so much wealth in such a short period of time, he said.
Exxon has had decades to pile up those returns.
Exxon is among the top wealth-creating companies that have been publicly trading  under the name of a predecessor, Standard Oil of New Jersey  since the inception of Professor Bessembinders tally in July 1926.
Others include General Electric, IBM, Altria, Coca-Cola, DuPont, PepsiCo and Schlumberger.
He relied on a database developed at the University of Chicago, known as CRSP, for the Center for Research in Security Prices, that contains virtually all publicly traded stocks in the United States.
The Center for Research uses rigorous and logical criteria to determine when stocks enter and depart its listings, with some results that may seem surprising at first glance.
General Motors, for example, ranks eighth.
It was publicly traded in 1926, but the list says it ceased to exist in June 2009.
A company called General Motors exists today, of course, but as Chloe Fu, senior support and relationship manager at the Center for Research in Security Prices, explained it, G.M.s bailout and bankruptcy led the center to declare the old company terminated, with a new G.M.
coming to life in June 2009.
Consequently, the new G.M.
returns arent included in the total for G.M.
on the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The list is a fascinating ranking of big winners in the stock market.
But for a variety of technical reasons, it isnt a straightforward table of the greatest wealth generators in market history.
For example, the long-term gains generated by Exxon Mobil and its predecessors are understated because of the databases limited duration and strict criteria.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exxon Mobils wealth in the list doesnt include Mobils, which Professor Bessembinders listing says, ceased to exist in November 1999, when it merged with Exxon.
And going back further, both Exxon and Mobil were among the descendants of the Standard Oil trust, established by John D. Rockefeller and his partners in the 19th century.
The total wealth generated by the cluster of companies derived at least partially from the trust  which also include Amoco and Chevron  doesnt appear in a single notation, because of the lists logic.
Other apparent oddities are explained by Professor Bessembinders application of the centers criteria.
There are two companies on the list called AT&T, for example, neither capturing the total net wealth generated by an investment in the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company at its 19th century inception.
To start with, the old AT&T, a.k.a.
Ma Bell, is ranked 17th.
It is said to have gone out of existence in November 2005.
Another AT&T appears in the 33rd spot.
That company came to life in March 1984 as Southwestern Bell, spun off from the old AT&T as a result of an antitrust suit.
A descendant of Southwestern Bell bought the AT&T name in 2005 and operates under it today.
Other AT&T cousins are on the list: Verizon, as well as Comcast, which resulted from a merger between AT&T Broadband and an older company also known as Comcast.
The listings for most of the recently created companies are less tangled.
As I wrote in July, Amazon, which started trading in 1997, has soared to the 14th spot.
Although it hasnt been in existence long compared with Exxon Mobil, its annualized return is the highest in the list, 37.4 percent through December.
A group of young companies have also had remarkable results.
Facebook, which started trading in June 2012, is the youngest on the list, with an annualized return of 34.5 percent.
Visa, which had its initial public offering of stock in 2008, is the second-newest company, with a 21 percent annualized return, followed by Alphabet (Google), ranked 11th with a 24.9 percent annualized return.
And then there is that great wealth machine, Microsoft, ranked as the third-greatest wealth creator.
Since 1986, it has had an annualized return of 25 percent, making its founder, Bill Gates, the richest man in the world, with a net worth of more than $87 billion, according to Bloomberg.
No list of wealth-generating companies is complete without Berkshire Hathaway.
It ranks 12th, just behind Alphabet, with an annualized return of 22.6 percent.
By comparison, Exxon Mobils annualized return was only 11.94 percent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Why is Berkshires annualized return so much higher?
It is because the return doesnt include decades of mediocre performance for the old textile company Berkshire Hathaway, which started in 1929.
The Center for Research says the Berkshire on this list started in November 1976.
It was a holding company for Warren E. Buffett, who guided it to fabulous gains.
Thanks to Berkshire, Mr. Buffett is a rich man, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $79 billion.
Anyone who invested in Apple or Microsoft or, really, in any of these companies at their inception and just held on did extraordinarily well.
You might look at that record and conclude that you should just buy the best companies as a foolproof way to get rich.
If only it were that easy.
How do you find those companies?
Not here.
The problem is, I have no idea which companies will generate the best returns over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years,  Professor Bessembinder said.
Probably it will be some companies weve never heard of.
Maybe it will be companies that dont even exist now.
This list is worth studying for understanding the past.
But, unfortunately, its not a guide to the future, except for this: In a market where most of the gains are attributable to a few big winners that are hard to identify in advance, Professor Bessembinder said, it makes a lot of sense to diversify your position  to avoid the danger of omitting the big winners from your portfolio.
Mike: I honestly am a bit confused here.
Remember the Motorola debacle from a few years back?
Google paid more than $12 billion to buy Motorola Mobility, another struggling handset maker, in an attempt to take on Apple more directly and own the hardware stack from top to bottom.
That didnt work out so well.
Google ended up selling Motorola for parts after it realized that, uh, no one wanted to buy Motorola phones.
Some people are saying this is about gaining more expertise inside Google for building hardware.
O.K., I guess.
But lets hope it works out better than last time.
Tough Week for Big Tech

Farhad: Lets turn to Apple, Facebook and Amazon, since they all had a rough week.
For Apple, it was about a buggy smartwatch.
The new Apple Watch is supposed to work on cellular networks, meaning it can reach the internet even if youre away from your phone.
Our own reviewer, Brian X. Chen, found that it worked quite well, but reviewers at The Wall Street Journal and The Verge discovered a flaw in the devices that prevented them from reaching cellular networks in some instances.
Apple said it would fix the bug in a software update, but its still an embarrassing slip from a company that prides itself on getting things perfect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mike: Do we have to call this one Watchgate?
I swear, every few iPhone launches we see some damning flaw in the hardware, and it takes a little shine off their huge annual product introductions.
However, people will still buy their new iPhones in droves, as they always do.
Probably the new watch, too.
And to be fair to Apple, at least they arent shipping phones that explode in your pants pocket.
Farhad: Facebook, meanwhile, had to scramble to fix its ad targeting engine after ProPublica found that advertisers could use the system to target ads using racial slursfor instance, people could show ads to Jew haters.
Other reporters soon found that Googles and Twitters ad systems could also be used to target heinous categories.
Coming on top of reports that Russia used Facebooks ad system to manipulate the American election, the stories fed the perception that these companies just dont know how their systems are being used.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mike: And dont forget that Facebook finally came out with a nine-point list on how the company plans to comply with continuing investigations into Russian-linked ads and even begin some forms of self-regulation for political ads on Facebook.
Its a huge story.
Farhad: Oh, for further evidence of the cluelessness of tech companies over their platforms, Amazons website has been recommending bomb-making materials to people, a British report found.
Boy oh boy.
Remember when tech was fun and zany, when it was all about getting cool gadgets?
Were long past that.
Mike: I started playing a video game the other day thats basically Grand Theft Auto meets San Francisco hackers.
Part of the game includes making guns from a 3-D printer.
The future is terrifying.
A Tainted Image

Farhad: The rapidly deteriorating image of tech companies is having real-world consequences.
Our colleague Cecilia Kang reported that Facebook and Google have lost so much clout in Washington that theyve all but given up trying to stop a sex-trafficking bill that they think could have negative consequences for their businesses.
The bill would allow people to sue some websites for the content they host  a huge change to existing law, which doesnt hold companies responsible for stuff their users post on their sites, as long as they work to take down illegal material.
Internet giants were gearing up to fight the law, but theyve determined that the growing anti-tech sentiment makes it too difficult.
Its hard out there for a tech giant  other than all those billions of dollars they keep raking in.
Mike: Right, and I think tech companies have grown wise to where the tide is turning.
Right now, were seeing Facebook try to get ahead of Congress by announcing that it wants to essentially regulate its own political ads, largely because it doesnt want Congress to intervene.
Also, I can only imagine that Google, Twitter and Amazon are bracing for the possibility of this story picking apart their businesses, too.
In any case, the future is scary!
Should we trust these tech companies that say theyve got it covered, and have our best interests in hand?
Farhad: Um  probably not?
O.K., see ya.
Mike: Ta ta for now!
Facebook is fighting through a tangled morass of privacy, free-speech and moderation issues with governments all over the world.
Congress is investigating reports that Russian operatives used targeted Facebook ads to influence the 2016 presidential election.
In Myanmar, activists are accusing Facebook of censoring Rohingya Muslims, who are under attack from the countrys military.
In Africa, the social network faces accusations that it helped human traffickers extort victims families by leaving up abusive videos.
Few of these issues stem from willful malice on the companys part.
Its not as if a Facebook engineer in Menlo Park personally greenlighted Russian propaganda, for example.
On Thursday, the company said it would release political advertisements bought by Russians for the 2016 election, as well as some information related to the ads, to congressional investigators.
But the troubles do make it clear that Facebook was simply not built to handle problems of this magnitude.
Its a technology company, not an intelligence agency or an international diplomatic corps.
Its engineers are in the business of building apps and selling advertising, not determining what constitutes hate speech in Myanmar.
And with two billion users, including 1.3 billion who use it every day, moving ever greater amounts of their social and political activity onto Facebook, its possible that the company is simply too big to understand all of the harmful ways people might use its products.
The reality is that if youre at the helm of a machine that has two billion screaming, whiny humans, its basically impossible to predict each and every possible nefarious use case, said Antonio Garca Martnez, author of the book Chaos Monkeys and a former Facebook advertising executive.
Its a Whac-a-Mole problem.
Elliot Schrage, Facebooks vice president of communications and public policy, said in a statement: We work very hard to support our millions of advertisers worldwide, but sometimes  rarely  bad actors win.
We invest a lot of time, energy and resources to make these rare events extinct, and were grateful to our community for calling out where we can do better.
Photo

When Mark Zuckerberg built Facebook in his Harvard dorm room in 2004, nobody could have imagined its becoming a censorship tool for repressive regimes, an arbiter of global speech standards or a vehicle for foreign propagandists.
But as Facebook has grown into the global town square, it has had to adapt to its own influence.
Many of its users view the social network as an essential utility, and the companys decisions  which posts to take down, which ads to allow, which videos to show  can have real life-or-death consequences around the world.
The company has outsourced some decisions to complex algorithms, which carries its own risks, but many of the toughest choices Facebook faces are still made by humans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They still see themselves as a technology middleman, said Mr. Garca Martnez.
Facebook is not supposed to be an element of a propaganda war.
Theyre completely not equipped to deal with that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even if Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg dont have personal political aspirations, as has been rumored, they are already leaders of an organization that influences politics all over the world.
And there are signs that Facebook is starting to understand its responsibilities.
It has hired a slew of counterterrorism experts and is expanding teams of moderators around the world to look for and remove harmful content.
On Thursday, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a video posted on Facebook that the company would take several steps to help protect the integrity of elections, like making political ads more transparent and expanding partnerships with election commissions.
We will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world, but also to give everyone a voice and to be a force for good in democracy everywhere, he said.
But there may not be enough guardrails in the world to prevent bad outcomes on Facebook, whose scale is nearly inconceivable.
Alex Stamos, Facebooks security chief, said last month that the company shuts down more than a million user accounts every day for violating Facebooks community standards.
Even if only 1 percent of Facebooks daily active users misbehaved, it would still mean 13 million rule breakers, about the number of people in Pennsylvania.
In addition to challenges of size, Facebooks corporate culture is one of cheery optimism.
That may have suited the company when it was an upstart, but it could hamper its ability to accurately predict risk now that its a setting for large-scale global conflicts.
Several current and former employees described Facebook to me as a place where engineers and executives generally assume the best of users, rather than preparing for the worst.
Even the companys mission statement  Give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together  implies that people who are given powerful tools will use those tools for socially constructive purposes.
Clearly, that is not always the case.
Hiring people with darker views of the world could help Facebook anticipate conflicts and misuse.
But pessimism alone wont fix all of Facebooks issues.
It will need to keep investing heavily in defensive tools, including artificial intelligence and teams of human moderators, to shut down bad actors.
It would also be wise to deepen its knowledge of the countries where it operates, hiring more regional experts who understand the nuances of the local political and cultural environment.
Facebook could even take a page from Wall Streets book, and create a risk department that would watch over its engineering teams, assessing new products and features for potential misuse before launching them to the world.
Now that Facebook is aware of its own influence, the company cant dodge responsibility for the world it has helped to build.
In the future, blaming the monster wont be enough.
Dmitri S. Peskov, a spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, denied on Friday that Russia had been involved in any way.
The Kremlin, he said, does not even know how to put advertisements on Facebook, adding, We have never done it, and the Russian side has never been involved in this.
For Facebook, the move to work with the congressional committees underscored how far the social network has strayed from being a mere technology company and how it has increasingly had to deal with the unintended consequences of the tools it provides to reach the more than two billion people who use the site regularly.
The company became more proactive in deflecting criticism this week, with its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, describing on Wednesday the steps Facebook would take to strengthen its ad system so that it could not be misused to target racists.
On Thursday, in a move clearly intended to pre-empt government intervention, Mr. Zuckerberg outlined the list of actions Facebook planned to take in the coming weeks to make political advertising more transparent.
He said each ad will show which Facebook Page  a kind of account required for businesses to create an ad  had paid for the ad, although that would not necessarily identify the people behind the Facebook Page.
In addition, Facebook plans to invest more heavily in its security teams, expand its coordination with global election commissions, and work closely with other tech companies to share threat information as it arises.
In his seven-minute talk from Facebooks headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., Mr. Zuckerberg suggested there may be additional fake accounts linked to Russia or other foreign countries.
We are looking into foreign actors, including additional Russian groups and other former Soviet states, he said.
Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, noted that Thursday was his first day back from parental leave after the birth of a daughter.
But despite that folksy touch, he had the look of an improbably young leader addressing his people at a moment of crisis.
With his talk of the democratic process, foreign actors, and election integrity  mentioning Germanys elections this weekend in particular  Mr. Zuckerberg reinforced Facebooks status as a transnational global behemoth whose power reaches into every corner of contemporary life.
We are in a new world, he said.
It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation-states attempting to subvert elections.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Despite Russias stealth attack, Mr. Zuckerberg argued that Facebook remained a force for good in democracy, promoting billions of online discussions, linking voters to candidates and helping two million Americans register to vote.
He said that positive role was 100 or 1,000 times bigger than the illicit activity.
Twitter, which has kept a low profile since Facebooks disclosure of the Russian intrusion, has announced that it will brief the Senate Intelligence Committee next Wednesday behind closed doors.
In a statement, Twitter did not address illicit Russian activity on its platform but said it deeply respects the integrity of the election process, a cornerstone of all democracies and vowed to continue to strengthen our platform against bots and other forms of manipulation.
Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee, praised Facebooks announcement but said he still believed regulation was needed to ensure that voters know more about who is behind ads on social media.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This is a good first step, he said.
Im disappointed its taken 10 months of raising this issue before theyve become much more transparent.
He said he believed there were additional troll farms in both Russia and Eastern Europe, and its really important that Facebook work with us to investigate other sources of advertising and fake accounts.
Mr. Warner said he believed the 3,000 ads, which the committees had not yet received, should be made public with protections for the privacy of any innocent people whose names may be in the material.
Mr. Warner and Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, circulated a letter inviting colleagues to co-sponsor a bill that would require greater transparency for online political ads, according to a copy of the letter seen by The New York Times.
A spokeswoman for Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, who is chairman of the intelligence panel, said he had no comment Thursday night.
The Times reported this month that Russian intelligence appeared to have been behind an infestation of Twitter with automated accounts, called bots, that spread messages against Mrs. Clinton last year.
The cybersecurity company FireEye identified what it called warlists of hundreds of fake accounts that fired off identical political messages.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times also found Facebook accounts that appeared to have been created by ordinary Americans but were actually concocted by Russian agents.
Facebook, which had said as recently as July that it had found no evidence of fraudulent Russian ad purchases, reversed itself this month and said it had removed 470 profiles and pages that it said were linked to the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company with ties to the Kremlin.
Facebook found $100,000 of ad purchases that were linked to the fake pages  designed to look like the pages of Americans animated by particular issues  that spread inflammatory messages about immigration, guns and other topics; derided Mrs. Clinton and supported Mr. Trump.
Facebook shut the accounts down in recent weeks but declined to name or describe them publicly, saying federal law prohibited it from making customer communications public.
Although Facebook had declined to identify the fake Russian pages, The Daily Beast and other news organizations ferreted out a few of them, including one called Secured Borders on immigration and another called Being Patriotic that promoted pro-Trump rallies in Florida last year.
The illicit Russian exploitation of social media fits squarely into Mr. Muellers wide-ranging investigation, and the companies said they have fully cooperated with his requests for detailed data.
Though most public attention has been focused on whether the Trump campaign helped with the Russian hacking, leaking and other intrusions, the special counsels assignment is a full and thorough investigation of the Russian governments efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.
One question for Mr. Mueller is certain to be whether the Russian Facebook advertising  and any other promotions using Twitter or other services  showed evidence of the kind of sophisticated targeting that might indicate that Americans had provided assistance.
Facebook has said some of the ads were targeted to particular geographic areas but has not given details.
For the social media companies, the furor over Russias interference raises a possibility that they deeply fear: government regulation, at least for the part of their business that involves political advertising.
Political ads on social media have thus far escaped the rules that require, for instance, the familiar I approve this message tagline on candidates television spots.
Tech executives worry that new rules could hinder the worlds largest digital advertising businesses.
Because of the self-service advertising system these tech giants have created, anyone who has an account and a credit card can buy an ad.
That has made for a long tail of small-ticket advertisers who add up to millions of dollars in spending.
Facebooks number one priority is ad revenue, said Ian Schafer, chief experience officer of Engine USA, a digital advertising holding company.
The last thing Facebook wants to do is give the government an inch, because then theyll probably take a mile.
Last year, Facebook made nearly $28 billion in annual revenue, up 57 percent from a year earlier, and the trajectory remains bright.
Roughly 97 percent of that revenue came from the companys ad business.
Is it true that Google Drive is being discontinued?
A. Google announced this month that it will end support for the Google Drive desktop apps for Windows and Mac computers on Dec. 11 and that the software will be shut down for good on March 12.
But while those handy desktop programs for managing your files in the cloud are destined for retirement, Googles online backup service is not going anywhere soon.
You just get to it through different desktop programs.
(You can also continue to just upload and download stored files through your Google Account in a web browser.)
For desktop users who backed up files to cloud servers with the Google Drive app, the company has two newer programs to do the job instead.
The Backup and Sync app for Windows and Mac, introduced in July, is Googles software for users of its free services.
The program can be set to synchronize copies of locally stored photos and other files on the computer to Googles cloud servers.
(Note that you get a free 15 gigabytes of storage from Google, but if you max it out, you need to buy more space if you want to keep storing all your files on the companys servers.)
Photo

Business customers using the paid G Suite version of Googles Gmail, calendar and business programs have a choice.
They can use Backup and Sync, too, or switch to the new Drive File Stream app for Windows or Mac.
Drive File Stream has been available since March for early adopters and officially arrives on Tuesday.
Google recommends that its business customers use the Drive File Stream for a few reasons, including faster data-sync times.
Additionally, the app stores the files online for direct use and puts less corporate data on the users hard drives; specific files and folders can be marked for local storage and use offline when an internet connection is not available.
Users running both Backup and Sync and Drive File Stream on the same computer will get a nudge from Google to switch to the latter app to save disk space.
Those still using the Google Drive app will begin to see alerts next month announcing that the software is headed to the digital dustbin.
To fulfill his flow-finding mission, Mr. Wheal wants to bring what he calls his Dojo Domes to locations around the world.
Next year, he and his partners hope to build a one-million-square-foot complex in Vancouver, British Columbia, with a medical emphasis, combining brain-imaging technology with simpler equipment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Wheal began to envision gatherings of this sort in 2007, while he was teaching at Esalen, the spiritual retreat in California.
With Steven Kotler, a journalist, he founded the Flow Genome Project, based in Austin, Tex., and dedicated to gathering the latest science behind flow states.
Its board of advisers includes neuroscientists, filmmakers and a kiteboarder.
It was his book, Stealing Fire, written with Mr. Kotler and published earlier this year, that attracted many of the flow campers to Utah.
In it, Mr. Wheal and Mr. Kotler consider the question of peak human performance, describing how so many powerful companies and individuals are now trying to optimize their own brains, in ways both legal and illegal.
They offer case studies from the Navy SEALs and Google, arguing that what the world today faces wicked problems, unprecedented and complex, that require creative solutions, the kinds that are most likely to come not from staid meetings in conference rooms but rather from non-ordinary states.
Flow, they write, is associated with six neurotransmitters: dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, norepinephrine, anandamide and endorphins.
Knowing the neurochemical profile of flow means, in theory, people can devise ways of achieving it more often, more reliably and more quickly.
The new generation of flowsters are excited, perhaps, that using the advances of neuroscience, they might not have to meditate every day for 10 years to gain access to these layers of their brains.
Photo

This was a significant investment of time and money for me  this tells you how compelled I was to come here, said Alexandre Lang-Willar.
At 28, Mr. Lang-Willar is in some ways the embodiment of Mr. Wheals target demographic: the high achiever who grasps the brass ring, only to discover he craves something more.
Mr. Lang-Willar quit his job as a Goldman Sachs analyst and has created a dating app with his father called Invite and Meet, centered on live activities, that will be introduced later this year.
Reading Stealing Fire, Mr. Lang-Willar said, he became convinced that nothing less than a cultural awakening was underway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By 8 a.m. each morning, the flow campers lay prone and shoeless in the Dojo Dome, moving back and forth on brightly colored foam rollers.
Other daily activities included balancing and bouncing on big yellow balls; acro-yoga, in which partners learn to lift each other in the air; and strapping into special contraptions, like Mr. Wheals 360 Swing, which allows those courageous enough to propel themselves, standing up, all the way around the swings axle in a complete loop.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All of these undertakings were in the service of honing a crucial element in flow, what Mr. Wheal refers to as embodied cognition: integrating our whole minds and bodies through specific exercise, based on the science showing that physical movement directly affects how we think and feel.
They are tapping into spiritual intelligence that before now was only really talked about in a religious context, Kristen Ulmer said, sitting outside the Dojo Dome one morning.
Ms. Ulmer, formerly the top ranked extreme skier in the world, has also written a book, The Art of Fear.
She went on: A lot more people are saying theyre spiritual but not religious  but what does that really mean?
I would say sports and movement are the most oft way we access a spiritual experience and transcend our ego, but theyre the least discussed and least understood.
The two sides did not disclose how many engineers and other key employees would head to Google as part of the deal.
But Peter Shen, HTCs chief financial officer, said the remaining company would still have more than 2,000 research and design staffers, down from about 4,000.
As part of the agreement, Google will also secure a nonexclusive licensing deal for some of HTCs intellectual property.
HTC said it will continue to make its own smartphones  including a new premium model  although it plans to streamline its handset portfolio.
By acquiring the HTC engineering group that had already been working with the company, Google secured hardware talent without taking on expensive assets, like manufacturing facilities.
The deal marks a reversal for Google.
The company abandoned its plans to own a smartphone manufacturer when it sold Motorola to Chinas Lenovo Group for $2.9 billion in 2014, less than three years after acquiring the handset business for $12.5 billion.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Google, which makes the Android operating system for smartphones, retained many of Motorolas patents  an important asset to fend off potential intellectual property lawsuits from Apple.
As the Android software world has become dominated by Samsung Electronics, Google has wanted more say in the manufacturing of the phones that use its operating system.
Currently, most of Googles smartphone software runs on devices manufactured by companies like Samsung and LG Electronics, and Google has only a limited say in what those companies produce.
With the introduction of the first Pixel smartphone last year, Google said it was creating the smartphone it had always intended to build.
Google took control of the entire development process of the device, from the industrial design to the procurement of components.
The Pixel received positive reviews, but it hasnt made much of a dent in the smartphone market.
HTC was an early leader in smartphones.
But it has struggled against more popular competitors while trying to fend off pressure from low-end Chinese manufacturers.
Its decline is another indication of the challenges facing many smartphone manufacturers, who are struggling to make profits while competing against Apple and Samsung.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Operating losses piled up at HTC in recent years, forcing it to slash research and marketing spending, exacerbating the challenge of keeping pace with the bigger companies.
HTC said it will continue with its virtual-reality business centered around its Vive VR headsets.
Google and HTC have a long history of working together.
HTC sold the first smartphone to run Android software, in 2008, and it produced Googles first-generation Nexus smartphone  the predecessor to the Pixel.
The transaction is scheduled to close, pending regulatory approval, in early 2018.
The Equifax breach, which focused on a database that contained the personal information of 143 million Americans, focused attention on the vulnerabilities of private companies that handle sensitive personal financial information.
The S.E.C.
sometimes handles its own sensitive information, including disclosures that companies are allowed to keep away from investors.
Such information could give traders an edge.
The S.E.C.
may have presented a ripe target.
The Government Accountability Office in July released a 27-page report that found deficiencies in the S.E.C.s information systems that limited the effectiveness of the S.E.Cs controls for protecting confidentiality, integrity and availability.
It also found that the S.E.C.
did not always encrypt information and had failed to fully implement recommendations from the G.A.O.
that would help detect intrusion.
In its response, the S.E.C.
said it agreed with the recommendations of the report but added that it had implemented a number of its suggestions.
The S.E.C.s new director, Walter J. Clayton, has said the agency would work to improve its cybersecurity protections.
Information sharing and coordination are essential for regulators to assess potential cyberthreats and respond to a major cyberattack, should one arise, he said in July in a speech.
We at the S.E.C.
are working closely with our fellow financial regulators to improve our ability to receive critical information and alerts and react to cyberthreats.
If the data stolen from the S.E.C.s Edgar system was used by hackers to trade in stocks and reap profits, it would represent the latest in a new area of concern for regulators in the United States  an area in which the underbelly of the internet is joining forces with the darker corners of Wall Street.
In 2015, the S.E.C.
brought the first insider trading case of its kind against a group of rogue stock traders who used hackers in Ukraine to get nonpublic information about companies.
Insider trading refers to buying or selling of a stock by a trader who has inside knowledge that the investing public is not aware of, creating an unfair advantage.
Typically, insider trading cases concern corporate insiders who leak information to friends, family or business associates in return for a personal benefit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In this case, the men were accused of using hackers to break into companies like Business Wire and PR Newswire over a period of five years to steal 150,000 not-yet-public news releases of publicly traded companies.
Federal prosecutors alleged that 32 traders and hackers reaped more than $100 million in illegal proceeds in a scheme so brazen that the traders would send shopping lists of corporate news releases for sneak-peeking purposes to the hackers in order to place trades.
The agency said it did not believe that the breach had involved personal information or that it would jeopardize the agencys activities.
Cybersecurity is critical to the operations of our markets, and the risks are significant and, in many cases, systemic, said Mr. Clayton, the agencys chairman, in the statement.
We must be vigilant.
We also must recognize  in both the public and private sectors, including the S.E.C.
that there will be intrusions, and that a key component of cyber risk management is resilience and recovery.
There is much stronger agreement among me and my colleagues that there needs to be more aggressive enforcement action on tech companies like Google, said Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut and a sponsor of the sex trafficking bill.
The companies, recognizing the new environment in Washington, have started to fortify their lobbying forces and recalibrate their positions.
In the last year, Amazon has added antitrust to its roster of issues, hiring a former senior Senate staff member who helped shape antitrust policies.
Google has paid several outside lobbying firms to argue against the sex trafficking bill, according to recent federal filings.
Photo

We are disruptive, and that creates a lot of tension, concern, worry and jealousy and sometimes rightfully identifies real problems that need solutions, said Ed Black, president of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, which represents Facebook, Google, Amazon and other tech companies.
Tech companies have faced political pressure in Europe for years.
That is expected to continue, with regulators prepared to push a new set of proposals to get the tech companies to pay more in taxes.
The politics for the companies in the United States began to change after the 2016 presidential election, when attention turned to the role social media sites play in shaping public opinion.
The scrutiny grew after companies struggled to eliminate fake content from their sites, raising fears that the platforms were too big to manage.
After Facebook revealed to Congress that it had accepted money for political ads from fake accounts linked to Russia, Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, started calling for new disclosure laws for the companies.
He plans to begin writing a bill this week that requires Facebook and other social media companies to release funding sources for political ads, as is required for television broadcasters.
This is uncharted territory, Mr. Warner said in an interview.
The growth in political advertising is in the digital world, and if this is the most targeted and potentially most effective way into politics, the paid advertising rules that broadcasters rely upon should also apply in the social media world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Perhaps no issue in Washington has exposed the vulnerability of the tech companies as much as the sex trafficking bill.
At the heart of the debate for the tech companies is a change to a 20-year-old law that prevents people from suing internet companies for things people post on websites.
The companies, supported by some civil liberties groups, say the existing law has protected free speech and allowed internet companies to grow without fear of lawsuits.
The bill being debated, written by Senator Rob Portman, a Republican from Ohio, and Mr. Blumenthal, would allow state and local authorities to prosecute sites that host content related to sex trafficking.
Their bill, which has bipartisan support from dozens of members in the Senate, would also enable people to sue websites.
Video

Companies like Google and Facebook vehemently opposed the law when it was introduced, warning that it would expose web companies to numerous lawsuits because the actions of users are hard to police.
The bill had provisions that would shield companies like Google and Facebook that have policies to combat sex trafficking, but the companies pushed back nonetheless.
Starting about two weeks ago, as politicians stepped up their attacks against their businesses, Facebook and Google realized that the political landscape had changed, according to two people with knowledge of the decisions who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the internal corporate decisions were private.
So instead, the companies began trying to negotiate changes to the bill with Mr. Portman and other senators instead of trying to stop it entirely.
As of Tuesday, Facebook and Google were still trying to negotiate changes with Senate staff members.
One effort, by Google, would block state attorneys general from prosecuting web platforms for hosting any third-party sites that aided sex trafficking.
Google said the Justice Department should be the sole agency in charge of enforcing sex trafficking laws.
Mr. Portman has viewed enforcement by state attorneys general as the centerpiece of the legislation.
He will not agree to weakening the enforcement role of local and state prosecutors, according to his spokesman, Kevin Smith.
Well continue to engage members of Congress, anti-trafficking organizations and the industry to try and get to a resolution that addresses the problem without creating unintended side effects, Susan Molinari, Googles vice president of public policy, said in a statement.
Facebook appeared more eager to reach a deal with lawmakers, according to two Senate staff members and a tech industry official, who all said the company had expressed a willingness to allow state law enforcement.
They spoke on the condition of anonymity because Facebooks discussions with the lawmakers were private.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We strongly believe that there is a legislative solution that can address this terrible problem while ensuring that the internet remains open and free and that responsible companies can continue to work to stop sex trafficking before it happens, Erin Egan, a vice president of public policy at Facebook, said in a statement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Senators have not held back their continued frustration with the tech industry, even as the position of the companies has changed somewhat.
On Tuesday, the Senate commerce committee held an emotional hearing on bill, called the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, that included the mother of a teenage victim of trafficking.
The Senate invited Facebook and Google to testify but they declined, according to a member of the committee staff, instead sending their trade group, the Internet Association, to represent them.
Silicon Valley holds itself out as being more than just an industry but a movement to make the world a better place, Mr. Portman said in the hearing.
But selling human beings online is the dark side of the internet.
Other issues related to tech companies have gained less traction.
The earliest criticism of big tech companies came from left-leaning politicians and economists, whose ideas were largely dismissed by Washington lawyers and regulators as fringe ideas.
But there are signs that the companies are starting to take them more seriously now as well.
The New America Foundation, a left-leaning research group in Washington that is financed by Google and Eric Schmidt, the chairman of its parent company, recently fired a division of antitrust scholars who had been critical of the company.
Google has denied playing a role in the split.
In California, big tech companies joined internet service providers like AT&T and Comcast  their adversaries on many policy issues  to fight a state broadband privacy law, fearing that it could embolden other states and federal regulators to write broader internet privacy rules.
Even Amazons recent move to buy Whole Foods Market for $13.4 billion generated political attention.
Amazon and Whole Foods have a small portion of the overall grocery market, an important measure in antitrust decisions, and the deal quickly passed an antitrust review by the Federal Trade Commission.
But some lawmakers raised questions about Amazons deep pockets and its ability to undercut the prices of smaller competitors.
Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, pressed F.T.C.
officials to justify their decision, arguing that the agency should have looked at longer-term competition factors.
She has also introduced a bill that would force companies to prove that their deals would not be anticompetitive in the future.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We need to start adjusting to a world where we are right now, said Ms. Klobuchar.
Antitrust laws havent been updated since the 1950s.
In the 1950s, they didnt envision a major search engine dominating the internet.
They didnt even have the internet.
But there are gaps in the way these sensors operate, and combining their disparate streams of data is difficult.
Aevas prototype  a breed of lidar that measures distances more accurately and also captures speed  aims to fill several of these sizable holes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I dont even think of this as a new kind of lidar, said Tarin Ziyaee, co-founder and chief technology officer at the self-driving taxi start-up Voyage, who has seen the Aeva prototype.
Its a whole different animal.
Founded in January and funded by the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Lux Capital, among others, Aeva joins a widespread effort to build more effective sensors for autonomous vehicles, a trend that extends from start-ups like Luminar, Echodyne and Metawave to established hardware makers like the German multinational Robert Bosch.
The companys name, Aeva, is a play on Eve, the name of the robot in the Pixar movie WALL-E.

Photo

The market for autonomous vehicles will grow to $42 billion by 2025, according to research by the Boston Consulting Group.
But for that to happen, the vehicles will need new and more powerful sensors.
Todays autonomous cars are ill prepared for high-speed driving, bad weather and other common situations.
The recent improvements in self-driving cars coincided with the improvements offered by new lidar sensors from a Silicon Valley company called Velodyne.
These sensors gave cars a way of measuring distances to nearby vehicles, pedestrians and other objects.
They also provided Google and other companies with a way of mapping urban roadways in three dimensions, so that cars will know exactly where they are at any given moment  something GPS cannot always provide.
But these lidar sensors have additional shortcomings.
They can gather information only about objects that are relatively close to them, which limits how fast the cars can travel.
Their measurements arent always detailed enough to distinguish one object from another.
And when multiple driverless cars are close together, their signals can become garbled.
Other devices can pick up some of slack.
Cameras are a better way of identifying pedestrians and street signs, for example, and radar works over longer distances.
Thats why todays self-driving cars track their surroundings through so many different sensors.
But despite this wide array of hardware  which can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars per vehicle  even the best autonomous vehicles still have trouble in so many situations that humans can navigate with ease.
With their new sensor, Messrs. Salehian and Rezk are working to change that.
Mr. Rezk is an engineer who designed optical hardware for Nikon, and presumably, he was among those who handled optical sensors for Apples driverless car project, though he and Mr. Salehian declined to say which special project they worked on at the company.
They left Apple late last year.
Photo

Where current lidar sensors send out individual pulses, Aevas device sends out a continuous wave of light.
By reading the way this far more complex signal bounces off surrounding objects, Mr. Rezk said, the device can capture a far more detailed image while also tracking velocity.
You can think of it as a cross between lidar, which is so good at measuring depth, and radar, which is so good at measuring speed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Rezk also said the devices continuous wave would provide greater range and resolution than existing lidar devices, deal better with weather and highly reflective objects like bridge railings, and avoid interference with other optical sensors.
Cars will continue to use multiple kinds of sensors, in part because redundancy helps ensure that these cars are safe.
But Aeva aims to give these cars a better view of the world from a smaller and less expensive set of sensors.
Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, have built similar hardware, and companies like Velodyne and the start-ups Oryx Vision and Quanergy say they are exploring similar ideas.
Like these efforts, the Aeva prototype is still under development, and the company plans to sell devices next year.
But it shows how autonomous car sensors need to evolve  and that they are indeed evolving.
Ultimately, new sensors will allow cars to make better decisions.
With autonomous cars, 90 percent of the time, you are trying to infer what is happening, Mr. Ziyaee said.
But what if you can just measure it?
Ms. Sandberg said the company never intended or anticipated this functionality being used this way  and that is on us.
Facebook has grown into one of the worlds most valuable companies by offering advertisers the ability to quickly and easily target its users based on a vast array of information, from the type of home they live in to their favorite television shows.
But the company is facing a new wave of scrutiny over how those tools can be misused, particularly after it disclosed this month that fake accounts based in Russia had purchased more than $100,000 worth of ads on divisive issues in the run-up to the presidential election.
The site has also been criticized for not anticipating that its technology could be put to nefarious use.
The appearance of these offensive terms was embarrassing for Facebook and reflects the tendency of Silicon Valley companies to overly trust algorithms and automated systems to manage advertising, said Ari Paparo, chief executive of Beeswax, an advertising technology start-up in New York.
The media business is all about people and influence, so theres a necessary role for human moderation and control.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This is not the first time that Facebook has faced issues stemming from a lack of human oversight.
Earlier this year, after a series of violent acts appeared on Facebook Live broadcasts, the company said it would add 3,000 people to the 4,500-member team of employees that reviews and removes content that violates its community guidelines.
But this was the first time that Ms. Sandberg, who is responsible for Facebooks entire advertising organization, has directly addressed the companys high-profile ad issues in public.
Ms. Sandberg, a veteran of the digital advertising industry, grew to acclaim in Silicon Valley by developing Googles sales organization in the search giants early days.
She joined Facebook in 2008, and was asked to do the same for the social network.
Facebook has faced thorny questions about race and its ad-targeting tools before.
Last fall, ProPublica reported that advertisers could use those tools to exclude certain races  or what the social network called ethnic affinities  from housing and employment ads, a potential violation of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Facebook, which assigns the updated term multicultural affinity to certain users based on their interests and activities on the site, no longer allows that classification to be used in ads for housing, employment or credit.
Photo

A whole bunch of problems have come up for Facebook over the past year that are going to have consequences, said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Group who closely follows Facebook.
Its something between sloppiness, an absence of consideration on a range of issues, and the simple challenges of managing a massive company growing at an unparalleled pace.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Facebooks annual revenue, nearly all of which comes from online ads, has more than tripled in the past four years to $27.6 billion in 2016, when it posted a net profit of $10.2 billion.
Separately, the company has also been working to repair its relationship with major advertisers after it disclosed about a year ago that some of its measurement tools were not delivering accurate results.
Facebook, which restricted how advertisers could target users after the publication of last weeks report by ProPublica, reinstated 5,000 of its most commonly used targeting terms, like nurse and teacher, after manually reviewing the options, Ms. Sandberg said in her post.
Ms. Sandberg also said that the company was working on a program to encourage Facebook users to report abuses of its ad system.
The move to add more human reviews is a good one and hopefully they can get ahead of the next issue that might arise in their powerful system, Mr. Paparo said.
This solves one of the main problems that restaurants used to have in the days when old media was the only game in town: How do you keep people talking about your place after the initial buzz dies down?
Photo

Besides the marketing, there are creative implications.
For one thing, chefs are much more focused now on sending out food that photographs well.
So I end up eating a lot of flowers and leaves that dont really taste like much but make the plate more colorful, because most cooked food is brown.
Ditto all the boards and slates and rocks that are being asked to stand in for plates.
It has also sped up the rate at which ideas about food travel from one place to another.
Chefs dont just use photography for marketing.
They are also documenting their work for their peers; you see this in the way Ren Redzepi in Copenhagen uses Instagram.
Its one reason his style has spread around the world in the span of just a few years.
And how has it changed the way you do your job?
What are the pros and cons?
The best thing about having everybody take pictures of food is that I can do it without giving myself away.
I used to be really self-conscious when I took out my phone; Id run to the restroom and take surreptitious notes in the stall.
Now I just snap away all night long, and I look like everybody else.
And photography is the first stage of my note-taking now.
After I get home I reconstruct my impressions of the meal, starting with my pictures of my food and the menu.
When I started this job, a former critic advised me to steal menus when I could get away with it, and thats completely unnecessary now.
Whats your opinion on Yelp, where everyone is a wannabe food critic?
I probably look at Yelp more than some other critics because Im convinced theres valuable information in there.
The hard part is extracting it from all the useless stuff, which is what most people in food media see when they look at Yelp.
The basic problem is that Yelp was built to reward frequent posting rather than knowledge or insight or expertise.
And yet there are people on Yelp who know a lot about food and eat around and have a pretty solid basis for comparison.
I find that Yelp is most useful with Korean, Chinese and Japanese food, because, for a number of reasons, there tend to be a lot of Yelpers who know those cuisines pretty well.
How do you feel about delivery apps like Instacart, Caviar or UberEats?
Do you use them much?
I dont.
I almost never eat at home, and when I do, I want to cook.
I did use Caviar in the context of a restaurant review a few weeks ago and was pretty happy with how well it worked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sites like Yelp give people plenty of information about restaurants.
Yet many restaurants still have their own websites.
Is this necessary?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most valuable thing a restaurant can do on its website is post the current menu and drinks lists, with prices.
All the other data you might want, and theres not really very much, can be served up much more efficiently by Google, although I still think website designers who dont put the restaurants address and phone number and hours right on the home page should be sued for malpractice.
As our food critic, you have to stay unrecognized when you try new restaurants.
How do you do that in an era that demands us to sacrifice privacy on the internet?
This isnt a major issue.
People are always surprised when I say that, but its one of the things that has been least affected by technology.
Before we had digital photographs, restaurants would get their hands on some old head shot of the critic from a book jacket or something  Ruth Reichl, William Grimes and Frank Bruni had all written books before they were restaurant critics  and then photocopy it and share it with all their friends in the business.
I remember, in the 1990s, a friend who worked as a waiter showing me a picture of Ruth, who was the critic at the time.
It was probably a 15th-generation photocopy, but you could still recognize her.
Now the fidelity and resolution are higher, but the picture of me that most restaurants seem to have on their wall is about 10 years old.
There are a few more recent shots, taken across a dining room while I was eating, that are in circulation, but theyre pretty terrible.
My friends know theyre not supposed to put pictures of me on Facebook.
I dont take selfies, but I probably wouldnt be a selfie guy even if I had another job.
Most of the time when Im recognized its because somebody is working in that restaurant who waited on me in another place Ive reviewed.
I dont get caught by technology; I get caught by human memory.
Its sort of reassuring, I guess.
The main challenge is to reform the international tax framework, which was first designed at the start of the 20th century and is no longer fit for purpose, the report said.
It will be published by the commission on Thursday.
The existing system has worked well for traditional brick and mortar companies but as business activities have become more globalized and digitalized the old rules work less well, it continued.
It found that companies that did their business online were paying an effective tax rate of 8.5 percent, or less than half that paid by more traditional businesses.
The European Union stepped up its efforts to curb tax avoidance, by companies as well as wealthy individuals, after the financial crisis, which forced many of its member states to adopt belt-tightening measures, slashing public services and raising taxes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But because big corporations were able to shift their profits to low-tax countries, critics of the austerity programs argued that the brunt of the cuts impacted small businesses and individual citizens.
In the years since, calls have increased for large companies to be more transparent and pay more tax.
American tech companies, in particular, have found themselves the targets of the commissions ire.
Commission officials are investigating Google and Qualcomm for allegedly abusing their dominant market position.
Officials in Brussels are looking into Amazons tax practices in Europe.
And the commission has demanded that Ireland recover about $14.5 billion in back taxes from Apple.
The commission said in its latest proposals that it wants to agree to a long-term solution with other countries around the world.
But that could take a long time to negotiate, and may not close enough loopholes, so it put forward several shorter-term plans that could wind up meaning companies like Amazon, Facebook and Netflix pay larger tax bills in Europe much sooner.
In the absence of adequate global progress, E.U.
solutions should be advanced, the commission said, adding that it could make more formal proposals on taxation in the coming months.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The potential reforms it outlined include taxing companies based on their revenue rather than their profits, allowing national authorities to tax payments made by consumers to digital businesses, and allowing individual countries to tax revenue generated from advertising by internet companies.
France has thrown its weight behind the first of those reforms, in particular.
But questions have been raised over whether taxing revenue is a viable plan.
Businesses that turn a hefty profit could effectively pay the same as a company of a similar size that has narrower margins, or even loses money.
The fundamental question is where is the business really being conducted, said J. Scott Marcus, an analyst at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels.
The devil is in the details with a digital service across borders  the service can be made anywhere.
The question is who gets the tax, he continued.
Its a genuine challenge.
The business, Toshiba Memory Corporation, is an important manufacturer of flash memory chips, which are used in millions of smartphones and other digital devices.
Toshiba needs money from the sale to repair its tattered finances.
A gaping hole in its balance sheet caused by bad bets on American nuclear power projects has threatened the future of the technology company, one of Japans biggest and most storied.
The deals more convoluted elements appeared to stem from Toshibas desire to retain a significant degree of control over the chip business.
One way that will happen is that Toshiba said it would join Bain and its partners in creating the special purpose company that will buy the unit.
In effect, that means it will keep a portion of the unit for itself, though it did not say how much.
Many analysts expect it to be a minority stake.
The shareholding structure could give Toshiba even more control, however.
Toshiba said buyers would receive a mix of regular shares, preferred shares  which normally do not carry voting rights  and bonds that could eventually be converted into shares.
Depending on how the various securities are distributed, Toshiba is likely to end up with a decisive say in the way the business is run, though its partners would take a sizable share of the profits.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are obstacles to the deal.
A Toshiba business partner, the American storage company Western Digital, has been pursuing legal action against the sale.
Western Digital contends that Toshiba cannot sell the chip business without its approval because the companies share ownership of a flash memory production operation in Japan.
Western Digital was itself bidding to invest in the microchip unit, whose assets include the joint venture.
The complexities of the relationship had thrown a wrench into the sale process.
The American company reiterated its opposition to the sale on Wednesday.
It said in a statement that it was troubling that Toshiba would pursue this transaction and expressed confidence that the International Court of Arbitration, a tribunal for commercial disputes that is reviewing the case, would take its side.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foxconn, an Taiwan-based electronics manufacturer with extensive operations in mainland China, also sought to invest in the Toshiba chip business.
Though people close to the talks have said that Foxconn was offering plenty of cash, Japanese officials worried that selling to the Taiwan group might hasten a transfer of Japanese technology to China.
Toshiba pioneered NAND flash memory and remains a powerhouse in that sector, but rivals have eroded its market share.
Toshiba is the second-biggest NAND producer by volume, behind Samsung Electronics of South Korea.
The Japanese company makes products as diverse as rice cookers and industrial turbines, but microchips have earned the biggest profits for Toshiba in recent years.
By selling off a big part of the chip unit, Toshiba is, in effect, sacrificing future earnings for a short-term cash infusion.
The company, once a symbol of Japans technology-powered economic rise, warned this year that it might go out of business because of losses from Westinghouse Electric Company, its nuclear power unit in the United States.
Toshiba paid billions for Westinghouse a decade ago, but disappointing sales and huge cost overruns turned it into a financial albatross.
Westinghouse filed for bankruptcy protection in March.
Toshibas banks have been keeping the company afloat, but it needed to secure new capital by March to avoid being expelled from the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which would have cut it off from a broad group of public investors.
Toshiba has been trying since June to forge a deal with Bain and its partners, but resistance from Western Digital prompted it to reopen talks with other potential bidders.
What does it mean when Waze makes a car horn noise at you?
While Waze is primarily known as a traffic and driving-directions smartphone app with up-to-the-minute crowdsourced information about your route, it also includes some chatty social-media features that let you connect with other drivers.
One of these features is a salutation called the Beep Beep  a car horn that you hear through the app when another Wazer user has reached out to greet you.
Photo

As part of Wazes social toolbox, you can link your phones contacts list (or your Facebook or Twitter accounts) in the programs settings.
The app matches up verified phone numbers from your contacts list while noting your acquaintances who are also using the service  and then provides an icon you can tap to make friends again in Waze World.
Once you have started a friends list within Waze, you can share your location, announce arrival times, exchange private messages and beep at your buddies.
To send a Beep Beep to a friend (when you are not actively driving, of course), open the Waze app, tap the magnifying glass in the corner of the screen and then tap your user name at the top of the next screen.
Select the My Friends list, tap the name of the person there you want to greet and tap Beep Beep from the menu.
You can also swipe to the left over a friends name in the list to get to the Beep Beep option.
If you have not set up a Waze friends list, odds are another Waze user nearby sent you the greeting out of the blue.
To do that (while stopped), find a user on the Waze navigation map you are using and tap the icon.
In the box that pops up, tap the Beep button.
Amazon said in a statement that all the products sold on its website must adhere to our selling guidelines and we only sell products that comply with U.K. laws.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In light of recent events, we are reviewing our website to ensure that all these products are presented in an appropriate manner, the statement continued.
We also continue to work closely with police and law enforcement agencies when circumstances arise where we can assist their investigations.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The company declined to comment further.
The New York Times found that similar algorithms may be at work in the United States.
In one instance, a search for magnesium ribbon  a product that can be used to make a crude fuse  yielded a suggestion for two powders that explode when mixed together in the right proportions and then ignited.
A second search yielded a suggestion for two out of three ingredients necessary to make gunpowder.
Other tech companies have been in the spotlight for the algorithms that fuel their websites.
ProPublica, a nonprofit news outlet, revealed last week that Facebook had enabled advertisers to seek out self-described Jew haters and other anti-Semitic topics.
In response, Facebook said it would restrict how advertisers targeted their audiences.
Buzzfeed also reported on how Google allowed the sale of ads tied to racist and bigoted keywords, automatically suggesting more offensive terms.
Google said it would work harder to halt the offensive ads.
Facebook has also come under scrutiny for potentially being used to influence people during the American presidential election last year.
It disclosed this month that fake accounts based in Russia had purchased more than $100,000 worth of ads on divisive issues in the lead-up to the vote.
Last weeks attack at Parsons Green train station was the fifth terrorist attack in Britain in a matter of months.
Several people have been arrested in the investigation of the explosion, in which dozens of people were wounded.
There may also be some early kinks for Apple to work out with the new cellular Watch.
Some reviewers discovered that the device occasionally lost its cellular connection, for example.
Apple said on Wednesday that the issue was related to the watch inadvertently connecting to open Wi-Fi networks that lacked internet connectivity, and that it was investigating a software fix.
In the end, some people who want a wearable device for things like fitness tracking and a quick glance at mobile notifications will probably be happy with the Series 3 without cellular, which costs $329.
An Overview

Like its predecessors, the Apple Watch Series 3 is a computer worn around the wrist, with a miniature touch screen.
Photo

The device requires an iPhone to set up and work properly.
Notifications like text messages or social media alerts that come to your iPhone appear on the watch first if you are not actively using the phone.
The watch runs apps, including some built-in software for fitness tracking as well as third-party widgets you can download from the App Store.
The main difference with the cellular Apple Watch is that some important features, like placing calls, texting and streaming music, will work when you are not near your phone; the watch shares the same phone number and cellular plan with your iPhone.
To help determine whether the cellular watch is right for you, I abandoned my iPhone to test the watch in a number of common situations.
Heres how that went.
Date Night

Over the weekend, my partner and I made plans to go to dinner at a sushi restaurant.
I used the Apple Watch to summon a Lyft car to pick us up at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the sushi bar, I liked that I didnt have a smartphone constantly buzzing in my pocket, though I got a text that I quickly responded to on the watch using an emoji.
My partner and I enjoyed 90 minutes of intimate conversation over omakase with minimal distraction, though I was a bit envious that she could Instagram our gorgeous nigiri.
(Alas, the watch does not have a miniature spy camera.)
Verdict: I could have had roughly the same experience with just an iPhone put on Do Not Disturb mode  and a bit of self-discipline.
Dog Walks

For several days, I wore just the watch while walking my dogs.
Not having a phone freed up valuable space in my pockets for other items, like my keys, my wallet, dog treats and bags.
I liked that the Apple Watch tracked my steps and walking distance to make dog walking feel more like exercise than a chore.
I placed a call to my partner with the watch to tell her where to meet me at a park; she said the call sounded crystal clear.
It was also nice that with just the watch, I could still be reachable via phone or text by my colleagues during morning walks  but emails took several minutes to show up after they were sent.
It turns out that while texts and calls are done directly on the cellular watch, emails still rely on the iPhones pushing emails to the cloud, which then transmits the message to your watch.
Verdict: The watch is good for staying reachable via phone or texts.
But in those brief moments when you need to step away from a computer during work hours, a smartphone is still necessary if you rely heavily on email, as I do.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Gym Workouts

I wore the watch and took a pair of AirPods, Apples wireless earbuds, to a rock-climbing gym.
Again, I left my iPhone behind.
At the gym, I opened the Workout app to track my heart rate and calories burned throughout the workout.
During breaks, I used Siri to write a few quick texts to some friends to make plans for the week.
I put on the AirPods in the hope of streaming songs on the watch from Apple Music, only to realize that this capability has not yet been released.
Apple said music streaming for the cellular watch will come out next month.
Verdict: It was nice being able to stay in touch with people at the gym without a phone bulging in my pocket, but Id be happy unplugging for a while and tracking my workout with a noncellular Apple Watch.
As for whether streaming music makes a cellular watch worth owning, I unfortunately cant tell you yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Grocery Shopping

Heres where leaving my phone behind and relying only on the watch did not make sense: during grocery shopping.
The watch doesnt have a web browser, let alone a big enough screen, for looking up recipes.
But when it came time to check out, I hit the side button to activate Apple Pay and quickly paid for the groceries.
Verdict: A smartphone is a better shopping companion than a watch.
The Bottom Line

The value of the cellular capabilities on the Apple Watch is questionable considering the price you pay each month.
AT&T and Verizon Wireless, for example, charge a network access fee of $10 a month to share your phone plans texts, minutes and data with an Apple Watch.
Thats about the same as a Spotify subscription, but with the exception of avid joggers and gym rats, people may not use the cellular features frequently enough.
Hopefully, over time, Apple will negotiate with carriers to bring the monthly rate down.
Although I think most people can skip buying the cellular model, the Apple Watch Series 3 is the first smart watch I can confidently recommend that people buy.
While I dont personally find it attractive enough to replace my wristwatch, the new Apple Watch is a well-designed, durable and easy-to-use fitness tracker for people who want analytics on their workouts and general health (R.I.P., Fitbit).
Important features like the stopwatch, calendar and Siri work quickly and reliably.
And unlike its predecessors, the watch has impressive battery life  on average, I had more than 40 percent battery remaining after a full day of use.
So the final verdict?
The Apple Watch Series 3 is the first sign that wearable computers are maturing and may eventually become a staple in consumer electronics.
In Brazil, Foxconns plans unraveled quickly.
The administration that had wooed the company was soon swept from power amid corruption allegations and an impeachment vote.
Some of the tax breaks that had been promised were reduced or abandoned, as economic growth and consumer spending slumped.
Today, Foxconn employs only about 2,800 workers in Brazil.
Foxconn does the big song and dance, bringing out the Chinese dragon dancers, ribbon cuttings, toasts and signature of the usual boilerplate agreements, said Alberto Moel, an investor and adviser to early-stage tech companies who until recently was a technology analyst at the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein.
Then, when it gets down to brass tacks, something way smaller materializes.
Foxconn said in a statement that it was committed to investing billions of dollars in building facilities outside China.
But the company also said it had been forced to adapt to changing conditions in markets like Brazil, where the economy had stagnated.
This and the changing needs of our customers that our proposed investments were designed to serve have resulted in scaled down operations in the country at this time, the company said in its statement.
With regard to the Wisconsin project, Foxconn has said it plans to build one of the worlds largest manufacturing campuses in the southeastern part of the state.
The company expects the buildings that will make up the campus to total 20 million square feet  about three times the size of the Pentagon  and to help transform the region into a major production center for flat-panel display screens.
Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, called the Foxconn deal a game changer that could help spur a manufacturing revival in the Midwest.
At the White House in July, President Trump hailed the agreement as a great one for American manufacturing, American workers and everybody who believes in the concept, in the label, Made in the U.S.A. Gov.
Scott Walker of Wisconsin officially approved the deal on Monday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foxconn has good reason to diversify its manufacturing operations.
About 95 percent of the companys 1.1 million employees work in China.
Building a large work force elsewhere could reduce the companys reliance on a single locale, lowering its risk if countries imposed tariffs or other trade barriers on Chinese exports.
Photo

The closer they get to big markets like the U.S. or Brazil, the less they have to worry about import taxes or other barriers, said Gary Gereffi, director of the Center on Globalization, Governance, & Competitiveness at Duke University.
Getting outside of China to supply these markets is like jumping over any potential tariff wall.
But exporting Foxconns Chinese strategy is virtually impossible.
The global supply chain for electronics remains firmly rooted in Asia, where advantages like low-cost labor and an abundance of skilled engineers have been crucial to the regions development as a manufacturing base.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
What makes Foxconns Chinese operations really hum are the extraordinary level of government subsidies and support, and the sheer scale of those operations.
Local governments often finance and build the companys factories, manage its dormitories and recruit tens of thousands of workers.
Some government officials have gone door to door in small counties to recruit workers.
The government aid can reach into the billions of dollars.
Foxconn began to shift large-scale production operations beyond China in about 2009, when it opened plants elsewhere in Asia, including Vietnam and India.
The company now has factories in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, and a large plant in Mexico that employs 18,000 workers.
When several countries began to require that some components be made locally as a way of encouraging production at home, Foxconn stepped up its efforts to build outside China.
And company executives essentially followed the same playbook they had used inside China.
Foxconns chairman, Terry Gou, met with high-ranking leaders, including Brazils president at the time, Dilma Rousseff, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India.
Mr. Gou made pledges; won tax breaks and government concessions; and announced plans to spend billions of dollars to create tens of thousands of jobs in multiple countries.
Brazil called one of the planned Foxconn sites the City of the Future.
Then reality set in.
Labor strikes in India and Vietnam prompted Foxconns operations in those countries to be shut down temporarily.
Political and economic turmoil in Brazil led the authorities there to scale back some of tax breaks it had offered the company.
A plan to invest $1 billion in the construction of a plant in Jakarta, Indonesia, collapsed, partly because Foxconn could not develop the supply chain it had hoped to, according to analysts and government officials.
Several reviewers said the phones were stuck in the shadow of the iPhone X. Nilay Patel of The Verge said the phones were not the future, and its not the cutting edge.
Its just the default.
While the 8 and 8 Plus share a processor, wireless charging capability, and similar camera setups to the X, they lack any truly new ideas about what an iPhone is  theyre both very much just the next step along a path Apples been on for quite some time now.
So whats actually new?
The most commonly cited improvements included the camera, wireless charging and augmented reality abilities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Nicole Nguyen of BuzzFeed News wrote that the new iPhones had better cameras than the 7 and 7 Plus, but that the differences in images could be hard to spot.
The new color filter and deeper pixels in the 8 and 8 Plus mean more vivid colors and less noise.
The new image signal processor helps optimize features like exposure, autofocus, and HDR, before you take the photo.
What that means in practice is more detailed photos that really only appear more detailed if you zoom way, way in.
David Pogue of Yahoo Finance said the wireless charging would be a feature iPhone owners would quickly grow to appreciate.
Once youve tried pad charging, you wont go back.
You come home from work, you just set the phone down on your way in.
Or you set it down on your bedside table.
At CNN, Heather Kelly was impressed by the augmented reality potential.
After testing early augmented reality apps, its clear the feature is well executed and packs a genuine wow factor.
Its most useful for games, shopping and a star gazing app that overlays constellations on the real night sky.
It also offers the most enjoyable way to dissect a beating human heart in my kitchen yet.
As for battery life, Hayley Tsukayama of The Washington Post wrote that the phones would be sufficient for a typical day of use.
The iPhone 8 Plus definitely has better battery life than its smaller sibling, even when being used heavily.
On a day where I had to use it for navigation, video streaming and plenty of email, it made it through the day and probably could have made it through the next morning without being in dire need of a top-up.
The iPhone 8, when I used it, got down pretty low by the end of the day, at which point I switched to low power mode.
In other words, it got me through a day, but not much further.
The processing power impressed reviewers, but some, including Geoffrey A. Fowler of The Wall Street Journal, questioned how much you would actually benefit from the technological feat.
What can you do with a phone that fast?
Those new camera tricks, plus high frame-rate 4K video, wouldnt be possible without it.
And it never hurts to try to futureproof the computer you use most.
But the bottleneck on the apps I use most often is internet speed, not the processor.
Aside from some 3-D games, I couldnt find many apps that require so much horsepower today.
Some reviewers criticized the design, which is largely unchanged in major ways from previous years.
The biggest change was an all-glass back, which Matthew Panzarino of TechCrunch said was a love-it-or-hate-it feature that he loved.
Theres something about the texture of glass.
Its smoother than the aluminum, but typically less slippery and easier to grip.
Glass also warms up to the temperature of your hand faster and stays at that temperature rather than getting hot.
And when your phone is really chugging along, it distributes the heat from the processor better, making hot spots less pronounced.
Chris Velazco at Engadget called the new models familiar-looking phones that mostly operate the way people expect them to.
Apple has painted us a picture of what its mobile future looks like, so is it any surprise the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus seem dull by comparison?
To be clear, its not that theyre poorly designed.
Its just that the iPhones aesthetic hasnt changed much since the debut of the 6 and 6 Plus three years ago.
Does it all add up to a device worth buying?
Some, like Steve Kovach at Business Insider, felt the looming presence of the iPhone X made that less than certain.
Photo

Hurricanes in Florida, Texas and the Caribbean; record-high temperatures in San Francisco; and wildfires in the Pacific Northwest.
And last night, a 3.6-magnitude earthquake a few miles away from Westwood, Calif., a neighborhood in Los Angeles near Bel Air, Calabasas, Beverly Hills and Santa Monica.
Earthquakes like this happen several times a year, so its not uncommon at all, said John Bellini, a geophysicist at the United States Geological Surveys National Earthquake Information Center.
You wouldnt know it from the reactions on social media.
After the earthquake struck at 11:20 p.m. local time, tremors erupted across Los Angeles Twitter.
The Geological Survey rated the shaking felt in the center and nearby as light and moderate (vibrations similar to the passing of a truck and pendulum clocks may stop) and did not expect significant damage.
Maybe a tall vase being knocked over, Mr. Bellini said.
Some Los Angeles residents took the opportunity to reach out to their loved ones.
Others ... did not.
Earthquake veterans took the matter lightly.
But at least one person was there to let the rest of the world know: Earthquakes are no joke.
Photo

The heroine of Hank Greens debut novel, An Absolutely Remarkable Thing, is an art student in New York City named April May, who finds herself at the center of a vast international mystery.
One day, April stumbles on a giant robot sculpture in Midtown Manhattan, and makes a video with the figure, which goes viral.
She becomes famous as news spreads that similar sculptures have mysteriously appeared in dozens of cities, and people around the world struggle to understand where the figures came from and what they mean.
The novel, which will be published by Dutton in fall 2018, flirts with otherworldly themes.
But the story grew out of something very real Mr. Green has wrestled with in his own life: internet fame, and the anxiety and awkwardness it can bring.
In a lot of ways it comes from a lot of my personal experience with how success feels, he said.
Theres the very weird feeling of being bigger in peoples heads than you feel you are.
To his legions of devoted YouTube fans, Mr. Green is best known as the goofy, enthusiastic host of factoid-heavy educational shows like SciShow and Crash Course, and as the younger half of Vlogbrothers, the chatty video show that he created in 2007 with his older brother, the best-selling novelist John Green.
Over the past decade, the Green brothers have built an online video empire, with 16 shows that have collectively drawn more than 2 billion views on YouTube.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It may surprise Mr. Greens YouTube followers to learn that he has been quietly writing fiction on the side.
Even his brother John  who has published several young adult novels, including The Fault in Our Stars and Paper Towns  has yet to read a draft of the novel, Mr. Green said.
Why do deleted tweets sometimes still show up on the web when you search?
Search engines that constantly index the pages on the web can scoop up your Twitter posts as you make them.
If you delete the tweet, though, it may still be cached away and therefore available to show up in search results  until the site goes indexing again and updates itself with a fresh copy of your Twitter profile and posts.
Photo

How long it takes for the search engine to go out and index your page again can vary, so if the deleted tweet is still appearing in search results and making you uncomfortable, try contacting the search company and requesting that the material be manually removed.
The Bing and Yahoo sites have posted information on how to remove certain pages.
Twitters help guide provides its own instructions for making the same request to Google.
To do so, find the Twitter post that is still turning up in Google search results and copy its URL before moving on to https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/removals.
Paste in the URL and click the red Request Removal button on the page.
Twitter warns that you may be asked to log into your Google Account (if you have one) or create a Google Account (if you do not have one) to complete the process.
If someone is searching for you online, your Twitter handle and a selection of recent public tweets often appear in the results.
If you find this sort of thing invasive, you can try dodging the indexing webcrawler by changing your Twitter posts from public to protected in your account settings, but future followers will have to ask for your permission to see your posts.
Changing your profile name or Twitter user name is another way to modify your identity for search engines.
Unsurprisingly, both the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus are very good phones.
Most of Apples improvements over the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are minor, but if you have an older model, either of the 8s will feel like a solid upgrade.
And if you are considering upgrading from an Android phone, theres one area where the new iPhones still rank head and shoulders above their competition  the processor, the engine that runs the entire device, where Apple is so far ahead that it almost feels unfair.
Photo

But lets start with the basics.
The iPhones overall design is very slightly improved in the 8.
The new models have a glass back, which you would think would make them more delicate but which actually adds a slight grippiness, making them less prone to catastrophe.
(Id still use a case for the 8 Plus, which I find ungainly to hold; the 8, though, shines in its caseless glory.)
The glass back allows for the iPhone 8s handiest new feature, wireless charging.
This works just as it does on the many other phones that have long sported this trick: Set the phone down on a charging pad and it just starts charging, even through most cases.
Apple said it would release its own charging mat next year; for now, you can use one of the many third-party mats that run the Qi wireless standard.
(Over all, battery life on the 8 was comparable to that of the 7  it lasted all day with light use, about half a day with heavy use, and always not long enough.)
The display on the 8 and 8 Plus is better than on the 7, but only very slightly.
In particular, the screen uses a technology Apple calls True Tone, which automatically adjusts the displays white balance to match the lighting in your surroundings.
This adds a subtle vibrancy to everything you see  though honestly the only time I was able to appreciate it was when I compared it side by side with the iPhone 7.
In other ways, the display is where the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus fall furthest short of their rivals.
The 8s use a technology called LCD, while Apples rivals in the high-end phone market, including Samsung, use a newer screen technology called OLED.
I wont get into the differences here except to say OLEDs are noticeably superior  they produce more vibrant colors and deeper contrast ratios.
Even Apple seems to agree, given that OLED is the basis for the display in the iPhone X.
The cameras in the 8s are very good, which is always true of cameras in the iPhone.
My kid had a birthday party this weekend, and just before leaving for the venue, I decided to take a risk  I left my fancy interchangeable-lens mirrorless camera at home, and instead took just the 8 Plus.
It would be too much to say that the phone produced images comparable to those I could get on my dedicated camera.
In some indoor, low-light shots, Apples noise-reduction algorithm left an annoying watercolorlike ripple on my shots (a problem that has plagued previous iPhones, too).
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But that was the exception.
Most images were astounding, and given the iPhone 8s advantages in size, convenience and usability, I predict that my camera will be spending a lot more time in the drawer.
In particular, I fell hard for the 8 Pluss Portrait Lighting feature, which uses data from a depth sensor to mimic the blurred-background bokeh effect you get when taking portraits with expensive cameras.
That feature made its debut last year on the iPhone 7 Plus, but in the 8 Plus, its been further refined to let you adjust the lighting of each shot, making for breathtaking portraits that youll be surprised came from a mere phone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 But the best thing about the 8 and 8 Plus is whats most hidden: Its the processor that powers everything else.
The first thing I usually do when I get a new iPhone is run a benchmark app to get a sense of the kind of power Im dealing with.
(Yeah, Im real fun.)
For the last few years, Apples phones have been producing benchmark scores so high you wonder if theyre powered by some kind of black magic.
For instance, on Geekbench 4, one of the more popular benchmark apps, the iPhone 8 gets a single-core processor score of around 4,200.
That makes it about 25 percent faster than the iPhone 7 and about 80 percent faster than the iPhone 6S.
The fastest Android phones, though, are painfully behind.
With a Geekbench score of around 1,900, Samsungs flagship Galaxy S8 is not just half the speed of the iPhone 8, but its actually slower than last years iPhone 7, and even slower than the iPhone 6S, released in 2015.
In fact, Apples phones are now so powerful that the closest rivals arent phones but computers  for instance, the processor in the iPhone gets benchmarking scores comparable to the Intel chips found in some of Apples latest MacBook Pro laptops.
I spoke to several processor analysts about why Apple is so far ahead on processing power.
They explained that Apple can produce these gains because it designs its own processors, while its competitors rely on chips created by third parties.
And performance matters.
Everything you do on a phone is improved by better chips: The interface is more responsive, advanced graphical features like augmented reality (in which digital scenes are interposed on the real world) work more fluidly, and they allow for groundbreaking new features, like the face-detection system Apple built into the iPhone X.
And while experts said Apples lead might slip over time, for now, its advantage remains enormous enough to make the iPhone a must for people who think of their phones as their most important computing device  in other words, you and me and everyone we know.
Photo

AMSTERDAM  As a boy soprano in the youth opera company that his parents ran in their small town, the Dutch composer Michel van der Aa once accompanied his father to the clockmaker who was painting a set for them.
What he saw, he recalled recently, was revelatory.
I will never forget, Mr. van der Aa said, that he had this fan onto which he had added pieces of crepe paper and put red light under it.
And he turned on the light and, suddenly, there was a fire.
I realized that with these very simple means, you can do something incredibly poetic.
If his inspiration to become a theater artist arose from this encounter with stagecraft simplicity, Mr. van der Aa, 47, has made his career embracing the very opposite.
Though he has written chamber and orchestral pieces, he has become best known in opera.
And to this already multifaceted art form, he has added high-tech experiments in streaming video and 3-D film and retro elements like reel-to-reel tape recordings, resulting in sequences like duets that require an onstage singer to harmonize with another artist, who is inside a recorded movie.
Mr. van der Aas latest opera, Blank Out, which stars the soprano Miah Persson (live onstage) and the baritone Roderick Williams (in a simultaneously projected 3-D film, which the audience watches through glasses), will be at the Park Avenue Armory from Thursday to Sept. 27, after critically successful runs here in Amsterdam and in Rome; Beijing; Helsinki; Hannover, Germany; and Lucerne, Switzerland.
The opera is loosely based on the life and work of the South African poet Ingrid Jonker (1933-65).
Because she wrote in Afrikaans, which is similar to Dutch, translations of her work were made available in the Netherlands before they reached other parts of the world, and Mr. van der Aa read them as a young man.
The operas narrative includes inspiration from Mr. van der Aas own memories, but Jonkers poems recur throughout, both in their entirety and as fragments.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the enigmatic work, which leaves some of its narrative threads undone at the end, Ms. Persson plays a mother remembering the tragic drowning of her son, while Mr. Williams, in the film, is a son remembering the drowning of his mother.
Replayed loops of Ms. Perssons voice join her live sounds; she often sings together with Mr. Williams, though they are divided by time, space and medium.
Its a dark tale told in Mr. van der Aas characteristic style, a genre-bending amalgam of pop, electronica and ambient elements, like the scratching sound of cassette tapes.
A whole generation of listeners have Spotify playlists that move from Bach to Beyonc, from Radiohead to Ligeti, he said.
I think these genre lines dont exist anymore for many young listeners and also not for me, and it feels very artificial to keep them in my work.
The same is true with visual culture: Were surrounded by technology, and its in the DNA of our time, so it would be very strange to not use it in my work.
Photo

Blank Out is Mr. van der Aas second foray into combining 3-D elements with opera, after a 2013 collaboration with the British novelist David Mitchell, Sunken Garden, which some critics found more satisfying technically than musically.
(He has continued to tweak the work and will present what he calls the 2.0 version in March at the Dallas Opera.)
The critic Andrew Clemens wrote in The Guardian that Blank Out was, by comparison, far more understated and effective, and listed it as one of his top classical music events of last year.
The themes he uses are timeless, inspired by literature, associative and multilayered, said Pierre Audi, the impresario who originally commissioned the new work for Dutch National Opera and is now the Park Avenue Armorys artistic director.
He wasnt really following the path of a conventional composer, and the risks he was taking from early on were worth supporting.
Is possible to bold or italicize text in Outlook for Android?
A. Microsoft released its Outlook for Android email app in 2015 with a focus on managing your inbox and scheduling your day.
While the app can display formatting in messages you receive, you can compose messages on your device only in plain text  which means no bold, italic, underline or other typographical styling.
If you press and hold your finger on text in a message you are writing, you get the options to copy and a few other common commands.
If you would like to suggest that Microsoft add more commands, you can send the company a request from within the Outlook app.
Photo

On an Android device, open Outlook, tap the gear-shaped Settings icon on the main screen and select Help & Feedback.
On the Help & Feedback screen, tap Suggest a feature and enter your comments.
If you have other questions about using Outlook for Android, you can find a link to a set of frequently asked questions on the apps main Help & Feedback screen.
Microsoft also has a guide to setting up and using the app on its site.
While text formatting in new messages may still be limited, Microsoft announced this month that it had released a new set of add-in tools for the app.
The add-ins  shortcuts to other programs that you can integrate with Outlook for Android to save a few steps  are available for several apps, including Evernote, Microsoft Translator, Smartsheet and Trello.
To see what is available, tap the Settings icon on the main Outlook screen and choose Add-Ins.
The Outlook app is built into Windows 10 phones and is available as a download for iOS devices.
Yet even as millions of people lost power across Florida, and thousands of homes and businesses were flooded out in Miami and Texas, the heavy digital machinery at the heart of the internet and the cloud held firm.
Though the storm disabled some cellphone towers and local connections, Jeff Eassey, a manager for Digital Realty who hunkered down in the Miami building, said the center never stopped processing and transmitting data.
It lost utility power around 8:30 a.m. on Sunday, Sept. 10, but supplied its own electricity with the generators.
When the storm eased and he walked outside, Mr. Eassey said, he immediately saw the effect that Digital Realty and other data centers had by keeping the servers going.
Everyone was talking on their phones, searching on their phones, and commerce that uses the internet to do their business was up and running, he said.
A list of Digital Realtys top customers shows why those operations are so important: Clients include IBM, Facebook, CenturyLink, Oracle, Yahoo, Morgan Stanley, AT&T and JPMorgan Chase, among others.
Inside the centers, the drill during a natural disaster can be overwhelming.
One company, EdgeConneX, lost utility power for three days at a Miami data center, two days at a center in Jacksonville, Fla., and two days at an Atlanta location.
But Rich Werner, director of operations at the company, said that backup generators turned on and service was never interrupted.
Data center operations, to me, is 362 days of boredom, Mr. Werner said.
And then you get these hurricanes coming through, and its three days of pulling your hair out.
There are no legal standards for data centers unless they house servers for clients like government agencies, which require special protections.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But a professional organization, the Seattle-based Uptime Institute, rates the facilities on four tiers of resiliency for events like storms, earthquakes and run-of-the-mill power failures  possibly one reason the internet performed creditably during the hurricanes.
The institutes engineers go to the site and pull the plug, said Mark Harris, senior vice president of marketing, and to be certified, it has to keep running.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
So when a hurricane or a tornado or an ice storm happens, the entire data center has been designed to withstand these external factors, he said.
During Harvey and Irma, those measures seemed to work, said Doug Madory, director of internet analysis at Dyn, a web performance company with servers at a Miami data center.
Im not aware of any core internet services going down, he said.
One necessity is building above the 500-year floodplain, according to Gary Wojtaszek, president of CyrusOne, whose facilities include a data center in the mostly flooded Galleria area of Houston.
The water stopped a few feet short of the building, which ran on backup power for several hours, Mr. Wojtaszek said.
He added that practically every single large oil and gas company in the world operates servers in its data centers  an indication of how commerce of all kind relies on the facilities.
Depending on local conditions, some centers got off easier than others.
In Houston facilities run by Data Foundry, automated systems worked so well that employees pooled resources and watched the Floyd Mayweather-Conor McGregor fight on pay-per-view, said Edward Henigin, the companys chief technology officer.
When everything is working, he said, what else are they going to do?
Everyone in the business says that extensive preparation is critical.
James M. Palmieri, Digital Realtys vice president for data center operations, said that as Irma approached the building in Miami, engineers topped off diesel generators, called Mr. Eassey down from Atlanta to direct operations and waited to see how strong the hurricane would become.
The storm got worse, Mr. Palmieri said, adding that at that point, the real issue is, how do we make sure that our employees are protected?
Mr. Eassey said that about 14 people in the building  including employees, customers and security personnel  met in a sixth-floor conference room that Friday morning and realized that the worsening conditions, heavy traffic and overcrowded shelters in the area meant it was too late to leave.
With reinforced concrete walls and heavy glass, the building was the safest place to be, they decided.
The mood was calm.
Most of these guys are seasoned Miamians, Mr. Eassey said.
I was the out-of-towner.
I would be exaggerating if I said anyone was nervous or panicked.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The peak of the storm passed over the weekend, and when the power went out, the center was ready with diesel generators and a 10,500-gallon diesel tank on the site.
In Houstons so-called energy corridor, the Skybox campus stayed above water, Mr. Morris said.
Utility power never went down.
But the site was stocked with thousands of gallons of diesel fuel, as well as food and water, emergency medical kits, showers, bunk rooms and flares.
The site, which Mr. Morris calls a modern-day fortress, began hosting not only employees but several of their families, whose houses were flooded.
Then, Mr. Morris said, the building doubled as an emergency response center for the United States marshals.
He said that roughly 50 people used or stayed on the campus at one point or another during the storm.
Asked if there were anything in his operations that he would change before the next storm hit, Mr. Morris did not hesitate.
Weve decided to purchase a washer and dryer to keep on site, he said.
For all the courtship, things never quite worked out.
Theres an interest on both sides of the dance, so some kind of product can be introduced, said Kai-Fu Lee, the former head of Google in China who now runs a venture-capital firm in Beijing.
But what Facebook wants is impossible, and what they can have may not be very meaningful.
This spring, Facebook tried a different tactic: testing the waters in China without telling anyone.
The company authorized the release of a photo-sharing app there that does not bear its name, and experimented by linking it to a Chinese social network called WeChat.
One factor driving Mr. Zuckerberg may be the brisk ad business that Facebook does from its Hong Kong offices, where the company helps Chinese companies  and the governments own propaganda organs  spread their messages.
In fact, the scale of the Chinese governments use of Facebook to communicate abroad offers a notable sign of Beijings understanding of Facebooks power to mold public opinion.
Chinese state media outlets have used ad buys to spread propaganda around key diplomatic events.
Its stodgy state-run television station and the party mouthpiece newspaper each have far more Facebook likes than popular Western news brands like CNN and Fox News, a likely indication of big ad buys.
To attract more ad spending, Facebook set up one page to show Chinas state broadcaster, CCTV, how to promote on the platform, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Dedicated to Mr. Xis international trips, the page is still regularly updated by CCTV, and has 2.7 million likes.
During the 2015 trip when Mr. Xi met Mr. Zuckerberg, CCTV used the channel to spread positive stories.
One post was titled Xis UN address wins warm applause.
Photo

Fittingly, Mr. Zuckerbergs eagerness and Chinas reluctance can be tracked on Facebook.
During Mr. Xis 2015 trip to America, Mr. Zuckerberg posted about how the visit offered him his first chance to speak a foreign language with a world leader.
The post got more than a half million likes, including from Chinese state media (despite the national ban).
But on Mr. Xis propaganda page, Mr. Zuckerberg got only one mention  in a list of the many tech executives who met the Chinese president.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Europes Privacy Pushback

Last summer, emails winged back and forth between members of Facebooks global policy team.
They were finalizing plans, more than two years in the making, for WhatsApp, the messaging app Facebook had bought in 2014, to start sharing data on its one billion users with its new parent company.
The company planned to use the data to tailor ads on Facebooks other services and to stop spam on WhatsApp.
A big issue: how to win over wary regulators around the world.
Despite all that planning, Facebook was hit by a major backlash.
A month after the new data-sharing deal started in August 2016, German privacy officials ordered WhatsApp to stop passing data on its 36 million local users to Facebook, claiming people did not have enough say over how it would be used.
The British privacy watchdog soon followed.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
By late October, all 28 of Europes national data-protection authorities jointly called on Facebook to stop the practice.
Facebook quietly mothballed its plans in Europe.
It has continued to collect peoples information elsewhere, including the United States.
Theres a growing awareness that peoples data is controlled by large American actors, said Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, Frances privacy regulator.
These actors now know that times have changed.
Facebooks retreat shows how Europe is effectively employing regulations  including tough privacy rules  to control how parts of the internet are run.
Photo

The goal of European regulators, officials said, is to give users greater control over the data from social media posts, online searches and purchases that Facebook and other tech giants rely on to monitor our online habits.
As a tech company whose ad business requires harvesting digital information, Facebook has often underestimated the deep emotions that European officials and citizens have tied into the collection of such details.
That dates back to the time of the Cold War, when many Europeans were routinely monitored by secret police.
Now, regulators from Colombia to Japan are often mimicking Europes stance on digital privacy.
Its only natural European regulators would be at the forefront, said Brad Smith, Microsofts president and chief legal officer.
It reflects the importance theyve attached to the privacy agenda.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In interviews, Facebook denied it has played fast and loose with users online information and said it complies with national rules wherever it operates.
It questioned whether Europes position has been effective in protecting individuals privacy at a time when the region continues to fall behind the United States and China in all things digital.
Still, the company said it respected Europes stance on data protection, particularly in Germany, where many citizens have long memories of government surveillance.
Theres no doubt the German government is a strong voice inside the European community, said Richard Allan, Facebooks head of public policy in Europe.
We find their directness pretty helpful.
Europe has the law on its side when dictating global privacy.
Facebooks non-North American users, roughly 1.8 billion people, are primarily overseen by Irelands privacy regulator because the companys international headquarters is in Dublin, mostly for tax reasons.
In 2012, Facebook was forced to alter its global privacy settings  including those in the United States  after Irelands data protection watchdog found problems while auditing the companys operations there.
Three years later, Europes highest court also threw out a 15-year-old data-sharing agreement between the region and the United States following a complaint that Facebook had not sufficiently protected Europeans data when it was transferred across the Atlantic.
The company denies any wrongdoing.
Photo

And on Sept. 12, Spains privacy agency fined the company 1.2 million euros for not giving people sufficient control over their data when Facebook collected it from third-party websites.
Watchdogs in Germany, the Netherlands and elsewhere are conducting similar investigations.
Facebook is appealing the Spanish ruling.
Facebook simply cant stick to a one-size-fits-all product around the world, said Max Schrems, an Austrian lawyer who has been a Facebook critic after filing the case that eventually overturned the 15-year-old data deal.
Potentially more worrying for Facebook is how Europes view of privacy is being exported.
Countries from Brazil to Malaysia, which are crucial to Facebooks growth, have incorporated many of Europes tough privacy rules into their legislation.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We regard the European directives as best practice, said Pansy Tlakula, chairwoman of South Africas Information Regulator, the countrys data protection agency.
South Africa has gone so far as to copy whole sections, almost word-for-word, from Europes rule book.
The Play for Kenya

Blocked in China and troubled by regulators in Europe, Facebook is trying to become the internet in Africa.
Helping get people online, subsidizing access, and trying to launch satellites to beam the internet down to the markets it covets, Facebook has become a dominant force on a continent rapidly getting online.
But that has given it a power that has made some in Africa uncomfortable.
Some countries have blocked access, and outsiders have complained Facebook could squelch rival online business initiatives.
Its competition with other internet companies from the United States and China has drawn comparisons to a bygone era of colonialism.
For Kenyans like Phyl Cherop, 33, an entrepreneur in Nairobi, online life is already dominated by the social network.
She abandoned her bricks-and-mortar store in a middle-class part of the city in 2015 to sell on Facebook and WhatsApp.
Photo

I gave it up because people just didnt come anymore, said Ms. Cherop, who sells items like designer dresses and school textbooks.
She added that a stand-alone website would not have the same reach.
I prefer using Facebook because thats where my customers are.
The first thing people want to do when they buy a smartphone is to open a Facebook account.
As Facebook hunts for more users, the companys aspirations have shifted to emerging economies where people like Ms. Cherop live.
Less than 50 percent of Africas population has internet connectivity, and regulation is often rudimentary.
Since Facebook entered Africa about a decade ago, it has become the regions dominant tech platform.
Some 170 million people  more than two thirds of all internet users from South Africa to Senegal  use it, according Facebooks statistics.
That is up 40 percent since 2015.
The company has struck partnerships with local carriers to offer basic internet services  centered on those offered by Facebook  for free.
It has built a pared-down version of its social network to run on the cheaper, less powerful phones that are prevalent there.
Behind the scenes, Facebook is involved in high-stakes diplomatic battles across the globe that have begun fragmenting the internet itself.
Related: article: Facebook Faces a New World as Officials Rein In a Wild Web
We also dont know what geographical locations the alleged social media saboteurs were targeting (The regular list of swing states and counties?
Or the most politically flammable fringes?).
Facebook says that more of those ads ran in 2015 than in 2016, but not how many more.
Nor has Facebook reported whether the people who were targeted were from specific demographic or philosophical groups  all of which means we really dont know the full extent of the duping on Facebook, and maybe Facebook doesnt either.
Facebook says it is working to prevent a repeat.
And it was hardly the only platform that Russia is presumed to have used to disrupt the political debate in America; there were others in the mix as well, particularly Twitter, which has divulged even less than Facebook has.
But, in total, theres a stunning lack of public specificity about an alleged foreign campaign to influence our domestic politics.
It was an effort that involved the American companies that essentially invented the tools of social media and, in this case, did not stop them from being turned into engines of deception and propaganda, as The Timess Scott Shane noted in his penetrating investigation earlier this month.
Mr. Shanes report helped fill in some blanks when he unearthed several of the phony accounts, like that of one Melvin Redick, a professed Pennsylvanian.
On his Facebook page, Mr. Redick appears to be a loving dad of an adorable little girl, but as it turns out he doesnt actually exist.
That account was early to spot and promote DCLeaks, the site that became a receptacle for hacked information about prominent Americans.
And then last week The Daily Beast uncovered a promotion for a supposed Citizens before refugees rally in Twin Falls, Idaho, in August of 2016.
As the independent (and embattled) Russian news organization RBC reported in March, the supposed group behind that rally, SecuredBorders, was the creation of the Internet Research Agency, which is suspected of being behind the Facebook ads in question here.
So a picture starts to emerge.
But its a spotty one, only as good as the journalism thats working so hard to fill the canvas, and the scraps were getting from law enforcement and the social platforms themselves.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Facebook is cooperating to varying degrees with efforts in Washington to understand how it might have been used by Russian influence agents.
As The Wall Street Journal first reported late last week, Facebook handed evidence related to the ad campaign over to the special prosecutor investigating the Russia allegations, Robert S. Mueller III.
When I asked Facebook why it couldnt be more forthcoming with the public, the company responded with a statement saying, Due to federal law, and the ongoing investigation into these issues, we are limited as to what we can disclose publicly.
Facebook is referring to its obligations under the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the federal law that prohibits the government from unduly spying on our electronic communications.
Photo

Facebook, which didnt elaborate, appears to be saying it is legally restricted from the willy-nilly handing-over of information about its users to the government or, for that matter, the public.
And its certainly a challenge for Facebook to decide where the line is between sharing vital details about its use in a plot like election meddling, and exposing private data about its legitimate users.
On Friday, I asked Marc Rotenberg, the president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, or Epic, an advocacy group, where he stood on the question.
The best case for that is that the First Amendment protects anonymous speech, he said.
And if the United States government were to try to comprehend the identities of controversial speakers, wed be up on the front lines saying the government doesnt have the right to do that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But in this case, Were talking about non-U.S. persons engaging in political speech in U.S. elections, and its a stretch to extend that kind of protection to this type of activity, he said.
Ryan Calo, a law professor at the University of Washington, told me that the electronic communications privacy law did not extend protections to advertisements or posted messages that were readily accessible to the public.
Thats not to say that Mr. Muellers involvement doesnt add to the sensitivity for Facebook.
It does.
But sooner rather than later Facebook owes it to the public to provide still more detail about the ads.
And it owes it to its users to let them know if they have directly interacted with the equivalent of digital spies sent to influence them.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Then theres democracy itself, and the new problems the social platforms are creating for it.
The American electoral system includes a complicated campaign finance regime that was devised to keep Americans informed about who finances the media messages designed to sway them.
The system is imperfect.
And its been badly weakened over the years.
But it still requires, for instance, that television stations keep careful logs of the ad time they sell to candidates and political groups around elections, and make them available to the public.
It is also illegal for foreign interests to spend money in our campaigns.
The Russian effort was able to elude those laws through social media, where the system has clearly  and fundamentally  broken down.
We now know that foreign interests can run campaign ads  sham issue ads  in this country without anyone having any knowledge of who was behind it, and that fundamentally violates a basic concept of campaign finance laws, said Fred Wertheimer, a longtime advocate for greater regulation of political spending through his group Democracy21.
Facebooks announcement about the Russian ads prompted calls from Senators Mark Warner of Virginia and Martin Heinrich of New Mexico for a new law requiring that social media ads receive the same regulatory scrutiny as television ads (Im Vladimir Putin and I approve this message!).
As of now, we dont even know the full extent to which the Russian ads violated the current legal requirements.
Thats something Mr. Mueller should be able to determine.
But Facebook and other platforms need to get more information out there publicly, too, so the necessary discussion about potential remedies doesnt have to wait for the Mueller investigation to conclude.
Hopefully they will.
This much should be clear: Arguments that sites like Facebook are merely open platforms  and not media companies that make editorial judgments about activity in the digital worlds they created  fall woefully flat when it comes to meddling in our democracy.
The platforms have become incredibly powerful in a short amount of time.
With great power has come great profit, which they are only too happy to embrace; the great responsibility part, not always so much.
Given the role they played in this election, they now have a major responsibility to help solve this problem, Mr. Wertheimer said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After all, the 2018 midterms are just around the corner.
There may also be some early kinks for Apple to work out with the new cellular Watch.
Some reviewers discovered that the device occasionally lost its cellular connection, for example.
Apple said on Wednesday that the issue was related to the watch inadvertently connecting to open Wi-Fi networks that lacked internet connectivity, and that it was investigating a software fix.
In the end, some people who want a wearable device for things like fitness tracking and a quick glance at mobile notifications will probably be happy with the Series 3 without cellular, which costs $329.
An Overview

Like its predecessors, the Apple Watch Series 3 is a computer worn around the wrist, with a miniature touch screen.
Photo

The device requires an iPhone to set up and work properly.
Notifications like text messages or social media alerts that come to your iPhone appear on the watch first if you are not actively using the phone.
The watch runs apps, including some built-in software for fitness tracking as well as third-party widgets you can download from the App Store.
The main difference with the cellular Apple Watch is that some important features, like placing calls, texting and streaming music, will work when you are not near your phone; the watch shares the same phone number and cellular plan with your iPhone.
To help determine whether the cellular watch is right for you, I abandoned my iPhone to test the watch in a number of common situations.
Heres how that went.
Date Night

Over the weekend, my partner and I made plans to go to dinner at a sushi restaurant.
I used the Apple Watch to summon a Lyft car to pick us up at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the sushi bar, I liked that I didnt have a smartphone constantly buzzing in my pocket, though I got a text that I quickly responded to on the watch using an emoji.
My partner and I enjoyed 90 minutes of intimate conversation over omakase with minimal distraction, though I was a bit envious that she could Instagram our gorgeous nigiri.
(Alas, the watch does not have a miniature spy camera.)
Verdict: I could have had roughly the same experience with just an iPhone put on Do Not Disturb mode  and a bit of self-discipline.
Dog Walks

For several days, I wore just the watch while walking my dogs.
Not having a phone freed up valuable space in my pockets for other items, like my keys, my wallet, dog treats and bags.
I liked that the Apple Watch tracked my steps and walking distance to make dog walking feel more like exercise than a chore.
I placed a call to my partner with the watch to tell her where to meet me at a park; she said the call sounded crystal clear.
It was also nice that with just the watch, I could still be reachable via phone or text by my colleagues during morning walks  but emails took several minutes to show up after they were sent.
It turns out that while texts and calls are done directly on the cellular watch, emails still rely on the iPhones pushing emails to the cloud, which then transmits the message to your watch.
Verdict: The watch is good for staying reachable via phone or texts.
But in those brief moments when you need to step away from a computer during work hours, a smartphone is still necessary if you rely heavily on email, as I do.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Gym Workouts

I wore the watch and took a pair of AirPods, Apples wireless earbuds, to a rock-climbing gym.
Again, I left my iPhone behind.
At the gym, I opened the Workout app to track my heart rate and calories burned throughout the workout.
During breaks, I used Siri to write a few quick texts to some friends to make plans for the week.
I put on the AirPods in the hope of streaming songs on the watch from Apple Music, only to realize that this capability has not yet been released.
Apple said music streaming for the cellular watch will come out next month.
Verdict: It was nice being able to stay in touch with people at the gym without a phone bulging in my pocket, but Id be happy unplugging for a while and tracking my workout with a noncellular Apple Watch.
As for whether streaming music makes a cellular watch worth owning, I unfortunately cant tell you yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Grocery Shopping

Heres where leaving my phone behind and relying only on the watch did not make sense: during grocery shopping.
The watch doesnt have a web browser, let alone a big enough screen, for looking up recipes.
But when it came time to check out, I hit the side button to activate Apple Pay and quickly paid for the groceries.
Verdict: A smartphone is a better shopping companion than a watch.
The Bottom Line

The value of the cellular capabilities on the Apple Watch is questionable considering the price you pay each month.
AT&T and Verizon Wireless, for example, charge a network access fee of $10 a month to share your phone plans texts, minutes and data with an Apple Watch.
Thats about the same as a Spotify subscription, but with the exception of avid joggers and gym rats, people may not use the cellular features frequently enough.
Hopefully, over time, Apple will negotiate with carriers to bring the monthly rate down.
Although I think most people can skip buying the cellular model, the Apple Watch Series 3 is the first smart watch I can confidently recommend that people buy.
While I dont personally find it attractive enough to replace my wristwatch, the new Apple Watch is a well-designed, durable and easy-to-use fitness tracker for people who want analytics on their workouts and general health (R.I.P., Fitbit).
Important features like the stopwatch, calendar and Siri work quickly and reliably.
And unlike its predecessors, the watch has impressive battery life  on average, I had more than 40 percent battery remaining after a full day of use.
So the final verdict?
The Apple Watch Series 3 is the first sign that wearable computers are maturing and may eventually become a staple in consumer electronics.
Unsurprisingly, both the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus are very good phones.
Most of Apples improvements over the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are minor, but if you have an older model, either of the 8s will feel like a solid upgrade.
And if you are considering upgrading from an Android phone, theres one area where the new iPhones still rank head and shoulders above their competition  the processor, the engine that runs the entire device, where Apple is so far ahead that it almost feels unfair.
Photo

But lets start with the basics.
The iPhones overall design is very slightly improved in the 8.
The new models have a glass back, which you would think would make them more delicate but which actually adds a slight grippiness, making them less prone to catastrophe.
(Id still use a case for the 8 Plus, which I find ungainly to hold; the 8, though, shines in its caseless glory.)
The glass back allows for the iPhone 8s handiest new feature, wireless charging.
This works just as it does on the many other phones that have long sported this trick: Set the phone down on a charging pad and it just starts charging, even through most cases.
Apple said it would release its own charging mat next year; for now, you can use one of the many third-party mats that run the Qi wireless standard.
(Over all, battery life on the 8 was comparable to that of the 7  it lasted all day with light use, about half a day with heavy use, and always not long enough.)
The display on the 8 and 8 Plus is better than on the 7, but only very slightly.
In particular, the screen uses a technology Apple calls True Tone, which automatically adjusts the displays white balance to match the lighting in your surroundings.
This adds a subtle vibrancy to everything you see  though honestly the only time I was able to appreciate it was when I compared it side by side with the iPhone 7.
In other ways, the display is where the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus fall furthest short of their rivals.
The 8s use a technology called LCD, while Apples rivals in the high-end phone market, including Samsung, use a newer screen technology called OLED.
I wont get into the differences here except to say OLEDs are noticeably superior  they produce more vibrant colors and deeper contrast ratios.
Even Apple seems to agree, given that OLED is the basis for the display in the iPhone X.
The cameras in the 8s are very good, which is always true of cameras in the iPhone.
My kid had a birthday party this weekend, and just before leaving for the venue, I decided to take a risk  I left my fancy interchangeable-lens mirrorless camera at home, and instead took just the 8 Plus.
It would be too much to say that the phone produced images comparable to those I could get on my dedicated camera.
In some indoor, low-light shots, Apples noise-reduction algorithm left an annoying watercolorlike ripple on my shots (a problem that has plagued previous iPhones, too).
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But that was the exception.
Most images were astounding, and given the iPhone 8s advantages in size, convenience and usability, I predict that my camera will be spending a lot more time in the drawer.
In particular, I fell hard for the 8 Pluss Portrait Lighting feature, which uses data from a depth sensor to mimic the blurred-background bokeh effect you get when taking portraits with expensive cameras.
That feature made its debut last year on the iPhone 7 Plus, but in the 8 Plus, its been further refined to let you adjust the lighting of each shot, making for breathtaking portraits that youll be surprised came from a mere phone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 But the best thing about the 8 and 8 Plus is whats most hidden: Its the processor that powers everything else.
The first thing I usually do when I get a new iPhone is run a benchmark app to get a sense of the kind of power Im dealing with.
(Yeah, Im real fun.)
For the last few years, Apples phones have been producing benchmark scores so high you wonder if theyre powered by some kind of black magic.
For instance, on Geekbench 4, one of the more popular benchmark apps, the iPhone 8 gets a single-core processor score of around 4,200.
That makes it about 25 percent faster than the iPhone 7 and about 80 percent faster than the iPhone 6S.
The fastest Android phones, though, are painfully behind.
With a Geekbench score of around 1,900, Samsungs flagship Galaxy S8 is not just half the speed of the iPhone 8, but its actually slower than last years iPhone 7, and even slower than the iPhone 6S, released in 2015.
In fact, Apples phones are now so powerful that the closest rivals arent phones but computers  for instance, the processor in the iPhone gets benchmarking scores comparable to the Intel chips found in some of Apples latest MacBook Pro laptops.
I spoke to several processor analysts about why Apple is so far ahead on processing power.
They explained that Apple can produce these gains because it designs its own processors, while its competitors rely on chips created by third parties.
And performance matters.
Everything you do on a phone is improved by better chips: The interface is more responsive, advanced graphical features like augmented reality (in which digital scenes are interposed on the real world) work more fluidly, and they allow for groundbreaking new features, like the face-detection system Apple built into the iPhone X.
And while experts said Apples lead might slip over time, for now, its advantage remains enormous enough to make the iPhone a must for people who think of their phones as their most important computing device  in other words, you and me and everyone we know.
This solves one of the main problems that restaurants used to have in the days when old media was the only game in town: How do you keep people talking about your place after the initial buzz dies down?
Photo

Besides the marketing, there are creative implications.
For one thing, chefs are much more focused now on sending out food that photographs well.
So I end up eating a lot of flowers and leaves that dont really taste like much but make the plate more colorful, because most cooked food is brown.
Ditto all the boards and slates and rocks that are being asked to stand in for plates.
It has also sped up the rate at which ideas about food travel from one place to another.
Chefs dont just use photography for marketing.
They are also documenting their work for their peers; you see this in the way Ren Redzepi in Copenhagen uses Instagram.
Its one reason his style has spread around the world in the span of just a few years.
And how has it changed the way you do your job?
What are the pros and cons?
The best thing about having everybody take pictures of food is that I can do it without giving myself away.
I used to be really self-conscious when I took out my phone; Id run to the restroom and take surreptitious notes in the stall.
Now I just snap away all night long, and I look like everybody else.
And photography is the first stage of my note-taking now.
After I get home I reconstruct my impressions of the meal, starting with my pictures of my food and the menu.
When I started this job, a former critic advised me to steal menus when I could get away with it, and thats completely unnecessary now.
Whats your opinion on Yelp, where everyone is a wannabe food critic?
I probably look at Yelp more than some other critics because Im convinced theres valuable information in there.
The hard part is extracting it from all the useless stuff, which is what most people in food media see when they look at Yelp.
The basic problem is that Yelp was built to reward frequent posting rather than knowledge or insight or expertise.
And yet there are people on Yelp who know a lot about food and eat around and have a pretty solid basis for comparison.
I find that Yelp is most useful with Korean, Chinese and Japanese food, because, for a number of reasons, there tend to be a lot of Yelpers who know those cuisines pretty well.
How do you feel about delivery apps like Instacart, Caviar or UberEats?
Do you use them much?
I dont.
I almost never eat at home, and when I do, I want to cook.
I did use Caviar in the context of a restaurant review a few weeks ago and was pretty happy with how well it worked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sites like Yelp give people plenty of information about restaurants.
Yet many restaurants still have their own websites.
Is this necessary?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most valuable thing a restaurant can do on its website is post the current menu and drinks lists, with prices.
All the other data you might want, and theres not really very much, can be served up much more efficiently by Google, although I still think website designers who dont put the restaurants address and phone number and hours right on the home page should be sued for malpractice.
As our food critic, you have to stay unrecognized when you try new restaurants.
How do you do that in an era that demands us to sacrifice privacy on the internet?
This isnt a major issue.
People are always surprised when I say that, but its one of the things that has been least affected by technology.
Before we had digital photographs, restaurants would get their hands on some old head shot of the critic from a book jacket or something  Ruth Reichl, William Grimes and Frank Bruni had all written books before they were restaurant critics  and then photocopy it and share it with all their friends in the business.
I remember, in the 1990s, a friend who worked as a waiter showing me a picture of Ruth, who was the critic at the time.
It was probably a 15th-generation photocopy, but you could still recognize her.
Now the fidelity and resolution are higher, but the picture of me that most restaurants seem to have on their wall is about 10 years old.
There are a few more recent shots, taken across a dining room while I was eating, that are in circulation, but theyre pretty terrible.
My friends know theyre not supposed to put pictures of me on Facebook.
I dont take selfies, but I probably wouldnt be a selfie guy even if I had another job.
Most of the time when Im recognized its because somebody is working in that restaurant who waited on me in another place Ive reviewed.
I dont get caught by technology; I get caught by human memory.
Its sort of reassuring, I guess.
When it comes to streaming and downloading movies, do you really notice that much of a difference between standard definition and the high-definition version?
A. High-definition (HD) files pack considerably more pixels into the video than those classified as standard definition (SD), and in side-by-side comparisons, the sharpness of the picture and depth of the colors in an HD video can stand out.
You may want to sample both formats on a similar type of movie and see which version you prefer.
Photo

Online video services typically label movies by the number of pixels in their vertical dimension; more pixels generally mean a sharper picture.
HD movies are usually classified as 1,080p or 720p (referring to the resolutions of 1,280 by 720 pixels or 1,920 by 1,080 pixels).
Movies in standard definition have lower resolutions and can vary based on the provider, but a sample SD movie downloaded from iTunes has a resolution of 853 by 352 pixels.
If you are watching the movie on a small tablet, phone or other screen, SD video quality is usually just fine.
Standard-definition videos are less expensive to buy, often by about $5, and $1 or $2 less to rent in some online stores.
Certain devices cannot fully display HD video anyway because the screens lack the needed resolution or the hardware is not compatible.
(Some files may automatically download in standard definition anyway depending on the device you are using.)
Because they contain more data, downloaded HD videos need more bandwidth to stream and, when downloaded, take up more space on your device.
For example, the 720p HD version of The Martian in Apples iTunes Store is a 5.36-gigabyte file, while the SD edition weighs in at 2.54 gigabytes.
If you are downloading a movie to a mobile device to watch offline, the SD edition is a space saver.
If you plan to watch the movie on a high-definition television or high-resolution computer monitor, though, SD video can look flatter and less vibrant than the HD version.
Many video services are now offering movies and television shows in yet another format: ultra high-definition, also known as 4K for its 3,840 by 2,160 pixels of resolution.
Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Netflix, Roku, Vudu and YouTube are among the services with 4K content or devices; video in the 4K H.D.R.
(high dynamic range) format is also available from some services.
To properly appreciate the clarity and color depth of the newer formats, you need a TV or monitor that can actually display 4K or 4K H.D.R.
video  and a lot more bandwidth to stream or store the file.
Is it true that Google Drive is being discontinued?
A. Google announced this month that it will end support for the Google Drive desktop apps for Windows and Mac computers on Dec. 11 and that the software will be shut down for good on March 12.
But while those handy desktop programs for managing your files in the cloud are destined for retirement, Googles online backup service is not going anywhere soon.
You just get to it through different desktop programs.
(You can also continue to just upload and download stored files through your Google Account in a web browser.)
For desktop users who backed up files to cloud servers with the Google Drive app, the company has two newer programs to do the job instead.
The Backup and Sync app for Windows and Mac, introduced in July, is Googles software for users of its free services.
The program can be set to synchronize copies of locally stored photos and other files on the computer to Googles cloud servers.
(Note that you get a free 15 gigabytes of storage from Google, but if you max it out, you need to buy more space if you want to keep storing all your files on the companys servers.)
Photo

Business customers using the paid G Suite version of Googles Gmail, calendar and business programs have a choice.
They can use Backup and Sync, too, or switch to the new Drive File Stream app for Windows or Mac.
Drive File Stream has been available since March for early adopters and officially arrives on Tuesday.
Google recommends that its business customers use the Drive File Stream for a few reasons, including faster data-sync times.
Additionally, the app stores the files online for direct use and puts less corporate data on the users hard drives; specific files and folders can be marked for local storage and use offline when an internet connection is not available.
Users running both Backup and Sync and Drive File Stream on the same computer will get a nudge from Google to switch to the latter app to save disk space.
Those still using the Google Drive app will begin to see alerts next month announcing that the software is headed to the digital dustbin.
What does it mean when Waze makes a car horn noise at you?
While Waze is primarily known as a traffic and driving-directions smartphone app with up-to-the-minute crowdsourced information about your route, it also includes some chatty social-media features that let you connect with other drivers.
One of these features is a salutation called the Beep Beep  a car horn that you hear through the app when another Wazer user has reached out to greet you.
Photo

As part of Wazes social toolbox, you can link your phones contacts list (or your Facebook or Twitter accounts) in the programs settings.
The app matches up verified phone numbers from your contacts list while noting your acquaintances who are also using the service  and then provides an icon you can tap to make friends again in Waze World.
Once you have started a friends list within Waze, you can share your location, announce arrival times, exchange private messages and beep at your buddies.
To send a Beep Beep to a friend (when you are not actively driving, of course), open the Waze app, tap the magnifying glass in the corner of the screen and then tap your user name at the top of the next screen.
Select the My Friends list, tap the name of the person there you want to greet and tap Beep Beep from the menu.
You can also swipe to the left over a friends name in the list to get to the Beep Beep option.
If you have not set up a Waze friends list, odds are another Waze user nearby sent you the greeting out of the blue.
To do that (while stopped), find a user on the Waze navigation map you are using and tap the icon.
In the box that pops up, tap the Beep button.
Why do deleted tweets sometimes still show up on the web when you search?
Search engines that constantly index the pages on the web can scoop up your Twitter posts as you make them.
If you delete the tweet, though, it may still be cached away and therefore available to show up in search results  until the site goes indexing again and updates itself with a fresh copy of your Twitter profile and posts.
Photo

How long it takes for the search engine to go out and index your page again can vary, so if the deleted tweet is still appearing in search results and making you uncomfortable, try contacting the search company and requesting that the material be manually removed.
The Bing and Yahoo sites have posted information on how to remove certain pages.
Twitters help guide provides its own instructions for making the same request to Google.
To do so, find the Twitter post that is still turning up in Google search results and copy its URL before moving on to https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/removals.
Paste in the URL and click the red Request Removal button on the page.
Twitter warns that you may be asked to log into your Google Account (if you have one) or create a Google Account (if you do not have one) to complete the process.
If someone is searching for you online, your Twitter handle and a selection of recent public tweets often appear in the results.
If you find this sort of thing invasive, you can try dodging the indexing webcrawler by changing your Twitter posts from public to protected in your account settings, but future followers will have to ask for your permission to see your posts.
Changing your profile name or Twitter user name is another way to modify your identity for search engines.
Is possible to bold or italicize text in Outlook for Android?
A. Microsoft released its Outlook for Android email app in 2015 with a focus on managing your inbox and scheduling your day.
While the app can display formatting in messages you receive, you can compose messages on your device only in plain text  which means no bold, italic, underline or other typographical styling.
If you press and hold your finger on text in a message you are writing, you get the options to copy and a few other common commands.
If you would like to suggest that Microsoft add more commands, you can send the company a request from within the Outlook app.
Photo

On an Android device, open Outlook, tap the gear-shaped Settings icon on the main screen and select Help & Feedback.
On the Help & Feedback screen, tap Suggest a feature and enter your comments.
If you have other questions about using Outlook for Android, you can find a link to a set of frequently asked questions on the apps main Help & Feedback screen.
Microsoft also has a guide to setting up and using the app on its site.
While text formatting in new messages may still be limited, Microsoft announced this month that it had released a new set of add-in tools for the app.
The add-ins  shortcuts to other programs that you can integrate with Outlook for Android to save a few steps  are available for several apps, including Evernote, Microsoft Translator, Smartsheet and Trello.
To see what is available, tap the Settings icon on the main Outlook screen and choose Add-Ins.
The Outlook app is built into Windows 10 phones and is available as a download for iOS devices.
